02-01-2021||Mumbai||Christmas cakes by Thane jail inmates rake in ₹5.22 lakh||Lockdown may have affected many small businesses and eateries. However, it has not affected the sales of Christmas cakes and goodies baked by the inmates of the Thane Central Jail.The jail authorities have sold cakes worth ₹5.22 lakh in the last seven days of December, which is more than the sales of the last two years. The goodies were baked by 15 inmates with the help of nutritionists and sold to different jails, government offices and organisations across the state.The Thane Central Jail has a bakery unit operated with the help of Nisha Naik, a nutritionist and bakery instructor. The Thane bakery unit this year had sold 28,122 cup cakes earning ₹2,10,840 and 1,917 sponge cakes earning ₹3,11,991. The jail earned a total revenue of ₹5,22,831 on Christmas goodies.Harshad Ahirrao, superintendent of police, Thane Central Jail, said, “We started getting orders from December 1. As we had to deliver the products on Christmas, the work for making them started on December 18 and till December 25 we completed all the orders. The earning of ₹5.22 lakh was in seven days. Also, the sale was better than the last few years as we maintain good quality and taste, as per the review of those who buy the goodies regularly. The sale has improved only through word-of-mouth,” added Ahirrao.The cakes were sent as per order to Arthur Road jail, Taloja Jail, Thane Central Jail, Byculla women and men jail and Kalyan Aadharwadi jail. The cakes were also sent to government offices across Thane, Mumbai and Raigad including Thane mental hospital, Mantralaya and other offices. Different NGOs also gave orders.In 2019, the bakery unit earned ₹4.80 lakh while in 2018 and 2017, the jail had earned ₹4.91 lakh and ₹4.77 lakh, respectively.“Apart from the weeklong Christmas sale, every month, the sale from the bakery is around ₹2 lakh to ₹3 lakh, depending upon the order. Due to the lockdown, the bakery products were only sold inside the jail in 2020,” said jail sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/christmas-cakes-by-thane-jail-inmates-rake-in-5-22-lakh/story-gYJC0V4cDVtTfltsBKKFEM.html
02-01-2021||Noida||Man arrested after stabbing woman in Noida||A 35-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly stabbing a 20-year-old woman in Noida Phase 2 a day earlier.The suspect was identified as autorickshaw driver Shivnath, a resident of Azamgarh, who used to ferry the woman between her home and workplace. Police said that the man attacked her for refusing his advances and fled to Dadri. Anita Chauhan, SHO Phase II police station, said the victim lived with her family in Naya Gaon. “On Friday, she left home for work at 8 am. She was found stabbed in the neck outside her village,” she said.A passerby informed police following which a team reached the spot and rushed her to a private hospital in Noida. “The woman had suffered serious injuries and was unable to speak. She was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. Based on the family’s complaint we registered a case against unknown person under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC,” she said, adding that the victim’s condition was stable.The police launched an investigation into the case. “We came to know that an autorickshaw driver had been missing from the area since the incident. We came to know that he used to pick and drop the victim for some time,” she said.Chauhan said that the suspect had attacked the woman with a sharp knife. “We have recovered the blood-stained knife, which he had hid in a bush along Hindon pushta road. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-arrested-after-stabbing-woman-in-noida/story-WKh0kC77wMMK7iloqtpY2I.html
02-01-2021||Noida||Noida: No contact of patient with new strain of Covid-19 found positive||NOIDA: The test reports of three primary and 28 secondary contacts of the 33-year-old woman, who was found positive for the new strain of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, have confirmed that none of them has been infected so far. However, as a precautionary measure, all of them have been asked to be under quarantine at home, said officials.Gautam Buddha Nagar’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said the three primary contacts of the woman were administered the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), considered the golden standard for testing for Covid-19. After their reports came negative, RT-PCR tests were conducted on the 28 secondary contacts, identified through surveillance. “All of them have been found negative. The three primary contacts of the patient, including two family members and one domestic helper, were also tested via RT-PCR and their results came out negative,” he said. He added that ever since the new variant, referred to as SARS-CoV-2 VUI 202012/01 (Variant Under Investigation, year 2020, month 12, variant 01), was detected in India in early December last year, the district administration has identified as many as 260 people who had returned from the UK after December 8 – the new strain is said to have first been detected in the UK. “While 189 of them had been tested with the RT-PCR method, the remaining 71 are either on vacation or have permanently shifted to other places in the country. We’ve cross-notified them to their present locations, based on telephonic conversations with them,” he said. The CMO also said that only two out of the 189 were found positive for Covid-19 through the RT-PCT testing method. For confirmation of the presence of the new variant among positive patients, samples of both patients were sent for genomic sequencing to the Indian Council of Medical research’s (ICMR) laboratory in Delhi. While the ICMR reports confirmed the 33-year-old woman case on Tuesday, the other – a 28-year woman from Greater Noida – was found negative for the new strain,” Dr Ohri said. Meanwhile, Covid-dedicated healthcare facilities in the district have started making arrangements to accommodate patients infected with the new variant, if any. While the administration has prepared an international traveller ward at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), the Sharda Hospital has readied a 30-bed ward for patients of the new strain.Dr Saurabh Srivastava, the head of the Covid-19 ward at GIMS, said the hospital is ready to tackle any critical situation. “The condition of the patient infected with the new strain is quite under control. We believe in controlling the pandemic instead of panicking,” he said. Dr Bhumesh Tyagi, a physician at the isolation ward of Sharda hospital, said that as the new strain is more contagious, the hospital management has readied a 30-bed exclusive ward to accommodate patients infected with new strain, if any. “The new strain appears very unpredictable, as it infects mostly younger people. However, our fingers are crossed regarding the lethality of the new strain. But to avert any mishap, we are ready with our resources. We’ve deployed 13 doctors for this ward,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-no-contact-of-patient-with-new-strain-of-covid-19-found-positive/story-uN16ybfB8Qp4j32tom4aPO.html
02-01-2021||Noida||Noida authority told to pay ₹71,000 to Sector 19 resident for damage due to water logging||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Buddha Nagar consumer disputes redressal commission has directed Noida authority to pay ₹71,000 to a man over damages due to water logging due to faults in the sewerage system in Sector 19.Anil Garg, the complainant, had filed complaint for compensation and punitive damages in 2018, alleging deficiency of services and unfair trade practices resulting in water logging, due to faulty and old sewerage system and other irregularities.Garg has been living in Block B of Sector 19 since 1988 and stated that he has been facing water logging problems in his home since 1996, adding that it became worse in 2017. The authority, in their written statement, denied all allegations, stating that no unfair trade practices have been adopted and that there has been no deficiency in services on their behalf. The authority had written that the complainant is not a consumer and that it is incorrect to say that the authority is not serious about the discharge of the duties.As regards to the sewage network in Sector 19, from house 185 to 497 in Block B is concerned, a decision to change and relay the said line has already been taken and estimated cost of said project, that comes out to be ₹229.83 lakh, was sanctioned on October 25, 2017, the authority had said. The tender for this job has been invited and work is going to start in the near future on war footing, the authority had written in its submission.Further, the authority had stated that the alleged dispute is purely of civil nature and that the forum had no jurisdiction under the provision of Consumer Protection Act.The commission, comprising president Anil Kumar Pundir and member Daya Shanker Pandey, observed that the complainant is in fact a consumer under the Act.“The district commission has ordered the authority to pay ₹60,000 towards damages and losses and ₹10,000 towards mental harassment, agony and trauma, and ₹1,000 towards other legal expenses. The order was delivered on December 22 and its copy was received Saturday,” Garg said.An official from the authority’s legal department, not authorised to speak with the media, said that the district commission’s order will be challenged at the state commission.“As complainant filed the complaint in a personal capacity, the authority is not bound to pay damages to other residents facing similar complaints,” it is stated in the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-told-to-pay-71-000-to-sector-19-resident-for-damage-due-to-water-logging/story-oEOGnI9DEVgr356gHGm2bP.html
02-01-2021||Noida||GB Nagar’s Covid-19 tally crosses 25K mark, last 5K recorded in 49 days||Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday crosses 25,000 Covid-19, 301 days after the first case was detected in March.The first 5,000 cases took 145 days in July, slowed down by the hard lockdown that was imposed nationwide for 68 days from March 25. However, as the restrictions were eased and testing increased, the number of days for the next batch of 5,000 cases reduced to 44 and then 30. Since November, however, as infected people were better isolated, the spread reduced, taking 33 days and then 49 days to reach Saturday’s figure of 25,001.In October last year there was a surge in cases, with 5,797 positive cases, the most in a month. November and December saw only 3,853 and 2,242 cases, respectively. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said, “In July, we were worried about accommodating patients in the Covid-19 facilities in the district. But, today we have less than 400 active patients.” “We started with just 597 tests in March, and by the end of June, the total test count was only 26,170. But after that, we ramped up our testing rate and between July 1 and November 15, we collected samples of over 628,656 people. It’s obvious that initially the number of positive cases detected will be directly proportional to the number of persons tested. But, after attaining the peak, the graph went down,” he said. Suhas said that till the vaccine is available widely, the district administration will ensure proper contact tracing and that people follow health protocols. “As a result of our consolidated efforts, the recovery rate in GB Nagar has gone over 97%, while the present case fatality rate (CFR) is around 0.36%, which is much better than the state’s overall CFR of 1.43%,” the DM said. District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that in the present situation, early and timely tracking and providing adequate treatment are the main goals before the health department. For that, we have adapted the universally accepted ‘tracking, testing and treating’ method. The health workers have been told to ensure maximum contact tracing – precisely finding out 25 contacts of one infected patient. We are testing nearly 5,000 people every day and treating infected patients as per symptoms,” he said. Dr Deepak Gupta, virologist with the Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) in Greater Noida, said that the downward trend indicated that the pandemic was under control in the district and people ought to stick to these health protocols even as the new variant of the virus made news.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-25k-mark-last-5k-recorded-in-49-days/story-0aqAxZvZA3NqH3HV2DvkML.html
02-01-2021||Noida||Noida Police starts campaign to check forced child begging, send kids to schools||The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police has launched a campaign to check forced child begging and send the rescued children, who have lost their way out of education for myriad reasons, back to classrooms, officials said on Saturday.The police would also ensure presence of teachers in slums across Noida and Greater Noida after it emerged that their absence since the COVID-19 outbreak has been an impediment in children’s education, they said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said a larger campaign is underway in entire Uttar Pradesh with a focus on rescuing children engaged in beggary. ‘In pursuance of that we have started the campaign in Gautam Buddh Nagar also with the support of the district child helpline and some NGOs,” Shukla said. As part of the campaign, she said, the police have identified some major slums in the district from where children are found engaged in beggary. “In the first phase, we are focusing on raising awareness in these places and encouraging adults there to send their children to school instead of engaging them in begging,” the officer said.Shukla said when the police started reaching out to people in slums some residents informed them about difficulties in sending their wards to school.The people said some schools which had shut down at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic have not resumed, impacting the education of their children, she said.“So, with the support of some NGOs and private companies we are trying to ensure the presence of teachers in these places so that children could return to education for their bright and better future, and not wander their way into begging or crime,” Shukla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-starts-campaign-to-check-forced-child-begging-send-kids-to-schools/story-u3spZn5HbwJTEhjZOQFFlM.html
02-01-2021||Noida||Part of ceiling collapses in a high-rise in Greater Noida||A 10-year-old was injured after a portion of her ninth floor flat’s roof fell on her in Greater Noida West’s Panchsheel Greens on Saturday.The child’s mother filed a complaint against the developer with the Bisrakh police station on Saturday.“My daughter was sleeping under a blanket when a portion of the ceiling suddenly collapsed at 8 am and fell on the bed. She suffered minor injuries in the incident. It appears the developer/contractor used poor construction material,” she told police. Munish Chauhan, SHO Bisrakh police station, said that police have received the complaint and investigating the matter. The developer was not available for a comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/part-of-ceiling-collapses-in-a-high-rise-in-greater-noida/story-4b37eCtkFebHsrlCJad7pM.html
02-01-2021||Noida||Three arrested for assaulting RSS worker in Noida||Noida: Three men have been arrested for allegedly beating up an 35-year-old man and his brother in Noida’s Sector 9 on Friday evening. The police, however, said that this was a case of a road rage.The victim, Vinod Kaushik, said he is a secretary of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Gautam Budh Nagar and was on his way to meet some people with his brother Vipin, in a residential society around 6pm for fundraising when a group of people allegedly beat him up.Soon after the purported incident, a number of RSS workers reached the Sector 20 police station and demonstrated for about four hours, demanding that the suspects be arrested. Vinod, in the complaint to the police, alleged that he was travelling in his car while his brother was on a motorcycle when a local person, along with 15 of his supporters, attacked him. “I suspect the role of the Jhundpura police check post-in-charge in supporting the suspects. He should be suspended with immediate effect,” he alleged in the complaint. Vinod’s other brother Uma Nandan Kaushik, said: “The suspects gathered at the spot and first attacked Vinod. Vipin, who was following Vinod, stopped and came to his rescue. The suspects also attacked Vipin in the head and legs,” he alleged. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida Zone 1, said that primary investigation shows this was a case of road rage. “A man – Wahab – was driving an e-rickshaw while Vinod was in his car. The two vehicles collided and the car received some dents. Vinod slapped the e-rickshaw driver over the issue, and the latter then called some men from Sector 9 and they manhandled Vinod,” the ADCP said.The Sector 20 police later registered a case against the suspects under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and Section 147 (rioting) of the IPC. “We arrested three persons – Nadeem, Wahab and Mehtab. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” the ADCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-arrested-for-assaulting-rss-worker-in-noida/story-OsSpHwuExe3mD2a8f4JX9J.html
02-01-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: More birds at Surajpur this year, reveals census||Noida: The number of migratory and resident waterbirds at Surajpur wetland in Gautam Budh Nagar has increased this birding season, according to the Asian Waterbird Census-2021 (AWC-2021).Experts interpret the numbers as a sign of a healthy wetland.The census held on Saturday counted 3,107 birds of 40 species as against 2,092 birds from 39 species in 2020 and 3,034 birds of 42 species in 2019.The census is conducted annually in January by Wetlands International South Asia and the forest department. Of the 40 species of waterbirds counted this time, 17 were resident species while 23 migratory species. The census also included six species of IUCN Red-listed threaten birds -- Black-necked Stork (resident), Black-tailed Godwit (winter migratory), Common Pochard (winter migratory), Ferruginous Duck (winter migratory), Woolly-necked Stork (Indian migratory), Greater Spotted Eagle (winter migratory).“Overall, winter migratory waterbirds this winter was fewer than earlier in northern India. At Surajpur, during AWC 2021, we recorded an increase in number, which indicates a healthier wetland habitat,” said TK Roy, ecologist and conservationist, AWC. According to the experts, water birds are one of the key indicators of wetlands health that provides feeding, resting, roosting, and foraging habitats for these species.The migratory birds start arriving in the region by October from far Central Asia, North Asia including Russia and Siberia, while their strength reaches its peak by December. Their departure begins by March and by mid-April they are all back to their breeding grounds in central Asia.Roy added that due to global climate change’s impact delaying the winters, the migration this year had been slower.“In November we observed more numbers and diversity of migratory waterbirds at Surajpur wetland but suddenly few species completely disappeared and overall numbers also shrank,” Roy added.Spread over 308 hectares, the Surajpur forest reserve area is home to 186 species of resident, winter migratory, summer migratory, and passage migrant birds. Among the major misses, this year included -- Pied Avocet, Ruddy Shelduck, Western Marsh Harrier, Great Cormorant, Glossy Ibis, Black-headed Gull, Smaller wader species.“We are committed to develop better habitat and manage our wetlands so that the population and species diversity increases. This year, the lockdown also had a positive effect on our wetlands due to lower human intervention,” said Pramod Kumar Srviatavsa, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-more-birds-at-surajpur-this-year-reveals-census/story-8WMjxTCROFRZDbUrqndkIL.html
02-01-2021||Noida||An NGO’s helping hand for farmers at Chilla Border||The BKU-Lokshakti members protesting at Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal on Saturday observed ‘maun’ (silence) for five minutes in memory of the farmers who had died while protesting the farms law. Master Shyoraj Singh, president BKU-Lokshakti, compared these farm laws to colonial – Abadkari Bill introduced in 1906 – which was anti-farmer. The farmers had protested for nine months and forced the British government to withdraw this bill. We will make our strategy after the January 4 meeting with the government to how long the protest will go,” BKU-Lokshakti president said. As the temperature dipped over the last two days, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) provided protesting farmers at the Chilla border between Noida and Delhi with blankets, sleeping bags and other winter essentials.The facility was provided by Gurugram-based Hemkund Foundation. Gurpreet Singh, a representative of the foundation, said that they have been supporting the farmers at different places. “We have set up sleeping tents at Singhu border as well. These shelter offers protection against bitter cold, rain and wind,” he said. He said a tent can accommodate four persons and they also provide blankets, toothpaste, toothbrush, bathing soap, washing detergent, oil, mosquito repellent, sanitary napkins and milk.Yogesh Pratap Singh, BKU-Bhanu UP President, said that there was slight rain on Friday night which brought down the temperature. “We sought help of the NGO for the safety of farmers. The protest will go one if the farmers are safe. To keep farmers warm, we visit the neighbouring bushes and bring timber for bone fire to beat the cold,” he said. The farmers also make breakfast, lunch and dinner at the spot to keep the protest going. Reports of farmer deaths prompted the organisation to attempt to boost their supporters’ morale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/an-ngo-s-helping-hand-for-farmers-at-chilla-border/story-KgxP7JS3mjh0sqcg4jEB3K.html
02-01-2021||Noida||UP Gate: Elderly, women not ready to go back despite adverse weather||Ghaziabad: Despite the chill, farmers protesting the new central farm laws at the UP Gate site on Saturday said that they were not returning till the laws are repealed. Their leaders said they conveyed the government’s request to have women, children and senior citizens outside at the protest to return and sit out the extreme cold unseen in 15 years. “No one is ready to go back,” said 85-year-old Bilender Kumar from Charoli village in Gautam Budh Nagar. He is covered in a blanket and stays in a small temporary tent at the UP Gate flyover. “I have been here since the protest started (November 28) and will go home only when the government accepts our demands. A farmer is used to adverse weather like summers, winters or rain and will not get affected.” Like him, many senior farmers and women have come to UP Gate from western UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab. “We now have two blocks of women-only camps at UP Gate and on Friday their count was 200. A few will go back home and will return in a couple of days. Neither rain nor adverse weather has not affected them and we are all geared up to help them,” said Ravneet Kaur, who is co-ordinating the ‘women-only’ camp at UP Gate. “Despite the weather conditions, more people are coming to UP Gate and coming prepared with blankets, woollens, etc. to stay here for the protest. It seems that no one is ready to go back.”The farmer leader said that the protesters have not paid heed to the request put up by the government during the last meeting. “In fact, it rained today (on Saturday) and they were seen holding up their tents and plugging leaks. No one is ready to go back home. When we request them, some even jokingly say that their wives will beat them up and will not let them in if they go empty handed (without the repeal of three new laws),” said Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. The officials of the Indian Meteorological Department have predicted that there are chances that the region will receive light to moderate rainfall on January 4 and 5. “There is also a prediction of hailstorm on January 4. Light rain is also predicted for January 3. This is due to western disturbance which will have impact up to January 6. As a result, the minimum temperature is likely to range about 8-9 degrees Celsius and likely to fall down to 5-6 degrees Celsius after the western disturbance ends. The wind speed is also likely to pick up in range of 25-3kmph,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of Indian Meteorological Department’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. The farmers light up wood to keep themselves warm and many even staying inside in their tents for hours on end. “Till the time the two key demands of repeal of laws and a new law on MSP is accepted, the farmers will not go home. This fight is now for ‘sammaan’ (honour) for us and we will not bow down. We had not come here to go back with amendments as suggested by the government,” said Ram Pal Singh, an elderly farmer from Amroha. Tikait said that farmers having stayed for over a month are not in a mood to go back till the government repeals the three laws. “During the last meeting there was no consensus on two key demand but we decided to keep them aside and discussed two other smaller issues which were accepted by the government. Now, the two key issues will come up during the talks on January 4. Even if there is no decision on January 4 we will continue talks and get government to accept our demands. Till that time, everyone is staying back,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-gate-elderly-women-not-ready-to-go-back-despite-adverse-weather/story-csDdBnR8DwEBQohFsJhB6L.html
02-01-2021||Gurugram||City receives light rain; minimum temperature rises||The minimum temperature of the city rose by several degrees to settle at 9.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s reading. The minimum temperature recorded on Friday was 4.1 degrees Celsius. Light rain was also reported from some parts of the city in the morning and evening hours. IMD officials had earlier predicted a rise in temperature starting Saturday. They attributed the increase in temperature to a western disturbance and said that there was a possibility of rain on Sunday as well. The maximum stayed at 19.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory in Delhi. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the city’s temperature on Saturday. The Palam observatory, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the rise in temperature is likely to continue and cold wave conditions will abate in the next three-four days. He said that rainfall under the influence of a western disturbance could be expected on Sunday as well. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperature are expected to hover between 19 and 9 degrees Celsius respectively on Sunday.Meanwhile, air quality in the city stayed in the “very poor” zone with a reading of 336 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This is up from 376 (also ‘very poor’) the previous day. Gurugram did, however, remained the least polluted city in the NCR, with Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Delhi all recording ‘severe’ air on Saturday. Experts said that air quality might improve starting from Sunday on account of rain and better winds conditions. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “The air quality is likely to improve further on 03.01.2021 and reach in Poor to Moderate category. The air quality is likely to remain in moderate to satisfactory category on 04.01.2021(sic).” Subsequently, the air quality is likely to improve significantly from Saturday onwards and remain largely in “moderate” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-receives-light-rain-minimum-temperature-rises/story-4yjbDh5ocTF5k4HBfroIkJ.html
02-01-2021||Gurugram||Online assessments for classes 1-8 to start next week||Assessments for students in classes 1 to 8 in government schools across the city will be conducted online from next week for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. Haryana government recently clarified that it planned to continue with online classes for such students for now. The education department will now conduct these monthly assessment tests through an app called AVSAR, which has been developed by it recently. Teachers said that the tests will give them some idea about the progress made by students since physical school visits for these students are restricted. Schools across the country were closed last March and classes are being held remotely to contain the spread of Covid-19. While schools in Haryana reopened for physical classroom sessions in October for students in classes 9 to 12, they are yet to start physical classroom sessions for students in classes 1-8.Raj Kumar, school principal, Government Senior Secondary School in Islampur, said that the monthly assessment tests would be conducted for students starting from next week for the first time since schools were shut in March. Kumar said assessment test for students in these grades were needed since students were not allowed to visit the school for doubt-clearing sessions, which helped teachers in mapping students’ progress. “We have sent videos to students which will help them in navigating through the app interface. This is for the first time that we will be holding the monthly assessment test in a structured manner through this app,” said Kumar. He said that the lack of smartphones might become a hurdle in the assessment process. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that monthly exams would be conducted regularly starting this month through the app. “Students will have to download the app to register for these exams. They’ll be able to access study material on the basis of which they’ll be tested,” said Sharma.She said that while many students had made arrangements for a phone, volunteers or Shiksha Mitras appointed by the school will help those students who do not have a smartphone. The education department had appointed Shiksha Mitra in August. As per the department’s definition, a Shiksha Mitra can be any parent, sibling, relative, neighbour or community volunteer, who has an internet-enabled smartphone and is in a position to lend the phone to the student daily for some time. Deputy district education officer Kalpna Singh said that while the lack of smartphones was a concern among students in classes 1 to 8, an assessment mechanism was needed for charting the progress of students. “The tests will be starting in the coming week. We will tap into volunteers or other resources if students face any hurdles,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/online-assessments-for-classes-1-8-to-start-next-week/story-KfFHboTxY1OuONNqo8b4FM.html
02-01-2021||Gurugram||DTCP team carries out a survey of Malibu Towne, to submit report in a week||A team of officials of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Saturday conducted an inspection of Malibu Towne residential society on Sohna Road after directions were issued by a Gurugram district court based on the complaint of a resident. Following the court order, the senior town planner formed a committee on Friday, comprising DTCP officials, two complainants and a representative of the developer, and asked it to submit a report within a week.Malibu Towne on Sohna Road is a residential society spread over 208 acres that has both plots and apartments. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that the survey team went to the colony on Saturday to physically verify the details of the violations that the complainant has submitted to the department and in the court. “The deviations that have been carried out on the ground will be matched with the original layout and the building plan. All these would be noted and a detailed report will be submitted on this matter to senior town planner for suitable action,” he said. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, who led the survey team, said that encroachment of green areas, deviation of land, installation of gensets, sub-division of land and non-construction of service roads were issues, which were raised by the complainant and they were looked into in detail. “We analysed the complaints and did a detailed ground survey to assess the situation. It will take a week to check whether the facilities and services were delivered as promised or there were violations,” he said. Raman Sharma, a resident of Malibu Towne, who submitted the complaint along with another complainant, alleged that the size of plots sold by Malibu Estates Private Limited was changed in violation of the approved layout plan and the community buildings and plots were sold in violation of rules. He also alleged that plots under EWS category were not available, apart from several other violations related to community sites and buildings.Subhash Raghav, vice president, Malibu Estates Private Limited, said that this matter was already under consideration of Lokayukta Court. “All these points are under Lokayukta Court. These are all pending issues, which are already in principle approved by us. And these people are silent on the use of generator set by others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-team-carries-out-a-survey-of-malibu-towne-to-submit-report-in-a-week/story-W3GLdndEUkTrdfsvHk7EJP.html
02-01-2021||Gurugram||Second waterbody revived under Gurujal||A pond in Khentawas village of Farrukhnagar block that was severely polluted and unusable was restored and inaugurated on Saturday. It was the second natural water body to be restored under the Gurujal initative project. The Mojabad pond in Pataudi was revived in September 2020. Minister of state (independent charge) for statistics, programme implementation and planning Rao Inderjit Singh inaugurated the restored pond site through video conference. The 1.25-acre water body in Khentawas was among the 72 water bodies identified for restoration in different blocks of the district. Currently, 14 such water bodies in sites like Kasan, Dhaula, Wazirpur, Navada, Dharampur and Khentawas, are under restoration. “The Khentawas pond will recharge groundwater by up to 19.7 million litres in a year,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, director, Gurujal. The village is situated about 18kms from Gurugram and has 400 households, with a population of more than 2000. Untreated water of the village would be discharged into the pond.The Gurujal team began the restoration work last year with desilting and levelling the pond bed. “Thereafter, a 150 kilo litres a day (KLD) capacity sewage treatment plant (STP) was constructed at a cost of ₹70 lakh to recycle the water,” said Kesarwani. The treatment will remove large coarse material or suspended solids before being pumped into filtration tanks and then to a holding tank before being released into the pond. The team also planted saplings of neem, sheesham, jamun, gulmohar and tamarind, among others, in an effort to beautify the pond.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said that the local population will be responsible for the maintenance of the treatment plant and pond. Minister Rao Inderjeet Singh also supported traditional methods of water conservation to recharge groundwater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/second-waterbody-revived-under-gurujal/story-OXOqpEna5f4zMR1VvoZtiL.html
02-01-2021||Gurugram||Anath Road to be redesigned as city’s first model street||Anath Road — a 2.4-kilometre stretch in Sector 18 that runs parallel to the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway — is likely to be redesigned as the city’s first model street. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), along with Raahgiri Foundation and a few private stakeholders, are jointly executing this project.As per GMDA officials, more than 6,000 pedestrians and cyclists use this narrow, busy stretch every day that has the passport office and many multinational corporations. Built in the 1990s, the pothole-riddled stretch neither has any pedestrian amenities nor any speed-calming measures.The redesigning of the street will include two aspects: One part will be solely dedicated for pedestrians and cyclists while the other path will be reserved for motorists. The redesigning will also accommodate around 390 trees, which will come in the path of the proposed changes. “The project is being executed under a public-private partnership (PPP) model. It is the city’s first attempt towards making a model street — one which will address and cater to the needs of both motorised and non-motorised modes of transport. The design plan has received approval, and a memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed by the government and the private stakeholders,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, a city-based road safety expert, who is one of the members overseeing the project.As per GMDA officials privy to the matter, on-ground work is expected to start in the first week of March.“There are three main stages in this project. The design aspect has been completed theoretically and has also been approved. In the second stage, GMDA will be assessing the utilities coming in the path of the project and figure out ways to redesign around it or, if the need arises, shift them to a different location. In the third stage, simultaneous to the second, we will clear all encroachments on the stretch and subsequently, start on-ground work,” said a senior GMDA official privy to the matter.As per the design plan, the path for pedestrians and cyclists will be shared while a two-metre-wide green belt or footpath extension will divide the non-motorised transport (NMT) path and the one used by motorists.In the green belt or footpath extension, benches for sitting purposes have also been incorporated into the design.The width of the 2.4-kilometre stretch is not uniform. At certain points, the right of way (ROW) is 45 metres wide while in some areas it narrows down to 30 metres. As per officials privy to the matter, dedicated pick-up and drop points have been earmarked in the design plan wherever the ROW is 45 metres wide and extra space is available.“The rationale behind the creation of dedicated pickup and drop points is to eliminate parking on the footpath or stalling on the main street and holding traffic. To safeguard those on the NMT path, bollards have been placed at the entry and exit points in the design plan to prevent vehicles from accessing the lane. Further, raised zebra crossings have also been incorporated into the design to help pedestrians cross from end to the other,” said Bhatt.Raised zebra crossings not only helps to create a dedicated path for pedestrians to cross the stretch, but the extra elevation also helps motorists spot pedestrians better. As such, such crossings act as speed-calming structures.Depending on the volume of pedestrians and vehicles, some raised zebra crossings are signalised and have pelican lights.The redesign model also has spaces for setting up e-recharging stations, which can be used by e-rickshaws or electric cabs.VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, explained that the redesigning is being done in two ways. Kundu said that the GMDA would be relaying the entire 2.4-kilometre carriageway while the Raahgiri Foundation and other private stakeholders will be responsible for redesigning the NMT path, green belts, and sitting areas through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding.“The philosophy of the GMDA, as per the city’s mobility plan, is to create road solutions for the people rather than for motorists. Our top priority in this regard is pedestrians, followed by cyclists, public transport and vehicular traffic. The Anath Road redesigning is being carried out keeping this point of view,” said Kundu.Kundu said that GMDA’s initial plan for the project was to simply widen the Ananth Road, officially known as Subedar Major Laxmi Chand Road. However, he said that the GMDA realised that the existing width of the road is sufficient enough for vehicular traffic, provided the same path is no longer mixed, and being used by both cyclists or pedestrians as well.Kundu said that the estimated cost for redesigning the entire project is estimated to be at least ₹16 crore, half of which would be for relaying the main carriageway and the other half for redesigning the NMT stretch.“This project is emblematic of Gurugram, in which the civil society, companies and the administration work cooperatively to develop a model street, which prioritises road safety for all categories of road users, particularly pedestrians and cyclists,” said Manas Fuloria, CEO of Nagarro, one of the companies funding this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/anath-road-to-be-redesigned-as-city-s-first-model-street/story-S7RDjlLpg0KmJkzGzm9MIO.html
02-01-2021||Gurugram||300 college students protest against proposed exams||Around 300 students of Government Girls College in Sector 14 on Saturday took out a march to protest against the university administration’s purported plans to conduct the second-semester exams from January. After gathering in front of the college around 11am, students moved further ahead and reached the city bus stop, where they raised slogans against the university administration.In June last year, the higher education department had said that first and second-year students will be promoted to the next semester without any exam and on the basis of marks obtained in internal assessment and previous examinations. However, students, who were promoted to the third semester, said they were told on Thursday that the second-semester exams would be conducted in January. Most students said that they were not in favour of holding second-semester exams since the syllabus couldn’t be completed due to the pandemic. They also said that the announcement had come at such a short notice that it would be difficult to handle third-semester studies along with second-semester exams. Soni Sharma, who was among the protesting students, said, “Our second semester was disrupted due to Covid-19 and we did not complete the syllabus. The semester exams did not take place and we were promoted to the third semester. However, we are now being told that second-semester exams will take place in January in 10 days. How can we be tested when the syllabus was not completed properly and we are busy with the third-semester studies? We have so many papers and science subjects are particularly difficult,” said Sharma, a BSc student. She said that students had received information about the conduct of classes only on Thursday. Sonia, another third-semester student, said that the matter was discussed with the principal on Thursday but nothing conclusive came out of it after which students decided to protest on Saturday. “Most students are not in favour of exams. If students in other universities can be promoted, why can’t the same mechanism apply to us? Ideally, third-semester exams should be conducted now. We can’t handle third-semester studies along with second-semester exams with so much syllabus left to cover,” said Sonia. She said that exams for the second semester did not make sense since the semester had been disrupted due to various factors, including the Covid-19 pandemic. “We did not have classes for the most part in January 2020 since our results were declared late. Only limited classes took place in February due to which the syllabus couldn’t be covered and later the pandemic struck in March. How can we be expected to take exams for a semester where the syllabus was not completed?” said Sonia. Markanday Ahuja, vice-chancellor of Gurugram University which is responsible for conducting exams for students, said that students were agitating unnecessarily and no examination date sheet had been prepared. “No date-sheet has been made till now. We have simply called a meeting of college principals to explore the possibility of conducting exams since the government has said that exams need to be taken. The UGC has also made a recommendation,” said Ahuja. He said that college principals had been asked to take feedback from students for a preferable time for exams but students had reacted unnecessarily. “We are simply trying to explore the possibility of holding exams, whether exams should be conducted during the third semester or later,” said Ahuja. He said that a follow-up meeting was due for Monday where further decisions in this regard will be taken. Protesting students said that they had been assured that they would get to be a part of the discussions scheduled to take place on Monday after which they’d decide the next course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/300-college-students-protest-against-proposed-exams/story-AalnZn8CAH6CnHcsJL6MwJ.html
02-01-2021||City||1.2 million health workers in Maharashtra on priority list for Covid-19 vaccination||Around 1.2 million health workers in Maharashtra will get the Covid-19 vaccination on priority in the state as soon as the drive rolls out in India. The state department has geared up for the mass immunisation process of the Covid-19 vaccination. Till Saturday, details of 750,000 health workers have been uploaded for priority vaccination on the CoWin app, which has been developed by the Centre to track the vaccination process. The state health department expects around 400,000 more health workers employed in the public sector to register for the vaccination. Officers however believe that around 350,000 health workers, including ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers are yet to register themselves for the vaccination. Earlier, the deadline for the registration was December 25, but to keep the registration option available, the state health has extended the period to an unlimited time. “We expect another 3.5 lakh health workers to register online. Most of the districts have completed the registration. Mumbai is yet to finish the registration but the process is on. In the next few days, we accept all the health workers to complete the registration process,” said Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer. Till December 25, 16,102 healthcare workers in Maharashtra had contracted Covid-19. Of these, around 11,000 are those working in the government sector. A total of 178 health workers have succumbed to the infection in the state of which 46 were doctors, 11 were nurses and 121 were paramedical workers and other staffers who were involved in the Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-2-million-health-workersin-maharashtra-on-priority-list-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-ccu7Yz9rH2s1spvgH2tONO.html
02-01-2021||City||31-yr-old nabbed at IGI for trying to smuggle heroin worth ₹4.5 crore||New Delhi: Customs at the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport on Saturday arrested a 31-year-old Afghan man for allegedly trying to smuggle into the country heroin worth ₹4.5 crore. The man had stuffed 635 grams of heroin in 89 small plastic capsuled and had ingested them to avoid being caught at the customs. According to the customs officials, the man had landed at the Delhi airport from Mazār-e Sharīf in Afghanistan on December 29. He was intercepted by the customs sleuths following inputs and was asked to cooperate for a detailed screening.“During questioning it surfaced that the Afghan man had ingested capsules full of narcotics substance. He was then taken to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital where 89 capsules were extracted from his body over a period of three days. A total of 635.5 grams heroin worth ₹4.5 crore was recovered from the capsules. The man was officially arrested on Saturday,” said a customs officer requesting anonymity.The official said the man is being questioned to find out his contacts in Delhi to whom he was supposed to deliver the consignment. “No previous involvement of the man has surfaced so far. Further probe revealed that the man had his passport recently issued,” he said.In another catch on Saturday, customs arrested an Indian man and recovered from him 16 iPhones and a MacBook laptop worth over ₹17 lakh that he was allegedly trying to smuggle in. The man was intercepted when he arrived from Dubai. Following his arrest, the man also confessed to have smuggled iPhones and cosmetics in the past.“The phones were being smuggled to be sold in local markets at higher prices. The man was placed under arrest and the recovered iPhones and the MacBook were seized,” the officer said.On Saturday, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) said it has also recovered 5.35 Kg heroin from two Zambian nationals and arrested them in two separate incidents. The first arrest was made on December 25 when an NCB team intercepted a Zambian at the Delhi airport and recovered from him 4.6 Kg heroin. His questioning led the bureau to another Zambian in Delhi who was arrested and more 700 grams of heroin was recovered, the department said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/31-yr-old-nabbed-at-igi-for-trying-to-smuggle-heroin-worth-4-5-crore/story-8yi9M1P5xmlM5EdS89NlSK.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan crematorium caretaker turns Covid warrior||Thirty-year-old Amol Dabhade has emerged as a true Covid warrior and an unsung hero during the pandemic.The caretaker of Lal Chowki crematorium in Kalyan has cremated more than 350 Covid patients since March 2020, sometimes working continuously for more than 24 hours and going on for days without meeting his family or celebrating birthdays with them. But Dabhade has no regrets.A resident of Adharwadi in Kalyan, Dabhade stays with his 55-year-old mother and 26-year-old wife. He said, “I have been working in the crematorium for many years. Earlier, there were merely four to five people to be cremated in a day. I stayed nearby, the money I earned was enough for the three of us and I could spend enough time with my mother and wife. However, things changed after March when the pandemic set in. The body count started increasing and so would the despair and helplessness of the people who came here.”Dabhade remembered the days when he had to cremate 15 to 19 persons in a day. “My family used to worry about my health but I have always been careful with all the safety precautions. Initially, I was worried too looking at the death. However, one day a man came to cremate his 30-year-old son, a Covid warrior. He was also the sole breadwinner of the family. The son died of Covid and the father told me he was very proud of his son who worked for people during the pandemic. This inspired me and I told my family not to worry about me, I will also do my bit for the society. I believe God has given me this opportunity through my work and he will give me strength too.”Dabhade said that he never said no to any family who came to the crematorium at any time of the day. “I had to cremate 19 bodies back-to-back. Each body took more than 40 minutes, after which I took one-and-a-half hours to clean the machine. Otherwise, it would get stuck leading to a long queue. I used to reach home late after my family was asleep or sometimes after two days. My wife and I did not even meet on our birthdays. The appreciation from people was my gift for this year.”The KDMC had allowed cremation of Covid patients at six of its crematoriums. A KDMC official said, “A total 980 deaths has been reported in the KDMC jurisdiction over nine months, and this crematorium alone has burnt more than 350 bodies so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-crematorium-caretaker-turns-covid-warrior/story-evvhvwy6vzM4SsVceV7jHK.html
02-01-2021||Dehradun||Over 6,000 vehicles fined in Uttarakhand for illegal nameplates bearing political, religious symbols||The traffic police unit of Uttarakhand fined 6,488 vehicles for allegedly carrying illegal nameplates stating political, religious and caste mentions, said police officials on Saturday.The action was taken by the police during a campaign from December 17 to January 1. According to a data released by the traffic police department, police also collected a fine of ₹31.51 lakh from the violators.Out of the total 13 districts, the maximum number of challans, 1551, were issue in Nainital followed by Tehri Garhwal, 1520, and Haridwar, 1329, challans. Police in Nainital collected a fine of Rs 7.93 lakh, Tehri Garhwal collected Rs 7.60 lakh and Haridwar collected Rs 6.19 lakh.Among the other major districts, in US Nagar district, 605 violators were issued challan while in Dehradun 596 were fined.Police also issued challans to violators for over-speeding and rash driving under which maximum, 761, challans were issued in Nainital with 41 vehicles seized followed by Dehradun with 695 challans and five vehicles seized. In Haridwar, 517 challans were issued while 101 vehicles were seized.Also read: Day 1 of dry run concludes as two Covid-19 vaccines await final nodKewal Khurana, deputy inspector general, Uttarakhand traffic police said, “The campaign was run to penalise those with vehicles bearing illegal nameplates with religious, political and caste signs or symbols.”“It was important to do so because having such nameplates is a violation of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1989. Apart from this, the owners of such vehicles have also been found involved in criminal incidents in the past,” said Khurana adding, “Traffic police would also start a campaign to take action against those doing stunt biking, using pressure horns, modified silencers and triple riding on two-wheelers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/over-6-000-vehicles-fined-in-uttarakhand-for-illegal-nameplates-bearing-political-religious-symbols/story-cMeJt51ROLKQZdKQxRQ6AP.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Fire at used-motorbikes showroom in Moti Nagar, firefighters rescue four||A major fire gutted showroom selling used-motorcycles in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar during the early hours on Saturday. The firefighters rescued four people who were trapped in a roof-top restaurant in the three storey building. Officials said the restaurant was operating without a valid No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the fire department.According to the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) the fire was reported to them around 1.30 am after which ten fire tenders were immediately rushed to the spot to contain the blaze. A team of firefighters that reached the spot found that the fire was on the first and second floor of the three storey building. As the fire was big, eventually 15 more fire tenders were called in.Atul Garg, director DFS, a restaurant named Markaz was being run from the third floor and the rooftop of the building. There were four people, including two women trapped in the restaurant because of the thick smoke. “They were all rescued using the skylift. None of them were injured. All of them were restaurant employees. The fire had started from the first floor that had a high-end two-wheelers showroom with bikes such as Harley Davidson. A lot of raw material was also stashed in the first and second floors that had fueled the fire,” Garg said.He said, the firefighters managed to control the blaze by 5.30 am, after a struggle of 4 hours. The building had parking on eth ground floor and basement was also used as a store.Garg said his men managed to control the blaze in time and prevented it from spreading to other floors. “The restaurant was saved but it was found it did not have a valid fire NOC (No Objection Certificate),” Garg said.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said no one was hurt in the incident. “The restaurant’s food license issued by Delhi government is valid till 2023. A case has been registered to probe the incident at Moti Nagar police station,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-at-used-motorbikes-showroom-in-moti-nagar-firefighters-rescue-four/story-kclLLQaosPfZuIMw08VlYL.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||12,000 people to be vaccinated in Mumbai daily, centres to rise from 8 to 50||In an attempt to increase its capacity for the vaccination process, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has set a target of immunising 12,000 beneficiaries daily at all the vaccination centres. Currently, BMC has allotted eight centres for vaccination, but it has plans to gradually increase them to 50-100. On Saturday, the civic body announced that the vaccination process will start in Mumbai within 24 hours of the availability of the vaccine stock.As per BMC’s plan, of the eight centres, four major civic hospitals – King Edward Memorial (KEM), BYL Nair, Cooper and Sion – have been equipped to vaccinate 2,000 people on a daily basis. The remaining four centres – Bhabha hospital (Bandra), VN Desai Hospital (Santacruz), Rajawadi Hospital (Ghatkopar) and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital (Kandivli) will vaccinate 1,000 people every day. With a target of vaccinating 12, 000 people every day, BMC plans to complete the first phase of vaccination in 12-15 days.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who visited all the cold storage facilities and the eight vaccination centres to take a review of the preparations on Saturday, said, “We have started the eight centres on a standby mode. Each administrative ward will have at least two vaccination centres. At first, we can increase the total number of centres to 50. However, we have also identified some school buildings and public structures that will help us to almost double the centres in the future, as we reach to other phases of vaccination. I have directed the staff today to leave no stone unturned in the preparations for our vaccination plan.”During the first phase of vaccination, around 1.25 lakh healthcare workers are expected to be immunised, while in the second phase, frontline workers such as police personnel and conservancy workers, will be vaccinated. In the third phase, around 50 lakh citizens will be vaccinated, of whom 30 lakh people are above 50 years of age identified in the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ survey. Citizens with comorbidities will also be vaccinated in the third phase of the vaccination drive. BMC has identified an area of 5,000 square feet on the first floor of its five-storey building at Kanjurmarg as the centralised spot for storing the vaccine. The facility will have two walk-in coolers (WIC) and one walk-in freezer (WIF). Each of WICs will have a capacity of 40 cubic metres and will maintain temperature upto -80 degree Celsius, while the WIF will have a capacity of 20 cubic metres and maintain temperature between -15 and -250 degree Celsius. Seventeen ice-lined refrigerators (ILR), each with a capacity of 225 litres, will be supplied by the state government. Eight of the refrigerators have been delivered to each of the identified vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-000-people-to-be-vaccinated-in-mumbai-daily-centres-to-rise-from-8-to-50/story-2lwVOE0Abeo1iOHvt7NihL.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||DDA puts 1,354 flats for sale in new scheme, Feb 16 last date to apply||The Delhi Development Authority on Saturday launched its housing scheme-2021 putting on sale 1,354 flats that are located mainly in Dwarka, Jasola and Vasant Kunj areas. This includes Rs 2.1-crore three-bedroom High Income Group (HIG) flats, the costliest to be put up for sale till date by the authority, located in south-east Delhi’s Jasola.There are 254 flats in the HIG category located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini, Dwarka. Of these, 215 flats in Jasola have been put on sale for the first time, while the remaining are those that were returned by allottees in the previous housing schemes. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9 sqm to 177.3 sqm in size, varies between Rs69.62 lakh to Rs 2.14 crore. Despite the slump in the real estate market, DDA officials are optimistic that the 254 HIG flats in Jasola will find takers. “These are spacious flats, located on the Delhi-Noida border and are well-connected to the rest of the city via Metro and other public transport system. There is a dual piping system as the complex has its own sewer treatment plant. The most important thing is that each flat has two parking slots. The Rs 2.1 crore cost is as per the market rate,” said a senior DDA official. Real estate experts say that the number of property transactions have increased in the past few months as property prices have plummeted due to economic slowdown triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mudassir Zaidi, executive director, Knight Frank, said, “In the past few months, the property transactions have increased despite a slump in the market. While the costs have gone down, there is interest in newer projects, especially in Delhi. As there are not many private housing projects in Delhi, there is a demand for DDA flats. As for the cost of HIG flats in Jasola, it is as per market prices.”Apart from HIG flats, the DDA has put on sale 757 Middle Income Group (MIG) flats with two and three bedrooms in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Janahgirpuri and Madipur. Spread over 64.04 sqm to 129.98 sqm, the cost of MIG flats varies between R40.64 lakh to R1.24 crore. Of the 757 flats, 711 are located in Dwarka sub-city—one of the planned residential areas developed by the DDA. There are 291 flats for the Economically Weaker Section and 52 in the Lower Income Group (LIG) category in Dwarka and Rohini.The last date to apply for the scheme is February 16 and senior DDA officials said that the draw of lots will be held in February end or first week of March.Unlike the last housing scheme in 2019, DDA officials said that the scheme will be launched online using the newly developed AWAAS software. The official added that all applications, payments and possession letters will be processed online. “People will have to come to the DDA office just once to execute the conveyance deed,” said the official.A senior DDA official said that people are advised to visit the site and inspect flats before applying for it. “We have provided the contact number of officials who will be present at the site to show the sample flats,” said the official. After three unsuccessful housing schemes, the land-owning agency is hoping for a good response to its new housing scheme as the flats on offer this time are spacious and located in areas which are well connected to the rest of the city.Last year, the DDA had put 18,000 flats on sale, but had to reduce the number of flats in the scheme to 10,294 later, as it didn’t get the desired response. The land-owning agency had received 45,012 applications for its flats, but it could sell only 8,438 flats — 488 HIG, 1,555 in MIG, 5,172 LIG and 1,223 EWS category flats — of which close to 6,000 flats were returned, a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-puts-1-354-flats-for-sale-in-new-scheme-feb-16-last-date-to-apply/story-ocIb4zIedDVrGjjzF3SqmO.html
02-01-2021||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking news||Cycling group rides into 2021 in style Chandigarh-based Cyclegiri group pedalled into the new year with a specially planned route that spelled 2021. According to group administrator Akshit Passi, 25, the riders started cycling from Yadavindra Public School Chowk in Mohali and went up to Sector 27, Chandigarh. “It was a two-hour trip and we rode for 33km on Saturday morning. The cold weather made the ride extra special,” Passi said. Ex-mayor at receiving end as BJP councillor adds insult to injury It was double whammy for a former mayor of Chandigarh the other day. During the general house meeting on December 31, a Congress councillor called him “anpad (illiterate)”. The former mayor from the BJP and his party members objected and demanded an apology from the Congress councillor. After several minutes of pandemonium, the Congress leader relented and withdrew his comment. But the embarrassment for the former mayor didn’t end there. Later, at the mayor’s office, where journalists were present, a BJP councillor said, “It was disrespectful of the Congress member to call him anpad. There’s no decency left. Like one doesn’t call a kana (squint-eyed) person a kana to his face, similarly one shouldn’t call an illiterate an anpad on his face.” Looking uncomfortable, the former mayor responded, “How can a Class 10 pass be called an anpad?” Bidding adieu to city’s Jhansi Ki Rani Only two months ago, BJP councillors, led by local unit chief Arun Sood, boycotted an MC general house meeting called by Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik and gifted her the most embarrassing moment of her one-year term. But by the year-end, the councillors were all praise for Malik’s working style at the last meeting under her mayorship. Sood even likened her to Jhansi ki Rani for being active at the grassroots, particularly during the Covid-19 lockdown. MC agenda passed by voice vote amid clanging of thalis Congress members outwitted the BJP by bringing thalis to the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation House last week. They didn’t let the House meet proceed by clanging the stainless steel plates, forcing an adjournment. With important issues up for discussion, local BJP chief Arun Sood decided to bring the items on the agenda to get them passed with voice vote. When the meeting resumed, the Congress members reached the well of the House, clanging the thalis only to be outdone by their BJP counterparts, who passed all the items on the agenda, except one, by voice vote without any discussion. Mohali MC in sleep mode as stray cattle give commuters nightmares Ever since the five-year term of the municipal corporation ended on April 26 last year, officials have forgotten to address Mohali’s civic issues. The stray cattle problem has grown alarmingly with one of the worst-hit areas being a site near the MC office in Sector 68. Commuters have a tough time negotiating certain stretches in town and the fog has aggravated their problem. Prohibit youngsters from hookah bars Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh, minced no words when she said there was a need to prohibit youngsters from hookah bars as they are a gateway to addictions, starting from nicotine/tobacco. Participating as a guest in a panel discussion on hookah bars being the new fad with the young, she said that nicotine leads to constriction of blood vessels and affects all our organs from head to toe. The health risks of smoking through a hookah include exposure to toxic chemicals that are not filtered out by the water and the risk of infectious diseases, including tuberculosis and Covid-19, increases as hookah smoking is a social activity. Chandigarh has already imposed a hookah ban till February. Former Congmen in war of wardsTwo former Congress leaders Nirmal Singh (HDF) and Venod Sharma (HJP) whose newly floated parties fought the municipal elections in Ambala have entered into a political slugfest post results. After his party’s poor performance, Singh accused Sharma of “using muscle and money power”. Sharma, whose wife has been elected the mayor, mocked Singh and said: “Yeh to hamare hi haathon mein khele hue hain; hume pata hai tumhara kitna janadhaar hai.” New Year’s a low-key affair at PU The New Year celebrations at Panjab University were a low-key affair this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As a tradition, the vice-chancellor would address non-teaching staff on the first day of the year. But there was no such interaction in view of the health protocol. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Amanjeet Singh, Rajanbir Singh, Dar Ovais and Bhavey Nagpal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-Ib9KLgzYusLoWsvpLNtS8M.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity records three deaths, 67 fresh Covid cases||Panchkula, Chandigarh and Mohali recorded a death each on Saturday, while 67 people tested positive for Covid-19.Chandigarh reported 29 cases, followed by 20 in Panchkula and 18 in Mohali.An 83-year-old man from Sector 51 died, taking the toll to 319 in Chandigarh, which has recorded 19,865 cases so far. With the PGIMER clearing the backlog of 188 samples, 37 more positive cases were added to the UT’s tally. Meanwhile, 117 patients were discharged, taking the number of those recovered to 19,226 and active cases to 320.In Panchkula, a 76-year-old woman from Sector 11 died, taking the district’s toll to 144. The fresh cases took the total to 10,027 and included two CRPF personnel. As many as 9,714 patients have recovered, 144 have died and 169 are still undergoing treatment. In Mohali, 18,257 people have tested positive so far, of whom 343 have died and 1,040 are still undergoing treatment. With 33 patients being discharged on Saturday, the number of those cured has reached 16,874.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-records-three-deaths-67-fresh-covid-cases/story-4Fk1PnlC4MdVO4VXp1AcAI.html
02-01-2021||City||Covid fatalities remain a concern in Panchkula district||Even as Panchkula district recorded 20% drop in Covid-19 cases in December as compared to November, fatalities due to the virus remain a cause of concern for the health department.In December 2020, 1,199 people tested positive, down from 1,524 in November. However, the number of fatalities went 15% up, from 13 to 15 in the same period. “Overall mortality has decreased from 1.9% in October to 1.1% in December, but we are still struggling to bring it down further,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula. “Winter months are challenging as old and comorbid patients become more vulnerable to infections in general. This increases the risk of Covid and subsequent death among them.”Hopeful of getting the vaccine by the month-end, she said: “We have all systems in place. Teams have been constituted. The list of healthcare and front line workers is ready. We are just waiting for the vaccine.”Even on Saturday, Panchkula recorded one fatality, while 20 people tested positive. The fresh cases took the total to 10,027 and included two CRPF personnel. As many as 9,714 patients have recovered, 144 have died and 169 are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-fatalities-remain-a-concern-in-panchkula-district/story-uG3bIc6jQtPZcYANRC2tzL.html
02-01-2021||Kolkata||Senior TMC legislator allegedly blackmailed with morphed pornographic video clip||A senior Trinamool Congress legislator from north Bengal has lodged a complaint with the police alleging that he was being blackmailed with a morphed pornographic video clip.Udayan Guha, a TMC MLA from Dinhata in Cooch Behar district, alleged that he received a video call on his mobile phone from an unidentified caller. A few days later he allegedly received a pornographic clip from the same number in which his face was superimposed. The caller demanded a hefty sum and threatened to make the video viral if Guha refused to cough up the amount. Guha, who is also the chairperson of the board of administrators of Dinhata municipality, however, lodged a complaint with the police on December 25. Also read: ‘Jumbo panels serve no purpose,’ says Karti Chidambaram in veiled dig at Congress“The blackmailer is from outside West Bengal. Investigation is going on,” said K Kannan, superintendent of police of Cooch Behar district. The caller, however, called again and this time he allegedly demanded more money. Guha spoke to media persons on Saturday narrating how he was being threatened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/senior-tmc-legislator-allegedly-blackmailed-with-morphed-pornographic-video-clip/story-EoUMO76Y7SFumPY8QssjpJ.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Winds from Delhi turn Chandigarh’s air quality poor||Air Quality Index (AQI), which had remained below 150 for most of December, suddenly jumped to 256 at the monitoring station in Sector 25, Chandigarh, on Saturday morning. Attributing it to wind systems forming in the region due to western disturbances, experts said the air quality is expected to improve with rain likely for the next few days.The jump is high considering that at the Sector-25 station, which gives live updates, AQI had gone up to just 140 on Diwali night, though it was recorded higher at other observatories of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee.“The air quality turned poor at other stations as well, and the sudden spike is most likely related to some weather phenomena,” said Debendra Dalai, member secretary, CPCC.Throwing more light on it, Surender Paul, director, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh, said: “A western disturbance is active in the northwest of the region, and winds from other places are rushing in towards here. The most likely explanation is that winds are coming from in and around Delhi, where air quality is poorer.” However, with rain likely in the coming days, AQI is likely to fall below 100 again, said Paul.Central Pollution Control Board classifies AQI of 200-300 as poor. It can cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. AQI of 100-200 is moderate, and can cause breathing discomfort to people with lung and heart diseases. AQI of 50-100 is satisfactory, though it can still cause minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people. Beloe 50, AQI is classified as good and has minimal impact on health.‘Cleaner air so far has led to colder winter’Air this winter has been cleaner than in previous years. The average AQI of the city in December 2020 stood at 119, as compared to 140 in December 2019.Explaining how this made the winter chillier, Paul said: “Pollutants, especially particulate matter, soak up heat during the day and keep the city warm at night. This has been missing this winter and has been one of the reasons why the city has been colder.”Dalai added that due to less vehicular movement this year, the concentration of greenhouse gases had also come down and made the city a bit more colder this season. City records 1.1mm rain, more on the cardsMeanwhile, western disturbances started affecting the region, with 1.1mm rain recorded in the city on Saturday. Chances of rain are likely to increase from Sunday, and up to 30mm along with thunderstorm is likely on Monday .Sunday was a cold day as maximum temperature fell from 17.4°C on Saturday to 15.7°C, five notches below normal. Minimum temperature remained unchanged at 6.1°C. A cold day is declared when maximum temperature is more than 4.5°C below normal and minimum temperature is less than 10°C.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 16 and 17 degrees while minimum will remain between 8 and 10 degrees, according to the weather bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/winds-from-delhi-turn-chandigarh-s-air-quality-poor/story-2kOkIzYTbo5XjwU0Fg4mgJ.html
02-01-2021||City||1 succumbs to Covid in Ludhiana||A 62-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 while 44 persons tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Saturday. The district currently has 329 active cases. So far, 968 persons have died of the virus in the district. Meanwhile, in wake of the new strain of the virus in United Kingdom, health officials are keeping tabs on travellers coming from the country. So far, 18 persons have flown into the district from UK, of which 16 tested negative while one patient was admitted to the civil hospital after testing positive. Another positive patient has reportedly moved to Uttar Pradesh. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said the samples patient in the city have been sent to Pune to ascertain whether the new strain is present in her samples or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-succumbs-to-covid-in-ludhiana/story-g2QgN7pRfLA78vXi4w345I.html
02-01-2021||City||Protesting Youth Congress workers, Sikh activists detained||Nearly two dozen Youth Congress workers and Sikh activists supporting the farmers’ agitation were detained on Saturday, when they were holding a counter protest against Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, who were holding a dharna near Shingar cinema.The BJP workers, led by national general secretary Tarun Chugh, were staging their protest against the alleged inflammatory statements made by Ludhiana Member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu, and the “deteriorating law and order condition in the state”. High drama was witnessed when a large number of Youth Congress workers accompanied by some Sikh activists tried to breach the police barricades and interrupt the saffron party’s protest. The police had to use mild force to restrain them. Earlier, the Sikh activists led by Harpreet Singh Makhu and Congress leaders had reached the Samrala Chowk and Transport Nagar road, respectively, to raise slogans against the BJP government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Makhu said, “BJP is trying to disturb peace in the state and torpedo the farmers’ agitation. Police detained us even when we were protesting peacefully.” Youth Congress’ district president Yogesh Handa said, “Farmers are struggling for their rights on Delhi borders while the BJP is doing politics here. We will continue to support the farmers till the farm laws are repealed.”Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Deepak Pareek said, “To avert any untoward situation, around two dozen Congress workers and Sikh activists were detained by the police but they were released in the afternoon.”Meanwhile, the BJP leadership said that the Congress was protesting only to gain political mileage and was concerned about farmers.SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, meanwhile, issued a statement saying that both Congress and BJP were trying to create trouble in the state. “Farmers have already announced that they won’t allow BJP leaders to enter their villagers; so why are the party’s leaders protesting here,” he said. On the Congress, he said, “Bittu’s inflammatory statements will only bring back the old dark days of terrorism in the state.” The Mahila Congress, meanwhile, sent messages of protest to the BJP national leadership, over the FIR against Bittu. District president Leena Taparia said BJP leaders are acting like dictators and trying to suppress the voice being raised against them. Protests lead to traffic chaosMeanwhile, commuters were on the receiving end as huge traffic jams were witnessed near Samrala Chowk, Transport Nagar road and adjoining areas due to the protests. Police had been diverting vehicles from these roads, but it failed to help. Traffic movement was also disrupted on the internal roads of Shivaji Nagar area connecting Shingar cinema road with Transport Nagar Road.Suresh, a commuter, said, “The public should not be harassed due to the protests which are staged by political parties. Every time the matter is raised, police claims that strict action will be taken against those who will block roads during protest, but nothing is done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-youth-congress-workers-sikh-activists-detained/story-K7OzZ7cl8NyJt9ZdN9YagI.html
02-01-2021||City||Ludhiana police tighten the noose around sellers of plastic kite strings||Four cases have been registered in different parts of the city against sellers of plastic kite strings, which is banned in the state due to the potential safety hazards.The first case was registered by the Division Number 6 police, against Daljit Singh of Muradpura, Millar Ganj, after three rolls of plastic strings were recovered from his stationery shop near Dhuri lines. The case against him has been registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. In the second case, Sadar police arrested Sandeep Singh of Manjit Nagar and Paramjit Sharma of Subhash Nagar with 45 rolls of plastic strings. The Sadar police arrested another person in a separate case after 250 rolls were found in his possession. The accused has been identified as Rajit Sharma of Gulchaman Gali. The two cases have been lodged under Section 188 and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code, besides Sections 39, 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act.The Division Number 4 police arrested two persons, identified as Ashish Bahadur Spreta of New Kundanpuri and Abu Talib of New Kundanpuri, and recovered 10 rolls of banned kite strings from their possession. They have been charged for disobedience to order promulgated by public servant and endangering the life and safety of others.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that he has instructed all police stations to add sections of the Wildlife Act against the violators. Know the punishmentUnder Section 188 of the IPC, a convict shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with a fine which may extend to Rs 1, 000, or with both.Under Section 336 of IPC, a convict shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to Rs 250, or with both.Sections 35 and 51 of Wildlife Protection Act 1972 are punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine which may extend to Rs 25,000 or with both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-tighten-the-noose-around-sellers-of-plastic-kite-strings/story-IywerUsp0WqximiNTF0ezI.html
02-01-2021||City||Himachal receives first snowfall of New Year||Himachal Pradesh received New Year’s first snowfall as its higher reaches donned white mantle on Saturday. Rainfall was also witnessed in middle and lower hills of the state.Light snowfall occurred in Lahaul-Spiti and higher reaches of Kullu district, including Solang, while light showers were witnessed in Shimla, Solan, Una, Hamirpur, Dalhousie, Bilaspur and Kasauli. However, no appreciable changes were witnessed in the minimum and maximum temperatures during the last 24 hours.The state meteorological department has also issued a yellow warning for thunderstorms and lightning at isolated places in the lower hills and plains for January 3 and 4. A yellow warning for heavy snowfall on January 5 has also been issued for higher, middle and lower hills of the state.Meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said snowfall and rainfall will continue throughout the state till January 5. The weather will remain dry throughout the state on January 6 and 7 while snowfall and rainfall will be witnessed on January 8.Minimum temperature in Shimla on Saturday was 5.1°C while prominent tourist destinations including Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded minus 1.4°C, 3.2°C, 4.1°C and 2.6°C minimum temperatures respectively.Una recorded minimum temperature of 2.5°C, while it was 2.2°C in Solan, 5°C in Bilaspur, 4.4°C in Hamirpur, 7.1°C in Nahan, 2°C in Mandi and minus 0.8°C in Kalpa.Keylong, headquarters of tribal district Lahaul-Spiti, continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 7.3°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-receives-first-snowfall-of-new-year/story-urfIzHqmD0EOGjsur7tSUK.html
02-01-2021||City||22-year-old woman found dead in Samba, in-laws detained||A day after mysterious death of a newly married woman in Samba, her family has accused the in-laws of murder.The relatives of the deceased, identified as Pallavi (22) of Kathua district, also staged a protest with her body on the road outside the DC office in Kathua. They accused Pallavi’s in-laws of murdering her and demanded their arrests.However, senior police officers reached the spot and pacified them. “The body was cremated in the evening,” said Kathua SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra.Meanwhile, Samba SSP Rajesh Sharma said, “We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. Post-mortem report of the deceased is awaited and further action will be taken accordingly. The in-laws have been detained for questioning.”As per Pallavi’s family members, she had sent seven to eight messages on a family WhatsAapp group on December 31 night, claiming that her life was in danger and that she was being beaten up by her in-laws. “But no one saw the messages that night and the next morning her in-laws told us that she committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling. Her body bore marks of severe assault,” said one of the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-woman-found-dead-in-samba-in-laws-detained/story-US5qobayd752ygxtFgzoQJ.html
02-01-2021||City||Covid vaccine: Dry run conducted at three hospitals in Shimla||A dry run of Covid-19 vaccination was conducted at three different locations in Shimla on Saturday ahead of its official launch.A team of doctors and observers from the World Health Organisation took part in the drive held at Deen Dyal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital, Shimla, Government Senior Secondary School, Kasumpti and Tenzin Hospital, Panthaghati.“As many as 25 people were registered for the shot at DDU Hospital. A team of experts monitored the dry run,” said chief medical officer Dr Surekha Chopra.Meanwhile Kundan, a volunteer, who was among the first people to get the vaccine jab said he and other volunteers were pleased to participate in the dry run.Minister inspects IGMCH Covid ward Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Saturday visited IGMCH, Shimla, and inspected facilities at the hospital’s Covid ward.The hospital administration apprised him about the availability of oxygen and beds. IGMCH senior medical superintendent Dr Janak, medical superintendent Rahul Gupta, principal Dr Rajneesh Pathania, and other officials were present during the minister’s visit.Bhardwaj also met Covid patients and advised them not to panic. “If you come across any issue, please tell the hospital authorities or call me,” the minister told the patients.10 lakh screened for virus in Mandi: CM Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said that though a decline in coronavirus cases is being observed in Mandi district, it is important to be vigilant and sensitive towards the efforts being made to control the virus. He was presiding over a review meeting on current pandemic situation in the district.Revealing that 10 lakh persons have been screened under the Him Surksha campaign in Mandi, Thakur said the Covid hospital in Nerchowk would be completed soon to enhance the bed capacity for patients. He said the Him Suraksha campaign would continue in the state till January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-vaccine-dry-run-conducted-at-three-hospitals-in-shimla/story-AstTCoXOQwdl6DCqim2FsM.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man ends life by jumping into canal||A resident of Bhutta village ended his life by jumping into the canal near Kaind Canal Bridge on Friday. The police have handed over the body to the family after conducting a postmortem. However, the reason behind why he took the extreme step has not been ascertained yet.Sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh, station house officer at Dehlon police station, said that the deceased had come to city to see his maternal uncle, who is admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. While returning, he parked his car on the banks of the canal, and jumped in.Onlookers raised the alarm and informed the police. A rescue operation was initiated and the body was fished out in some time.The SHO added that police are investigating to find out the reason behind the suicide. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) following the statement of the deceased’s family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-ends-life-bu-jumping-into-canal/story-MyPurSpYSpCmVrE4wcMWkK.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||At 4°C, Ludhiana colder than Shimla||At 4°C, Ludhiana was colder than Shimla, which recorded a minimum temperature of 5°C on Saturday, met officials revealed. The cold weather, coupled with rain, left the residents shivering throughout the day. As per the India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh, the maximum temperature recorded in Ludhiana was 15°C while 5.4mm rainfall was received till afternoon.Meanwhile, low visibility due to fog also troubled commuters in the city. Ranjit Kaur, a resident of Model Town Extension, said, “The temperature in the city is witnessing a continuous dip which is forcing residents to sit tight in their houses. The visibility was very low on Friday night and driving was very difficult. It was a misty on Saturday as well.”Cloudy weather to continue till Jan 5Dr PK Sidhu, head of the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University, said, “Cloudy weather conditions are expected to prevail in the city till January 5 with possibility of rainfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-4-c-ludhiana-colder-than-shimla/story-46GZp4Ul6NDzEqLZD8PnCM.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Delhi teen, Punjab Police head constable lose their lives in road mishaps||Two people including a teenager from Delhi and a head constable of Punjab Police lost their lives in road mishaps on Friday.In the first incident, a 17-year-old boy died while his parents and sister suffered injuries after their car crashed into a stationary truck at National Highway near Pawa village of Sahnewal. They were returning to Delhi from Amritsar.The deceased has been identified as Lakshay Duggal of New Delhi, and his father Jagdish, 50, an insurance agent, mother Geetika, 48, and sister Ria, 19, were injured.Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, station house officer at Sahnewal police station, said that the family had gone to the Golden Temple to pay obeisance. Jagdish was driving and Lakshay was sitting in the front, while his wife and daughter were seated in the back.The SHO added that near Pawa village, their car crashed into a stationary truck at around 8.30pm. Jagdish could not notice it due to dense fog and the truck driver had also not turned on the parking lights. Lakshay died on the spot. The victims were rushed to a hospital near Sherpur Chowk.A case has been registered against the truck driver, Vikramjit Singh of Haryana.In the second case, a Punjab Police head constable, Gurpreet Singh, 40, of Ghwaddi village, who is a gunman of MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, died in a hit-and-run near Sareen village, Dehlon.Inspector Sukhdev Singh, station house officer at Dehlon police station, said that at around 1.30am, Gurpreet was returning home from duty on his scooter. Near Sareen village, an unidentified vehicle hit him and he died on the spot. A case has been registered against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-delhi-teen-punjab-police-head-constable-lose-their-lives-in-road-mishaps/story-wkN7cHCEOCDaLgymuG5dxL.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Action against ‘fraud’ travel agents continues in Ludhiana||The police continued action against fraud travel agents and lodged 20 more FIRs on Saturday against 43 persons accused of duping people on the pretext of sending them abroad.Police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal said that several complaints had been pending with the police, and now 45 special teams have been formed to dispose of the cases.The cases have been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 24 of the Immigration Act against the accused. On Friday, the police had lodged 83 FIRs and booked 185 accused.One of the victims, Balwinder Singh of Deep Nagar, Khanna, stated that he had filed a complaint against a travel agent and his aides on January 8, 2020, for lodging an FIR. He added that the accused – Kamaldeep Singh of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and his wife Manjit Kaur – had duped him of Rs 27 lakh on the pretext of sending him and his family members to Canada. The accused neither returned the money nor sent them abroad. Later, the accused even stopped receiving his calls. An FIR has been lodged against the accused at Division 8 police station.According to police officials, the accused used to change their location and name after duping people to avoid police action. They used to avail offices on rent and after operating there for some time, they would move to different locations and start the same business under a different name.The police commissioner has advised people to check the authenticity of travel agents before giving them any money. He added that there is a list of authentic and licensed travel agents on the website of the Union external affairs ministry. People should check the list before approaching the agents to avoid harassment and monetary loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/action-against-fraud-travel-agents-continues-in-ludhiana/story-ckIu49JWW5WSi54eq8tMII.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Light rain in Delhi, minimum temperature rises due to cloud cover||Parts of the national capital received light rain on Saturday morning, while the minimum temperature rose to 7 degrees Celsius due to a cloud cover over the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. At 441, the air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was recorded in ‘severe’ category for the second day in a row. The monitoring stations in many parts of the city including ITO, Mandir Marg, Sirifort, RK Puram and Punjabi Bagh showed the AQI in ‘severe’ category. “Moderate” fog lowered visibility to 201 metres at Safdarjung. A Met official said 1.2 mm rain was recorded at Safdarjung and Lodhi Road after 8.30 am. The maximum temperature was recorded at 19.2 degrees Celsius, he said. “As per our forecast, the impact of a western disturbance has begun over northwest India, including Delhi. Palam has reported 0.4 mm rainfall. Ridge, Ayanagar and Lodi Road recorded traces of rainfall,” the IMD said. The minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to rise to 9 degrees Celsius in the next two to three days under the influence of the western disturbance, it said. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years for January, and “very dense” fog lowered visibility to “zero” metres. On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius. The all-time record is minus 0.6 degree Celsius registered in January 1935. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said the minimum temperature has started rising under the influence of the “intense” western disturbance, which will affect northwest India till January 6. Light rain is expected in Delhi over the next two to three days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/light-rain-in-delhi-minimum-temperature-rises-due-to-cloud-cover/story-urfEfiyr2LA2hraq3dzpGO.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||After Magenta Line, Delhi Metro’s Pink Line to go driverless by mid-2021||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday said that after starting driverless services on the 37 km long Magenta Line (Janakpuri West–Botanical Garden), another major corridor of the Delhi Metro, the 59-km long Pink Line (Majlis Park–Shiv Vihar) will also have driverless operations by the middle of 2021. After starting driverless services on the 37 km long Magenta Line (Janakpuri West – Botanical Garden), another major corridor of the Delhi Metro, the 59 km long Pink Line (Majlis Park – Shiv Vihar) will also have driverless operations by the mid of 2021. #MetroRevolution pic.twitter.com/T30srUUcuuOn December 28, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged off the country’s first ever fully-automated driverless train service on the Magenta Line of the Delhi Metro.With the commencement of these new-generation trains, the DMRC has entered the elite league of “seven per cent of world’s Metro networks” which can operate services without drivers, according to DMRC.This was the first major event of Delhi Metro in 2020 which saw an unprecedented lockdown in the earlier months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation on the Yellow Line from September 7 after being closed for over five months. Its currently operational network spans about 390 km with 285 stations across 11 corridors (including Noida-Greater Noida line).Delhi Metro had begun its commercial operation on December 25, 2002, a day after the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated DMRC’s first stretch, spanning 8.2 km from Shahdara to Tis Hazari, with just six stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-magenta-line-delhi-metro-s-pink-line-to-go-driverless-by-mid-2021/story-ESekQrS9tpbt5DOEANOfyM.html
02-01-2021||Dehradun||Sisodia, Uttarakhand minister to spar over ‘development debate’ on Jan 4||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi deputy chief minister (CM) Manish Sisodia challenged Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik for an open debate in Dehradun on development works done by both Delhi AAP government and Uttarakhand’s BJP government. Sisodia floated the challenge on Twitter and posted, “On the invitation of open debate by minister Madan Kaushik, I would be in Dehradun on January 4.”“I am willing to hold discussion on works done in health, education, power, water and unemployment at Dehradun’s IRDT auditorium. Also, I am inviting for a debate in Delhi on January 6,” stated Sisodia. Minister Kaushik, while countering Sisodia’s challenge, said that he has “totally accepted his challenge for open debate but will answer him in AAP’s den- Delhi.”“He has said that he is coming to Dehradun for the debate but I would tell him not to take so much efforts. I am preparing all the list of development works done by our government which I will show him during an open debate in Delhi. He need not come here as I will go to Delhi,” said Kaushik.Sisodia had earlier challenged the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government to list at least “five development works done by it in its three and a half years of tenure” during his first Dehradun visit last month. Also read: Expert panel gives nod to Covaxin for restricted emergency useHe had then attacked the BJP government during an event in the capital saying, “It will not be able to list any of the development work because there are none.”“Rawat’s government is not zero tolerance to corruption government but zero work government,” said Sisodia in a jibe to Rawat’s claim of zero tolerance to corruption in Uttarakhand.AAP’s Uttarakhand president SS Kaler on Sisodia’s visit said that “It will be good for the people of Uttarakhand to know what sort of development works this BJP government has done in its last three and a half years of tenure.”“However, if Kaushik fails to appear for the debate on January 4, it will show that there are no works to show. We will be then be going among people to expose this government which would also enable the people to consider the development issues while voting in next assembly elections in 2022,” said Kaler. Amid the ongoing politics on debate challenge, political expert says that it is all a “tactic by AAP to make its presence felt in state political scenario.”“AAP which has declared to fight the next assembly election of 2022 on all 70 seats, is trying to make its presence felt with such tactics,” said MM Semwal, state-based political expert who is a professor of political science in Garhwal Central University, Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal.“Though it seems to be difficult for it to make any significant impact in the elections, but it’s trying hard to shake the political scenario of the state with its senior leaders like Sisodia throwing challenges of debate to Kaushik who too is a very clever politician,” said Semwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/sisodia-uttarakhand-minister-to-spar-over-development-debate-on-jan-4/story-EE0HBO7UDQlESlBnXvIhAK.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal board exams from May 4||The Himachal Pradesh board exams for the academic session 2020-21 will be held from May 4.Himachal education minister Govind Thakur said that keeping in mind the situation due to the pandemic, the decision has been taken after the announcement of the CBSE examination dates.He said that adequate safety arrangements would be made in the schools to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Exams of non-board classes would be conducted by schools from April 10 onwards to avoid crowding.The board exams of Class 10 and 12 would be held through the offline mode from May 4, 2021, onwards, he added.“Himachal Pradesh School Education Board will soon release the datesheet for the examinations,” said Thakur adding that practical examinations will be conducted between April 15 and April 30.This year, the question papers for these exams will be prepared at the school level, but the examination will be taken only on the dates fixed by the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-board-exams-from-may-4/story-G7RCcvjbec4yTnYB2THh5H.html
02-01-2021||Pune||MSRTC starts special bus service for pilgrims, tourists||The Pune division of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has started plying special buses for pilgrims and tourists to various places around Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area.The buses will ply to Konkan Darshan, Ashtvinayak Darshan, Bhimashankar, Raigad fort among other tourist destinations.People can book tickets online, said officials.“We have now started a special bus service for pilgrims and tourists to various places around Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Due to the restrictions during lockdown we faced financial losses now we want to get back on track,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller.“The buses will ply to Konkan Darshan, Ashtvinayak Darshan, Raigad fort, Mahabaleshwar. Some trips will be for a day and some for two days. We are in the process of uploading details of the bus service on our website and details are displayed at the ST stand as well,” he said.“We will be following all safety norms while plying buses. Staff and passengers will have to follow precautions and wear a face mask and follow social distancing norms and other guidelines as suggested by the state government,” he said.“In future, we have plans to increase the service to areas like Nashik – Trimbakeshwar, Shirdi and other prominent forts in the state,” said Gaikwad.Currently, the bus service is available from the ST stands – Swargate, Shivajinagar and Chinchwad.Shravani Kadam, a student and a frequent traveller, said, “Due to the lockdown we were not able to travel, but now as the restrictions are eased we can opt for this service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/msrtc-starts-special-bus-service-for-pilgrims-tourists/story-k0wDqZDqtLmroz8QonVLlN.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Most dists have not updated data on central Covid-19 portal||The central government has filed a written complaint with the Maharashtra government citing that most districts have not updated data on the central Covid-19 portal. The letter, a copy of which is with HT, has been issued by health ministry secretary, Rajesh Bhushan and has been addressed to Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, ministry of health, Maharashtra government. It states that while the state is occupied with a plethora of activities in the ongoing Covid-19 battle it is equally important to update the data on containment zones. “Access to accurate data on containment zones of states will not only help in targeted testing, but will also help in real-time tracking of important key performance indicators, such as active cases being reported from these zones. This will facilitate evidence-based decisions related to regulating the spread of the infection in each containment zone and understanding their efficacy in breaking the chain of transmission. Going forward, this data will be a key element in the vaccination strategy,” the letter states As per data put forward by the central health ministry in its letter dated December 24, not one of the 36 districts have updated their data on the national Covid-19 portal, which aims to show the number of active containment zones, or total number of containment zones. However, the data also showed that only Mumbai (island city), Pune, Thane, Nashik and Raigad have uploaded data to the state website. The Centre had made it mandatory for all states to update data on the central Covid-19 portal from December 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/most-dists-have-not-updated-data-on-central-covid-19-portal/story-ybZHgQzHiRQ2ogFzIqMK9L.html
02-01-2021||Ranchi||Maoist shoots Jharkhand villager dead, gets killed with wife in revenge attack||A Maoist, who allegedly shot dead a villager in Jharkhand’s Maoist infested Palamu district, was killed along with his wife in retaliation by the relatives of the villager on late Friday night, said police.The incident happened at Kundilpur village under the Manatu police station area in Jharkhand’s Palamu district on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Kundilpur is a remote village, considered to be highly infested by Maoists. The area also shares borders with Bihar. Though the incident happened around midnight, police teams could only arrive on Saturday after they received information in the morning.The deceased were identified as villager Binod Singh, the CPI (Maoists) squad member Prakash Bhokta aka Pragas Singh and his wife Premni Devi, all residents of Kundilpur village in Palamu.Prakash, who was a squad member of the CPI (Maoists), had come home to celebrate the New Year with his family a few days ago.Also Read: 11 foreigners test positive for Covid-19 in Jamshedpur amid scare over mutant variantThe Palamu superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Kumar said, “Three people were killed in a brawl that started around Friday midnight after the CPI (Maoists) squad member Prakash Bhokta shot dead a villager Binod Singh. In revenge, the relatives of Binod attacked Prakash with sticks. His wife was also beaten when she came to rescue her husband.”The SP added, “Before the brawl, both the deceased had taken drinks together. However, they had heated altercation over some issue and the Maoists cadre brought a muzzle loading country-made gun and fired at Binod. He died on the spot.”In turn, Binod’s five-six relatives assembled and beat the assailant and his wife to death, the SP stated.Preliminary investigation revealed long pending enmity between the two sides. The SP, however, denied there was any land dispute between the two families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/maoist-shoots-jharkhand-villager-dead-gets-killed-with-wife-in-revenge-attack/story-CP7hhC6dfLyKa058TaEYQI.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Lessons from 2020 drive wishlist for 2021||2020 was a tough year for startups, but it was a year that presented entrepreneurs with the opportunity to deliver real-time, real-life solutions to the challenge the Covid pandemic presented the world; and still does. “Focus on “Client, Client and Client. 2020 was focused on being stable, making sure that things remain in order and fixing things. “2021 will be all about focusing on client and growing the business. We will be hiring people for sales and are ready to launch our new Advance Artificial Intelligence Compliance solutions for banks all over the globe. “We recently won an Award from Citibank for our new solution and there are more of such stories to come,” says Yogesh Pandit, CEO and Founder at Hexanika. Nitin Gupta, founder & CEO, FlytBase, believes, “We will introduce health on EMI and product purchase on EMI. In 2021, we want to do 6,000 merchants between ecommerce, health-tech and ed-tech space.” Akshay Mehrotra, co-founder, EarlySalary, adds. “All in all, 2021 will certainly bring new cheer and vigour to the start-up community in and around Pune. There are exciting plans to break new markets, seek more marquee customers and funding, as we go into this new year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/startup-mantra-lessons-from-2020-drive-wishlist-for-2021/story-mWNxsQ3S0SKj2Q65ChI1EK.html
02-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka cabinet talks comes to fore again; CM to talk to BJP Gen Secy||Discussions on the much-awaited expansion or reshuffle of Karnataka cabinet have once again come to the fore with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday saying he will hold talks in this connection with BJP national General Secretary in-charge of the state Arun Singh.Speaking to reporters, he said, “He (Singh) has come, I will discuss with him.” He was responding to a question about the cabinet expansion.The Chief Minister later met Singh, who arrived in the state capital, ahead of their travel to Shivamogga Singh is on a visit to the state to participate in the special meeting of the state BJP and also its core committee in Shivamogga on Saturday and Sunday.Yediyurappa will be part of these meetings. There has been talk within the state BJP that the expansion or reshuffle was likely this month.Yediyurappa has been waiting for some time now to carry out the cabinet exercise, as he was asked by BJP national president JP Nadda during their meeting in New Delhi on November 18, to wait for the clearance from the central leadership.The cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope walk for the Chief Minister, considering that there are too many aspirants, from the party old guard to Congress- JD(S) rebels, who are now BJP legislators.The cabinet currently has 27 members, and seven berths are still vacant.Ruling out leadership change, Yediyurappa earlier this week had asserted that he will remain in the post for the remaining over two year period and complete the term, and there was no confusion regarding this within the ruling BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cabinet-talks-comes-to-fore-again-cm-to-talk-to-bjp-gen-secy/story-uFKHRyy6wrRVrfgp1NfqlL.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir reels under sub-zero temperatures as snow forecast from Monday||Kashmir Valley continued to reel under sub-zero conditions on Saturday with the weather office predicting snowfall from Monday. Pahalgam in south Kashmir was the coldest place in the valley at -8.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. The ski resort of Gulmarg recorded a low of -7.5 degrees and Kokernag -6.4 degrees. “Srinagar registered a minimum temperature of -5.9 degrees, which is four degrees below normal, while Jammu was better at 5.5 degrees,” said Mohammad Hussain Mir, a meteorologist at the Srinagar centre. The weather is expected to be dry and cold in J&K and Ladakh till Sunday. “A spell of light to moderate snowfall is likely on January 4 and 5 in Kashmir besides the hill areas of Jammu and Zoji La, Drass and hill areas of Zanskar and Leh district,” meteorology centre director Sonam Lotus said. In Ladakh, Leh recorded a low of -15.6 degrees, while Kargil was even colder at -20.4 degrees. The coldest place in the country, Drass, recorded a low of -28.2 degrees. Jammu division’s Bhaderwah and Batote regions recorded -2.1 degrees and -1.2 degrees, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kashmir-reels-under-sub-zero-temperatures-as-snow-forecast-from-monday/story-omKqNnKYofmxnTWc8lL7WP.html
02-01-2021||Patna||Darbhanga airport records 57K fliers in less than 2 month of UDAN launch||As many as 56,698 passengers have travelled on 328 flights operated under the government’s regional air connectivity scheme (RCS), christened UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) in less than two months after the scheme became operational at Darbhanga airport.According to airport director Biplab Kumar Mondal, in December 2020, a total of 158 flights connecting Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru to and from Darbhanga airport, facilitated air travel for 26,318 passengers. Earlier, in November, Darbhanga airport handled 170 flights and 30,370 passengers since the launch of the flight operation on November 8, last year. Spicejet is the lone airline with a license to fly from Darbhanga under UDAN-II, making it the 13th destination for the airline under the RCS programme.Also Read: All water bodies in Bihar to be mapped in an AtlasThe airport serves various districts of Mithila region including Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, Champaran, Saharsa, Purnea and the Mithila region of Nepal, including Janakpur, Biratnagar, Saptari, Mahottari etc.According to Spicejet corporate communication manager Anand Deora, the airline will introduce six new flights providing air connectivity to and from Darbhanga on Ahmedabad, Pune and Hyderabad routes in January. Darbhanga-Ahmedabad flight service will be launched on January 11. Likewise, flight operations to Hyderabad and Pune will be started on January 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/darbhanga-airport-records-57k-fliers-in-less-than-2-month-of-udan-launch/story-EYHFF0d7FS3dpBYlkm3rpJ.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Nick of time: Mumbai cop saves man from coming under train||A man was saved by a constable of Mumbai Police at the city’s Dahisar railway station from coming under a local train on Friday. The man was seen getting on the railway track to pick up his shoe which had fallen while he was trying to cross the platform via the track. The man kept standing on the railway track to wear his shoe even as a local train was approaching. #WATCH | Maharashtra: A constable of Mumbai Police helped a 60-year-old man, who got stuck at a railway track, save his life at Dahisar railway station in Mumbai yesterday. pic.twitter.com/lqzJYf09CjThe constable rushed to the platform and asked the man to get off the track and gestured him to hurry. The man wore the shoe and tried climbing the platform even as the local train was barely a few metres away. With the train about to hit the man, the constable pulled the man and dragged him on the platform top and saved his life.The incident was recorded on the CCTV cameras installed at the Dahisar railway station.According to the Indian Railways’ guidelines, trespassing railway tracks is a punishable offence which attracts fine. The act is classified as an offence under the section of 147 of the Indian Railways act with a penalty of imprisonment up to six months and or fine up to Rs 1,000. The Indian Railways act permits crossing and travelling between railway tracks only by using foot over bridges and subways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nick-of-time-mumbai-cop-saves-man-from-coming-under-train/story-gCe8DkpLbArpXtRdvyEBDK.html
02-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan wildlife dept issues Bird flu alert after death of crows||After crows found dead in Jhalawar area of Rajasthan were found to be infected with the deadly bird flu disease, followed by reporting of more instances of mysterious deaths of crows and some other birds in other parts of the state, the wildlife department of Rajasthan has sounded a Bird flu alert.Bird flu was confirmed as the cause of death of nearly 50 crows in Jhalawar a couple of days ago and now, nearly 300 crow deaths have been reported from different parts of the state including Kota, Baran, Jodhpur and other districts.Further, deaths of 100 birds including 50 peacocks have been reported on Friday in Nagaur district, while 60 hens were found dead in Panwar area of Jhalawar.Samples of the dead birds have been sent to veterinary laboratories for establishing the cause of death.The Wildlife department is viewing this matter seriously and the chief wildlife warden of Rajasthan has sounded a bird flu alert in the state.Also Read: SC panel recommends Rs 10 lakh per vehicle fine to curb illegal bajri mining in Rajasthan“After the bird flu in Jhalawar and reports of death of crows in other parts of the state, we have instructed all the wildlife officials to inspect wetlands of the state since a large number of migratory birds are here due to the winter season,” said Mohanlal Meena, chief wildlife warden, Rajasthan.“Bird flu advisories are being issued asking the wildlife department to keep a tab on deaths of birds and also collect samples of the dead birds before properly disposing of their carcasses,” Meena said.He said that since the bird flu is contagious for humans so instructions have been given for proper monitoring in all the tiger reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and territorial forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-wildlife-dept-issues-bird-flu-alert-after-death-of-crows/story-cgroXxlJqikxcI5XgpZ2bP.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Farmer dies at protest site at Delhi-UP border, suicide suspected: Police||A 72-year-old cultivator allegedly died by suicide at a farmer protest site in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad on Saturday morning, a police officer said. He was a part of the sit-in protest farmers have been staging at the site since November 28 against the three farm laws enacted in September to liberalise the agriculture sector.“The deceased... was found hanging at one of the mobile toilets at the protest site. He has also left behind a note which is written in Punjabi,” said circle officer Anshu Jain. Jain added the farmer was from Rampur district. “The farmers’ committee has decided against conducting the autopsy. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide and nobody has suspected any foul play. The note recovered from his possession will be examined,” said Jain.Shamsher Rana, the national media co-ordinator of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the farmer, in his suicide note, blamed the government for not accepting the demands of farmers. “[He] has also mentioned that his funeral be conducted at the UP-Gate [protest site]. However, it is likely that his body will be sent to his native place and handed over to his family,” he said.On Friday, a 57-year-old farmer from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat died at the protest site. The cause of his death could not be ascertained as his family refused permission for a post mortem. His brother said that the deceased had complained of breathlessness on Friday morning and died later.Hundreds of farmers from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the three farm laws for over a month at UP-Gate. Apart from the UP-Gate, thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are camping at Delhi’s borders with Haryana at Singhu and Tikri. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh have also occupied one lane at the Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border. Farmers’ unions have threatened to intensify their agitation if their demands --- primarily the repeal of the farm laws --- are not met in their eighth round of talks with the Centre on Monday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmer-dies-by-suicide-at-protest-site-at-delhi-up-border-police/story-8JD4BvlVh8fHlmr4k2SQYO.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Chilla, Ghazipur borders closed; avoid Outer Ring, GTK, NH-44: Delhi Traffic Police||Delhi Traffic Police said the Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for commuters travelling from Noida and Ghaziabad due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the government’s three farm laws, Delhi Traffic Police said on Saturday. Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders have also been closed and the police urged people to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and National Highway-44.  Traffic AlertThe Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders.“The Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. “Singhu, Auchandi ,Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44,” they added. Traffic AlertSinghu, Auchandi ,Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.All the roads have been closed as a result of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws that were passed in September last year. The protests have been continuing for over a month with the demonstrators refusing the accept anything apart from a complete rollback of the farm laws.Farmers’ unions have warned that they will expand their protests and start shutting all malls and petrol pumps in Haryana if the government fails to resolve their main demands for the repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) in the next round of meeting on January 4. The representatives of farmers’ unions said that only 5% of the issues raised by them have so far been discussed in meetings with the government. They also outlined multiple protest actions over a month if their main demands are not met, in an announcement a few days before Republic Day celebrations.The Centre, on its part, has asked them to think over their decision. “I want to urge them to leave the protest and come forward for the dialogue. I am hopeful that farmers will understand the importance of new laws and reach a solution,” Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chilla-ghazipur-borders-closed-avoid-outer-ring-gtk-nh-44-delhi-traffic-police/story-aNv1deFCAMdmrTiyQ9yL3N.html
02-01-2021||Patna||All water bodies in Bihar to be mapped in an Atlas||Detailed information including past history of over 40,000 ponds and rivers located across the state of Bihar will soon be available at one place as the department of revenue and land reforms in the state is working over an atlas of the water bodies.The atlas will not only have pictures of all water bodies located in the 38 districts, but will also have the historical and socio-cultural context apart from information on available natural resources and the local administration.The atlas will also provide information about villages and panchayats without any water body.The state government has already been running a Jal Jiwan Hariyali programme for the conservation of active and the revival of dead or obscured water bodies. The water bodies’ Atlas is a part of the campaign.Also Read: New Year challenge for NDA to resolve key issues in BiharAll the information required for the Atlas will be provided by the rural development department and the revenue and land reforms department will publish it.“The atlas will be a great source of information and will make things easier while preparing a road map for the management of water resources,” said additional chief secretary of the revenue and land reforms department, Vivek Kumar Singh.The district level maps will carry details of public and private water bodies. It will also depict prominently the borders of various villages, he added. The 250-page atlas will have over 100 colour maps, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/all-water-bodies-in-bihar-to-be-mapped-in-an-atlas/story-Io2LcZU7f2LCAitKu3ynyJ.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi minimum temperature back to normal range due to western disturbance||A day after the city recorded the second coldest morning in the last 14 years, Delhi’s minimum temperature rose to 7 degrees Celsius on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s recordings.At Safdarjung observatory, which is the official marker for the city, the minimum temperature was 7 degrees Celsius, showing no deviation from the season’s normal.On Friday, the minimum temperature at the observatory had dipped to 1.1 degrees Celsius under the influence of icy cold winds from the snow clad mountains in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh.Also Read: DDA launches 2021 housing scheme, puts 1,354 flats on saleIMD forecast said a western disturbance was the reason behind the spike in the temperature in Delhi. There is a possibility of trace rainfall in some parts of Delhi on Saturday and this will intensify from Sunday. There is also a possibility of a hailstorm in the NCR region on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-minimum-temperature-back-to-normal-range-due-to-western-disturbance/story-qx2bnVIXRgNYJPJDclvajM.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi border blockade continues due to farmers’ protest||Farmer groups continued to block traffic from Ghaziabad and Noida to Delhi on Saturday even as the vehicular movement continued smoothly the other way around. The Singhu and Tikri border crossing points from Delhi to Haryana have also remained completely blocked since last month when the farmer agitation against three laws enacted to liberalize the sector started. A police officer said the traffic was moving from Delhi to Noida smoothly as usual via the Chila border while the lane leading to Delhi remains blocked. Farmers also continue to block one side of the Delhi-Meerut elevated expressway. “We are maintaining sufficient deployment of the security personnel at the border to ensure law and order,” the officer said.At the Ghazipur border, the National Highway-24’s service lane continued to remain closed for traffic.In a tweet, the Delhi traffic police on Friday said, “The Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders.”In another tweet, they added: “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/border-blockade-in-delhi-continues-due-to-farmers-protest/story-mmdL11m06u15GnF82pVdqK.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Massive fire breaks out at Harley Davidson showroom in Delhi||A massive fire broke out at a showroom of motorcycle manufacturer Harley Davidson India in Delhi’s Moti Nagar area early on Saturday, officials said. The Delhi Fire Service (DFS) said 25 tenders were rushed to the spot and that the fire has been brought under control.“A fire broke out at a motorcycle showroom in Delhi’s Moti Nagar in the early hours of the day. Twenty-five fire tenders were rushed to the spot, and the blaze was brought under control around 5.50am. No casualties,” they said.The showroom was situated on the first and second floor of a building and five people were rescued from a nightclub on the third floor of the building. The cause behind the fire is yet to be ascertained.Saturday’s incident comes almost a week after a fire was reported at a mask manufacturing factory in west Delhi’s Mayapuri on December 26. Officials said that a 45-year-old man died in the fire. DFS director Atul Garg said officials broke down the door of the factory and rescued three people of which one was unconscious. The police said that a case was registered against a factory owner and he was arrested subsequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/massive-fire-breaks-out-at-harley-davidson-showroom-in-delhi/story-OhzMi4HmlnXDQqjmXJ2UKK.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi air quality remains in severe zone, winds likely to bring relief||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the severe zone on Saturday, with the hourly average air quality index reading 453 at 7am.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) in the city was 441, in the severe zone, on Friday. This was a major change from Thursday’s AQI recording of 347, which is categorised as ‘very poor’. Weather department scientist VK Soni said that the change in wind direction will also improve wind speeds on Saturday and help disperse pollutants. “Our forecast had said that there was a possibility of the AQI deteriorating on Friday and that was primarily because the wind speeds were down for a large part of the Friday morning. However, the speeds picked up from afternoon after the change in wind direction,” Soni said. Also Read: NASA shares pics that ‘unravel complexities of Earth from a cosmic vantage point’He added that on Saturday, the average wind speeds are likely to be around 15kmph and improvement in air quality will be visible from Saturday morning itself. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has also forecasted a western disturbance to impact the city from Saturday, which will also lead to rainfall activities in some parts of Delhi, bringing further relief from pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-remains-in-severe-zone-winds-likely-to-bring-relief/story-Uqon9355Tni5a77YbBZReO.html
02-01-2021||Jaipur||Bird flu scare in Rajasthan, dead crows found in Hadoti region after Jhalawar||After bird flu was detected in over 50 dead crows, found in a locality in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar on December 25, 2020, dead crows have now been found in Ramganj Mandi region of Kota and a couple of areas in Baran districts. Cause for these deaths will be ascertained after a medical examination of the dead carcasses.While curfew was declared in 1km area in Radi ke balaji locality of Jhalawar since Wednesday night after laboratory reports confirmed bird flu as the cause of 50 crows’ death in the area, the presence of dead crows in Kota and Baran districts of Hadoti region has caused concerns about the possible spread of the disease.Ramganj Mandi region of Kota is nearly 30 km away from Jhalawar.Kota district collector Ujjawal Singh Rathore has alerted and instructed the animal husbandry department to take the carcasses of eight dead crows found in Ramganjmandi town to the National High Security Animal Disease Laboratory (NHSADL) for establishing the cause of death.Joint director, animal husbandry department, Dr Champa Lal Meena said that the carcasses have been sent to NHSADL Bhopal while sub divisional magistrate of Ramganj Mandi has formed a joint team of officials from wildlife, animal husbandry, medical and health and some other departments for monitoring crow deaths in the area and safe disposal of their carcasses.More than 50 crows and 1 Kingfisher bird have also been found dead in Mathna village of Baran district, while two crows have been found dead in Sarthal village of the district.Additional district magistrate, Baran, Mohammad Abu Baqar said that animal husbandry department teams have been sent to collect and send carcasses to the laboratory for confirmation if they died of bird flu.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Barricades broken, police fire tear gas in Rajasthan“Red alert will be issued if bird flu is found to be the cause of deaths,” he said.Apart from crows, nearly 100 peacocks have been found dead and over two dozen ailing in Kalwa village of Makrana region in Nagaur district of the state.Wildlife department has collected carcasses of the dead peacocks, which will be sent to the laboratory for an examination, said an official.Deputy leader of opposition, Rajendra Rathore said the deaths were a matter of concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bird-flu-scare-in-rajasthan-dead-crows-found-in-hadoti-region-after-jhalawa/story-etgwWuOPzMMprbBHi4W2xL.html
02-01-2021||Kolkata||Anybody is welcome to leave: Madan Mitra after Soumendu Adhikari’s exit from TMC||As the Trinamool Congress suffered another setback in West Bengal after another leader Soumendu Adhikari switched over to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), TMC’s Madan Mitra said anybody is welcome to leave. Mitra also said that TMC workers were becoming more and more devoted towards the party, which has been facing defections ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held in the state in April and May this year.“Anybody is welcome to leave. I don’t think there’ll be any reflection in our party for the defection of Soumendu. Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers are becoming more and more devoted to the party,” Mitra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Also Read: TMC suffers setback after more leaders switch sidesSoumendu Adhikari left the TMC on Friday along with 14 other councillors and was inducted into the BJP in presence of his elder brother Suvendu Adhikari - another TMC defector, at the ‘BJP Yogdaan Mela’ in East Midnapore. Addressing the gathering, Suvendu said, “We will win this battle and form the next government in Bengal. We will move forward with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ideals and accomplish people’s dream of the ‘Sonar Bangla’.” Anybody is welcome to leave. I don't think there'll be any reflection in our party for the defection of Soumendu. Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers are becoming more and more devoted to the party: Madan Mitra, TMC leader https://t.co/M53mjCt8pP pic.twitter.com/0QPWgs6fSmPrior to joining the BJP, Soumendu was removed as the administrator of the Contai municipality by the TMC with Suvendu terming the removal a “vindictive move” on the part of the state government.Suvendu also hit out at the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC by saying that the Adhikari family was not with the party of ‘pishi and bhaipo’ - pointing to TMC chief Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhisek Banerjee - any more and accused it of delaying the municipal polls in the state. “Soumendu has a long political career ahead of him. He has worked hard all these years... And the same goes for the other councillors. The Adhikari family is no longer with the party of pishi-bhaipo,” Suvendu said.A former minister in Banerjee’s cabinet, Suvendu Adhikari had joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on December 19. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/anybody-is-welcome-to-leave-madan-mitra-after-soumendu-adhikari-s-exit-from-tmc/story-aDR8QfwYrC3uam8mwI1upL.html
02-01-2021||Patna||New Year challenge for NDA to resolve key issues in Bihar||In the New Year, all eyes will be on how the NDA government in Bihar puts up a united front in the face of growing perception about glaring differences on key issues of governance.Though ruling allies BJP and JD-U claim “all is well”, the continued impasse over issues such as cabinet expansion, nomination of MLCs and other important appointments is sending contradictory signals and keeping the RJD-led opposition interested, which is citing defection of six JD(U) MLAs to BJP in Arunachal Pradesh recently as a sign of the internal rumblings in the alliance.NDA leaders say both sides will have to resolve all outstanding issues. “Maybe, after January 14 (when the inauspicious Kharmas period ends), efforts will start in that direction,” said a senior JD-U leader, adding that Nitish Kumar handing over the party president’s post to Rajya Sabha MP RCP Singh was an indication that he would not like to be bogged down by political issues on a day-to-day basis any further and would instead focus on governance.The BJP, on the other hand, seems to be in no hurry despite a truncated Nitish cabinet and the CM himself throwing the ball in the ally’s court when asked about expansion.“The government has got going on the 7-Resolves – Part-2 without wasting any time. In a coalition, not much should be read into some delay. All issues will be resolved soon,” said JD-U spokesman Neeraj Kumar.BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said senior leaders of both the parties were in touch and everything would be resolved in course of time. “The opposition should stop day dreaming. There is no confusion in the NDA,” he added, without elaborating how quickly the outstanding issues will be resolved.Also Read: Mukesh Sahani is the richest minister in Nitish Kumar governmentCongress leader Premchandra Mishra said that the way the Nitish government was running in Bihar, nothing was left to be said. “Everyone is watching the growing fissures and how the BJP is trying to outsmart the JD-U on every front, while the governance suffers,” he said.Cabinet expansionNever in the past has Nitish Kumar continued with such a small cabinet, with one minister saddled with several key departments. The Opposition sees it as an indication of a weakened Nitish Kumar, while the CM has put the onus on the BJP. This is the first time BJP is the senior partner in the government.Union Cabinet expansionJD-U leaders say the Nitish Cabinet expansion cannot be seen in isolation. Along with it, several other key issues will also have to be resolved, including JD-U’s participation in the Union Cabinet, which has been due since 2019. It had brought the JD-U and the BJP face to face two years ago.Nomination of MLCsThe nomination of 12 members to the Bihar Legislative Assembly has been hanging fire for over a year. With the BJP emerging a bigger party, it is reportedly staking claim to more seats, while last year it was the JD-U that had put its foot down over accommodation of LJP despite BJP’s insistence. Ashok Choudhary and Mukesh Sahni are ministers in the Nitish government but not members of any House.Advocate General’s appointmentThe appointment of Advocate General is said to be another bone of contention between the two allies. BJP, being the senior partner this time, wants it should have the say in the appointment to the key position, as it happened in the case of Speaker. At present, the AG with the previous government is continuing, but BJP leaders say a decision will soon be taken on it.Boards and corporationsA large number of boards and corporations are without heads for a long time due to delay on the part of the ruling alliance partners in finalising names for posts. The same is the case with 20-point programme implementation committees at the block and district levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/new-year-challenge-for-nda-to-resolve-key-issues-in-bihar/story-OjZREUUTFY9XUaOH8n48XI.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||DDA to launch housing scheme 2021 today; 1,354 flats to be put up for sale||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will on Saturday launch its 2021 housing scheme for the sale of 1,354 flats, mostly in the High-Income Group (HIG) and Middle-Income Group (MIG) categories. The process of applications, payments, and issuance of possession letters for the scheme will be done online through the AWAAS software and applications will remain active until February 16, 2021, the authority said. The scheme is linked to the credit-linked subsidy scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Housing for All (Urban).Here is all you need to know about the scheme:- Out of the total 1,354 flats up for sale, 230 are HIG in Dwarka and Vasant Kunj, and 704 are MIG category flats in Jasola and Dwarka. - As many as 275 flats in Manglapuri, Dwarka, have been earmarked for the economically weaker sections. The remaining are Low-Income Group category flats in Rohini. - The three-bedroom HIG flats in Jasola are priced at Rs2.1 crore. Before this, the costliest DDA flats were worth Rs1.7 crore in the HIG category and were sold in Vasant Kunj in 2019.- The 2021 scheme comes after three unsuccessful housing schemes, and the DDA has high hopes from it. The flats part of the scheme this year are spacious, and located in well-connected areas.- The authority had put 18,000 flats on sale in 2019, but it was forced to reduce the number to 10,294 as the scheme did not get the desired response. The authority received 45,012 applications but could sell only 8,438 flats and around 6,000 flats have been returned, a senior official told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-s-housing-scheme-launch-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-GnvSEcNm7GgOTql87DeQzM.html
02-01-2021||City||SDM among 12 booked for abetting woman colleague’s suicide in Uchana||Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Uchana, Rajesh Koth, along with 11 others, has been booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 34-year-old woman employee, who worked at his office on contractual basis. She had consumed poison at her residence in a Jind village on Thursday, police said. The police have also recovered a five-page suicide note from her place wherein she accused Koth and 11 other employees of his office of harassing her.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jitender Singh said the woman had been working as a computer operator at the SDM office for the past two years. “She also left behind an audio recording addressed to Jind SP, asking him to take stringent action against Koth and others for pushing her to take the extreme step. She also accused the officials of issuing driving licences using her user ID without following the norms. We have booked Uchana SDM Rajesh Koth and 11 others by name in the FIR,” the DSP added. The case was registered against them under sections 306 (abetment of suicide), 354- A (sexual harassment) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention ) of the Indian Penal Code. Investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdm-among-12-booked-for-abetting-woman-colleague-s-suicide-in-uchana/story-WDaYAXFt4KM1SMQ7tH4E9O.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Improving efficiency: Haryana attempts to cut bureaucratic flab||Aimed at cutting the bureaucratic flab to right size, the Haryana government has initiated an exercise to rationalise the organisational structure and modify service rules based on redefined framework. The exercise will also examine the adoption of information and communication technology to streamline deliverables, officials said. The state government every month spends about ₹2,600 crore on the salaries and pensions of government employees. The two non-plan expenditure components eat about 40% of the revenue receipts of the government. Officials said that the rationalisation exercise would be initially undertaken in 39 government departments. Some of them are town and country planning, industries and commerce, excise and taxation, transport, urban local bodies, higher education, school education, elementary education, technical education, public works, agriculture, irrigation, development and panchayats, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, supplies and disposal, information and public relations, sports, tourism, skill development, forests, social justice, mines and geology.Eight administrative secretaries in the rank of additional chief secretary and principal secretary and two IAS officers posted in the chief minister’s office have been allocated theses 39 departments to examine the organisational structures and service rules and propose modifications. They are expected to submit their reports by January 31. “The expected outcomes entailed examining existing posts, designations and their charter of duties, identification of areas of work of departments and their field offices, overlap between departments, studying adoption of information and communication technologies to streamline departmental deliverables and its impact on organisation structure and human resource availability,’” said an official quoting from a letter issued by the state government. Rightsizing exercise often hit roadblocksHowever, such rightsizing exercises have often hit hurdles. Referring to a similar exercise conducted earlier, the finance department in 2009 pointed out that a large number of administrative departments did not follow the restructuring and rightsizing exercise. “Instances have come to finance department notice that some posts which were kept in diminishing cadre (with a ban on future recruitment or promotions) proposals were being sent to the department of their revival. Such proposals were departure from the agreed outcome of the said exercise of restructuring on the same pretext that was considered and denied at the time of restructuring. The exercise of restructuring was a comprehensive exercise and the departments were fully involved and their views duly considered. The exercise of restructuring the staffing pattern was a complete re-engineering in the matters of pattern of staffing of the department,” said a finance department communication dated January 21, 2009 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/improving-efficiency-haryana-attempts-to-cut-bureaucratic-flab/story-sAZTeEurFjAZ61rehdn3PK.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||2.61 lakh candidates to appear in Haryana teacher eligibility test on Jan 2 and 3||Haryana Board of School Education (Bhiwani) will stop the entry of candidates at the examination centre about 60 minutes before the commencement of Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test (HTET) to be conducted on January 2 and 3, an official spokesperson said. As many as 2,61,299 candidates will take this examination across 355 centres. The board has constituted 174 flying squads for inspection. Apart from this, one board employee/representative each and administrative/gazetted officer nominated by DC will be stationed at each examination centre. The candidates’ admit and identity cards will be checked and it will be ensured that all candidates are wearing masks. The time of entering the examination hall is 9.30am for the morning session and 2.30pm for the evening session. On January 2, level-3 (PGT) examination will be conducted in the evening session from 3pm to 5.30pm, with 82,185 candidates entering 279 exam centres. Similarly, level-2 (TGT) examination is to be conducted from 10am to 12.30pm on January 3. In this exam, 1,05,481 candidates will appear in 351 examination centres and level-1 (PRT) examination will be held from 3pm to 5.30pm, in which 73,633 candidates will appear at 259 examination centres. A control room has been established having helpline numbers (01664- 254301, 254302, 254304, 254601, 254604) and WhatsApp number 881-684-0349.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-61-lakh-candidates-to-appear-in-haryana-teacher-eligibility-test-on-jan-2-and-3/story-IICpiGR8XFgpLS6V88HyQN.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Official Twitter account of Haryana DGP launched||Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava launched the official Twitter account of DGP Haryana to connect with various sections of society, share important information about daily activities, and create awareness about crime prevention strategies. The DGP said that the information shared on @dgpharyana will be related to topics like cybercrime, economic offences, road safety, and crime against women and children. “The essential idea behind making my debut on Twitter is to harness the extensive following of social media to reach out to common public for sharing crime prevention strategies and to make them aware about various pro-public initiatives of Haryana Police. However, if a citizen has a problem or a complaint, I would request them to lodge it online on HarSamay portal of Haryana Police where they can also track the progress of the disposal of their complaints”, said Yadava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/official-twitter-account-of-haryana-dgp-launched/story-i5iIqi9HEkLmXa8HakRWVM.html
02-01-2021||City||Paan seller, widow from Yamunanagar bag ‘best house construction’ award under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri awarded the ‘best construction award’ under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana to two residents of Yamunanagar on Friday. The awardees were joined by local DC Mukul Kumar, MC commissioner Dharamvir Singh, city planning officer Vipin Gupta and other official, at the mini secretariat. During the videoconference, PM Modi talked about the scheme that started in June 2015 and the number of beneficiaries from poor and middle-class urban families. The beneficiaries selected for the award are Jagdish, who sells paan and tobacco products, and Rani, a widow, both residents of Buria village in Jagadhri area. Jagdish, 43, said he is a father of two and lives with his parents. He said that he had a kutcha house whose ceilings leaked during rainy season, but after applying for the scheme, he received ₹2.5 lakh from the MC. Rani, who is in her 50s, is a widow and also used to live in a temporary shelter with her two sons and a daughter. Gupta said under the scheme, each beneficiary is given a grant of ₹2.5 lakh to build his/her house. “Both the awardees were given the amount in three instalments and they managed to build best houses with this government grant,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paan-seller-widow-from-yamunanagar-bag-best-house-construction-award-under-pradhan-mantri-awas-yojana/story-4uvYUc5SZH1rryYwIjI2kJ.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A face from Kashmir||It’s cold, and he’s away from home. At night he misses his parents.Azim Jawed is a winter migrant from Kashmir. Like scores of Kashmiri people every year, he undertook the great seasonal migration from the freezing villages and towns of the valley to the regions across Delhi, to escape the harsh winter climates and find work.Like Mr Jawed, many Kashmiri migrants settle in the Walled City during their winter migration, especially around the Jama Masjid. Right on cue, the tea stalls of the area start to serve Nun chai, the Kashmiri pink tea. This year, however, scores of tea shop owners and guest house managers confirm that the pandemic has restrained people from coming to the capital in large numbers.Mr Jawed is one among that slow trickle. Aged 19, he has found a temporary job running a footpath chai stall belonging to an eatery. This morning he is sitting behind the counter, waiting for customers.“It’s snowing at home,” he says while talking of his village in Badgam. Mr Jawed’s father is a farmer. Like the rest of his family, he could have stayed back in the village — “but I don’t like cold.” At this point, he pretends to shiver and vigorously shakes his head.Currently alone, the young man has been to Delhi before, and he says he is fond of its great crowds, and its noise. He likes the fact that “it is so different from Kashmir... when you are in Delhi, you cannot think that a place like my village exists… and when you are in my village, it is difficult to believe in a place like Delhi.”Starting into the empty pan — still no customers — Mr Jawed focuses on what he wants from life. He has no plan to be a farmer like his father. No, not even a tea seller. Neither does he intend to live permanently in Delhi. He eventually wants to set up his own business of “tent supply and wedding decoration” in his home district. His logic sounds sensible—“All other trades keep fluctuating, but people will always get married, so wedding decoration business will always guarantee money.”Looking contented with his argument, Mr Jawed says he will return home in March, and will then “start to set up my business with my father’s help.”And in case you are wondering, his tea stall serves the usual chai, not the Nun of Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-face-from-kashmir/story-uJTk5Ocy0wQ6igtB6TPUTJ.html
02-01-2021||City||Soldier dies in Pak shelling in Rajouri||A soldier of the Indian Army was killed in Pak shelling along the line of control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district on Friday. The soldier, Naib Subedar Ravinder, was a resident of Jhajjar, Haryana. “The Pakistani Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district. Our troops responded strongly to enemy fire. In the incident, Naib Subedar Ravinder was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries,” said a defence spokesperson. “Naib Subedar Ravinder was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” added the spokesman. “At about 1530 hours (3.30 PM) Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Nowshera sector. In the evening at about 1730 hours (5.30 pm), Pakistan again initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation in Nowshera sector, prompting India to retaliate in equal measure,” said. Meanwhile, Pakistan’s Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR)—a publicity wing of Pakistan’s armed forces posted on its website that Indian troops initiated ceasefire violation in Khuiratta sector along LOC. “Pakistan army troops responded befittingly. Reports of heavy losses to Indian troops in men and material. During intense exchange of fire, a valiant soldier Sepoy Fazal Elahi, age 35 years embraced shahadat (died),” ISPR stated on its website. It further claimed that Indian Army troops resorted to unprovoked fire in Kotkotera Sector deliberately targeting civilian population on December 30. “Due to indiscriminate fire of automatics in Phalni Bazar, a 34-year-old male suffered critical injuries. Pakistan army responded effectively and targeted those Indian posts which initiated fire,” it added. It further stated, “In Hotspring Sector, Pakistan army troops shot down an Indian Army Quad copter. Indian Quad Copter had come 100 meters inside our territory. The unprovoked act was responded befittingly wherein own troops shot down the quad-copter. In year 2020, 16 Indian quad-copters have been shot down by he Pakistan Army.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soldier-dies-in-pak-shelling-in-rajouri/story-MdR8xjIhTOF7XGLPpukk6L.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Nagar Kirtan, dance performance mark otherwise muted New Year celebrations at Singhu Border||A seven-kilometre-long Nagar Kirtan attended by hundreds of farmers marked New Year at Singhu Border on Friday as protesters rung in the new year amid muted celebrations. This is the first Nagar Kirtan — a religious procession meant to mark a special occasion — organised at the border protest site by the Sikh farmers, after they had to give the ritual a pass during Guru Nanak Jayanti on November 30.The procession was headed by a tractor pulling a large customised trolley that was heavily decked with flowers and carried at least six people chanting hymns and distributing prasad. The tractor was followed by hundreds of devotees on foot, some Nihang Sikhs riding on horses, followed by other devotees riding modified vehicles. “If we were in Punjab, we would have had the Nagar Kirtan on the New Year day. Since we are settled here now, we thought it would be feasible to have the Nagar Kirtan on this day,” said one of the organisers, Jagdeesh Singh, who is from Jaldiyala in Jalandhar district of Punjab.The procession began around noon on Friday and slowly crawled its way through the maze of vehicles and people gathered at Singhu Border.Among the vehicles which were a part of the procession was a Maruti Alto modified into an open-air vehicle and a 1958-make modified Villy Jeep, which carried eight devotees.Read more| Farmers continue protests outside Delhi, say no question of withdrawing 2 demands“Our New Year celebrations will happen when the government agrees to our demand. Until then, we will keep any festivities limited to religious rituals and speeches,” said Khushwant Singh Sidhu, who belongs to Jagraon village in Ludhiana. Apart from the Nagar Kirtan, another smaller function included a dance performance by a Haryana farmer. “No one wanted to celebrate the New Year here. So, I decided to put up a performance for my farmer friends from Punjab and my state,” said the performer Chand Singh, a farmer from Kathura village in nearby Sonepat, amid hookah puffs. Farmers at the borders said call dropping had been a big challenge for them on Thursday night as they tried calling back home to wish their families for New Year. Paramjeet Singh, from Rampursunra village in Phagwara, said that the five Wi-Fi points arranged by the Delhi government recently were not enough to cater to the huge number of farmers present in the area. “We usually go to sleep here by 10.30-11 pm. But last night we stayed awake until 2 am just to wish our families. I could connect to them only around 2am after repeated attempts,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nagar-kirtan-dance-performance-mark-otherwise-muted-new-year-celebrations-at-singhu-border/story-UVNn2XcQ6L5s7dAJeMSRcI.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||CM not brave enough to accept responsibility for his own failures: Mukesh Agnihotri||After Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur blamed bureaucrats and officers for lack of development in the state, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri hit out at him saying the CM was blaming others as he was not brave enough to accept responsibility for his own failures. Agnihotri also slammed the CM for continuously transferring government officers. “During the pandemic, the state government transferred deputy commissioners, secretary (health) and many IAS officers. Consequently, these officers have lost faith in the government. On top of it ministers pressure government officials to provide better jobs to their wives while MLAs tell them to provide jobs to their relatives. How are the officers to work for the people in such circumstances?” he asked.“Thakur does not have the capacity to take decisions. The only thing the state government has done during its three-year tenure is to overturn its decisions. One cabinet meeting is held for decision-making, while the other cabinet meeting is held to overturn the decision. By making such statements, he is just demoralising officials,” he said. “Jai Ram Thakur has proved himself to be the most incompetent CM in the history of the state. He is working as a puppet of the mafia, due to which the mafia flourishing in the state and crimes, especially rapes, are also on the rise in Himachal. Drug trade is increasing in the state at a rapid rate and state government has failed to control it,” he alleged.He also hit out at state government over its failure to prevent coronavirus pandemic and for inflating the bus fares, electricity charges, ration rates, petrol and diesel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cm-not-brave-enough-to-accept-responsibility-for-his-own-failures-mukesh-agnihotri/story-gD1N0FN1tMobEU655vEa0K.html
02-01-2021||City||19-year-old found dead at New Year’s Eve party in Mumbai; two detained||A 19-year-old woman was allegedly murdered at a New Year’s Eve house party on the rooftop of her friend’s home on Thursday night. Khar police have detained the woman’s boyfriend and one of her friends as they suspect their involvement in the murder.A police officer said that the victim, identified as Janhvi Kukreja, had attended the party at Bhagwati Heights building along with nine others.During the party, the victim saw her boyfriend in a compromising position with one of her friends near the water tank on the rooftop, said the police. The officer said after she confronted her boyfriend and her friend, they got into an argument and the duo assaulted Kukreja.Kukreja was then climbing down the stairs to go to the building’s second floor. Her boyfriend and the other girl followed her and allegedly pushed her from the staircase, said the police.“She may have hit her head on the staircase wall or some other blunt object owing to which she suffered severe injuries and died,” said an officer from Khar police station.He added that a police team collected the CCTV footage of the building in which the victim’s boyfriend was seen leaving the building with some injuries. After questioning the seven others present at the party, the police discovered that the 24-year-old man was cheating on the victim. “We also found that the girl’s hair was pulled during the fight and some strands of the hair were found near her body, which was lying at the bottom of the stairs. The body had injury marks on the back and shoulder. “The fight perhaps got ugly and the couple allegedly killed Janhvi in a fit of rage,” added the officer.Khar police have registered a case of murder and detained the boyfriend and the victim’s friend for questioning. “Prima facie, the incident seems to be a homicide. The two accused and few others are being interrogated,” said S Chaitanya, deputy commissioner of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-found-dead-at-new-year-s-eve-party-in-mumbai-two-detained/story-O3a6gDhRlc9q6PDrOsgw2L.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Only 35 people booked for drink driving on New Year’s Eve in Mumbai||The city’s traffic police booked 35 motorists and two-wheeler riders for allegedly driving in an inebriated state yesterday. This is a significant drop from the 778 people who were arrested for driving while intoxicated last year during New Year’s Eve. According to additional commissioner of police (traffic) Pravin Padwal, nakabandis were in place at different locations till 2am on Friday morning and at these checkpoints, police booked 20 people on the suspicion of consuming alcohol and driving. These people taken to nearby hospitals for blood tests to confirm their condition. As of 6am on Friday, 35 revellers had been arrested.This year, traffic police had made adequate preparations for New Year’s Eve, including conducting special drives for drink driving cases. Breathalysers were not used this year for fear of contracting and transmitting Covid-19. Instead, police personnel on duty relied on their observations and took those suspected of drink driving to hospitals to get tested for alcohol levels in their blood.Joint commissioner of police (traffic) Yashasvi Yadav said the number of drink drivers were low compared to last year owing mainly to the restrictions imposed by the state to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “This New Year’s Eve people had stayed inside as establishments were closed early due to section 144 being put in place by the government. This is the main reason that only 35 people were caught for drink driving,” said Yadav.According to the traffic police, 2,700 police personnel and other volunteers were stationed at different locations across the city and particularly at places where there are pubs and lounges and where large crowds were expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-35-people-booked-for-drink-driving-on-new-year-s-eve-in-mumbai/story-ynvnBVdNjVbsNI0V0lQP8L.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||23% drop in road mishaps in Himachal in 2020, says DGP||Director general of police Sanjay Kundu on Friday said there had been a 23% reduction in road mishaps and a 36% drop in injuries in Himachal in 2020.A total 2,187 road accidents took place in the state in 2020 (till December 26) against 2,844 mishaps in 2019. While 853 people died in crashes in 2020, 1,130 were killed on the road in 2019. Likewise, 3,105 people were injured as compared to 4,836 last year, the DGP said, adding that most road mishaps were caused due to speeding and largely two-wheelers and cars were involved in them.“Dangerous and negligent driving, overtaking, bad road conditions, drugs and alcohol abuse, adverse weather conditions and mechanical faults are also responsible for accidents,” he said. Kundu, who was in Dharamshala, said though the lockdown had played some part in reducing the number of accidents, predictive policing and shift in focus from penalising to road safety had been instrumental in improving the state’s road mishap statistics. “District-wise daily geographical and temporal mapping of accidents, root-cause analysis, micro-management and weekly review of the situation helped us identify the cause for accidents and curb them. Instead of issuing challans, the police shifted its focus to road safety and deployed doppler radars and laser speed guns to check speeding, which resulted in decline in accidents,” he said. Maintaining that the year 2020 had been productive for the Himachal Pradesh Police, the DGP said predictive policing had helped check crime. “We are now analysing crime trends on a weekly basis instead of monthly or quarterly basis and can predict what may happen in a particular area,” he said. Apart from it, the police also introduced Register Number 26 to profile sexual offenders, which helped reduce crime against women. He said cyber crime was on the rise said the police was issuing advisories from time to time to make the public aware of such crimes.On resolutions for the New Year, Kundu said, “The Himachal Police has set some objectives, on which work will be done extensively. We want to improve the crackdown on drugs and make the roads safer for women and children. Reducing road accidents and improving infrastructure facilities for the force will also be a priority.” The health of police personnel will also be prioritised and facilities will be provided to keep them fit and active, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/23-drop-in-road-mishaps-in-himachal-in-2020-says-dgp/story-kHqjmFQpU5ER7SnqRrRxgP.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Call centre set up by Mumbai traffic cops recovers e-challans worth ₹1.12 crore||Twenty-four days after it was constituted, a special call centre team of the Mumbai traffic police has recovered pending fines worth ₹1.12 crore issued through e-challans from motorists for violation of traffic rules.The call centre was started by the traffic police on December 7 only with the purpose of recovering fines from traffic violators who had received e-challans. Since then, the traffic police department has managed to contact 4,600 motorists and recover the fines from 2,596 violators.According to joint commissioner of police (traffic) Yashasvi Yadav, the call centre has two help desk personnel and two constables to make calls to violators to remind them to pay their dues.“There were a lot of pending e-challans. We set up the call centre to reach out to those motorists who had not paid the fines. We will continue the call centre until the entire pending amount is recovered,” said Yadav.Traffic police officers said there was a backlog of 29 lakh unpaid e-challans for various violations, amounting to ₹315 crore.“We had earlier made public appeals, urging motorists to pay their dues, but did not get a proper response. A mobile app was also launched to make it easier for the violators to pay their fines, but that too failed to work,” said an officer.Earlier, the traffic police had requested the regional transport department to cancel the licences of 2,000 motorists who failed to pay their pending e-challans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/call-centre-set-up-by-mumbai-traffic-cops-recovers-e-challans-worth-1-12-crore/story-UquAeuTLodsKchroY2XrKO.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 vaccination dry run in four districts today||With the Covid cases under control, the state government is now focussing on the vaccination drive, which is set to begin soon. The state will hold a dry run for the vaccination programme in four districts in different regions on Saturday. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state administration was fully prepared and they were waiting for the Centre’s approval to start the drive. “Dry run basically means a mock drill of the actual vaccination drive, where the entire process, right from sending messages to people, verifying identification of those who reach the health centre, giving them dummy vaccine shots and keeping them under observation will be carried out. This will help in plugging potential problems that might occur while conducting the vaccination drive,” Tope said. Tope said the Centre wanted them to hold the dry run in one district, but they have chosen four in four different regions. Pune (western Maharashtra), Nagpur (Vidarbha), Nandurbar (north Maharashtra) and Jalna (central Maharashtra) will have the dry run on Saturday. Maharashtra reported 3,524 new cases on Friday, taking the tally to 1,935,636, while the toll reached 49,580, with 59 new casualties. Mumbai clocked 631 cases on Friday, taking the case count to 2,94,067. The city has 8,943 active cases. Nine deaths took the city’s toll to 11,125. Until Friday, 67 United Kingdom (UK) returnees have tested positive for Covid-19, however, it is yet to be confirmed if any of them carry the new, more transmissible strain of Covid-19.“In each district, the dry run will be conducted at three health centres and 25 health workers have been selected for the shots. Each centre will have a team of five, with one vaccinator and four supporting staff for identification, maintenance of protocols and making entries on Co-WIN mobile app prepared by the ministry of health and family welfare. The team will also observe (during actual vaccination) Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) protocol to check if the participant shows any health complications or side effects post vaccination,” said Dr Archana Patil, director of health services. They will also run a test on the toll-free number, 104, where people appointed at any of the vaccination centres can call and inform about a difficulty or emergency situation for support. Each centre will have officials from the state health department, World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) to oversee the mock drill, she added. The health centres have been equipped with a waiting room, vaccination room and observation room, apart from facilities such as electricity connection, internet connectivity and security arrangements, the officials said. After conducting a dry run of vaccination in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat on December 28 and 29, the Centre has decided to extend the drill to rest of the country on January 2. In the dry run, the entire process of transporting the vaccines from storage to the site, administering them to candidates, feeding data on Co-WIN app is practised without any real vaccine. The state government has made preparations to administer a vaccine to around 3.25 crore people, which will be completed in three phases. Vaccine shots will be given to health workers, frontline workers and citizens above the age of 50 years and having co-morbidities. Also read: Mumbai civic body identifies 50 lakh who will get Covid-19 vaccine shots“We have trained 16,000 vaccinators who will give vaccine shots to the people. To preserve vaccines, cold storages are ready and the state administration is fully prepared. We are waiting for the Centre’s nod for the vaccination drive,” the health minister said Maharashtra has reported fewer than 5,000 cases for the past 28 straight days, although the state authorities have expressed fear of a spike in the first week of January in view of the crowding during Christmas and new year celebrations. The state completed a total of 1,28,23,834 Covid tests with 76,201 tests conducted on Friday. The positivity rate for the day has declined to 4.62% against the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 15.09%. “A total of 4,471 UK returnees who had landed between November 15 and December 23 have been traced till date. RT-PCR tests have been conducted on 3,273 of them, and 67 samples were found positive. Of them, 29 are from Mumbai, Pune (13), Thane (7), Nagpur (8), 2 each from Nashik, Aurangabad, Raigad, Buldhana and one each from Nanded and Washim,” said state surveillance office Dr Pradip Awate. He said that 61 samples have been referred to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune to ascertain if they are infected with the new variant. The state has also traced 422 people who have come in contact with the UK returnees and 26 of them have tested positive for Covid-19, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-in-four-districts-today/story-eVjzXKEI1NbGIhRBoNAG0I.html
02-01-2021||City||Ludhiana residents get three-month extension for pet registration||In a relief for residents, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has given residents three more months to get their pet dogs and cats registered.While earlier, the MC had given residents time till December 31, it will now wait till the end of March before penalising violators. The penalty includes Rs 4,000 fine besides an additional Rs 100 a day for maintenance when the pet is in MC’s custody. The pet registration project had started in the city in June 2020 and since then, around 1, 300 dogs have been registered. But so far, no cat owner has approached the MC, say officials. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Over 1, 300 residents have registered their pets with the MC but many are yet to come forward. We have decided to give an extension of three months to residents, following which a drive will be started to catch the violators.”For registration, residents can either go to the MC’s zonal offices or visit mcludhiana.gov.in and fill in the necessary details. An annual fee of Rs 400 will be charged from residents for one pet and brass token, to be tied around the pet’s neck will be issued following registration. The token are to be collected from MC’s Zone-A office (MC headquarters) near Mata Rani Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-get-three-month-extension-for-pet-registration/story-coN9s2rRcLY4hQ54lLtLSL.html
02-01-2021||City||Ludhiana: Three succumb to Covid on first day of the year||As many as three patients lost their lives to Covid-19 while 27 others tested positive for the virus on Friday, the first day of the New Year, in Ludhiana. The district currently has 329 active cases, and a recovery rate of 94.76%. The pandemic claimed 964 lives in the district in 2020, of which 60 deaths had taken place in December alone. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that till date, 5, 39, 792 samples have been taken testing, out of which reports of 5, 37, 692 samples have been received. As many as 5, 09, 185 samples were found negative while reports of 2, 100 samples are pending. As many as 1, 800 samples were sent for testing on Friday.The DC said that now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 24, 800, while 3, 707 patients belong to other districts and states. He informed that till date, 54, 991 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 1, 215. On Friday, 63 persons were sent for home quarantine.Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands, to keep everyone around them safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-three-succumb-to-covid-on-first-day-of-the-year/story-sa0OQiLIWwIfCWnOIhZwZL.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Women on CR’s Mumbai locals can talk to the guard directly from compartments during emergency||Women commuters travelling on all locals on the Central Railway (CR) line will be able to communicate directly with the train’s guard from December 2021 in case of an emergency.The prototypes of the talk back system are installed on two local trains. After its trials on two trains, CR has begun installing the emergency talk back system inside the ladies’ compartment and plans to introduce it on all of its 127 trains over the next 12 months. The decision on installing the system in other compartments will be taken after the ongoing trials. “Fifteen emergency talk back systems will be installed in the five ladies’ compartments in each of the 12-compartment locals and 127 trains will be equipped with the emergency systems,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. The emergency talk back system enables passengers to talk directly to the guard of the train by pushing a talk button in case of an emergency. On activating the button, the guard is alerted with audio-visual signals in his cabin. The talk back systems will be placed near the doors of the ladies’ compartments. The system has an in-built microphone, speaker and a push button. It can also facilitate multiple calls from different passengers in different compartments and can automatically reset after 120 seconds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/women-on-cr-s-mumbai-locals-can-talk-to-the-guard-directly-from-compartments-during-emergency/story-ci0uot7MhvReg3xV8gc23L.html
02-01-2021||City||Ludhiana: Infant’s headless body found in Jodhan village||Panic gripped Shehzad village of Jodhan after locals found some dogs feasting on the body of an infant on Thursday. Police suspect it to be a case of human sacrifice as the head was missing and there were several stab wounds on the body. The body is of a male child, aged around 1, police confirmed. Jodhan station house officer (SHO), sub-inspector Amritpal Singh said locals had raised the alarm after noticing some dogs feeding on the mutilated body.He said that the cops found a dark blue blanket near the bushes where the body was found. A pair of socks, believed to be belonging to the infant, was also recovered. The SHO said that preliminary investigation suggests that the child may have been murdered elsewhere and later dumped at the spot.A case under Section 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons. Police are making announcements in nearby areas and scanning missing persons’ and kidnapping reports lodged in various police stations to gather more clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-infant-s-headless-body-found-in-jodhan-village/story-ajfplMbemEnUpPwz8DBGaN.html
02-01-2021||City||Ludhiana police crackdown on 184 fraud travel agents in city||Cracking the whip against fraud travel agents, the Ludhiana police, on Friday, booked 184 agents in 83 cases for duping people of their hard earned money, on the pretext of sending them abroad. Raids were conducted at the offices of several agents and police found that many did not even have a valid licence to operate. Speaking on the action initiated on the first day of the New Year, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal said that several complaints had been pending with the police, and now 45 special teams have been formed to dispose of the cases.“There is a strong nexus of fake agents in the city and they have been duping residents for a long time,” he said. The police chief confirmed that cases had been registered against 184 fraud travel agents on Friday.The cases have been registered under Section 420 (cheating) and Section 24 of the Immigration Act against the accused. Police had initiated similar drives at the beginning of 2019 and 2020 as well. Agarwal advised people to check the authenticity of travel agents before giving them any money. “There is a list of authentic and licensed travel agents on the website of the Ministry of External Affairs. People should check the list before approaching the agents to avoid harassment and monetary loss,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-crackdown-on-184-fraud-travel-agents-in-city/story-CRK6sLUrBXs1lV7j6lcM5N.html
02-01-2021||City||3-year-old falls into trench near Mumbai, dies||A three-year-old girl died after falling into a trench dug up for a sewage treatment plant (STP) project in Bhiwandi’s Chavhan Colony on Friday afternoon. Another boy, who had also fallen into the trench, was saved by some locals. The STP work has been undertaken by the civic body through a private company.The victim has been identified as Gausiya Aarif Shaikh. According to Shantinagar police, the trench is around 30-foot deep. As the work of the plant was stalled owing to the pandemic, water had accumulated in the trench since monsoon. According to the police, Gausiya and her friend, five-year-old Rehan Imran Shaikh, were playing near the trench when they fell into the pit after losing balance.“A labourer working at a nearby construction site saw them fall and alerted the residents around. Some locals jumped into the trench and managed to bring the children out. They were rushed to Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital, where Gausiya was declared dead,” said an officer from Shantinagar police station.Senior inspector SV Raut from Shantinagar police visited the spot and has initiated the investigation. A case is yet to be registered by the police.“Our team had visited the spot and are investigating all the angles. A case will be registered soon. We will also check if the company had taken enough safety measures,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-year-old-falls-into-trench-near-mumbai-dies/story-0YpY13YA9dQymnBnx4DLdP.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police bust online fraud: Four arrested from Bihar, West Bengal||City cyber police officers on Tuesday busted an online fraud racket and arrested four of its members - two each from Bihar and West Bengal. The accused would target people online under the pretext of providing them with a gas distribution agency and also availing grant of ₹30 lakh from the Government of India (GoI). They would take money from victims in the name of processing fees and cheat them. The accused had even created a fake government website.The police have arrested Ravishankarkumar Ravidas, 36 and Dolly Sharma, 35 and after securing their transit remand brought them to Mumbai on Thursday night. Two more members of the group have been nabbed in West Bengal and are being brought to Mumbai. The complainant in the case is a Goregaon (East) resident and works as a sales manager in a private company. In November last year, he came across an advertisement on a popular social media site about a gas distribution agency. Complainant clicked on the link and filled the form with his wife’s details and selected a reputed gas agency’s option.Read more: Mumbai tops cybercrime frauds in 2019, Bengaluru ranks 2nd: National Crime Records BureauTwo days later the complainant received a call from a person who identified himself as DK Varma, a relationship manager of a firm ‘LPG Vitrak Chayan’. Varma told the complainant that his application was approved and his firm will help him get the license for LPG distributorship and grant of ₹30 lakh from Government of India to start the agency, the police said.Varma later asked the complainant to pay the fees for processing the registration, no objection certificate (NOC), license and contract document. As complainant wanted to move to his hometown in Bihar, post his retirement, he accepted the offer and made online payment of ₹3.66 lakh, the officer said.When complainant received confirmation letter for the LPG gas agency it had a Mumbai address mentioned in it. For verification, the complainant visited the address and found it to be wrong.The complainant then visited the website again, and after carefully inspecting the site discovered that the website was a fake one, and the accused used similar-looking name to cheat people.The complainant then approached the cyber police officers. Police then arrested Ravidas and Sharma from Patna, to whom the bank accounts belonged. Cyber police have arrested from West Bengal two more people linked to the racket. Investigators suspect that the accused are members of an inter-state fraud racket.Lawyer for the two accused, Ajay Umapati Dubey said, “Both of them have only given there accounts to be used for Rs 15000, which they needed for paying for their house rent. They have not paid rent since the lockdown started as they are jobless. They have no role in the crime.” On Friday the court remanded the two accused in police custody till January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-bust-online-fraud-four-arrested-from-bihar-west-bengal/story-yHmZbiegX1rZqXMwI4BAcL.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||All eyes are now on Mumbai civic body polls: Congress chalks out road map||In a first, the central leadership of the Congress has chalked out a programme to be implemented by its Mumbai unit for the upcoming civic polls. From defining the roles of newly appointed team leaders, to directing them to hold padyatras and outreach programme and appointment of local committees, the central leadership has prepared a time-bound schedule for the next four months. Contrary to the traditional style, the party has not only constituted various committees for the election, which is a year away, but has also specified the roles of each member of the leaders’ team. The city unit, which is known for decades-old factionalism, has been given message to work together, by dividing responsibilities among various camps and finetuning roles for each of them. Read more: Mumbai Congress vows to go solo in civic body pollsThe All India Congress Committee (AICC), the highest decision-making body of the party, appointed a team to lead the city unit two weeks ago, ahead of the crucial elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Besides the president, it has appointed a working president and key leaders to head coordination, manifesto and campaign committee. Days after the appointments, the party has directed the Mumbai president to complete Padyatra covering 100km in100 days, organise 10 public meetings with key local leaders, launch membership drive and complete the appointment at executive committees. Working president Charan Singh Sapra has been directed to restructure the media cell by January 26 and establish a network of social media workers till booth level, create a Facebook page for every district and WhatsApp groups in each of the booth. Campaign committee head Arif Naseem Khan has been directed to identify the issues to be taken up in the campaign, while coordination committee chief Amarjit Sing Manhas has been asked to better the coordination between state and city leaders. Apart from chalking out the schedule for the meetings at various levels, the leadership has also earmarked the responsibilities to be completed in the next four months. Constitution of various committees, training of spokesperson and officerbearers has to be completed in every district and block by the end of April. “This is happening for the first time. The Central leadership would never take interest in functioning of the city or state units after announcing the names to lead the units. The BMC elections are being taken very seriously by the leadership, perhaps in the wake of the grand show by the Bharatiya Janata Party in the recently held Hyderabad civic polls. This has, however, sent a strong message among city leaders and workers establishing the fact that central leadership is monitoring the unit closely,” said a senior city leader, requesting anonymity. “The meticulously chalked out plan has helped in charging up the party rank and file. AICC, through the road map, has sent out a message that it is serious about the Mumbai unit and the forthcoming elections. There will be no room for factionalism in the city unit, as the new leadership is ready for discussion and dialogue. The Mumbai Congress will not only implement the programme given by the AICC but regain its old glory,” said Sapra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-eyes-are-now-on-mumbai-civic-body-polls-congress-chalks-out-road-map/story-Od9k7QdNu48SYUn4CE6tqN.html
02-01-2021||City||Mohali MC takes over water supply in GMADA sectors||The Mohali municipal corporation on Friday took over the operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage in Sectors 66-69 and 76-80 from Greater Mohali Area Development Authority. This comes as a huge relief for residents of Sohana, Kumbra and other localities falling in these sectors, as they were paying much higher user charges. While GMADA charged ₹10 per 1,000 litres on an average, the MC charges just ₹1.8 for the same quantity of water. Residents had been demanding rationalisation of the tariff for long. After much deliberations, on December 23, a memorandum of understanding was signed by executive engineers of both the authorities in the presence of cabinet minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu. GMADA has sent a final water bill to residents and asked them to deposit the amount by January 15. The next bill will be issued by the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-takes-over-water-supply-in-gmada-sectors/story-EM6yOMuBK5fmyWLLgvyhWL.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Two bars found serving liquor without licence in Chandigarh’s Sector 9||Two club managements booked for serving hookah to customers on Christmas were caught on the wrong foot once again after they were found serving liquor without valid excise permit. The excise and taxation department, Chandigarh, has written to police to lodge another FIR against them, it has been learnt. The two clubs in question are Eskobar and Chasers, both in Sector 9. “We have written to the police, recommending the registration of an FIR against the two managements for violation of the Excise Act,” said Rakesh Kumar Popli, additional commissioner, excise and taxation, Chandigarh.It was during checking on December 30 that the department recovered a pint of Old Monk, a quart of Blender’s Pride (half used), a quart of 100 Pipers (half used) and a quart of Rockford (used) from Eskobar, and two cases of Kingfisher beer (pints), three quarts of Jack Daniels and one quart of Jaguar from Chasers.Sources said even on New Year’s Eve, a bar in Sector 35 was found serving liquor without an excise licence.Earlier, on Christmas night, Eskobar owner Romi Chauhan and Chasers owner Kapil Katariya were booked for defying the hookah ban, following raids by the excise and taxation department.Serving of hookah was banned in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The cases were registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. After a spate of such cases, the Chandigarh administration a couple of days back decided to invoke the more stringent Disaster Management Act against the violators and closing their establishments for three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-bars-found-serving-liquor-without-licence-in-chandigarh-s-sector-9/story-ylP0g3ppZPICtyW2hreAdL.html
02-01-2021||City||Two held for robbing Mohali man of ₹9.5 lakh in Ambala||Two days after a private company cashier was allegedly shot in the knee and robbed of nearly Rs 9.5 lakh in Ambala Cantonment, the police have arrested two of his attackers.The arrested accused, identified as Digpal Singh alias Dipu of Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, and Harjit Singh alias Guddu of Ramkishan Colony in Ambala Cantt, were presented before a court and sent to four days of police remand.As per the complainant, Ranbir Singh of SAS Nagar, he was going towards a bank on Nicholson Road to deposit cash when three bike-borne men attacked him near Shastri Colony underbridge on Tuesday.Singh, who had sustained bullet injuries, was taken to the civil hospital in Ambala Cantt and thereafter shifted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.Police said the accused were nabbed within 36 hours of occurrence of the crime and were being interrogated. The remaining accused would be arrested soon, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-robbing-mohali-man-of-9-5-lakh-in-ambala/story-Izti0JozmvfgQiq0tu2vpN.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Ahead of opening bids, Air India imposes restrictions on employees on premises||While the Centre has removed the January 5 deadline for announcing shortlisted bidders for the national carrier Air India, an internal order has restricted Air India employees’ access to their workplace. The disinvestment of Air India may be further delayed since the Centre has decided to remove the January 5 deadline to announce the shortlisted bidders for the national carrier. This was announced in a corrigendum issued by the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM). The transaction advisor will now directly intimate the shortlisted parties, said DIPAM. The new communication came a day after civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said the government would announce the shortlisted bidders on January 5. Read more: Air India pilots upset over cut in pay rollback, won’t work after duty timeMeanwhile, according to an internal order dated December 30, 2020, Air India not only restricted its serving employees access to their workplace by saying they may only come to the office during their duty hours, but also said only bona fide users could access documents. The order further stated retired employees would be allowed only till the ground floor of the airline’s office premises. Visitors will be allowed after visitor passes are issued and are only permitted for officers at the director level. The order asked employees to meet personal and official guests in meeting or conference rooms on the ground floor.The airline will thus have entry records for Air India employees as well as those for employees of its subsidiary companies who enter the premises during office hours.In the internal order, signed by Air India’s chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal, the special cell and disinvestment cell are mentioned and employees are directed to be alert since the disinvestment process is ongoing. “All employees at the airline’s house are required to maintain absolute data/ document privacy and absolute zero tolerance in data/ document leakage,” said the order. Employees have been asked to ensure their identity cards are on display during duty hours. “Security personnel shall allow entry to only those employees who display their Identity Cards,” reads the order. In the first stage of Air India’s disinvestment process, expressions of interest (EoI) were invited between December 14 and December 29, 2020. Potential buyers would have to take on Air India’s Rs 23,000-crore debt and would be shortlisted based on their eligibility as defined by the terms in the preliminary information memorandum (PIM).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahead-of-opening-bids-air-india-imposes-restrictions-on-employees-on-premises/story-o2ctK0XdIu6i7QnfkG5QhJ.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University teachers’ body protest over promotions enters 43rd day||Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Friday held a protest on the varsity campus for the 43rd consecutive day over the pending promotions of teachers under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS).The teachers’ body of PU began their protest in November last year after the scheduled selection/screening committee meetings of some teachers were postponed by the varsity. PUTA has been pressing vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to hold the interviews of teachers for promotion under CAS immediately.According to PUTA, over 80 teachers of the university are waiting to be promoted. Varsity had held a few interviews of teachers under CAS in December, but PUTA members have resolved to continue the protest until all the pending cases of promotions are not cleared by the university.Letter to chancellor On December 30, PUTA again wrote to Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of the university, requesting him to direct the vice-chancellor to complete the CAS promotions without further delay.“The pace at which the vice-chancellor is conducting these meetings clearly shows that the career advancement process of teachers, who are the backbone of the university headed by him, stands nowhere on his agenda,” states the letter to chancellor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-body-protest-over-promotions-enters-43rd-day/story-oJ6BllZDNyX6n1qxEV0fyL.html
02-01-2021||City||Dr Adarshpal Kaur takes charge as Mohali’s new civil surgeon||Dr Adarshpal Kaur on Friday assumed charge as the new civil surgeon of Mohali district.Dr Kaur was earlier serving as a senior medical officer at ESI Hospital, Mohali, and had recently been promoted as deputy director. She has rendered services to the health department in different capacities at different times.Dr Kaur said that improving the functioning of government health institutions in the district was one of her top priorities.The former civil surgeon of Mohali, Dr Manjit Singh, has been appointed as director, health and family welfare department, Punjab.Meanwhile in Ludhiana, Dr Sarjivan Kakkar took charge as the civil surgeon. He replaced Dr Rajesh Bagga, who attained superannuation on December 31. Dr Kakkar, who is an eye surgeon, was earlier posted as the civil surgeon of Barnala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dr-adarshpal-kaur-takes-charge-as-mohali-s-new-civil-surgeon/story-w6FJ7XMz6Po8lLYXeWP28K.html
02-01-2021||City||One flight cancelled, 17 delayed at Chandigarh airport||Due to bad weather in the region, one flight was cancelled while 17 others were delayed at Chandigarh International Airport on Friday. Amid dense fog, visibility dropped to as low as 175 metres, leading to the cancellation of a Bengaluru flight.Meanwhile, five other flights (from Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Srinagar and Bengaluru) arrived late by up to two hours and 12 (to Delhi, Mumbai, Srinagar, Kolkata, Lucknow and Bengaluru) departed late. The most affected were the morning flights, with one to Delhi departing after a four-hour delay. Scheduled to take off at 6:15am, the GoAir flight finally left for Delhi at 10:15am, keeping the passengers guessing all this while. Indigo’s Delhi flight took off at 10:21am against the scheduled departure of 7:30am, its Mumbai flight left 9:49am instead of 7:45am, its flight to Kolkata departed at 9:57am instead of 8am, and its Lucknow flight took off at 10:07am instead of 8:25am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-flight-cancelled-17-delayed-at-chandigarh-airport/story-yjyMnT8L4oZnrrgwkHLHmM.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to collect user charges for lifting garbage||With the municipal corporation starting door-to-door collection of segregated garbage last month, it will now start imposing collection charges too, which will be added to water bills. MC commissioner KK Yadav said charges for the month of December will be collected by private garbage collectors as per the previous structure of payment. “The civic body will collect the charges from residents of Sectors 1 to 30 from January 1 onwards, as mechanical garbage collection through MC vehicles was started in the last week of December,” said Yadav. The user charges have to paid by all residential, commercial and institutional establishments. They are in line with the Solid Waste Management Bylaws 2018, under which the user fee for collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste is to be collected from all establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-collect-user-charges-for-lifting-garbage/story-C7SUFRCGdY884jOWfXUEOL.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||New Year starts with 112 cases, 4 deaths in Chandigarh tricity||As many as 112 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity while four succumbed to it on Friday, the first day of 2021. Mohali reported 55 cases and two deaths, followed by 35 and 22 cases in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively, which also recorded a death each. In Mohali district, the total number of cases has reached 18,239 and the toll stands at 342. Among the fresh cases, 43 were reported from Mohali city alone.Meanwhile, 97 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the number of those recovered to 16,841 and active cases to 1,056.In Chandigarh, a 75-year-old man from Sector 45 died, taking the toll to 318.As many as 19,799 people have tested positive so far, of whom 19,109 have recovered, including 64 discharged on Friday. The active case tally stands at 372.A 66-year-old man died in Panchkula, where 10,007 people have tested positive so far and 143 have succumbed. While 9,668 patients have recovered, 196 are still under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-year-starts-with-112-cases-4-deaths-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-2ZAkU47d7XbJsT7URVy0xJ.html
02-01-2021||City||2020 Chandigarh’s wettest year in decade||CHANDIGARH About 1218.5mm of rain over the past 12 months in Chandigarh has made 2020 its wettest year in a decade, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) records have revealed.This is 15% above the normal precipitation figure (1059.3mm) for the city, which is calculated by taking the average of the past 30 years. Last year, total 916mm of rain had been recorded and it was 13.5% deficient. After 2020, the second highest rainfall in the past decade was in 2018 at 1069.3mm, 0.94% in excess of normal.Explaining what was different in 2020, Chandigarh IMD director Surender Paul said, “This year, there were lesser western disturbances (WD) that affected the region. Though WDs bring a lot of rain to the region, they also push back the moisture-laden easterly winds which are usually present up to the southern parts of Haryana. Due to the interaction of both these systems this year, there was higher than normal rain.”Paul added that while Chandigarh received higher than normal rain, its adjoining stations were mostly at normal. “Chandigarh’s position at the foothills of the Himalayas also works favourably for rainfall here. We had above normal monsoons and strong pre-monsoons in the city,” he added.Total 920.1mm of rain was received in the monsoon months, making it higher than the normal of 845.7mm — 8.8% in excess. However, Paul said it was too early to determine whether the same trend will continue this year and how much rain can be expected in the 2021 monsoon.Rain likely from todayWestern disturbances will be active in the city from Saturday onwards and chances of rain will continue up to January 5. “While possibility of rain will be low on Saturday, up to 30mm rain can be expected Sunday onwards,” said Paul. An orange warning for thunderstorm and hail has been issued by the IMD in the region on Sunday and Monday, asking people to be prepared.The rain is likely to bring relief from the frequent spells of cold wave in the city. “Wind speeds will increase from Saturday due to which fog formation will be affected. However, temperature will rise after January 6 again and dense fog could engulf the region. It is likely that temperatures will fall further and we will see the coldest spell of the season in this duration,” the IMD director said.Visibility on Friday morning dropped below 50 metres, while the fog made the minimum temperature rise up from 2.7°C on Thursday to 6.1°C. Maximum temperature went up from 16.3°C on Thursday to 17.4°C on Friday. In the next three days, day temperature will remain between 18°C and 20°C while night temperature will be 7- 9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2020-chandigarh-s-wettest-year-in-decade/story-wDvw4q5mnZYzp9VjUeTpNN.html
02-01-2021||City||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena, Congress fight over renaming Aurangabad; BJP mocks them||Ruling partners in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Shiv Sena and Congress are again at the loggerhead over the renaming of Aurangabad city. Congress has opposed Sena’s proposal of renaming it after Sambhaji Maharaj, while the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party has termed it as a ‘fixed fight’. Ahead of the ensuing civic polls in Aurangabad, the Shiv Sena has raked up the old issue of the renaming of the city as Sambhaji Nagar. The original proposal was passed by the party in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, ruled by it for more than three decades, in June 1995. The BJP too had supported the proposal and issued a notification during the Sena-BJP alliance government. The proposal was challenged by a Congress corporator in the high court and later in the Supreme Court. Congress has said as a ruling party it will be opposed strongly. Thorat said changing the names of places was not a part of the Common Minimum Programme of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, in which Congress and NCP are partners. “If any proposal about renaming Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar comes up, the Congress will strongly oppose it. Congress does not believe in changing names as it does not benefit the common man, Thorat said and asserted that although his party is a part of the MVA alliance, it will surely oppose such a proposal. However, I am not aware of any proposal about renaming Aurangabad,” he further said. The renaming issue is seen as another flashpoint between Sena and Congress, the two ruling parties in the MVA government. Recently, Congress had hit out at its ally after Sena MP Sanjay Raut criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and expressed the need to change the leadership of United Progressive Alliance. Mocking the Sena, leader of the Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that it remembers the renaming issue only when elections approach. The Sena raked up the issue again when the civic elections are round the corner. Fadnavis added and pointed out that Sena will forget the issue once the elections are over. On Friday Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant questioned why Modi government has failed to approve the proposal of renaming Aurangabad airport after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj six months after MVA government sent it to the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-shiv-sena-congress-fight-over-renaming-aurangabad-bjp-mocks-them/story-yDeuZnkgjcL6Dr7PGkeT0H.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||New director takes charge of Panjab University’s centre for competitive examinations||Dr Sonal Chawla has taken charge as the honorary director of Panjab University’s centre for IAS and other competitive examinations.The charge has been given to Chawla, who is a professor at the department of computer science and applications, after Paramjit Kaur’s two-year tenure as director of the centre ended on March 31, 2020. On April 1, dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla was appointed honorary director of the centre till further orders.The varsity had invited applications for the post from professors and associate professors of PU in February.The varsity had also constituted a panel under the chairmanship of DUI RK Singla to recommend a new director for the centre, which aims at helping aspirants who compete in various national and state-level competitive examinations including UPSC, State Judicial Services and UGC-NET.Dr Chawla said her priority as director will be to strengthen the centre and make it vibrant so that aspirants of the region and PU in particular are benefitted from the courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-director-takes-charge-of-panjab-university-s-centre-for-competitive-examinations/story-sK6zHu1X16A4JrYYGYpsaP.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||On New Year’s Eve, Thane sees dip in cases of drink driving||The Thane traffic police have registered 75 per cent less drink-and-drive cases on December 31, 2020 compared to the previous New Year’s Eve. The police booked 416 drivers for driving in an inebriated state on Thursday while 207 co-passengers were also booked. In 2019, the police had booked 1,673 drivers for drunken driving on New Year’s Eve.Out of the total cases on Thursday, 107 were from Narpoli and 81 from Kongao. Police also called the parents of 18 youngsters and asked them to pick up their children and also gave them a warning.The Thane traffic police attributed the drop to strict vigilance over the last 10 days. Read more: 27 booked for drink driving in Navi MumbaiIn the past week, the traffic police cracked down 1,372 drink-and-drive cases of which 451 were co-passengers.DCP Balasaheb Patil said, “We had increased vigilance and started taking action against the traffic offenders more than a week ago so that people driving under the influence of alcohol would be alert about police action well in advance. In the cases of youngsters driving under influence of alcohol, their parents had been called. Most parents took the call positively and reprimanded their children. Most family members appreciated this initiative taken by us and we will continue this in the future also.“Different squads were posted at various spots in the city making it difficult for offenders to escape. Several check nakas were set up in the city at Ghodbunder, Majiwada, Kapurbavdi, Mulund, Mumbra, Shilphata since December 25.”Traffic police who were geared up with all safety equipment including a PPE kit were found checking passengers using breath analysers. The teams themselves had sanitisers and immunity boosters to keep themselves safe from Covid infection while conducting checks on the commuters. Patil said that the nozzle of breath analysers was changed in front of the drivers before every check, so no complaints were raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/on-new-year-s-eve-thane-sees-dip-in-cases-of-drink-driving/story-gGGT71KCQ75G9GMIiat06I.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMCH-32 warns against fake recruitment calls||After the authorities at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, found that unscrupulous elements were trying to deceive job-seekers through fake call letters, they have issued an advisory to cross-check any such claims through official sources.Anil Moudgil, official spokesperson of GMCH-32, said that a fake recruitment letter on the letterhead of the hospital was received by the institute. The letter had an incorrect address detail and was, therefore, automatically routed to the hospital.“The authorities have taken it seriously and this can be a possible case of someone running a recruitment fraud, following which a notice has been issued,” said Moudgil.“Unscrupulous elements with ulterior motives to earn wrongful gains are trying to deceive job-seekers in the name of GMCH and trying to tarnish the image and reputation of the hospital. The people are unauthorizedly using the name, stamps, and logo of the hospital,” the authorities said.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal of GMCH-32, in a notice said that the public is cautioned against fraudulent activities. “Residents are advised to assist us in taking appropriate action to curb the mala fide activities. Any person dealing with such elements will be doing so at his/her risk and cost,” the notice added.Hospital has also activated an email id (dpgmch-chd@gmch.gov.in) and phone numbers (0172-2601023, 2601024) for verification of such claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gmch-32-warns-against-fake-recruitment-calls/story-SRIRVCiyLIh0j6oUMk2Q9M.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||No drunken driving challans on New Year’s Eve in Chandigarh||As no drunken driving cases were reported on New Year’s Eve, the traffic police here issued 282 general challans, which is not much higher than the average number of fines slapped on weekends in the city.Around 350 traffic personnel were on field duty on the occasion and a special drive against drunken driving was also actively carried out by them. As many as 20 checkpoints were set up by the traffic police besides other nakas for security purposes and to demarcate vehicle-free zones.Senior superintendent of police (traffic) Manisha Chaudhary, who was also present on the field during New Year’s Eve, visited vulnerable spots of the city, including Sector 26 and Industrial Area phase 1 to take stock of the situation.It was observed that officials were not using alcometers to check the drivers, and instead used a flashlight and talked to the latter to make sure they were okay to drive. “We had received instructions that if any driver seemed intoxicated, we could take him/her for a medical, however, there was barely any traffic on the roads,” said a cop on duty.Calling this a result of their awareness drive, deputy superintendent of police (traffic east) Charanjit Singh Virk said, “We thank people for acting responsibly and taking our awareness drives seriously. No mishaps were reported on December 31 night. People moved around with designated drivers and those who were unfit to drive used cabs.” He added that the nakas were in place till 2am.In 2019, 205 challans were issued for drunken driving with 569 general fines on New Year’s Eve that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-drunken-driving-challans-on-new-year-s-eve-in-chandigarh/story-acD7VmePoy7yZ8vxqQM73O.html
02-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body identifies 50 lakh who will get Covid-19 vaccine shots||Under its vaccine distribution plan, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified close to 50 lakh people that will be vaccinated in all three phases. The civic body is in the process of uploading its details on the Co-WIN application. These individuals are healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens. Senior civic officials said that uploading of details on CoWIN app will make vaccination easier.As per BMC’s plan, healthcare workers will get the Covid-19 shots in the first phase of vaccination, followed by frontline workers such as police force and conservancy workers in the second phase. In the third phase, citizens above the age of 50 and those suffering from comorbidities will be vaccinated. As per the surveys conducted under ‘My Family My Responsibility’ initiative, there are more than 30 lakh individuals that are above 50 years of age.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “Our teams of vaccinators have completed their trainings and we may pursue something similar to dry runs by next week in order to ensure that everything is in place. Once the data of beneficiaries is uploaded on the CoWIN app, it will bring in ease in the process of vaccination. I will be taking stock of our storage facilities over the weekend and will be reviewing our distribution plan.”Vaccine distribution planAn area of 5,000 square feet on the first floor of BMC’s five-storey building at Kanjurmarg has been identified as the centralised spot for storing the vaccine. The facility will have two walk-in coolers (WIC) and one walk-in freezer (WIF). WIC will have a capacity of 40 cubic metres and will maintain temperature upto -80 degree Celsius, while WIF will have a capacity of 20 cubic metres and will maintain temperature between -15 and -250 degree Celsius. 17 ice-lined refrigerators (ILR), each with a capacity of 225 litres, will be supplied by the state government. Eight of the refrigerators have been delivered to the eight identified vaccination centres.There will be eight civic hospitals (King Edward Memorial Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper hospital, Sion hospital, Bhabha hospitals at Kurla and Bandra, Rajawadi Hospital and the Jogeshwari trauma hospital) that will be utilised for administering the vaccine to the healthcare workers in 15 days after the vaccine arrives. The second dose will be administered in 15 days after a buffer of 28 days. At each of these centres, three teams will be working in two shifts. Each team will comprise a vaccinator, a person to verify beneficiary details, and support staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-identifies-50-lakh-who-will-get-covid-19-vaccine-shots/story-cEqtXLbR1YWAwnzKAXUWHN.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||New Year revellers choke central Delhi despite restrictions||Roads on central Delhi were choked with vehicles on New Year’s Day as revellers hit areas around India Gate, Connaught Place, Purana Qila, Sunder Nursery and Indraprastha Park. Delhi traffic police said that from around 2pm on Friday, people started pouring into the India Gate lawns, after which the section of the road leading to the monument had to be closed for general public. However, this did not help traffic congestion on the roads around the area. Traffic control room records showed that in the evening, long traffic snarls were reported from Tilak Marg, ITO, Mandi House, India Gate roundabout, Connaught Place outer circle, Zakir Hussain Marg, Akbar Road, Teen Murti Marg and Shanti Path. Anil Mittal, additional spokesperson, Delhi Police said at one time during the day, at least 5,000 people were present at India Gate on Friday. “People kept coming and going as there were restrictions on public gathering. Adequate staff was deployed at India Gate and nearby areas to ensure that the visitors adhered to social distancing norms and wore face masks. Traffic police was also deployed in adequate strength to make sure the traffic movement remains smooth,” Mittal said. Despite the fact that Delhi Zoo, which was a major attraction among the public on New Year’s Day till last year, was closed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, people gathered around Purana Qila to enjoy street food and ice creams. This also led to traffic hold ups around Bhairon Marg, Pragati Maidan and around Indraprastha flyover. Traffic police officials also said that apart from these favourite hangouts, large gatherings were also seen around Sunder Nursery and South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) Waste to Wonder Park, near Sarai Kale Khan. “Cars were parked on roadsides and people walking on the roadside were one of the main reasons for traffic jams around these spots, Additional traffic officials were deployed around these areas to manage the rush,” the Delhi traffic police said. Looking at the rush by afternoon, the Delhi police on Friday had to direct the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to restrict entry and exit in at least five Metro stations to control crowd in the central Delhi. “Exit gates of Khan Market, Supreme Court, Central Secretariat and Mandi House are closed. Entry and interchange is permitted at these stations,” DMRC tweeted on Friday. All entry/exit gates were however opened by 6pm. The exit gates of the Rajiv Chowk Metro stations were shut down from 4pm because of the increase in the footfall in Connaught Place. Because of the high influx of people at the Metro gates, and the Covid-19 restrictions, the average waiting time of trains went up to 35 minutes. DMRC officials said that this was done on the directions of Delhi police, as a security measure to control crowd in these stations. “We were told that it is around these stations that people gather the most for New Year’s celebrations,” said a DMRC spokesperson. People posted pictures of traffic jams on social media. “Massive traffic jam is seen on Captain Gaur Marg, starting from C-block East of Kailash traffic signal. The construction at Ashram Chowk is making things worse for commuters,” tweeted VK Aggarwal. Another commuter, Ayush Sariyar tweeted, “Huge traffic block at Karol Bagh-Jhandewalan stretch. Long queue of vehicles, blocking the arterial road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-year-revellers-choke-central-delhi-despite-restrictions/story-sBXY4hXt0ixfPaRFt3k8lL.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||21-yr-old killed for posting video on social media, 2 nabbed||Police on Friday said they had arrested two men in outer Delhi’s Begampur in connection with the murder of a 21-year-old man who allegedly posted a video on social media, abusing and tarnishing their friend’s image. The prime suspect, identified by his first name Gaurav, is absconding along with his friend, Hussain, who was also involved in the crime that took place on Wednesday, the police said.The arrested persons were identified as Tinku,30, and Manish,23.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra said that on December 30 (Wednesday), the police received information that a man with multiple injury marks was lying unconscious at Baljit Vihar near Begampur Chowk. The injured man was taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital where he was declared brought dead. The dead man was identified as Subhash alias Bahadur. A murder case was registered and the investigation was taken up, the DCP said.“Subhash’s family suspected the involvement of a habitual offender, Gaurav. His mother said that her son had a heated argument with Gaurav over the phone,” said DCP Mishra.The police said that their further probe revealed that on Wednesday around 4 pm, Subhash was in the local market with his friend Gagan when their friend Manish invited them to a video game shop to play a game. As the two reached there, Gaurav, Manish, Hussain and Tinku started assaulting Subhash. Gagan got scared and escaped from there, the DCP said.Later, the four men took Subhash to Baljit Vihar and further assaulted him. They dumped him in an unconscious state at an isolated place near Begampur Chowk and fled. Investigators conducted raids and caught Manish and Tinku while the other two are yet to be arrested.During the interrogation, the arrested men disclosed that Subhash and Gaurav were involved in criminal activities and used to be friends. However, they developed differences for some reasons, the DCP said.“The matter escalated when Subhash had posted a video on social media allegedly abusing and downgrading Gaurav, following which Gaurav decided to teach him a lesson and hatched a conspiracy along with his friends. Manish called Subhash at his shop where Gaurav, Tinku and Hussain were already present,” added DCP Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-kill-21-yr-old-for-posting-video-on-social-media/story-mivhBwGqZuSgwySTRfiaWM.html
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||AAP will soon announce its CM face in Punjab: Raghav Chadha||The newly appointed AAP Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Friday said the party would soon announce its chief ministerial candidate for 2022 assembly elections in the state.On a visit to the state, Chadha visited the Golden Temple and Dugiana Temple on Friday. He was accompanied by leader of the opposition in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema and other party MLAs. Later, he was joined by AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann during a press conference here.On a question about AAP’s CM face for Punjab, Chadha said, “He will be a person Punjab could feel proud of.” Chadha, who is AAP MLA from Rajendra Nagar in Delhi and national spokesperson of the party, said, “The party will register a landslide victory in 2022 assembly polls. Punjab had been looted by the SAD-BJP and the Congress governments. Now, the people of Punjab have made up their minds that only one party can take Punjab on the path of progress, and this time they will ensure an Aam Aadmi Party government in the state.”Alleging that Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had “betrayed” the people of Punjab, Chadha said, “Before the elections, the Congress had made many promises such as waiving all debts of farmers, Ghar-Ghar Rozgar, eradicating drugs in four weeks; but none of them were fulfilled. Intoxicated with power, Captain forgot his people and reneged on all his promises”.Lashing out at the Badals of SAD, Chadha said, “When these black (farm) laws were enacted, SAD, for its greed of power, remained part of the Modi-led central government. After the bill came, they kept praising the anti-farmers black laws. Even when these were passed in the Parliament and became laws, Harsimrat Kaur Badal remained the union minister. But, after seeing the anger of the people, she resigned out of compulsion,” he added. Chadha said the people were especially impressed with the work done by the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi in the health and education sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-will-soon-announce-its-cm-face-in-punjab-chadha/story-w3j1086iQlS862Bw9llxCK.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Air slips into severe zone, city witnesses first smog episode||Low temperature, dense fog and cracker bursting on New Year’s eve, pushed Delhi’s air quality into the severe zone on Friday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) in the city on Friday was 441 -- a major drop from Thursday’s AQI recording of 347, which is categorised as very poor. Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) recordings show that the concentration of PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) started rising from Thursday midnight and reached above the 300ug/m3 mark. The ambient air quality standard for PM 2.5 levels in India is 60ug/m3. At 8pm on Friday, the average PM2.5 levels in the city were 313.3ug/m3. “There were instances of cracker bursting around some residential neighbourhoods. The emissions from these combined with the dense fog cause the smog that we saw in the early morning hours. The radiative fog mixed with high PM (particulate matter) levels also reduced visibility,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre. IMD recordings show that at 6am, the visibility at Safdarjung and the Palam observatory was zero metres, and it stayed below 200 metres till around 9am. IMD scientists said that the pollution levels are expected to improve by Saturday morning. Soni said the wind direction changed from north-westerly to easterly on Friday afternoon. He added that the ventilation conditions in Delhi were poor and the mixing height was also low, which led to pollutants getting trapped closer to the surface. The mixing height is the height of vertical mixing of air and suspended particles above the ground. This height is primarily determined by temperature. When the temperature increases, the air expands and pushes the height higher, giving pollutants closer to the ground more space to mix with the atmosphere. He also said that the change in winds direction will also improve wind speeds on Saturday and help disperse pollutants. “Our forecast had said that there was a possibility of the AQI deteriorating on Friday and that was primarily because the wind speeds were calm for a large part of Friday morning. However, wind speed picked up from afternoon after the change in direction,” Soni said. He added that on Saturday, the average wind speeds are likely to be around 15kmph and improvement in air quality will be visible from Saturday morning itself. The IMD has also forecasted a western disturbance to impact the city from Saturday, which will also lead to rainfall activities in some parts of Delhi. “This will also bring relief.” Despite the assurance of a better weekend, on Friday evening at least 28 out of the total 37 pollution monitoring stations were in the ‘severe’ zone. These areas included Mundka, Alipur, RK Puram, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, Rohini, Dwarka sector-8, Bawana, and Narela among others. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) also said that high moisture content in the city’s air and calm winds led to the deterioration in pollution. “Surface winds became extremely calm as forecasted and the low dispersion conditions led to accumulation and trapping of pollutants near surface. The radiative fog mixed with high PM levels made it smog and reduced the visibility further,” Safar analysis read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-slips-into-severe-zone-city-witnesses-first-smog-episode/story-UdN77EyjIIYHHZpdFqCRPP.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||7,612 Delhi cops infected with Covid-19 in 2020, 97% recovered||A total of 7,612 Delhi Police personnel were infected with Covid-19 last year and 32 of them succumbed to the virus, the Delhi Police said on Friday.Of the infected personnel, 97.5% (7,424) have recovered so far and joined duty, said the police.Another 231 police personnel died of natural causes through the year, 44 in accidents and 14 by suicide, said Anil Mittal, additional spokesperson of the Delhi Police, giving a round up of the year gone by. The officer said that the year was challenging for the police since the pandemic left them “mentally, physically and officially over stretched”.“ We have discussed with a bank for better insurance for our personnel. Now, insurance cover for natural deaths of police personnel has been raised from R5 lakh to R28 lakh and for deaths in accidents from R30 lakh to R78 lakh,” said Mittal. He said that now even families of suicide victims will be offered R10 lakh as compensation.The police in 2020 also opened seven wellness centres in police colonies where 11,700 personnel and their families sought medical consultation. “Now there is a compulsory medical check up for our personnel over the age of 40 so that any illnesses are diagnosed and treated in time,” said the officer.The police said that 5,645 personnel of the ranks from constable to sub-inspectors were promoted through 2020. These included three out-of-turn promotions for personnel who helped recover 50 or more missing children through the year. A total of 190 personnel were also hired on compassionate grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-612-delhi-cops-infected-with-covid-19-in-2020-97-recovered/story-CCCGz1LSblfWvL7tWWPsYN.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||7 arrested in Rs 1.5 crore burglary case in Chandni Chowk||Five robbers and two people who bought stolen property have been arrested in connection with an over Rs 1.5 crore burglary that was reported from north Delhi’s Kinari Bazar near Chandni Chowk on November 22, police said on Friday. Stolen diamond, gold and silver jewellery items and documents of two properties, which were purchased after selling some stolen valuables, have been recovered from the arrested persons.To escape arrest in Delhi, two key members of the gang on December 4 had surrendered themselves before the Uttar Pradesh police in a robbery case in which they were wanted, a police officer said. The duo was sent to Dasna jail, from where one of them, identified as Jeeshan Ali,32, was bailed out on December 24. The Delhi Police have taken custody of the other jailed burglar, 35-year-old Mobin (single name), in the Chandni Chowk case, said police officers associated with the probe.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said on November 22, a businessman, Ankit Gupta, had reported to the police that the gate of his Kinari Bazar house was broke open and Rs 5 lakh cash and jewellery worth around Rs 1.5 crore were stolen. During the probe, an investigator said, it was learnt that Gupta’s parents lived in the house but they had moved to his northwest Delhi home in October after their house help went to his hometown. The special staff team was roped in on December 22, as the local police could not solve the case.The team collected information about the suspects through technical surveillance and a ring of informers. On December 26, three of them Jeeshan Ali, Ikram alias Lambu, and Azad Ali, were arrested while they were going to dispose of the stolen jewellery in Karol Bagh.“Their interrogation led to the arrest of two other burglars – Rijayul Hasan,32, and Mobin – and the two receivers of their stolen property Mohammad Akram,48, and Irfan alias Chunnu,35. Mobin and Jeeshan had purchased one property each in Uttar Pradesh using their booty,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-arrested-in-rs1-5-crore-burglary-case-in-chandni-chowk/story-2irHQUbvnO14T911fKBDIP.html
02-01-2021||Education||CBSE Board exams schedule: Schools, parents concerned over practicals||With schools in the national capital closed since March and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announcing practical exams in two months, several teachers and principals are concerned how these assessments will be conducted with barely any hands-on learning experience, especially for science stream students.As many as 2,168 schools in the national capital are affiliated to the CBSE, which usually begins conducting board exams for class 10 and 12 students in February. On Thursday, the board announced that it would conduct exams between May and June and practicals from March 1.CBSE controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj specified that there would be “no dilution in quality measures of the exams” by the board. “Generally, schools would have time between January and mid-February to conduct board examinations. This time, however, after consultations with all stakeholders, we have increased that time period. Practical exams can be conducted by schools between March and June 10. This would allow schools to have the flexibility to conduct practical exams in smaller batches while maintaining social distancing and other Covid-19 guidelines.”Several principals are worried as many parents are not eager to send their children to school before the Covid-19 vaccine is rolled out. School authorities have also planned to discuss the issue with parents once schools reopen after winter vacation.Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School, Saket, said that it would be “impossible” for class 12 students to appear for science practicals in front of an external examiner before getting any hands-on experience.“Every science subject has 8-10 experiments. Students need to see the deflections of a galvanometer or make electrical circuits on their own. For Biology, they need to look at cells under a microscope available in school, do titration and other experiments in Chemistry,” she said, adding that they plan to talk to parents to see if they would be willing to allow children to come to labs in smaller batches.Principals are also uncertain about the mode of practical examination for the boards. Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said, “We need more clarity on whether practical examinations will be conducted in online or offline mode. If exams are conducted in offline mode, we will need to give students some hands-on experience before the test.”The internal assessment component comprises 20-30 marks for several subjects and often include a practical component in the form of projects or viva voce or both. Teachers said they are not facing as much difficulty in other subjects as compared to science subjects.For instance, in Computer Science, which carries 30 marks in the practicals category, Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said that since most students have computers at home, classes have continued without much difficulty. For subjects like Psychology where students are required to conduct psychological tests as practicals, the component has gone online.“Students are either carrying out the tests online or they are conducting it on their family members. For subjects like Political Science and History, teachers are organising individual virtual interaction with students for clarity on their projects,” she said, adding that they are still waiting for instructions from authorities if schools can be reopened or not.The challenge is even bigger at Delhi government schools where most of the students from underprivileged backgrounds do not have uninterrupted access to “virtual labs or online practicals”.Mudassir Jahan, head of school at a girls’ government school in south Delhi’s Noor Nagar, said, “In the next two months, if cases reduce and the government allows, we will call some students to school in smaller batches of maybe five students while following all Covid-19 guidelines. Till then, we can send recorded video experiments to them. Our concern is towards low-performing students who need additional in-person assistance in all subjects.”Despite repeated attempts, Delhi government spokespersons and officials in the deputy chief minister’s office did not respond to requests for a comment on the matter.In October, the Delhi government had written to CBSE over practical exams. “Practical and project work are an integral part of any subject. It is pertinent to give students hands-on practice for the same for a sufficient period of time,” read the letter sent on October 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-board-exams-schedule-schools-parents-concerned-over-practicals/story-47X344Ey6hQvignFRbRbZO.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Fight against Covid not over, says CM Kejriwal in his New Year message||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday appreciated the role of health care workers and front line workers in the ongoing fight against Covid-19 ,in his New Year video message posted on social media, even as he urged residents of the city to follow all necessary precautions until vaccines are available.“This year has been a difficult time not only for India but for the entire world. The whole world had to fight Covid-19 – the biggest pandemic faced by humankind. I take this chance to salute and honour our Corona-warriors, doctors, nurses, medical staff, policemen, sanitation workers, and all socio-religious institutions. You continued to serve the public even in such a difficult time,” said Kejriwal.Kejriwal further said, “During these testing times, our strong health care system has set countless examples before the world. Delhi showed that we are on par with other developed countries of the world. During this pandemic, several initiatives of Delhi were replicated by many countries and governments across the world,” he added. “This year may have come to an end but Covid-19 still persists. We must take all precautions and follow the guidelines to keep ourselves safe. We hope that a vaccine arrives in India soon, so that things return to normal. Until then, please take care of yourselves and your family,” Kejriwal said.In Delhi, as on December 31, 625,369 people had been infected by the virus, since the first case was reported on March 2. Even though 609,322 of them have recovered, 10,536 succumbed to the virus, said government records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fight-against-covid-not-over-says-cm-kejriwal-in-his-new-year-message/story-MJnANM20n3g2aVnhDm1Y2L.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Let bars, restaurants stay open till 3am, says Delhi govt panel||A committee set up by the Delhi government to augment excise revenue in the Capital has recommended that restaurants, clubs and pubs be allowed to stay open till 3am instead of 1am; be allowed to serve full bottles on the table; and to serve liquor in open areas such as rooftops and balconies.The panel has also said that anyone over the age of 21 should be able to get a drink at a bar or a hotel. In Delhi, at least on paper, the minimum age to be served liquor at an establishment is 25. The report, uploaded on the excise department’s website for feedback from stakeholders ahead of drafting a policy, has also called for licence fee for bars to be rationalised on the basis of location instead of seating capacity; for it to be made easier for restaurants which have a valid fire safety certificate to get a bar licence; and for establishments to be allowed to purchase liquor from retailers too, instead of only wholesalers as mandated by current rules. The report, which HT has seen, also recommended that provisions be made for additional liquor serving counters (for an extra fee) and that establishments be allowed to store liquor anywhere inside their premises, including refrigerators, instead of specific storage rooms, and doing away with the provision of issuing a public notice in the neighbourhood to record objections before granting liquor licence, something that it said is often misued by competitors to block a new licence from being issued. After the feedback process ends, the government will draft a policy and table it before the Delhi cabinet. If approved, after incorporating changes (if any), the policy will be notified and excise rules will be changed accordingly, said a senior official in the excise department who asked not to be named.The same committee has also recommended that the number of dry days in the Capital be reduced from 21 on an average to three per year, norms be relaxed for departmental stores to avail licence for selling wine and beer, and equitable distribution of government-operated liquor stores across all 272 municipal wards, areas under New Delhi Municipal Council and the Indira Gandhi International Airport.The committee was set up in September by Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the portfolios of finance and excise, to augment the government’s excise revenue, simplifying liquor pricing mechanism, checking malpractices, ensuring equitable access, and helping the government in its ease of doing business policy, which is primarily aimed at recovery of state revenues in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic.Delhi’s projected excise revenue for 2021-22 is ₹7,651 crore – up from ₹5,068.7 crore, the actual revenue for 2019-20, said an official in the finance department.The committee noted that Delhi currently has 720 functional retail liquor stores – of which nearly 40% sell only country liquor – in local shopping complexes, as against 1,190 liquor stores in Mumbai and 1,794 in Bengaluru. Other than that, Delhi has around 800 bars located in hotels, restaurants, pubs and clubs. While those in five-star hotels are allowed to operate 24x7 under a special license which costs a hefty fee, most bars located in restaurants, clubs and pubs have to wrap up by 1am under the current norms. Liquor shops in the city have to shut by 10pm.“We welcome these recommendations. The progressive measures will help the industry that is one of the highest employment generators in the country. It will also be a booster shot for tourism and vibrancy of New Delhi which was losing out to its fellow metros. It will ultimately lead to a more vibrant and stronger economy,” said Riyaaz Amlani, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India, a collective of more than 500,000 restaurants across the country.Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), said: “The objectives set by the government are spot on. The premise behind the recommendations is right, and some recommendations are obvious winners… We applaud this initiative. It shows that the Delhi government has its focus on policies that work for all stakeholders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/let-bars-restaurants-stay-open-till-3am-says-delhi-govt-panel/story-eAGs37HgdauyseScpP1lyM.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Case lodged against Nehru Place bar-cafe for Covid rules violations||The Delhi Police on Friday said they had registered a case against “MHouse”, a bar and cafe in south Delhi’s Nehru Place, and arrested its manager for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines and night restrictions that were imposed in Delhi to prevent large gathering in public places for New Year celebrations due to the pandemic.The police said that the MHouse management was serving “hookah” to the guests despite not having a licence for it and they have taken photographs of the same. But the management of the cafe and bar management, refuted the allegations by saying that “nobody was served sheesha (hukka)” and that the police only “found sheesha lying in boxes”. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said that around 2 am on January 1, the Kalkaji police station team team reached the MHouse. “There was a crowd who were being served hukka and alcohol. Moreover, the guidelines of social distancing were not being followed by them,” said DCP Meena.DCP Meena said that the manager of the club, Umesh Chand, was asked about the permission of the bar as well as the cafe but he could not produce them. The officer said the manager could not give any satisfactory reply. The team members took photographs of the bar and cafe and asked the manager to accompany them to the police station.“As the social distancing guidelines and directions of night curfew (restrictions) issued by the Delhi government were being followed, a case was registered under section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act, and Indian Penal Code’s Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), and 4/21 (1) of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) Act. The manager, Umesh Chand was arrested,” said Meena.Chand, who was later released from the police station, in a statement denied the allegations. “...There was no sheesha (hukka) served in our premises. When the police team visited our premises sheesha was lying in boxes. I would also like to update that we were maintaining social distancing in our outlet as per DDMA guidelines and we have all valid licenses to operate our premises and the same was also shown to the concerned police,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/case-lodged-against-nehru-place-bar-cafe-for-covid-rules-violations/story-GiDnPVR4KzWzcHA5eqIImN.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Students in Pune unhappy with MPSC decision to restrict number of attempts||After the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) announced to limit attempts for candidates for its competitive examinations, students preparing for these exams have been upset. Several student organisations have written directly to the state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday to rethink about this decision as it will affect thousands of candidates now. According to the MPSC’s order issued on December 30, candidates from the open category will now have only six attempts, OBC candidates will have nine attempts and there won’t be any limit for attempts for SC and ST category candidates. “It is my sixth attempt for the MPSC competitive exams which I will appear in the year 2021 and if I couldn’t make it then it will be the last attempt. This decision taken by the state government is certainly not right, as I am preparing and giving various competitive exams from the last five years. I come from a farmer’s family from a remote village in Solapur district; my parents are struggling hard only to send me money for my studies. And if such decisions on restrictions on attempts are implemented then it would be the end for me and several other students preparing for MPSC exams,” said Sagar Abnawe, a student preparing for MPSC student. While student organisations have also opposed this decision, Kuldeep Ambekar, president of students’ helping hand organisation said, “The decision taken by the state government in restricting the attempts especially for the open category students is worrying. Already the reservation issue is hot and Maratha community reservation case is pending in Supreme Court, on that background this decision is not right. Compared to UPSC administration, the MPSC and its officials working are very careless. Also, students have suffered a lot due to the Covid-19 pandemic and now they were again preparing for exams when this order was made. We have given a letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray to reconsider this decision and take it back for the benefit of lakhs of students in the state.” While Kalpesh Yadav, Pune city president, Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena said, “Today for a few hundred posts opened by MPSC, lakhs of students appeared for the exams in hope that they will crack it and get a chance to serve our Maharashtra state. When this order was issued yesterday, students got worried and it’s confusing them, MPSC should give proper and clear information about it to students. While putting restrictions on number of attempts, MPSC should also try to improve their own management of work-related to conducting the exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/students-unhappy-with-mpsc-decision-to-restrict-number-of-attempts/story-0y4LIaDZjWAFbt78c5FAxN.html
02-01-2021||Pune||FYJC special round 2 admission schedule declared for Pune||The detailed schedule of the special round 2 of the first year junior college (FYJC) Class 11 admissions for Pune was declared on Friday by the deputy director of education, Pune. Earlier in the first, second and third regular rounds of the admissions, 40,013, 23,120 and 12,461 seats were allotted, respectively, by the education department. Due to an interim stay by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for Class 11 (FYJC) on September 9, and resumed on November 26. As per the new schedule of special round 2, on January 1 at 10 am the vacancy list for admission in the special round will be displayed online, including quota seats surrendered by junior colleges. The bifocal admission procedure for admitted students will now also start with a special round.Upto January 4, 3 pm, application form (Part-1) edit and choice, or updating of option form (Part-2) for special round will be allowed online. “Every student must give his/her consent to participate in this round. So check if option form is locked or not,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department. On January 5 at 6 pm junior college allotment list for special round 2 admissions will be displayed online. Accordingly, display of cut-off list for special admission round will be done and SMS will be sent to students. Then from January 6-8 students need to confirm admissions in the allotted colleges. “Admission confirmation, rejection or cancellation needs to be done by students. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, junior colleges should collect their admission fee only through digital payment modes, like payment gateway, bank transfer, any e-wallets approved by the government of India or the Reserve Bank of India,” added Jagtap. Finally on January 9 the vacancy list for after completion of this special round 2 will be displayed online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fyjc-special-round-2-admission-schedule-declared/story-iNXqd4a0GHdnLz1QPrRUXP.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Pune district reports zero Covid deaths in 24 hours||The district has reported zero deaths due to Covid-19 infection in 24 hours. Last time the city reported zero deaths was on December 27. The city reported 564 new cases on Friday. The district has reported 3.73 lakh cases of which 3.51 lakh have recovered, 7,804 have been reported dead and 13,525 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or home isolation. Pune city reported 301 new cases taking the total count to 1,91, 430 and zero deaths which took the death toll to 4,408 while PCMC reported 114 new cases taking the final count to 93, 631 and zero deaths took the death toll to 1,277. Pune rural reported 149 new cases taking the final count to 88, 158 and zero deaths which took the death toll to 2,082, according to the state health department. The department reported that 4,279 patients were discharged on Friday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.32 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.69%. Also, 3,524 new cases in the state were reported on Sunday taking the total to over 19.35 lakh. In addition, 59U Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 50,727. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.56%. Of 1,28,23,834 laboratory samples, 19,35,636 have been tested positive (15.09%) for Covid until January 1. Currently, 2,69,348 people are in home quarantine and 3,314 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-zero-covid-deaths-in-24-hours/story-YWnSgxKjhO5UbPCFuyYwZL.html
02-01-2021||Pune||MCCIA Pune announces awards for 2020; Covid delays ceremony||The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), on Thursday, announced Its annual awards for 2020, some of which have been instituted seven decades ago. The award for Innovation in Entrepreneurship instituted in the memory of GS Parkhe, was bagged by three firms – Earthcare Equipments, Ramelex and SmartCastrPro “2020 has been a challenging year for us all, but I am glad that this year as well, MCCIA has continued its rich legacy of 70+ years by announcing the MCCIA Annual Awards, which support and encourage entrepreneurship, innovation and corporate social responsibility,” said Sudhir Mehta, president, MCCIA. The chamber has instituted awards for recognition in different verticals of business recognition. These awards have been instituted and contributed by different trusts and are being administered under the banner of the MCCIA Annual Awards. “Like last year, we are keen to organise the MCCIA Annual Awards function at Balgandharva to celebrate the resilience and success of entrepreneurs and innovators this year as well. However, given the unprecedented situation, this has been postponed for now. We will announce the dates for the award function as soon as the situation permits,” said Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCIA. Award for New Products and Design, instituted in the memory of the late Hari Joshi and late Malini Joshi was bagged by Quantesla Medical Technologies, while the award for Women Entrepreneurs instituted in the memory of the late Ramabai Joshi, was bagged by Blink Green. The MCCIA also announced the BG Deshmukh Award for excellence in Corporate Social responsibility; the Brig SP Ghorpade award for MSMEs in defence production; the late Kiran Natu Udyojakta Puraskar, for first generation successful entrepreneur, and the RJ Rathi award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mccia-announces-awards-for-2020-covid-delays-ceremony/story-mrJaUg2o7yOnLooSAp4rxJ.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Pawar to hold meeting on water quota for Pune city||Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar will call a meeting on city’s drinking water quota after the irrigation department sought to reduce the allocation from Khadakwasla reservoir. With the city receiving an additional 2.5 TMC (thousand million cubic feet) water supply from Bhama Askhed dam, the irrigation department has demanded to reduce the existing water quota from Khadakwasla dam and allot it to rural areas. Pawar said, “The irrigation department officials met me before the inauguration of Bhama Askhed water project and gave the proposal to reduce water supply from Khadakwasla dam. We would call a meeting on it that will be attended by MLAs from city and rural parts in the next fifteen days to arrive at an amicable decision.” Pawar said, “I am not for cutting water supply for the city as its population is increasing. With the 24x7 water scheme being executed and additional supply from Bhama Askhed dam, water will be saved. We are trying to process maximum water through sewage treatment plants. After the grampanchayat elections, a decision would be taken on it by calling a separate meeting with all stakeholders.” BJP city unit president Chandrakant Patil said, “There is always a conflict between rural and urban areas over water supply. PMC has asked for additional water quota from Khadakwasla dam for the 23 villages merged within the PMC limits. The guardian minister must call a meeting on it and all leaders must need to address the issue.” Pawar said the Bhama Askhed project will put an end to the tanker mafia in the eastern parts of the city. It’s Maharashtra’s tradition to join hands in development projects Ajit Pawar and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis sharing the dais for the second time after their oath ceremony became a talking point in political and media circles. Fadnavis said, “It’s Maharashtra’s tradition that all parties come together for development projects by keeping their political agenda aside. Yet, the media unnecessarily discusses the issue. Now we have got the trick that if we want to be in media Pawar and me must need to visit each other’s home for tea.” Pawar assured Fadnavis in his speech that they would share the stage repeatedly. Pawar said, “Since the former chief Minister Yashwantrao Chavan, it’s tradition that all parties and leaders must come together for development works.” Fadnavis bats for HCMTR Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has appealed to Ajit Pawar to look into the high capacity mass transit route (HCMTR) project in the city as it is important along with the metro project. He said that industries around Pune should use treated water generated through sewage treatment plants instead of dam waters. The dam project is important for the city At least 12 lakh residents living in the eastern parts of the city would benefit from the Bhama Askhed project. Eastern parts of the city mainly Vimannagar, Vadgaon Sheri, Ahmednagar Road areas, Dhanori and Kalyaninagar were facing water scarcity. Many housing societies were paying huge money on water tankers. PMC has designed the pipeline in a way that water flows directly through gravity and no pumping is needed to bringing water to the city from the dam located at a distance of about 50 kms. Ban electricity generation from Mulshi dam Pawar said that a plan should be made to ban hydroelectricity generation from Mulshi dam. The Mulshi dam water is controlled by Tata Power, which utilises the water for hydroelectricity generation. The hydropower project is located in Bhira, where the water is released directly into the sea after power generation. A committee was appointed during the BJP rule to study the project and its report is awaited. “The water from Mulshi dam should be utilised for Pune city and rural parts for irrigation purposes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pawar-to-hold-meeting-on-water-quota-for-pune-city/story-QSnEbi6xNwBwnEbCLZIlwN.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Proposal for chargesheet against Milind Ekbote, Sambhaji Bhide submitted by rural police||PUNE The Pune rural police have put forward a proposal for a chargesheet in cases lodged by the Pune rural police against Samasta Aghadi president Hindu Mahasangh Milind Ekbote and Hindutva leader Sambhaji Bhide, according to Anil Deshmukh, home minister of Maharashtra.When asked about cases against Milind and Bhide, Deshmukh said, “We have recently received a proposal for a chargesheet in this matter. We will take due action at the earliest possible time.”However, of the multiple cases that Ekbote and Bhide are booked in, he did not clarify which one was awaiting sanction for prosecution from the government.In one case, Ekbote was booked with at least 38 others for rioting, public property damage, and criminal conspiracy. In another case, Bhide was also booked along with Ekbote for attempted murder, and inciting communal violence. There is no clarity on which case the proposal for prosecution was sent in, from either the home minister or the police.“When it comes to some of the sections of IPC, a proposal for prosecution has to be sent to the government. In our case, a proposal for prosecution has been sent two months ago. I’m assuming that is what the home minister was referring to, even though I cannot be sure. However, the proposal sent by us is against Ekbote and others, and not Sambhaji Bhide,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune Rural Police.There are 36 cases registered by the Pune rural police after riots broke out in Bhima Koregaon in 2018, according to another senior official of Pune rural police. Of these cases, chargsheets have been filed in 16 of them, while summary reports of logical conclusions have been filed in at least 18 others. The cases against Ekbote and Bhide, however, remain open.“At this point, we cannot reveal many details about which case the proposal has been sent in. Whatever the home minister said is all we can reveal,” said deputy SP Rahul Dhas of Daund division of Pune rural police.The statement by the home minister was made on January 1, exactly three years since the riots broke out in Bhima Koregaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/proposal-for-chargesheet-against-milind-ekbote-sambhaji-bhide-submitted-by-rural-police/story-WJ4iHZBojygrrzffs35DcL.html
02-01-2021||Pune||3 Pune centres to have vaccine dry run on Jan 2||As per the central health ministry’s decision the Covid-19 vaccination dry run will begin in all states on January 2. Pune has been selected as one of the cities where the trial will be conducted. The dry run will be held in three hospitals in the district. However, the vaccine will not be actually administered, but all preparations, as per the guidelines issued by the central ministry, will be conducted, tweeted state health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday.The vaccination site, which will include a vaccination room and observation room, will be equipped with internet, security, and a waiting room.Although no vaccine candidate has been approved yet, the dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination will include four districts of Maharashtra, Pune, Nagpur, Jalna and Nandurbar. A virtual training via video conference was conducted on Thursday and Friday to prepare by the Union Ministry of Health to prepare vaccinators.Three sites (health centers) in the each district have been selected for the dry run. Twenty-five persons from each of the three sites who have bene registered will be part of the dry run.In Pune, the three sites include District Hospital Aundh, the Primary Health centre in Maan near Hinjewadi, and the Jijamata Hospital in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, civil surgeon at the District hospital in Aundh, said, “We have identified the three areas as per the guidelines where the registered person will be asked to wait before vaccination, vaccinated and then observed, post vaccination. The rest of the preparations are in place and since there is not going to actually be a vaccination, the dry run will mainly include technicalities, including verification of the registration and updating the CoWIN app.”Other hospitals in the state include Daga Hospital in Nagpur district, Rural Hospital Kamati, Urban Primary Health Centre of Nagpur Municipal Corporation, District Hospital Jalna, Sub-district Hospital Ambad, Shelgaon Primary Health Centre in Badnapur taluka, District Hospital Nandurbar, Primary Health Centre Ashte and the Navapur Sub-district Hospital in Nandurbar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-pune-centres-to-have-vaccine-dry-run-on-jan-2/story-cKNdxkjXd0uGotbiEyCH0K.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Home minister answers control room calls, celebrates New Year with Pune police||Pune: Puneites who made distress calls to the control room on December 31 night seeking police help were in for a pleasant surprise as their calls were answered by home minister Anil Deshmukh. The minister attended the calls at the city control room as part of citizen initiative. Deshmukh celebrated the New Year with the city police and cut a cake on the occasion post-midnight.“Namaskar. I am Anil Deshmukh speaking. I am home minister Anil Deshmukh speaking. What is your complaint? You are calling from Anandnagar Sun City. What happened there? What is the name of the society? Shivasagar Society. What is your complaint? I will inform the nearest police station to take action. What is your name? Indranil Apte. I wish you a very happy New Year,” the minister was heard answering the calls.Addressing the police staff through the control room microphone Deshmukh said, “Our police have been handling the Covid situation for the last ten months and must be tired, but the courage is not lost as they are Covid warriors .Even in this situation, the police are doing their best to maintain law and order. We hope that Maharashtra will be free of coronavirus soon.”“The incidents of violence against women are rising and the accused should be punished as soon as possible. We are bringing the law of Shakti and will try to pass the Act in the assembly session in March,” he said at the meeting that was attended by the senior police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/home-minister-answers-control-room-calls-celebrates-new-year-with-pune-police/story-gYeQX0ysXFWXiBK1wNXcpL.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Flyover demolition leaves traffic at Pune varsity circle in U-turn chaos||It was expected that demolition of the flyover at the Savitribai Phule Pune University circle will ease traffic congestion, but little has changed for commuters.The demolition work of flyover which was started on July 14 during the lockdown in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, was completed by the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) on August 10.The three-way road at the university circle, which goes to Aundh, Baner-Balewadi and Sus-Pashan sees major traffic flow.A major problem which people are facing is the long U- turn which commuters have to take to access Senapati Bapat road.“The decision to have such a long U-turn is taken after consideration with PMRDA and it will remain till the metro work is completed,” said Prakash Mhasalkar, police inspector (Traffic), Chaturshringi Police Station.“If we open SB road junction there will be a rise in traffic and at the moment there is no space for a huge rush of traffic,” added Mhasalkar.Daily commuters continue to suffer as they are left with no option.“I come from Pimple Gurav and everyday I have to face a traffic hurdle and six traffic signals. It is completely poor planning to keep such a long U-turn. There are potholes as well after you cross the signal from the Baner side,” said Jambuwant Manohar. Commuters are also complaining of missing metro barricades.Metro barricades are missing at a few places,” said Kapil Rege, who travels every day from Shivajinagar to Balewadi via the university circle. “Things look the same even as when there was a flyover. At least commuting was easy when the flyover was in place,” added Rege.Traffic constable Sumant Gaikwad, on duty at the university circle, said, “Evening hours things are getting difficult to manage as rush of traffic has increased in the last one month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flyover-demolition-leaves-traffic-at-sppu-circle-in-u-turn-chaos/story-KvcpZAiKmo2NbxSztt0lMO.html
02-01-2021||Pune||Sedate, prayerful, low-key event marks 203rd Bhima Koregaon anniversary||The 203rd Bhima Koregaon anniversary on January 1, 2021, was a low-affair key with the strictest of security mechanisms in place on either side of the Pune-Ahmednagar highway, leading to the site of the Bhima Koregaon memorial, in Perne village, near Pune.Fifteen police checkpoints were put in place to prevent outsiders from entering Perne village. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh had earlier issued a prohibitory order under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), 1973, between December 30, 2020 and 6 am, January 2, 2021. With Covid-19 preventive measures already in place, the district administration had appealed to the Dalit community to take an online darshan of the victory pillar, instead of being physically present at the spot.The anniversary celebrations at the “vijay stambh” in Perne, began with Buddhist monks in ceremonial robes chanting prayers.At 6 am, the Mahar regiment presented a spot drill in the presence of Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh and minister for energy, Nitin Raut, who offered their tributes at the obelisk. Prakash Ambedkar, president of the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) also paid his tributes. Volunteers of the Samata Sainik Dal put on a prayer dance in an open space in front of the stambh, in the presence of a large number of police personnel. Prominent Buddhist and Dalit organisations across the country had appealed to community to refrain from venturing to attend the event, citing the Covid-19 threat as a deterrent. Other Ambedkarite organisations also offered their respects at the venue based on slots offered by the rural police. Samata Sainik Dal volunteer Shailesh Kamble said, “I am lucky to have got a police pass. The crowd was not much and social distancing was maintained during the event.”The Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyaan, an umbrella organisation of Dalits and minorities, had organised the Elgar Parishad Conclave at Shaniwar wada in Pune on December 31, 2017. On January 1, 2018, the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon, turned violent leaving one person dead and several others injured. Pune Police, in a subsequent chargesheet, stated that “inflammatory” speeches at the Dalit meet were among the key factors that triggered the violence. The Elgar Parishad case has since been taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Ten lakh people had attended the event last year.The Koregaon Bhima development plan“The Koregaon Bhima development plan will be taken into consideration by the state and necessary finance will be provided. Since I am the guardian minister of Pune District, I will ensure that adequate funds are given for the project. People are going to continuously come to the spot, permanently, and government must proactively provide space for parking and other facilities. The state government will give good compensation to the local landowners after acquiring their lands for the development project,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sedate-prayerful-low-key-event-marks-203rd-bhima-koregaon-anniversary/story-oiylopzrTmSk4uOkb14NWJ.html
02-01-2021||Pune||From the app to real life: Pune police warn due diligence needed to stay safe on dates||The case of sexual harassment and alleged rape, filed last Saturday in Pune by a 26-year-old woman against a romantic acquaintance whom she met on the dating app Tinder, is making headlines. The incident certainly raises questions about social media and recommended digital conduct of users. Bhagyashree Navtake, DCP cyber-crime and EOW, said, “Social media is a part of our lives today. Whether it is online or offline, being mindful is of paramount importance. Before deciding to meet someone you’ve only met online, it is very important to run a thorough background check on the other person. Also, it is advisable to not meet someone in a private or secluded place for the first time.” While violence may not be a common consequence of disagreeable online encounters, instances of cyber bullying, blackmailing, stalking, extortion, and harassment are on the rise. DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh shared some cases that were reported in the recent past. “I remember multiple cases that were reported, where the couple, complete strangers, met on dating apps or on social media, and then got into a romantic relationship. Physical intimacy followed, and then the man started blackmailing the woman for further sexual favours. In some cases, there was extortion. There have also been some cases of gay encounters that turned sour after a couple of meets, and resulted in harassment.” According to Singh, social media and dating apps are vulnerable spots and the ideal hunting grounds for sexual predators. He warned that it is absolutely necessary to exercise tremendous caution while dealing with complete strangers online. “Giving out too much personal information in the initial conversations with strangers, sharing personal photographs, and revealing monetary details can have shattering consequences. It is best to take it slow, and to do the due diligence,” he added. Singh recalled the most recent case of a 28-year old man, who was arrested two weeks back by the Pune Police’s Crime Branch for harassing and duping women by getting in touch with them on online dating sites. “The man would approach women, strike a relationship, and then get them to share pictures on chats. He would then use these pictures to harass and blackmail them,” said Singh. He confessed of having duped 10-12 women. Criminal lawyer Vijayalaxmi Khopade Khopade has dealt with 10 digital crime cases in the last six months, and she feels that the flip side of the cases involving sexual harassment and cyber stalking is victim shaming. She stressed, “The problem is that social media is a great bait for sexual predators. The victims usually are women. Due to mental conditioning and the fear of getting shamed, the victims usually get exploited, and are left feeling hapless. The key is to avoid these situations, and be mindful of the netiquette that is required while using social media and dating apps.” Psychologist Swarali Marathe said, “Not everyone is real and transparent on digital dating forums. Also, people with personality disorders, where they possess violent streaks, may also be on these apps. So, one needs to be very careful while using these services and sites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-the-app-to-real-life-pune-police-warn-due-diligence-needed-to-stay-safe-on-dates/story-kCTH533vxbGq3bgglThq7M.html
02-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fewer traffic violations amid muted New Year celebrations||The Delhi Police fined 26 people for drunk driving, 174 for dangerous driving, and 706 for unauthorised parking as it reported 1,336 traffic violations across the city amid muted New Year celebrations because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Joint police commissioner Manish Kumar Agarwal said their campaign against traffic violations on the New Year eve had a very good impact and they noticed a restrained behaviour on roads.“This year, the traffic congestion and violations were much less than the previous years. No traffic congestions were witnessed in Connaught Place, India Gate and other places in the city, where people usually gather to celebrate the New Year,” said Agarwal.Also Read: Passengers at Delhi airport welcomed with flowers, ‘corona kit’ on New Year’s EveAccording to the Delhi Police data, 221 vehicles were towed away for unauthorised parking while two road accidents were also reported between 8pm on Thursday and Friday. One of the injured persons in the accidents is an assistant police sub-inspector.Unlike the previous years, when police would use alcometers to measure the alcohol content in breath samples, the police carried out manual checking of vehicles and used blood samples to ascertain drunk driving.Additional police personnel were deployed across the city, especially in the vicinity of malls, hotels, restaurants, pubs and bars, to ensure orderly celebrations. Nearly 1,100 traffic police personnel were on the roads since Thursday evening for regulating traffic and monitoring violations.“Our main focus was on traffic regulation as we did not want to spoil the celebrations. However, those found violating the rules were prosecuted and accordingly fined under the law,” said Agarwal.Restrictions were imposed in Delhi from 11pm on Thursday till 6am on Friday to prevent large gatherings in public places for New Year celebrations due to the pandemic. Similar restrictions will be in place from 11pm on Friday to 6am on Saturday.The Delhi police have said they will not stop visitors from gathering on the India Gate lawns during the day on Friday. But they will be asked to disperse before 11pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-fewer-traffic-violations-amid-muted-new-year-celebrations/story-KXVJ9brLPtRYAlvd313hQO.html
