05-01-2021||Noida||Muradnagar roof collapse: NHRC issues notice to Uttar Pradesh govt||Ghaziabad: Taking cognisance of media reports on the roof collapse incident at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground in Muradnagar, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued notices to Uttar Pradesh chief secretary and the director general of police, calling for a detailed report, where 24 people lost their lives on Sunday. “The report must contain review of all crematoriums, burial grounds and other such buildings which are used by the general public for community activities in the state and maintained by the local administrative authorities. The authorities concerned must ensure proper maintenance of such places to avoid any untoward incidents in future posing danger to human lives,” the NHRC said on Tuesday. The Commission has also asked the state government, through its senior officers, about the present status of the investigation of the case as well as the health condition of those injured. “The incident is required to be investigated thoroughly so that the guilty could be adequately punished, as per the provisions of the law,” the Commission added.In the meantime, the Ghaziabad district administration has started the process of providing relief to victim families.“We have deployed several teams of counsellors and health officials who are taking up counselling of victim families as they are under severe trauma. The education department is also taking up works related to free education and scholarship for their children. Besides, food items and ration are being provided to the families,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.He added that the officials have identified 12 of the 18 affected families who will be provided benefits under different government schemes such as the Parivarik Pension Yojna, Vidhwa Pension, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna and also under schemes meant for disabled persons.An FIR has been lodged into the incident and so far, five persons have been arrested. The DM has also initiated action against the erring persons and directed the police to initiate strict action against the suspects under provisions of the National Security Act, the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act and also under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. “It has also been directed to the Ghaziabad development authority and the municipal-corporation to get a quality of works taken up by the contractor checked and to stop payments to him, besides getting the firm blacklisted. It has also been directed to other agencies to blacklist the contractor if he is registered with any respective agency,” Pandey said, adding that recovery of payments made, along with interest, is to be initiated with issuance of recovery-certificates. “A team of senior engineers from the authority, the civic agency and the UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam has been constituted to check the quality of construction at the cremation ground and for other works taken up at Muradnagar. If the quality is not up to standards, recovery certificates will be issued for recovery of the funds,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/muradnagar-roof-collapse-nhrc-issues-notice-to-uttar-pradesh-govt/story-AHohuy3ENi14xOR3kerSwM.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Recover losses from suspects, book them under NSA: CM||Ghaziabad: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the Ghaziabad administration to recover the loss to the state exchequer in the Muradnagar roof collapse incident from the suspects involved. Till Tuesday, five suspects, including the prime suspect, were arrested. The Ghaziabad police have arrested Niharika Singh, the executive officer of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika, besides CP Singh, a junior engineer, and Ashish Kumar, a supervisor, as well as prime suspect, contractor Ajay Tyagi. His alleged accomplice, Sanjay Garg, who is a contractor of another private firm, was arrested Tuesday morning. A reward of ₹25,000 had been announced on Tyagi’s arrest. “The CM has directed that the government’s losses in the incident should be recovered from the respective contractor and engineers. The CM has also directed that action under the National Security Act should be initiated against the suspects,” the UP government said in a statement Tuesday. Families of the victims on Monday had blocked the Delhi Meerut Road for seven hours by placing the bodies on the road. They had demanded compensation of ₹20 lakh for each family, besides free education for their children and a government job to one of the family members. The CM had announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each for the families of the deceased on the day of the incident, which on Tuesday, was increased to ₹10 lakh per family.“He has also directed for the provision of a house for each of the affected families, if they have no home of their own,” the statement issued on Tuesday added. The 40 foot structure at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground collapsed on Sunday morning killing 24 persons who were part of a group there to attend the funeral of a 65-year-old man, who died a day earlier. The Ghaziabad police later lodged an FIR naming the contractor, executive officer, junior engineer and supervisor, besides several other unidentified persons under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (causing damages) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant etc). “Tyagi was arrested on late Monday while his accomplice was arrested Tuesday morning. Tyagi had fled the city soon after the incident and went to Hapur and Meerut to evade arrest. He was nabbed while he was trying to go to Delhi. The three others – the executive office, junior engineer and supervisor – had been arrested Monday morning,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/recover-losses-from-suspects-book-them-under-nsa-cm/story-rpMkODfecOPGPwoJLYCo6M.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Contractor bribed officials, resorted to malpractices, say Ghaziabad police||Ghaziabad: Ajay Tyagi, the 45-year-old contractor who was arrested on late Monday night in connection with the roof collapse incident at Muradnagar cremation ground, has allegedly told police that he gave a bribe of ₹16 lakh to officials of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika. According to police officials, Tyagi allegedly also said that he used inferior quality material and formed a cartel in order to carry out the work at the cremation ground. As many as 24 persons were killed in the incident on January 3. Tyagi, from Morta in Muradnagar and resident of Raj Nagar, was arrested from the canal road area in Muzaffarnagar while he was allegedly trying to flee to Delhi. The police said that he had allegedly fled his house in Raj Nagar without any vehicle and took local transport to reach Hapur and Meerut districts in order to hide himself. The police also arrested Tyagi’s accomplice Sanjay Garg from Ghaziabad. “He told us that he fled his house around 11.30am on Sunday as soon as he received information about the incident. Then he took lifts in trucks and commercial vehicles and finally reached Muazffarnagar. He said that he bribed officials of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika and paid ₹16 lakh to them from the first instalment for the work that got released in March,” said an investigating officer, adding that a commission of about 28-30% of the tender value was allegedly shelved out as bribe. The work for construction of shelter at Muradnagar crematorium was tendered to Tyagi in February last year for ₹50 lakh and it was to get complete in 60 days. The work, however, got delayed due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the officials said. “Tyagi said that he received first instalment of ₹26 lakh in March and another ₹16 lakh in July, and hurried up the work otherwise the funds would have lapsed. So, he said that in order to expedite the work he formed a cartel with two other firms and took up the construction of the shelter. He also told police that there was no need for the design of such shelter at the cremation ground, but the firms inflated bills in order to mint money,” the officer said. An initial inspection report of the incident site by engineers of the Ghaziabad development authority and the municipal corporation has indicated the use of “inferior quality material” and “design issues” which led to the structural failure. Based on the statements of Tyagi and Garg, the Ghaziabad police have initiated process for levy of provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act to the ongoing investigation. The police officials said that they are also probing if such malpractices were inherent in other works taken up by the contractor. “Initially, it has come to light from Tyagi’s statements that he allegedly bribed the officials and resorted to certain practices which led to the roof collapse incident. A departmental inquiry is going on against the officials of the Nagar Palika and we are taking up expert legal opinion to initiate proceedings for corruption,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). “We are also investigating other persons linked to Tyagi and even those who provided him shelter,” he added. The investigators also said that they will probe all such malpractices during the ongoing investigation and will also take remand of the three suspects, including executive officer and junior engineer of Nagar Palika, who were arrested on Monday and lodged at Dasna jail. Officials said that Tyagi, through his firm, was also taking up works with the Ghaziabad municipal corporation and had been a contractor for the past 8-10 years. Several of his photographs with officials also went viral over social media. “We have a list of about 12 projects costing about ₹7 crore which he is taking up. We have formed a team to check the quality of works and will take action if any issue comes to light,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. Tyagi and Garg on Tuesday afternoon were also taken for their medical examination to MMG Hospital before being taken to Ghaziabad district court where Tyagi was attacked with slippers by a woman, identified as Poonam Pal, whose husband, son and son-in-law were severely injured during the roof collapse incident. “Most of the people who were killed in the incident were our family members, relatives and neighbours. I want the police to hand over the suspect to us. Any compensation cannot bring back 24 people who died due to his negligence and malpractices,” Poonam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/contractor-bribed-officials-resorted-to-malpractices-say-ghaziabad-police/story-UNw4v0GxWaeVc2HKxlWUnL.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||2 thefts in Chandigarh since Jan 2, cigarettes worth ₹90k stolen||A Mauli Jagran resident has complained that thieves broke into his house in the early hours of January 2 and fled with Rs 1.5lakh in cash, a gold ring and mangalsultra as well as cigarettes of various brands worth Rs90,000 stored in a room for sale.Another break-in was reported by Sector 44 resident Archana on January 4, who said she returned home after visiting her ailing husband at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research to find the front door lock broken and jewellery missing.Sarabjit Gupta of Vikas Nagar , who had stored the cigarette packets at home,said footage from CCTV cameras showed two men entering the building at 2.30 am on January 2 as his son slept upstairs and leaving within half an hour after looting the place, police said.A case under section 380 and 457 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station on Gupta’s complaint; and another one under section 380 of the IPC at the Sector 34 police station in Archana’s case. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-thefts-in-chandigarh-since-jan-2-cigarettes-worth-90k-stolen/story-0MZREgUVoHcN15KzNKjtBI.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Snatchers target 2 women in Chandigarh within hours on Monday evening||Chandigarh Two motorcycle borne men snatched purses from two women in separate incidents in sector 27 and 44 on Monday evening between 6 pm and 8.30 pm. Santosh Kumari, 58, of Sector 27 was returning home from the market at 6pm after buying medicines when a motorcyclist drove up from behind and snatched her purse with Rs 5,000 in cash, medicines and important documents, police said. In a similar incident, a motorcyclist snatched 37-year-old Sonia’s purse with Rs2,000 in cash, debit, credit and voter cards when she was returning home in Sector 44 from the market.Following complaints by Kumari and Sonia, cases under section 379A and 356 of the Indian Penal Code were registered at the sector 26 and 34 police stations, respectively. Police are yet to arrest the snatchers and are scanning the CCTV footage in both the cases for clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snatchers-target-2-women-in-chandigarh-within-hours-on-monday-evening/story-679U22HpUPSdgHu6FIVfuO.html
05-01-2021||City||To keep watch on international travellers, health dept sets up Covid naka near Ludhiana’s Ladhowal toll plaza||While the country races to control the new Covid-19 strain, the health department here has set up a “Covid-19 naka” at a bridge over Sutlej river near Ladhowal toll plaza to detect incoming infected travellers.Located on National Highway-1, the stretch connects the district to Phagwara and further to Jalandhar and Amritsar, which receives international and domestic travellers at the Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport.Instead of khakhi-clad cops, commuters, especially those in taxis, are being stopped at the naka by health department workers donning PPE kits for RT-PCR testing.Besides sampling people arriving in commercial vehicles from other states, the team is eyeing taxis and auto-rickshaws ferrying international travellers.The district has so far recorded 24,916 Covid cases, highest in Punjab, of which 969 people have died. With January expected to see the arrival of more international travellers and migrant workers, the health department is on its toes to check another spike in infections, as seen in September last year.Dr Kuldeep Kumar, who is supervising the sampling process, said, “We collect nearly 300 samples daily for RT-PCR tests, mostly of auto-rickshaw drivers and their passengers. Besides, we also look for foreign travellers who are in taxis. Besides sampling them, we collect their address details, so that they can be traced and quarantined if found positive.”Stating that most of the people tested were usually asymptomatic, he said the number of positive cases daily varied, with one day even detecting 30 positive cases and others none at all.Neeraj Kohli, who was travelling to Jalandhar, appreciated the move. “It is a great initiative. Normally, only a person with symptoms visits the hospital for testing, while asymptotic people roam around carefree. It also saves travellers’ time as they don’t have to visit the hospital for testing.”Recently, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had stated that samples of all people, including farmers returning from the agitation at Singhu border, will be collected.Since the new strain was reported in the UK, so far, 18 people have returned to the district from there. Out of those, 16 have tested negative, while a positive patient, a female from Amritsar, was admitted at the civil hospital and later found negative for the new strain. Another positive patient had shifted to Uttar Pradesh.Suspended since December 22, flights to and from the UK will resume at the airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Mumbai on January 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-keep-watch-on-int-l-travellers-health-dept-sets-up-covid-naka-near-ludhiana-s-ladhowal-toll/story-pQq1eEcKBzfBPkL63hosSK.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh recorded 35% drop in vehicle registrations in 2020||Hit by Covid-19 pandemic, vehicle registrations in Chandigarh fell by 35% in 2020. According to data available with the Registration and Licensing Authority and State Transport Authority, 30,259 vehicles were registered in the city in 2020, down from 45,984 in 2019, which was already the lowest in a decade. In the segment of light motor vehicles, which comprises of cars and jeeps, 13,899 units were registered, a dip of 22% from the previous year’s 17,745. When it came to two-wheelers, 15,028 units were registered in 2020 as compared to 25,895 in 2019, a drop of 42%.“The year saw low sales. Even as a spike was seen during the festival season, sales again came down in December,” said Ronny Hoon, president, Federation of Chandigarh Regional Automobile Dealers. With Navratras, Dhanteras and Diwali in October-November, the two months recorded 3,396 and 3,848 vehicle registrations, respectively. In 2019, when all these festivals were celebrated in October, 7,400 vehicles were registered during the month and the figure fell to 3,173 in November.Nitin Mehan, who owns the Maruti Suzuki dealership Autopace, said: “Virtually no sales took place in April and May due to the lockdown. However, the trend is changing. Our sales during the festival season were more than in the previous years.”Mehtani said many people from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh also buy their vehicles from Chandigarh, but that data is not reflected in the local registration figures.“The performance of dealerships has varied from company to company. While Ford and Toyota have lost business, companies like Kia and Nissan have built new ground. Newly launched models of cars after the lockdown have done particularly well,” said Varinder Singh Saluja, former head of the federation and owner of a Ford dealership in the city. On drop in the sale of two-wheelers, Karan Gilhotra, who is the proprietor of Platinum Honda dealerships, said: “We were majorly hit as colleges and the university didn’t have physical classes this year. Even in offices, work from home culture has been adopted in most places, so people don’t need two-wheelers to go to work. The spending capacity of consumers has also come down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-recorded-35-drop-in-vehicle-registrations-in-2020/story-X9H4b4SUjuGUowO7ONeiSM.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases go past 20,000 in Chandigarh, only 240 are active||With 41 more cases reported on Tuesday, the number of Covid-19 cases has gone past 20,000 in Chandigarh. The total stands at 20,026, of which 240 cases remain active. Meanwhile, with the death of a 45-year-old Maloya woman, the toll has reached 322.As many as 19,464 patients have recovered, including 116 discharged on Tuesday.The neighbouring Mohali district reported 36 cases and one death. Of 18,411 confirmed cases so far, 931 are active.While 17,132 patients have recovered, including 58 discharged on Tuesday, 348 have succumbed.In Panchkula district, 32 cases were reported, taking the count to 10,087. While 9,763 patients have been cured, 144 have died and 180 are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-cases-go-past-20-000-in-chandigarh-only-240-are-active/story-gqhfYlsKjfbBMFkSFug0ZM.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Night temperature rises to 14°C in Chandigarh||With minimum temperature recorded at 14°C, nine notches above normal, the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday was the warmest for the month of January in the past four years in Chandigarh. After 3mm rain recorded on Tuesday and chances of light rain on Wednesday as well, temperature is likely to fall from Thursday onwards.Chandigarh had also recorded its warmest January day in more than a decade on Monday, when maximum temperature stood at 25.8°C. However, it came down to 20.7°C on Tuesday owing to cloudy weather and spells of light rain.“After a warm Monday, cloud cover acted like a blanket, not allowing the surface to lose heat through radiation at night. Warm and moisture-laden easterly winds circulating in the region also led to rise in night temperature,” said Shivinder Singh, scientist, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.Singh said dense fog can be expected from Thursday onwards, and although day temperature will plunge, it is unlikely for cold wave conditions to return. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 18 and 19 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 11 and 14 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-temperature-rises-to-14-c-in-chandigarh/story-U4ftAMYZhqdxfpZYirTS5K.html
05-01-2021||City||Rape at Ludhiana police post: Head constable in net, in-charge suspended||Absconding after being booked for raping a 24-year-old woman at the Mundian Police Post on December 6, suspended head constable Rakesh Kumar was arrested on Tuesday.He had been hiding in a house near Jalandhar Bypass to avoid arrest after being booked on Sunday, the Jamalpur police said. Kumar, 45, had joined the police force 26 years ago. He was last deputed in the commando unit.Meanwhile, following his transfer to police lines, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhwinder Singh, in-charge of the Mundian police post, has also been suspended and replaced by ASI Dalbir Singh. Apart from Sukhwinder, 11 more cops were transferred to police lines.A hunt is on for the arrest of the rest of the accused, including three women and a man, who had assaulted the victim, torn her clothes, molested her and also filmed her. “A medical examination of the woman will be conducted on Wednesday. Her statement will also be recorded in court under Sections 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,” said inspector Kulwant Singh, SHO, Jamalpur police station.He added that the police will also record statements of her husband and his friend, who was also beaten up by the accused for allegedly having illicit relations with the woman.‘No one came for help’The 24-year-old woman said despite her pleas, cops took her to the police post on December 6 after the accused filed a false complaint against her. She alleged that around 1.30am on December 7, head constable Kumar took her to a room on the first floor of the police post, stating that a female cop will question her, but there was no woman there. He then raped her repeatedly and did not allow her to get dressed. He released her at 4.30am and threatened her to stay mum.“At least four police personnel were present in the police station. I cried for help, but no one came to my rescue and kept laughing at me,” she alleged.“I then went to the civil hospital for medical examination, but the cops followed me and made me leave without getting examined. They threatened to implicate my husband in a fake case if I filed a rape complaint,” she added.But, after staying quiet for 11 days, she gathered the courage to file a complaint with the police commissioner on December 17, following which a probe was ordered and the head constable was booked on January 3.Women commission seeks report from top copTaking cognisance of the incident, Punjab State Women Commission (PSWC) chairperson Manisha Gulati has asked commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal to submit a detailed action-taken report in two days.She has also sought a report on why there was a need to keep the woman at the police post overnight and details of the conditions surrounding her detainment.“I have asked the Ludhiana police to submit a report within two days and asked to make it clear why the woman was detained overnight if no female cop was available at the police post,” she said.Gulati has also written to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to ensure that such incidents are not repeated in future and to take steps so that women feel safe while visiting police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-at-ludhiana-police-post-head-constable-in-net-in-charge-suspended/story-vFThoUvWX7Kkliq90UWExM.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP rebel mayoral candidate’s nomination rejected||The high-voltage drama on Monday over the Bharatiya Janata Party rebel candidate Chandervati Shukla staking a claim to the mayor’s post ended in an anticlimax on Tuesday with her nomination papers being rejected on “technical grounds”.After scrutiny of nomination papers of all candidates, returning officer Anil Kumar Garg rejected Shukla’s nomination.“As per rules, same person cannot propose or second two mayoral candidates. In this case, Congress councillor Satish Kainth was proposer in one nomination paper and seconded another candidate’s name,” said Garg, who is also the MC additional commissioner. Before seconding Shukla’s name, Kainth had signed as the proposer in Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla’s nomination papers for the mayor’s post. Kainth is also in the fray for the senior deputy mayor’s post.BJP’s internal rivalries had come out in the open on Monday after it announced outgoing senior deputy mayor Ravi Kant Sharma as its mayor candidate. While Shukla filed nomination papers against him, fellow councillor Bharat Kumar had claimed to have resign from the party in protest.Criticising the cancellation of Shukla’s nomination, Babla said: “BJP misused the state machinery. By putting pressure on the officials, it got Shukla’s nomination papers rejected. First, the party got the MC wards changed, as per its whims and fancies, and now this. There is no democracy left in the city under BJP.” In fact, Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra had said on Monday that the party would back Shukla and Babla might withdraw his nomination.Responding to Babla’s allegation, BJP state president Arun Sood said, “The nomination papers have been rejected as per law; BJP has nothing to do with it. In fact, nomination papers of Congress mayoral candidate should have also been cancelled. How can a mayoral candidate propose the name of another mayoral candidate?”BJP’s troubles far from overEven as there is no rebel candidate in the fray, BJP’s troubles are far from over, say party insiders. There are apprehensions of cross-voting against the party nominees, especially for the mayor and deputy mayor posts. It won’t be a first for the party, as in 2019 elections, too, the rebel candidate (Kainth) had managed to get 11 votes due to cross-voting. BJP has 20 members in the House, followed by five of Congress and one of Shiromani Akali Dal. The member of parliament also votes, taking the total to 27. “The biggest grouse is that the party has rewarded those who earlier backstabbed it. Councillors who supported Kainth’s candidature in 2019 are getting posts now. It is unfair for dedicated workers,” said a BJP councillor, who didn’t want to be named.“Anger is also brewing among councillors over the party’s decision to elevate Sharma from senior deputy mayor to mayor’s post. Others should have also been given a chance. Though not openly voicing their resentment, some are furious that their opinion taken by state party in-charge Dushyant Gautam was not considered in the final nominations,” said another councillor.However, Sood claimed all differences within the party have been resolved and it will get all 20 votes. “The victory for BJP candidates is assured. Our councillors will vote in unison for party nominees,” he said.Meanwhile, Kumar said that he is yet to decide his future course of action. Even Shukla didn’t provide any conclusive comment over her next move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-rebel-mayoral-candidate-s-nomination-rejected/story-6x8W0hTvr0kcC3ACZkZvRJ.html
05-01-2021||City||Priest found hanging in Ludhiana||A 37-year-old temple priest was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his house in Mohalla Adarsh Colony, Daba, on Monday. Following his demise, police found out that he had two wives. While one of his wives claimed that he left a suicide note, citing depression as the reason behind the extreme step, the other one claimed that the handwriting in the note did not match with that of her husband.According to Daba police, the priest had three children from his first marriage and two from the second. His two wives and their children lived in separate houses. On Monday, he was with his second wife. According to her, after returning from market, she was shocked to find her husband hanging from the ceiling fan and immediately informed the police.Inspector Pavittar Singh, SHO, Daba police station, said things will become clearer through the autopsy report, adding that they will examine the handwriting in the suicide note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/priest-found-hanging-in-ludhiana/story-rnpVVAOMm5AEEHXxPkhH7K.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chhatbir Zoo bird enclosure closes for 5 days amid flu fears||Chhatbir Zoo officials on Tuesday said they were closing down the walk-in aviary for five days amid bird flu fears after Himachal Pradesh became the fourth state to confirm an outbreak with 1,800 migratory birds, most of them bar-headed geese, found dead in the Pong Dam Lake sanctuary and thousands of birds perishing in the poultry hub of Barwala in Haryana for reasons not known as yet.“We have closed down the birds section for five days, but since the sample reports of Barwala chicken are awaited we will decide on extending the closure, maybe for 15 days. We don’t want to take any risks,” said M Sudhagar, field director of Chhatbir Zoo. The move comes barely after a month when the zoo opened to public on December 10 after March 17 following the Covid-19 outbreak. It has been hit financially too, suffering losses of Rs 5 crore since it earned revenues of an estimated Rs 8 lakh a day before the lockdown. Authorities say it will take at least six months to recover from the lockdown losses . Chhatbir Zoo, one of the largest in India, is spread over 505 acres of forest area in Mohali and is home to around 1,500 animal and avian species, including five adult tigers and three newborn cubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-bird-enclosure-closes-for-5-days-amid-flu-fears/story-4Y82TagTktf9ayYYbgBfcJ.html
05-01-2021||Patna||After horror tales, Bihar child care homes focus on making girls self-reliant||Away from the horror tales of Muzaffarpur children’s home, which led to a nationwide outrage soon after the findings of the social audit by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) reached the public domain in 2018 and resulted in CBI probe, Bihar’s social welfare department has now embarked on an ambitious scheme to make the girl inmates self-reliant once they turn 18. It plans to send 30 more girls for hotel management course to Bangalore and other places. Fourteen girls drawn from different child care institutions in Begusarai, Gaya, Madhubani, Patna, Motihari and Purnea were sent for the course to Bangalore in joint collaboration with Empowerment of Children and Human Rights Organisation (ECHO) - Centre for Juvenile Justice on December 29. Director, directorate of social welfare, department of social welfare, Raj Kumar, said the 14 girls were sent on a pilot basis, but now the need to do more has been felt for the girls and a detailed scheme has been worked out. Also read: US welcomes LeT commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi’s arrest on charges of terror financing“The girls will also be trained for other employment-oriented skill sets and also encouraged to start their own ventures in groups. We are also in talks with banks to provide loans to self-help groups of girls. Earlier, they got training in stitching and beautician course, but due to lack of back up, they could not become self-reliant. The emphasis now is to help them become self-reliant,” he said, adding that the hotel management institute would also help them get job placement in the hospitality industry. As per the guidelines of the Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS), for the aftercare of children completing 18 years, a monthly assistance of Rs 2,000 each is provided so as to help them in settling after exiting from the CCIs. “But that is not enough. The department’s initiative for alternative care of children outside the institutions is in keeping with the TISS recommendations,” said the director, adding that the girls sent to Bangalore would also keep getting Rs 2,000 each. Stung by the findings of the TISS social audit, which earned the entire state a bad name across the globe and the CBI investigation into it is still on, the department of social welfare has taken a range of steps to improve the quality of care being provided across child care institutions (CCIs). “The audit was an eye-opener for the department also and it immediately got down to a massive exercise to improve the system, viz. revision of entire inspection and monitoring system of CCIs by the state as well as the district administration, zero tolerance to any incident of abuse of children inside CCIs and development of better infrastructure and child-friendly environment etc. Exposure visits of caregivers of CCIs to Bangalore, Pune, Hyderabad, Indore and Tripura were also undertaken to learn best practices,” said the official, adding that adequate funds have also been given to care homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/after-horror-tales-bihar-child-care-homes-focus-on-making-girls-self-reliant/story-AraPBodurhqDtrBCi4eTNO.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Dead bird in Sukhna Lake creates flutter amid bird flu scare in and around Chandigarh||The Chandigarh forest and wildlife department is on alert after a dead bird was found floating in Sukhna Lake on Tuesday.Identified as a common coot, its carcass was found at the regulatory end of the lake. A dead fish and frog were also found nearby. Officials said it could not be determined when exactly the bird had died. The samples have been sent to test for bird flu.Bird flu has been confirmed in four states across India, including Himachal Pradesh, where around 1,800 migratory birds were found dead in the Pong Dam Lake sanctuary. Other states are Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Bird flu or avian influenza can spread to humans and can trigger a person-to-person transmission.Closer home, over four lakh poultry birds have died in the past few days in Panchkula’s Barwala-Raipur Rani belt, and the test results are awaited.“We have taken samples of the bird found in the lake and will send them to Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory in Jalandhar for testing on Wednesday morning. This is first such sample that is to be sent from the city amid the bird flu scare. It generally takes a day or two for the results to arrive,” said Abdul Qayum, deputy conservator of forests, Chandigarh. Chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said: “Our teams have been on alert for the past few days.Till now, migratory birds have not shown any unnatural behaviour. If there is any other bird found dead, it will be sent for testing too.” Dalai said although common coot is a migratory specie, many such birds have made Sukhna Lake their abode. “The veterinary department take samples of the faecal matter of birds every month even in routine. Samples were collected on Tuesday as well to ensure that birds are safe here,” he said.Dr Kanwarjit Singh, joint director, animal husbandry and fisheries department, said: “During winters, birds usually die of cold temperature. In case of a bird flu outbreak, multiple casualties are seen. Here it could be a case of a weak or aging bird succumbing to the extreme weather.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dead-bird-in-sukhna-lake-creates-flutter-amid-bird-flu-scare-in-and-around-chandigarh/story-4oWRYU8CCI8IMVNdL26YDL.html
05-01-2021||City||Fresh samples taken from Barwala poultry farms amid bird flu fears in Panchkula||The cause of unusual deaths of 4 lakh poultry birds in Panchkula’s Barwala-Raipur Rani belt remains a mystery, prompting the authorities to collect samples afresh on Tuesday.As the tests of blood samples of poultry sent by the state animal husbandry department to the Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory in Jalandhar on Saturday evening were inconclusive, a four-member team from the lab arrived in Barwala on Tuesday to take fresh samples. Lab director Dr Mohinder Pal Singh said: “On Sunday, we received four samples. However, the quality wasn’t good, so we couldn’t establish the cause of death. As bird flu has been confirmed in other areas, we are taking the death of a large number of poultry birds in Barwala seriously.”Till Tuesday evening, the team had collected 45 samples from five poultry farms. After collecting more samples, it will be returning to Jalandhar on Wednesday morning. “The reports of fresh samples will be out by Wednesday evening,” said Dr Singh, adding that if they test positive for bird flu, then according to the protocol, the samples will be sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for confirmation.Considered Asia’s second largest poultry hub, with a daily production of more than 1 crore eggs and employing 15,000 workers at around 120 farms, the Barwala belt has seen the death of 4 lakh chickens out of around 78 lakh, as confirmed by the Haryana government on Tuesday.“Among the suspected diseases can also be Ranikhet or infectious laryngo-tracheitis,” the animal husbandry department said in an advisory, adding that poultry and poultry products can be cooked and consumed as usual with no fear of acquiring infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-samples-taken-from-barwala-poultry-farms-amid-bird-flu-fears-in-panchkula/story-geZQ5LZWo1kTs4HzjIHzfN.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh govt schoolteacher booked for job fraud||A government schoolteacher was booked on Monday for allegedly cheating the relatives of a Railway Protection Force (RPF) head constable of Rs 8 lakh after promising them jobs at a university in Gurugram.Sector 20 resident Parminder Singh has allegedly been involved in other cases of cheating too and suspended at least once from work by the education department, police say.RPF head constable and Mauli Jagran Railway Colony resident Inderjit Singh alleged in a police complaint that his acquaintance, Parminder Singh, a resident of Sector-20, had informed him in August 2019 about vacancies for a peon and lab cleaner at a University in Gurugram and that he could get his family members jobs if they paid Rs 4 lakh each per job. Inderjit Singh alleged that he had no reason to mistrust Parminder as he had helped his son get admission in a government school in Sector 21 where he taught , so he ensured that his nephew Jaswant and Jaswant’s cousin Bhupinder met the teacher at his house in August 2019. After filling in a form that Parminder Singh had given, Jaswant and Bhupinder paid him Rs 2 lakh each through cheque and the remainder of the money in cash. Soon, however, after he failed to deliver on his promise, Inderjit Singh complained to the police in July 2020. After legal opinions were sought a case has now been registered at the Sector 19 police station under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code. Interestingly, police officials say, Parminder Singh was suspended in September 2019 by the education department after he allegedly duped 11 persons of Rs 1.77 crore in other cases. He was, however, reinstated in November the same year even though a departmental inquiry was pending against him. Police also say that Parminder Singh was working in connivance with a UT excise and taxation department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-govt-schoolteacher-booked-for-job-fraud/story-0wvZt9bKjzeIBGjF9mbzIL.html
05-01-2021||Pune||Application in Pune court against trade mark of “Covishield”||An application was filed in a commercial court in Pune on Tuesday against the Serum Institute of India (SII) by a Nanded-based company against the vaccine provider’s claim over the term “Covishield”.When approached, the SII public relations agency declined to offer comments.“The court has issued a notice to Serum Institute after our application today. Our client had applied for the trademark registration three days before Serum and had been using it for various products since then,” said advocate Aditya Soni.Soni is representing the applicant company called Cutis Biotech which is located in Nanded. The application was first made in a court in Nanded which directed it to be registered in Pune due to jurisdiction issue.“On April 29, 2020, the plaintiff applied for the registration of its trademark Covishield in respect of ‘veterinary, ayurvedic, allopathic, medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations and vitamins and dietary food supplements for humans and animals’ in class 5. The plaintiff took a trademark search on the website of the trademark registry and was shocked to find that the defendant has also made an application on June 6, 2020,” read the application by the company.The vaccine-manufacturer will be given time until the next hearing to respond to the application.Meanwhile, SII’s Covishield received approval for restricted use in an emergency situation as a vaccine for the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/application-in-pune-court-against-trade-mark-of-covishield/story-sOCgABJUH7U36kWsJdmkaI.html
05-01-2021||City||Headless body of infant: Ludhiana police question sorcerers for leads||Probing into the murder of a one-year-old boy, whose beheaded body was recovered from Shehzad village on December 31, the Jodhan police have questioned at least seven sorcerers, suspecting human sacrifice behind the murder.Claiming ignorance about the practice, the sorcerers said they did not indulge in it and that it could be the handiwork of people practising black magic, the police said.The sorcerers questioned revealed human sacrifices were generally carried out at the behest of childless couples.As such, police are searching for childless couples from surrounding areas who may have approached sorcerers.Meanwhile, the police have not traced any complaint of a missing or kidnapped infant. Therefore, they have intimated their counterparts in other districts and states.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Dakha) Gurbans Singh Bains said identification of the infant was crucial. As such, they had preserved the clothes and woollens recovered from the spot. A murder case has already been registered in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/headless-body-of-infant-ludhiana-police-question-sorcerers-for-leads/story-YWtjV5SoKqknnnn4CZKvfO.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Man loses ₹1.70 lakh in online fraud on New Year’s eve in Greater Noida||A 26-year-old man allegedly lost ₹1.76 lakh to cyber criminals on New Year’s eve in Greater Noida.The victim Sumit Kumar, a resident of Sector Delta – 1, said he filed a complaint with the Cyber Cell the same day. “I had got a credit card two years ago that had a ₹3-lakh limit. Two weeks ago, I had used it at a Greater Noida mall,” he said. “A few days later, I suddenly received a few text messages giving me one-time passwords (OTPs) on my phone. I did not share these with anyone. Half an hour later, when I checked my credit card account, I found ₹1.76 lakh spent on online shopping. I called the bank and got the card blocked,” he said. The cyber cell investigated the matter and directed the Surajpur police to file a case. Pradeep Kumar Tripathi, SHO Surajpur police station, said a case had been registered against unknown person under Section 66-D of IT Act. “We are investigating the matter to arrest the suspect and recover the money,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-loses-1-70-lakh-in-online-fraud-on-new-year-s-eve-in-greater-noida/story-YUslo2OsxCSZjDw3LfRt5K.html
05-01-2021||Noida||NMRC staff test negative for coronavirus||Noida: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Monday conducted an RT-PCR test drive for its 371 employees and all of them were found Covid-19 negative. The drive was conducted to safeguard the employees, their families and metro commuters, NMRC officials said. Ritu Maheshwari, NMRC managing director, said that the tests were conducted on January 4 and the reports came on Tuesday. “All the 371 employees have tested negative for Covid-19. The tests were conducted at three locations -- NMRC headquarters in Sector 29 (Noida), NMRC staff colony in Greater Noida and Sector 51 Metro Station of the Aqua Line,” she said in a press statement.NMRC had coordinated with the office of the chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, to organise the medical camp at the above locations. Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said the NMRC has always tried to take various measures in helping the government contain the Covid-19. “Even during the lockdown, the trains, metro stations, official premises and staff colony were regularly sanitised. NMRC has implemented strict guidelines for passengers travelling on the Aqua Line after it resumed operations on September 7,” she said. Sharma said that the Aqua Line achieved the highest ridership of 10, 418 on the first Monday of this year – January 4, after resuming services post lockdown. The average daily ridership of Aqua Line before the lockdown in March last year was 22,758, while the average daily ridership in December stood at 7,915.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nmrc-staff-test-negative-for-coronavirus/story-hAgFxtcXYBcOdEDYUupvpN.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Covid vaccine dry run exposes glitches||The Covid-19 vaccination dry run at six hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday threw up glitches in the protocols that officials say would be fixed before the actual vaccination drive expected soon.Apart from patchy internet connectivity, the district also discovered wrong phone numbers and realised the importance of offering an option to change time slots for the shot.Six hospitals– Child PGI, Sharda Hospital, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), public health centre (PHC) in Bisrakh and the community health centres (CHCs) in Bisrakh and Bhangel – were picked for the drill. Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY visited the vaccination centres at Child PGI and CHC Bhangel during drill termed it as a success. ”The internet connectivity with the state portal (Co-Win) was an issue, but it was sorted out soon. I’ve asked the health officials to give full details of the vaccination process before inoculating them,” he said. Co-Win is a mobile application that has details of the beneficiaries of the vaccination drive. While at first it will contain details of only those who will be included in the first few phases, people can later get themselves registered on it when the government is ready to bring out the vaccine to the public.The vaccine, when it is rolled out, will be distributed in phases. The first phase will involve health care workers who are most at risk of infection.District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that 50 “practice beneficiaries” were asked to arrive at each site via SMS during two separate sessions. “All the centres saw full participation. The drill also threw up a few technical glitches such as wrong phone numbers and a missing option to change time slots if a person cannot make it to a site,” he said. The district administration will seek three-level verification of beneficiaries -- at block level, sub-divisional level and district level -- to ensure proper phone numbers and offer them the chance to change time at each of these levels.One health worker at PHC Bisrakh said that the internet connectivity was an issue in the beginning. “It was rectified within half an hour. Since Co-Win App is a key component of Covid-19 vaccination, the system needs a steady internet connection to upload the details of beneficiaries and their dosages,” he said. Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, the director of GIMS, said that the beneficiaries were mock vaccinated between 10 am and noon. “A team of six was involved in each session. We had made arrangements to hold 50 people at the waiting area, a vaccination room and an observation area (to check for adverse reactions), besides two dedicated beds with a doctor and nurses for any emergency,” he said. Dr (Major) BP Singh of Child PGI said that the drill saw beneficiaries requiring to identify themselves with their government approved ID card at entry. “After verification, they were mock vaccinated in a separate room. All beneficiaries were observed for at least 30 minutes after the mock vaccination,” he said. At Sharda hospital, the dry runs for vaccinations were conducted in five rooms. Joint registrar of Sharda University Ajit Kumar said, “Workshops were also organised to ensure that the dry run was done correctly with few mistakes. From cold chain to the movement of storage and vaccine, real-time information was being monitored,” he said. District immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that all the Covid-19 standard protocols were followed meticulously during the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-vaccine-dry-run-exposes-glitches/story-rf9TieWTqJlbiFG7tWA23I.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Final ward notification issued for Ambala Sadar civic body||Almost a month after issuing a draft notification, the state government sent out a final notice on Tuesday for the delimitation of 31 wards of Sadar Zone of the Ambala municipal council.The earlier notification invited objections and suggestions for ward limitations but no other changes were included in the final notice, said a former councillor even as Apurva Chaudhary, executive officer of the council, said it had been uploaded on the department’s website on December 31. Political parties that were busy earlier with the recently concluded municipal corporation elections here are expected to swing into action again. The council elections gain importance as the local MLA here is home minister Anil Vij, also holds the urban local bodies portfolio. Onkar Nath Pruthi, Congress leader and former councillor, accused the state government of not taking any of the party’s objections into consideration for ward limitations.Now the reservation of wards will be done after which the election process will begin. “A decision will also be taken reserving or keeping the chairman’s post open. Earlier the elections of the council took place in 2005 and 31 councillors worked till 2010. Later, the corporation was formed in 2010 and the Sadar Zone was also added with its elections held in 2013 for 20 wards. Then, in 2019, the Sadar Zone was separated again leaving 11 wards in the city and nine councillors here. Of these nine, six were Congress-backed and three were from the Bharaitya Janata Party,” Pruthi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/final-ward-notification-issued-for-ambala-sadar-civic-body/story-yxOmiGFqVcfxAgWcEaphfM.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Noida: After tent collapse, farmers put up waterproof canopy at Chilla border||Two days after a tent set up by farmers protesting the Centre’s new farm laws at the Chilla border collapsed due to heavy wind and rain, a waterproof canopy has now taken its place.Farmers from Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU’s) Bhanu faction have been protesting there since December 1. “Members of our group who are helping with the langar services at the Ghazipur border helped us,” said state president, Bhanu, Yogesh Pratap Singh.“We are used to it (weather) all. The rains are actually going to be helpful in the fields and our brothers from Lucknow, Barabanki, Kasganj etc will also come down here soon to show their support to our cause.”The group also took out a mock funeral on Tuesday of the new farm laws depicting the farmer’s lack of faith in them. A separate group from the Lokshakti faction has been camped at the Dalit Prerna Sthal and have moved to the building in the park because of the rainy weather.Because of the sit-in, traffic from Noida to Delhi has been diverted via the DND flyway. But on Tuesday afternoon, a truck broke down at the exit loop from DND leading to traffic congestion for a while.“A crane was used to move the truck to road side after which traffic was cleared. It is moving steadily now and is being managed without any issues,” said Gautam Buddh Nagar deputy commissioner of police, for traffic, Ganesh Saha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-after-tent-collapse-farmers-put-up-waterproof-canopy-at-chilla-border/story-d8hy5Ks3uOpY383HZI2rgO.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Traffic police to have safety cell to prevent road accidents in Noida||The Noida Traffic Police will soon have a road safety cell that will study the city’s roads and take measures to prevent accidents. It will also coordinate with the district administration, transport department, and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to resolve issues related to traffic related issues. Ganesh Saha, Gautam Budh Nagar deputy commissioner of police (DCP) for traffic, said, “People can complain to the Cell on potholes, U-turns that are not as per norms or even if a traffic light is not working. The Cell will then coordinate with the stakeholders concerned and fix the issue as soon as possible.” The department, likely to be set up within a week, will be headed by a traffic inspector supported by four other staff members at the DCP’s office. “People can make a small video and share them on Facebook and Twitter and tag Noida traffic police. Our team will promptly address the problem,” said Saha.The traffic department has already set up a help desk and also issued two helpline numbers – 7065100100 (calls and WhatsApp) and 9971009001 (only calls). Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police issued nearly 500,000 challans last year and issued ₹17.9 crore in fines of which ₹3.43 crore had been realised. Rohit Baluja, director Institute of Road Safety Education, earlier in a programme of road safety month – November 2020 - stated that in 2019, a total of 1.54 lakh people had died in road accident in India as per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). “Every year, round 23000 people die and 28000 people are injured road accidents in Uttar Pradesh only,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traffic-police-to-have-safety-cell-to-prevent-road-accidents-in-noida/story-NkfRhFZg056S5yrjvvjWfJ.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Noida receives rain, minimum temperature rises||Noida’s minimum temperature rose a few notches as rain continued on Tuesday, offering a cloud cover that managed to trap the heat. The weather department expects the trend to continue, keeping the minimum tempearture above the season’s average for another two days, but with dense to very dense fog across the Delhi-NCR, Westen Uttar Pradesh till January 10. Noida received an average 5 mm rain in the past 24 hours as against the 4.7 mm in the national capital region (NCR), as per the India meteorological department’s Safadarjung observatory. On Tuesday, Noida’s minimum temperature was 14.9°C against 12°C a day earlier. The maximum temperature for Noida was 22.3°C against 22.6°C on Monday. The average minimum temperature for NCR, based on Safdarjung observatory, soared by 6°C above the season’s average on Tuesday to settle at 13.2°C against 11.4°C a day earlier. “The cloudy sky and rain is due to the active western disturbance (a weather phenomenon that rises in the mediterranean). The clouds trap the heat that the Earth radiates at night,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecsting centre (IMD). According to the IMD, the city would see another spell of light rain on Wednesday. “There are chances of light rain in the first half of Wednesday followed by stronger winds. The mercury will slightly drop towards Wednesday night, and by January 7 and 8 the minimum temperature may hover around 6 to 7°C, but there won’t be any cold wave. From January 9 onwards, the mercury will start rising again,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-receives-rain-minimum-temperature-rises/story-zBSyGhccExzyonRR0bU3gL.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Noida’s AQI improves further as rains continue||Noida: The air quality of Noida and Ghaziabad on Tuesday continued showing improvement within ‘moderate’ levels due to the rains. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the light drizzling will continue towards Wednesday as well followed by easterly winds. “The wind speed on Tuesday was around 10 kmph and the region saw enough rains to keep the pollution under check. The wind speed is likely to increase slightly towards Wednesday as well which will keep the ventilation better,”said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Tuesday was 149 against 154 on Monday. Greater Noida’s AQI was 120 against 134 on Monday, while that of Ghaziabad was 148 against 168 a day earlier. AQI of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad was under ‘severe’ category on January 1 and 2. AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The major pollutant PM2.5 levels continued to be under check and almost matching the standards. The PM2.5 levels in Noida improved to 72.6 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 91.12 µg/m³ on Monday and 210.36 on Sunday. Similarly, the PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 78.75 µg/m³ against 64.91 µg/m³ a day earlier and 201.25 on Sunday. The PM2.5 levels for Ghaziabad also improved from 84.41 µg/m³ on Monday to 71.50 µg/m³ on Tuesday. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), AQI will deteriorate towards the weekend. “Rain observed over many places in the Delhi region, under the influence of active Western Disturbance, the wet spell is likely to continue for the next 24 hours. AQI is likely to stay in the moderate to satisfactory category today and moderate to poor category tomorrow (Wednesday). AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and in the too poor to lower end of the very poor category on January 7 and 8,” said the SAFAR statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-aqi-improves-further-as-rains-continue/story-vJJruHpQzz3Z6FNRSYrdfM.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Lessons from Muradnagar: Yamuna expressway authority forms teams to inspect projects||GREATER NOIDA: Learning from the Muradnagar incident, where poor quality of construction material led to the roof at a cremation ground to collapse, resulting in 24 deaths, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has decided to scrutinise ongoing works and verify the quality of a project before it is opened for public use.Two teams, headed by additional chief executive officers (ACEO), will ensure that the projects underway in the Yamuna Expressway region are built with prescribed construction material, said officials, adding that if it is found that rules were flouted then the contractor is to be blacklisted immediately.Since the Swiss firm – Zurich International AG – has released its schedule for the Noida International Airport at Jewar, in which it says it will start work by mid-2021, the authority has started taking up developmental works around the site. Around 20 projects, including drainage systems, water reservoirs, sewage treatment plants, roads and housing, among other projects, are going on near the airport site.“To make sure that quality construction materials are used and that all norms are followed, we have formed two teams, each headed by ACEOs. These two teams will conduct frequent inspections at the site to check the quality of materials. Once the project is built, the teams will again conduct inspections and verify quality,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of the authority.In Muradnagar, the contractor allegedly used sub-standard material for the construction of a roof at the crematorium which likely led to the tragedy, the initial report has found. In the Yamuna Expressway area, at least 50 small and big contractors are working on multiple projects.Apart from this, the authority has decided to take samples of construction material being used in projects to test them at an independent lab such as Shri Ram Institute and Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) in Delhi to verify the quality.“If the test reports confirm that the quality is not as per norms, we will act against the contractor during the construction stage itself. Besides, if any anomaly is caught at the stage of payment for work to the contractor, then also we will act sternly,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lessons-from-muradnagar-yamuna-expressway-authority-forms-teams-to-inspect-projects/story-WcJN7Js3nO3cG7rF3F2LlL.html
05-01-2021||Gurugram||Haryana to appoint new deputy commissioner soon||The state administration will soon appoint new deputy commissioner (DC) after Amit Khatri left on leave on Tuesday for pursuing higher studies in public administration in the United States of America. Although the state has not yet issued any official order for appointing a new DC, a few senior officials said that a decision is likely to be taken this week.“The decision will be taken soon at the state level. It can be within day or a two,” said a senior administration official. He said that Khatri applied for a study leave in July last year to go for higher education in the USA. Khatri, a 2011- batch IAS officer of the Haryana cadre was appointed as Gurugram DC in 2019 after Vinay Pratap Singh, who is currently the commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), and the newly formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar. He was the additional commissioner of MCG in 2016-17. Thereafter, he was appointed as DC Jind in 2017. He continued till February 2019, after which he was transferred as DC Gurugram.Between July 2019 and December 2019, Khatri was also given additional charge as MCG commissioner. During the same time period, he successfully conducted general election held in May 2019 and the state assembly election held in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-to-appoint-new-deputy-commissioner-soon/story-n9jC4KthTidYbjKpJfeWFL.html
05-01-2021||Gurugram||Cops identify mastermind behind gang of carjackers||A day after Gurugram Police arrested two carjackers after an alleged exchange of fire, investigators on Tuesday revealed that they have identified the kingpin of the gang, who have been managing the criminal activities of his gang while being lodged at Punjab’s Ropar jail. On Tuesday morning, a crime team of Sector 39 arrested two more suspects from Rohtak who had allegedly fled after the incident. They were on their way to Punjab, when they were surrounded by the police. The police said they were conducting raids to arrest the fifth suspect who is in the Rohtak area. According to the police, this gang of five members have been active in Haryana for the last 14 months and was allegedly involved in more than 10 murders, 50 carjacking cases, 40 cases of loot, 50 robberies and 24 house thefts across various districts of Haryana and Rajasthan. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the gang was actively involved in carjacking and used to rob cars and SUVs to commit crime in other areas. “We have recovered four pistols, six automatic magazines, 20 live cartridges, four mobile phones and one master key from their possession,” he said. The suspects have been identified as Amit Godara of Ganganagar in Rajasthan and Sri Bhagwan of Rohtak. Sangwan said they were involved in cases reported from Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “The They carried out several burglaries during the lockdown. The kingpin has been identified as Dalpreet alias Baba who operates from Ropar jail. The suspects during questioning revealed that they work for Baba, while another key member of gang is Rahul Bara. They wanted to rob a car on Sunday and had to reach Aurangabad in Maharashtra for a contract killing of a businessman on directions of Baba. We will take Baba on remand from Punjab for further questioning,” he said. The police added that on December 27, they had shot dead a businessman in Yamunanagar and robbed his Swift car. The car was allegedly used in a bank robbery in Hanumangarh in Rajasthan where they had looted ₹12.5 lakh and later set the car ablaze in village Salempur in Hansi. The police said they do not use the same car for more than two incidents. In the first week of December, they had robbed a Baleno car from Gurdaspur and then used it for another robbery in Ganganagar in Rajasthan, where they robbed ₹13.5 lakh from a cash collection van and left the car near Kaithal after they met with an accident. The suspects have also allegedly robbed sports motorbikes from Punjab. They later abandoned at isolated stretches after they snatched gold chains from six women in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-identify-mastermind-behind-gang-of-carjackers/story-35FKotv0lMdUyNsTZjIXmO.html
05-01-2021||Gurugram||26 transporters under scanner for involvement in drug trade||A day after a truck driver and his co-driver were held with a consignment of drugs worth ₹11 crore, the police on Tuesday said that 26 transport companies were under scanner for their alleged involvement in the drug trade. The police have identified transporters from Hisar, Sirsa and Gurugram, who are suspected to be involved in the smuggling of drugs from Odisha. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said they are yet to arrest the transporters involved but raids are being carried out in different areas.According to the police, the drug trade has increased manifold in the last five years and consignments are mostly routed from Odisha. Earlier the peddlers used to get it from Punjab but discontinued the practice due to the strict checks at the borders. Sangwan said that transporters sending consignments to Odisha tie up with drug peddlers and get drugs loaded while returning. “The transporter gets enough money and the drivers are paid a hefty amount if they successfully smuggle the drug consignment to the destination. Later, the consignment is delivered to different parts of the state,” he said. The police said that some transporters got involved in smuggling of drugs about two years ago after the increase in marijuana price in Haryana. A pack of 10 grams used to be illegally sold for ₹100 but now it is sold for ₹500. There are allegedly more than 500 drug peddlers who travel to Odisha from Haryana. “They used to smuggle drugs in tourist buses, cabs, trains and even on motorbikes but since the checking has intensified they are finding new ways to smuggle and make a quick buck. However, we are taking strict measures and have increased the deployment on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway and other border areas. Teams have been asked to check all trucks and other suspicious vehicles,” he said. The drivers are given new mobile phones and SIM cards and the peddlers are constantly in touch with them until they reach their destination, the police said. The police said this is a challenge as it becomes difficult for them to trace the suspects. The police said the drivers are paid between ₹2 lakh and ₹6 lakh per consignment depending on the quantity of drugs. Sangwan said the two suspects arrested on Monday —Bhupinder Singh and the co-driver, Omji Singh — are residents of Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh and were lured with money as they used to hardly get ₹10,000 per trip. For transporting the consignment, however, they were offered ₹4 lakh. “They have revealed that there are more drivers on the route who are also involved in drug smuggling and, many times, the dhaba staff approach them and offer them deals to smuggle drugs to different areas,” he said adding that this was their first consignment to Hisar. In 2019, police registered 225 cases and arrested 375 people allegedly involved in drug smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/26-transporters-under-scanner-for-involvement-in-drug-trade/story-hI8lJYMGIaRTZfwdDDyAjJ.html
05-01-2021||Gurugram||Sporadic rainfall keeps air quality satisfactory, to dip again soon||Sporadic showers continued in the city for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, persevering its cleansing effort on the city’s air by retaining the air quality in the satisfactory zone for a second consecutive day. However, experts said that the relief will be short-lived as temperatures are expected to dip again from January 7.As per the data shared by the district administration, Gurugram district received between 11 to 17mm of rainfall until 8am on January 5.Among the tehsils (administrative division) in the area, Gurugram received the least rainfall, at 11mm, followed by Sohna (12mm), Pataudi (14mm), Wazirabad (15mm) and Farrukhnagar (17mm), as per the data.The automatic weather station (AWS) in Gurugram did not record the day’s minimum and maximum temperature readings, but data from the IMD’s nearest AWS in Delhi’s Palam area showed the minimum temperature to be at 14.4 degrees Celsius, up from 12.3 degrees Celsius on Monday, and the maximum to be at 19.2 degrees Celsius, down from 20.4 degrees Celsius the day prior, on Tuesday.The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) seven-day forecast for Gurugram predicts a steep drop in temperature from January 7. From a predicted minimum and maximum temperature readings of 13 degrees Celsius and 21 degrees Celsius, respectively, on January 6, the mercury is expected to drop to a minimum of 9 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 19 degrees Celsius on January 7.“Cloudy skies will help trap the temperature for another day. Thursday onwards, we will have clearer conditions in Delhi-NCR. There is also a lot of moisture in the atmosphere after these rains, and once the clouds have passed, the heat will also dissipate much quicker. The residual moisture will drive down the minimum temperature more sharply, and there will be periods of dense fog in the mornings for about a week,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.This phenomenon will also cause air quality to deteriorate rapidly, said experts.While the city saw satisfactory air for a second consecutive day on Tuesday, with a reading of 83 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, experts said that the AQI would return to the upper end of the very poor category within a week.“Already, wind speeds have slowed down from 20kmph on the weekend, to just about 6 to 8kmph on Tuesday. When the temperature falls, wind speeds will become negligible and particles will remain suspended due to residual moisture. This will result in an airlock over NCR, and pollutants will accumulate with little chance of dispersal,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sporadic-rainfall-keeps-air-quality-satisfactory-to-dip-again-soon/story-Hj4JXT94Ii5OTqJluAOszM.html
05-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram reports lowest daily Covid-19 cases since May 2020||The city on Tuesday reported 35 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, marking the lowest daily tally in seven months. It was in May 2020, during the nationwide lockdown, that the daily case count was lower, with 33 infections being reported on May 26.At present, Gurugram has 785 active cases, which has decreased due to the constant decline in cases. The total tally has reached 57,083, with the Covid-19 toll at 344.Prior to May 26, when 33 cases were recorded, daily infections ranged between six and 17. As transmission started increasing with more number of people contracting the virus, the number of new infections escalated, reaching almost 1,000 cases a day in November. In the last 10 days, fewer than 100 cases are being reported every day. The test positivity rate — positives out of the total samples — remained between 2% to 2.5% last week, well below the threshold of 5% recommended by the World Health Organisation. In comparison, the positivity rate in May 2020 was almost 9.4%, which increased to almost 23% in June. It dropped to nearly 5% in July and August and again climbed to 10% in October, and more than 12% in November, and then dipping to 5% in December 2020. Maintaining the consistent stability in positivity rate — which indicates the spread is slow enough — the health department has reduced the number of Covid-19 tests per day. On Tuesday, about 2,824 tests were administered, of which only 261 were rapid antigen. Compared to May 2020, when only 200 tests were conducted every day, there has been almost 92% increase in the overall testing. In the initial months of the pandemic, only Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) was being conducted. The rapid antigen testing started in June. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “The active caseload is consistently dropping. Therefore, testing has been reduced but we are continuing with our testing camps to keep a control over the situation.” With the continuous decline in new daily infections, the recovery rate has exceeded 98%, as per the health department data. Of the 785 active cases, at least 83 are seriously-ill patients admitted to hospitals, while three are in Covid care centres and 699 in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-lowest-daily-covid-19-cases-since-may-2020/story-RKjWV6sYUkRen2HnRvpCPK.html
05-01-2021||Gurugram||Biodiversity park at Sakatpur put on the back burner due to failed plantation drive||More than a year after the forest department first began plantation work in Sakatpur village, to create a biodiversity park across 1,000 acres, the project has made little headway, with officials confirming that it is currently on the back burner. Officials said that a botched plantation drive, which is now the subject of a departmental inquiry, is the reason why the project failed to kick off.The proposed city forest in the Aravalli foothills of Sakatpur, Gairatpur Bas and Sikohpur villages was to be the largest in Gurugram, nearly three times the size of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Nathupur. It was announced in July 2019 at an RWA-related event in the city by the then forest minister, Rao Narbir Singh. The park was also intended to be a tourist attraction, with pedestrian trails, an education centre, and even a leopard safari for which a detailed project report was being prepared.A senior official in the forest department, requesting anonymity, said that these plans are unlikely to materialise soon. “We began planting saplings in the area in August 2019, but there was no separate fund created for the park. So we went ahead and planted species that were not very well adapted to survive in the area, such as papdi and neem, which are bred in our nurseries. None of the saplings survived. We are not actively pursuing the project right now. We will take it up next year.”The failed plantation drive is now being examined by an internal committee of the forest department. An official, who is serving on the committee, requesting anonymity, said, “We are yet to give our decision in the matter. The initial plantation drive was a failure. There was no baseline ecological study done of the area, no proper demarcation, no wildlife surveys. This should have been attempted with proper planning. There are plans to revisit this next year, but the leopard safari proposal will not be revived.” Vasvi Tyagi, the principal chief conservator of forests, declined to comment. She did, however, confirm the veracity of these developments, as did Subash Yadav, a metropolitan green planner with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). Yadav, who was the district forest officer (DFO) when this project was announced, said, “The initiative started off the wrong way. We did not have any means to procure native saplings, so we used tall trees like neem and papdi which did not survive. We should have, instead, planted species like dhau or dhak, which are better suited to the dry Aravalli conditions. The forest department committee has not yet held any officials responsible. They will decide on the future of the project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/biodiversity-park-at-sakatpur-put-on-the-back-burner-due-to-failed-plantation-drive/story-JoYSAXFhZQOlP3SWduaSlM.html
05-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram gears up for vaccination dry run||The six session sites identified for a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination on January 7 will be set up as model sites, along with a facility to track adverse reactions, besides three basic rooms — for waiting, vaccination and observation — according to the district health department officials.“Once the vaccine is rolled out, there can be chances some sites will lack ample space to set up an additional Adverse Reaction Following Immunisation (AEFI) room in urban and rural areas. In the drive itself, we are trying to put a system in place that will be a completely sufficient model that would be helpful in setting up other sites in the coming time,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. The drill is a part of the preparedness to identify the challenges and logistics arrangements before the actual Covid-19 vaccination that is likely to start next week. The department has chosen primary schools for the dry run so that the routine work at the urban primary health centres is not disrupted. These are government primary schools in Wazirabad, Daulatabad, Basai Enclave and Chauma. A community centre and a primary health centre in Sector 56 (Tigra) have also been identified as session sites. In each of these sites, a waiting room, a vaccination room and an observation room will be set up. “Only for better management is an AEFI room is being set up, where people who might develop minor symptoms like swelling, rashes or low blood pressure due to vaccination can be treated. For this, an examination table, bed, required medicines and instruments will be kept in the room,” Singh said.On January 7, from 11am to 1pm, the dry run will be held simultaneously at the six centres. “It will be a physical verification exercise to check space, logistics, internet connectivity, electricity and safety at the session sites,” he said. In a meeting with the state administration on Tuesday, senior district officials said that each site will work like an exact vaccination site, where coordination between vaccination officers and focus upon infection prevention and control at site will be seen.He said that vaccinators and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), who will deployed in vaccination rooms and observation rooms as vaccination officers 3 and 4, are trained in all aspects. According to him, Gurugram police have agreed to provide six personnel to serve as for vaccination officer 1. The administration is providing six data entry operators, who will be vaccination officer 2, from Saral centres to feed the data on the Co-WIN. Singh said that the drill is crucial to test working of Co-WIN platform, a real time digital platform having all details of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-gears-up-for-vaccination-dry-run/story-PJrqtGfIm7Sr7vCjMWKrQI.html
05-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Doctor duped of her jewellery by man in traffic police uniform||A man dressed as a traffic policeman and his accomplice robbed a 55-year-old woman of her jewellery on Tuesday morning near sector 19, said police. They had managed to swap her jewellery with artificial ones.The victim was identified as Madhu Bhatia, a doctor and resident of sector 20. According to her complaint, she was on her way to work in a cab when the incident occurred.“Around 10 am my cab was stopped on the sector 19-20 road by two (masked) men, one of whom was wearing the uniform of the traffic police. They were on an unmarked black motorcycle. They told me that there had been a murder in the area yesterday and as a precaution, senior officials had instructed them to ask public not to wear jewellery and (if they saw anyone wearing some), they were told to get it off and place it in envelopes,” read the woman’s complaint.When she doubted their claims of being traffic policemen, they allegedly showed an ID card that made her believe them to be true. Upon their insistence, she said, she handed over her diamond bangles, which they made a show of wrapping in paper and returned it to her. Immediately, she unwrapped it to find that she had been duped but by then the suspects had fled and the cab driver could not spot them either, she claimed in the complaint.The complaint was filed with the sector 20 police and, based on it, a case was registered against the unidentified suspects under section 420 (cheating) and 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code.“We are on the lookout for the suspects. They were masked and the motorcycle did not have a number plate. But a probe is underway and we are looking through CCTV footage of cameras in the area,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-doctor-duped-of-her-jewellery-by-man-in-traffic-police-uniform/story-lWsE8TurpKvmBRBhcmzDqI.html
05-01-2021||Bangalore||All 118 BJP MLAs expressed faith in Yediyurappa’s leadership: Karnataka ministers||All 118 BJP MLAs in Karnataka have expressed faith and support for Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and his leadership, Ministers in the state cabinet said on Tuesday, while asserting that the government was stable.Several ministers of Yediyurappa cabinet on Tuesday jointly spoke to the media at the end of the CM’s region wise meetings with party MLAs since Monday. “All the 118 legislators are of the opinion that the Yediyurappa government has functioned effectively.All have expressed their support for his leadership..they have expressed satisfaction in the work he has done,” Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, flanked by other cabinet colleagues, said.Speaking to reporters here after two days of marathon region wise meeting with MLAs by the Chief Minister in the presence of BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, he said legislators have lauded efficient and able administration despite COVID and flood situation and its management.“I thank all the MLAs, as all of them have expressed their faith in the government and its leadership,” he added.Another Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Ministers ST Somashekar, V Somanna, B Sriramulu, Shashikala Jolle were among those present in the joint briefing.There has been simmering discontentment among a section of legislators on the functioning of the government and certain ministers, to address which Yediyurappa is said to have called for region wise meeting of MLAs, even as speculation within the BJP circles about possible leadership change refuses to die down.During the meeting on Monday, Yediyurappa reportedly had a face-off with Vijayapura City MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, as he reportedly raised objections against the “step-motherly” treatment meted out to some assembly constituencies and alleged interference of CM’s son B Y Vijayendra in administration.Yatnal had been vocal against Yediyurappa’s style of functioning and had even predicted his removal as CM in the past.Conceding that at the meeting yesterday there was a “small confusion” because of one person, without taking Yatnal’s name, Karjol said other than that, the meetings went on well and all MLAs have expressed faith and support in the Chief Minister’s leadership.Responding to a question on Yatnal’s recent open statements and conduct, Minister V Somanna said state party president Nalin Kumar Katteel had yesterday spoken about it and he has sent a message in this regard to the Centre.“Whatever has to happen will happen at the right time...the Chief Minister is the captain of the government... as his colleague I condemn whatever happened yesterday,” he said.Karjol said tduring the meeting MLAs discussed developmental works and sought allocation of more funds to their constituencies, especially those affected by floods.He said the Chief Minister assured them that efforts will be made to allocate about Rs 25 crore for each constituency for development of roads and other critical infrastructure. He also assured more funds for developmental works in the days to come as the financial situation improves.The CM, who also holds the finance portfolio, has told MLAs the budget that will be presented in February or March, will be focused on development, he added.DCM Savadi said MLAs wanted ministers to stay put in office in Vidhana Soudha at least for two days a week for their meeting, and expressed serious reservations against MLAs or leaders making public statements on party affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/all-118-bjp-mlas-expressed-faith-in-yediyurappa-s-leadership-karnataka-ministers/story-4oOvrNkcAFSxqprnsg5XUN.html
05-01-2021||City||27 entrepreneurs from Ludhiana selected for Xcelerator programme||With an aim to support small and medium entrepreneurs in improving their productivity, efficiency, and profitability and scale their businesses faster, 27 entrepreneurs from the district have been selected under the Xcelerator programme launched by Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and chief secretary Vini Mahajan through video conferencing during an event organised at Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) complex in Focal Point area on Tuesday.The Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME) in partnership with the government’s department of industries and commerce and CICU commenced the Xcelerator Ludhiana programme, which is a six-month business accelerator programme to support 27 promising mass entrepreneurs in the Rs 2 crores to 50 crores annual revenue category, which were selected out of over 450 applications received under the programme.“Ludhiana has been chosen as the first location for this programme because of the entrepreneurial energy which exists and the potential to create a model that can be replicated across Punjab and the rest of the country. The high caliber of the entrepreneurs chosen to be part of Xcelerator Ludhiana and their success we hope will inspire a thriving entrepreneurial environment,” said Ravi Venkatesan, founder, GAME and former chairman of Microsoft India and Bank of Baroda.Venkatesan said that the Xcelerator programme has been inspired by the ‘Scale Up’, by CEO of entrepreneurship policy advisory and former professor at Harvard Business School Daniel Isenberg, which has been implemented in other developing and developed countries such as Colombia, Brazil and the USA. “The entrepreneurial spirit of Punjab is well known and, in the last few years, we have made consistent strides towards a more business-friendly environment in the state,” said Manpreet Singh Badal.Vini Mahajan said, “This programme is an important step towards amplifying the entrepreneurial dynamism and enabling a conducive entrepreneurship ecosystem for the growth of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/27-entrepreneurs-from-ludhiana-selected-for-xcelerator-programme/story-izvix252LuBEFaK6yQnvoI.html
05-01-2021||City||Ludhiana: School heads, teachers told to achieve 100% results||Government schools across the district have been directed to achieve 100% results and pay extra attention to students of Classes 10 and 12 who have scored below 40% in exams conducted in December last year. Education secretary, Krishan Kumar issued these instructions under Mission Shat Pratishat 2021 while addressing education officers, principals, teachers through the receive-only terminal (ROT).Kumar directed school teachers and heads to focus on three objectives—100% results in Classes 10 and 12, concentrate on students scoring above 90% to make them feature in the provisional merit list and average students should score above 60% marks in the finals.School heads were also told to ensure that they have the analysis of the results of the Final Punjab Achievement Survey and examination held in December 2020. Principals will monitor the performance of students scoring between 20% to 40% marks in the December exam. Teachers will identify topics for below-average students, average and meritorious students, and prepare question banks to help them clear the final exams.Kumar said, “School heads will maintain a record of meritorious students of board classes and keep interacting with them. Subject teachers can hold extra classes and send their pictures and videos which will be uploaded on the Facebook page of the school education department to motivate other teachers.”As the state education department has been receiving suggestions from parents to reopen schools for Class 8 students, Kumar said, “We have written to the state government to take further decision on the matter.”Kumar asked teachers and school heads to take classes without any stress. He said, “Two months have been left for the final board examinations and teachers must focus on students’ performance so that every student appearing could clear the exam. The subject teachers should also devote equal time to students of Classes 7 and 9.” Pre-boards to be held in mid-February The education secretary while addressing the heads and teachers stated that the pre-board exams will start from mid-February and the date sheet will be released soon. Coaching for NTSE, NMMS to start soonKumar said the coaching classes to prepare students of Class 8 and 10 for various scholarship exams will be started from the new academic session. Last year, 25 students from the district cleared the National Talent Search Examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-school-heads-teachers-told-to-achieve-100-results/story-CnDrxSFNyXWdKdRAtZZuxM.html
05-01-2021||City||Ludhiana’s Focal Point CETP runs into rough weather for want of power connection||The 40MLD Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) project being set up for the Focal Point dyeing industry has hit a roadblock due to the non-availability of a power connection to run the plant.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had set December 31, 2020, as the deadline to complete the project, but the plant has not been made operational till now due to the absence of a power connection. Though trials have been commenced.Industrialists alleged that a 1,500KW connection is required to run the plant but the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials claim that only 500KW connection is available at present due to excessive load on the power substation.The PSPCL officials said that it may take a few months to upgrade the connection load, as per the demands of the industry.A member of the Punjab Dyers Association, Focal Point, Rahul Verma said, “The PSPCL had even allotted the power connection for the CETP in the past, but when we approached the authorities for connection after the plant was established, the authorities said that the substation cannot take the load of 1500KW connection and the system needs to be enhanced.”“Trials are going on at the plant and a 500KW connection will be good for the test runs but we will be needing a 1500KW connection to run the plant at full capacity. We have also taken up the matter with the PPCB officials,” said Verma. PSPCL chief engineer (Ludhiana central) Bhupinder Khosla said, “The industry will get a partial load of 500KW and the load capacity will be increased as per the demand which will be put forward by the industry as per the norms.”The total cost of the project is Rs 80 crores, of which Rs 22.5 crores is provided by the state government and the Centre as a subsidy. The CETPs are being established to stop the dumping of untreated waste of the dyeing industry into the Buddha Nullah through the MC sewer lines.Tajpur road CETP to be ready by March 31The PPCB officials said that the deadline for the 50 MLD CETP project for the dyeing industry situated on Tajpur road has been extended till March 31 citing a delay in payment of subsidies to the industry by the government. The project was to be completed by December 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-focal-point-cetp-runs-into-rough-weather-for-want-of-power-connection/story-MklCRT3aSbpHI32wPuh3CI.html
05-01-2021||Dehradun||Congress’ Harish Rawat demands Bharat Ratna for Sonia Gandhi, Mayawati||Congress national general secretary and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat demanded the government of India to confer Bharat Ratna to Congress national president Sonia Gandhi and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati. Rawat made the demand by taking to social media wherein he said that “Sonia Gandhi and Mayawati made immense contribution towards women empowerment.”“Both Sonia Gandhi and Mayawati are eminent politicians. One may agree or disagree with Gandhi’s politics but can’t deny her tremendous contribution in woman empowerment and public service. Today, she is considered as an admirable image of womanhood in India,” said Rawat. “Similarly, Mayawati has raised the voice of the oppressed and the exploited, apart from instilling a sense of belief in them. The government of India should honour them by conferring Bharat Ratna to both this year,” he said.The state BSP leadership has, however, termed his demand as a “tactic to befool public.”Also read: India may have to make choices on arms deals, says outgoing US envoy“His demand is just a tactic to befool the public and nothing more than that. Erstwhile Congress governments failed to confer the highest honour to Dalit icon Babasaheb Ambedkar. It was only conferred after BSP founder Kashiram Sahu and other BSP leaders, including Mayawati raised the demand,” said Gautam.He added, “We have been demanding the same honour for Kashiram Sahu also but when Congress was in power it didn’t pay any heed to it. Now, when they are not in power they are making such demands.”The state BJP also countered Rawat’s demand of Bharat Ratna for Sonia Gandhi, saying, Rawat wants to “set a wrong precedent by awarding country’s highest honour to someone who is facing court cases.”“By conferring Bharat Ratna to Sonia Gandhi, does Rawat want that the honour should be given to someone who is on bail? What sort of precedent he wants to set by putting such a demand? It will never happen,” said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/congress-harish-rawat-demands-bharat-ratna-for-sonia-gandhi-mayawati/story-SaTcgZGdDZrCC6HQABuFiJ.html
05-01-2021||City||Six dogs found poisoned on banks of Pavana in Pimple Gurav||PUNE A man found at least six dogs, including his own pet, dead in the Pimple Gurav area of Pimpri- Chinchwad, early on Monday morning.The corpses, one of them allegedly partially charred, were found on the banks of the Pavana river in Pimple Gurav. The corpses were allegedly frothing from the mouth. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Vinod Rajan Murar (50), a resident of Shivneri Colony in Pimple Gurav.“My dog came home yesterday (Monday) morning and looked completely drained. We gave him water and took him upstairs, and he stopped breathing within minutes. We then discovered one female who was barely a year old near the river and four other dogs who were lying dead in the vicinity. I suspect that someone has given them something poisonous to eat,” said Murar.The dogs were all Indian local breeds. While the 5-year-old male was a pet in the care of Murar, the others were street dogs, he said.“One of them was the mother was frothing from the mouth, so were the other dogs. One other female, black in colour, was found in a white sack with her body partially burnt,” added Murar.The activists blamed the Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporation for the spread of dogs.“I blame this entirely on the corporation; it is their very bad implementation of the animal birth control programme. The corporation bodies keep on flouting the rules even after the sterilisation programme is conducted on one street, some people from corporations will relocate female dogs on the same street. Till such illegal activity does not stop such incidence will keep on happening. Neither PMC or PCMC have an animal birth control community which is a must for all the corporations according to the Animal Welfare Board of India,” said Vineeta Tandon, co- founder and trustee, Animal Rescue Trust.“It was unexpected, the reason is still not known, but generally people who are frustrated due to dog activities in their area they take such steps. People should consult NGOs who can help to solve their problems, but in haste they end up poisoning dogs which is not a right solution,” said Sumit Tarte, animal rights activist, Animal Adoption and Rescue Team.A case under Sections 427, 429 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 11(1)(L) of Animal Cruelty Prevention Act has been registered at Sangvi police station on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-dogs-found-poisoned-on-banks-of-pavana-in-pimple-gurav/story-JE4xjl0z4LqzGfm5icy1YK.html
05-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to vaccinate 6.3 lakh healthcare workers in first phase||The Karnataka government will vaccinate 6,30,524 healthcare workers in the first phase of distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine. In a series of tweets, state medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said that this would include 2,73,211 government sector health workers and 3,57,313 private-sector employees.Also Read: At least someone in Congress understands...’: Hardeep Singh Puri’s jibe to Congress over vaccine, Central VistaThe minister said that there are 9807 experienced vaccinators and 28,427 centres have been identified for providing vaccination across the state. If required the state would identify more centres, the tweet noted. The Centre was providing all necessary facilities to enable the state to carry out the exercise including 64 massive refrigerators to store the vaccines.WATCH | Covid: What led to DCGI nod of Covishield & Covaxin in India? IMCR DG explainsರಾಜ್ಯಕ್ಕೆ ಅವಶ್ಯಕತೆ ಇರುವ ಹೆಚ್ಚಿನ ಮೂಲಭೂತ ಸೌಕರ್ಯವನ್ನು ಕೇಂದ್ರ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಪೂರೈಸುತ್ತಿದ್ದು, ಈವರೆಗೂ 64 ಬೃಹತ್ ಐಸ್ ಲೈನ್ಡ್ ರೆಫ್ರಿಜರೇಟರ್ (ILR), 24 ಲಕ್ಷ ಸಿರಿಂಜುಗಳು ರಾಜ್ಯಕ್ಕೆ ಬಂದಿದ್ದು ಜಿಲ್ಲೆಗಳಿಗೆ ರವಾನಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. ಇನ್ನುಳಿದ 31 ಲಕ್ಷ ಸಿರಿಂಜುಗಳು ಸೇರಿದಂತೆ ಹೆಚ್ಚುವರಿ ಉಪಕರಣಗಳು ಶೀಘ್ರದಲ್ಲೇ ತಲುಪಿಲಿವೆ. (3/3)ಲಸಿಕೆ ನೀಡಲು ತರಬೇತಿ ಪಡೆದ 9,807 ಅನುಭವಿ ವ್ಯಾಕ್ಸಿನೇಟರ್ ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿಗಳನ್ನು ಮತ್ತು ರಾಜ್ಯಾದ್ಯಂತ 28,427 ಲಸಿಕಾ ಕೇಂದ್ರಗಳನ್ನು ಗುರುತಿಸಲಾಗಿದ್ದು, ಇನ್ನೂ ಹೆಚ್ಚಿನ ಕೇಂದ್ರಗಳನ್ನು ಗುರುತಿಸಲಾಗುವುದು. ಈ ಎಲ್ಲಾ ದತ್ತಾಂಶವನ್ನು ಕೇಂದ್ರ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಸಿದ್ಧಪಡಿಸಿರುವ CoWIN ತಂತ್ರಾಂಶದಲ್ಲಿ ನಮೂದಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. (2/3)@DHFWKASudhakar in his tweets also said 24 lakh syringes have already come to the state and have been distributed amongst the various districts with 31 lakh more syringes and other equipment expected shortly. Thank you PM @narendramodi ji for allocating 6 medical oxygen generation plants to Karnataka through #PMCaresFund. These plants will not only help to meet the demand for oxygen during this pandemic but will also strengthen our public health system in the long-term.@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/msVlP2MFZsThe minister also thanked the PM for allocating six medical oxygen generation plants through the PM Cares Fund. “These plants will not only help to meet the demand for oxygen during this pandemic but will also strengthen our public health system in the long-term,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-to-vaccinate-6-3-lakh-healthcare-workers-in-first-phase/story-zVo4wcZfEsduoGjwsdfBkI.html
05-01-2021||City||Light rain forecast for Pune till Jan 8||PUNE Isolated places in the city, early on Tuesday morning, reported traces of rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a forecast that very light rains are likely till January 8 in Pune.On Tuesday, Pune city recorded a minimum temperature of 19.7 degrees Celsius, 9.2 degrees Celsius warmer more than normal. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is forecast to drop to 10.5 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Tuesday in the city was 27.8 degrees Celsius.“The Western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is approaching Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh via central Pakistan and the neighbourhood. There is induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and Gujarat neighbourhoods. There is a trough line from north Punjab to the north-east Arabian sea via Southwest Rajasthan, Saurashtra and Kutch, and north-west Maharashtra. As a result, there will be cloudy weather and no chilly feel of winter will be witnessed in the next few days,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/light-rain-forecast-for-pune-till-jan-8/story-hOjXjz3PpjtlT86Av2kONL.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Pollution watchdog CPCB seeks solution to high ammonia content in Yamuna within 1 month||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has constituted a study group to suggest solutions for increase in ammoniacal nitrogen in the Yamuna. The study group will comprise of Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Irrigation and Water Resources departments of Haryana and Delhi.The group will review the current monitoring protocol and requirement of strengthening monitoring mechanism, analyse past data and carry out field surveys to identify hotspots of high ammonia.The study group has been asked to submit its report within a month.CPCB convened a meeting on January 4, with the officials of Delhi and Haryana to discuss the recurring issue of increase in Ammoniacal Nitrogen in the Yamuna and short and long term remedial actions required.It was agreed at the meeting to constitute a joint surveillance squad comprising DJB, DPCC, Irrigation and Flood Control Departments of Delhi and Haryana.Officials said the possible reasons for high ammoniacal nitrogen could be discharge of untreated sewage from upstream towns in Haryana, discharge from industrial units, common effluent treatment plants (CETPs), sewage treatment plants (STPs), illegal discharge of sewage from unsewered colonies in outer Delhi through tankers, lean flow in the Yamuna and anaerobic decomposition of accumulated sludge on the riverbed.“High ammoniacal nitrogen in the Yamuna is mainly a result of untreated waste water from industries in Panipat and Sonepat. We don’t need a high level group to understand this. The industries need to be checked from releasing untreated waste. The government is only trying to buy time by setting up study groups. The other obvious problem is there is no water in Yamuna so only polluted water is entering the river and it has no way of getting diluted,” said Manoj Misra, convenor, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan.Ammonia is one of several forms of nitrogen that exist in aquatic environments. Unlike other forms of nitrogen, which can cause nutrient over-enrichment of a water body at elevated concentrations and indirect effects on aquatic life, ammonia causes direct toxic effects on aquatic life according to the US Environment Protection Agency. Ammonia is mainly produced for commercial fertilizers and other industrial applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pollution-watchdog-cpcb-seeks-solution-to-high-ammonia-content-in-yamuna-within-1-month/story-J4SPebi2OGgD71niln6t8O.html
05-01-2021||City||PMC’s ‘loan for property tax’ offer finds no takers... yet||PUNE A week after at least 20 tax payers inquired about a loan facility to clear pending property tax dues, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is still holding out on its offer of a loan scheme to clear the dues.In the second phase of the civic body’s tax amnesty plan, the PMC offered to facilitate loan options for citizens who want to clear property tax dues.The corporation had called a meeting with cooperative banks to provide loan facilities to citizens who are not able to pay property tax dues, due to the Covid-19 situation. While on one hand the Pune civic body got a good response to its amnesty scheme and increased its property tax collection, no one, so far, has availed of the loan facility. The PMC has extended its amnesty on property tax up to January 26, 2021 and is offering a 70 per cent rebate on the penalty amount. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane called on banks to help the corporation by providing bank facilities to taxpayers. After his appeal, five co-operative banks came forward to provide loans to taxpayers to pay their dues. The civic body has also formed a special cell to coordinate between banks and taxpayers. Vilas Kanade joint municipal commissioner, property tax department, said, “PMC is getting a response slowly. People are coming to enquire about loan facilities. Our officials are providing the information.” At present, Suvarna Sahakari bank, Janata Sahakari bank, Suvarnayug Sahakari bank, Janata Sahakari Bank and Saraswat co-operative bank are offering loans to tax payers. Baban Kasbe, an official of the Property tax department, who is part of the loan cell of PMC said, “Thirty people came to enquire about the loan facility. However, only one tax holder has put in a proposal to Saraswat bank to pay Rs 12 lakh in dues. He is residing in Hadapsar and his dues are for a commercial property. The proposal has reached the final stage. People who have a due amount more than one lakh rupees are coming to inquire about the scheme. We are providing logistical support to taxpayers who are keen to pay dues to PMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-s-loan-for-property-tax-offer-finds-no-takers-yet/story-5YuxvGo0aSmWqhnjDMWodL.html
05-01-2021||City||PMC to appoint consultants to drive public-private biz model||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to develop roads using the public-private partnership (PPP) model. The civic body, on Tuesday, decided to appoint a consultant for the same.The standing committee of the PMC gave its nod to appoint consultants to develop 21 roads based on the PPP model.Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar put the proposal before the standing committee and said, “PMC had developed 11km of roads in 2011. Considering the financial condition of the civic body and expansion of the city, there is a need to involve private players in the road works.”Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The consultant would frame the terms and conditions for developing roads. Later that PMC would float the expression of interest for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-to-appoint-consultants-to-drive-public-private-biz-model/story-Hhdg7WupYw2Dk4rx9GXf0M.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Graft: CBI files challan against former Chandigarh ED official||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday filed chargesheet against former deputy director of enforcement, Chandigarh, Gurnam Singh in a bribery case.Singh, who joined the Chandigarh ED office on deputation in 2011, was the investigating officer in a chit fund scam for several years before he was repatriated to his home department in Chandigarh Central Forensic Laboratory in January 2017, from where he retired as a senior scientific officer in 2018. It was after his repatriation that ED arrested the absconding agent of the chit fund firm under anti-money laundering law in July 2017, and it came to light that Singh had allegedly taken bribe to weaken the case.The chargesheet has been filed under Sections 7 (offence relating to public servant being bribed) and 7A (taking undue advantage to influence public servant by corrupt or illegal means or by exercise of personal influence) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120 (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/graft-cbi-files-challan-against-former-ed-official/story-urCzzujD3pZluiPvLwIfNP.html
05-01-2021||City||Maha-Metro MD backs “neo Metro” option on BRTS routes||PUNE Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) managing director, Brijesh Dixit, is strongly backing the introduction and use of the “neo Metro” transit option on the BRTS (bus rapid transit routes) in the city.Recently, Pumta (Pune unified metropolitan transport authority) discussed the introduction of the automobile system, known colloquially in India as “Neo Metros” on the existing BRTS corridors in Pune.Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) chairman and managing director, Rajendra Jagtap, put this proposal before Pumta.Dixit said, “Bus transit is better as long as the per-hour passenger flow is up to 4,000 citizens. Metro is for 12,000 commuters per hour. Considering that, Neo Metro is the solution for passenger flow between 4,000 and 12,000. It can be converted into a metro if the passengers flow increases.”Dixit said, “Most of Pune’s corridors have passenger flow of more than 4,000 passengers per hour and if the bus service continues on these routes, it creates traffic jams. Neo Metro is the new solution to cater this issue.The Neo Metro proposal was for the Swargate to Katraj corridor. We also prepared an underground metro proposal for this route, but elected members need to take decision on it. There are other BRTS corridors in the city which can get converted in to Neo Metro routes.”Dixit added, “The Neo Metro model had been approved at the national level. We introduced it in Nashik city and then adopted it in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Now many cities at the national level are obtaining this new solution. It is hybrid model in between the metro and a bus service, with lower infrastructure cost. In short, it is a metro on wheels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maha-metro-md-backs-neo-metro-option-on-brts-routes/story-3xf9MogceyqY9JHjcrxKKP.html
05-01-2021||Jaipur||In major bureaucratic rejig, 21 IAS officers transferred in Rajasthan||In a major bureaucratic rejig, Rajasthan government on late Monday night transferred 21 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, including three district collectors, 56 Indian Police Service (IPS) officials, 28 Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers and 183 Rajasthan Administrative Services (RAS) officers. The government changed 3 collectors, Superintendent of Police of 14 districts, and five range Inspectors General of Police in the reshuffle which took place on late Monday night. 1991 batch IAS officer Sudhanshu Pant is appointed as the additional chief secretary PHED and groundwater department; Mugdha Sinha has been given science and technology department, in addition to art and culture; PC Kishan has been appointed as secretary of panchayati raj.The collectors of Churu, Baran and Jhalawar were also changed - Sanwarmal Verma was made Churu collector; project director cum joint secretary EGS (employment guarantee scheme) Rajendra Vijay was transferred to Baran as a collector while secretary of khadi board, Harimohan Meena, appointed Jhalawar collector.Also read: Ready to roll out vaccine within 10 days of emergency use approvalsIn police department, additional director general Neena Singh has been transferred to civil rights and anti-human trafficking and Govind Gupta has moved to planning and modernisation. Range inspector generals of Jaipur, Ajmer, Udaipur, Kota and Bharatpur have also been changed. IPS Preeti Chandra is appointed as SP Bikaner; Jagdish Sharma, Ajmer; Kalu Ram Rawat, Pali; Preeti Jain, Hanumangarh; Kunwar Rastradeep, Sikar; Anil Kumar, Jodhpur rural; Vikas Sharma, Bhilwara; Rajiv Pachar, Udaipur; Prahlad Singh, Jhunjhunu; Anil Kumar, Dausa; Devendra Kumar, Bharatpur; Vineet Kumar, Baran; Narayan Togas, Churu; and Sudheer Joshi, Dungarpur.Similarly, 28 IFS officers were also transferred - Dr DN Pandey, principal chief conservator of forest warden and secretary environment department was made principal chief conservator of forest- development; six additional principal chief conservator of forest and other IFS officers were also transferred.The transfer list of RAS officers was issued on Tuesday. Additional divisional commissioner, Jaipur, Narendra Sharma was appointed as GM of Rajasthan state food and civil supply corporation while Harjilal Atal, secretary of Rajasthan state textbook board was appointed director of public services and joint secretary (ex officio) redressal of public grievances. Additional collectors and Sub-Divisional Magistrates in several districts are among other RAS officers who have been transferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/in-major-bureaucratic-rejig-21-ias-56-ips-officers-transferred-in-rajasthan/story-G6yg5m4KABM1Sf97Bfjt3J.html
05-01-2021||Pune||Outbreak crisis turned job losers into entrepreneurs in Pune||Pune: While the nationwide lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus outbreak left many without jobs and no income, some have turned the adversity into opportunity. Filled with the spirit to not give up, they have come up with different ways to sustain this financial bind. Civil engineer-turned- spice master Rahul Nimbalkar and security guard-turned-tea entrepreneur Revan Shinde are two such successful stories. After losing his job as a security guard just before the pandemic hit, 28-year-old Shinde launched his startup to deliver hot fresh tea on people’s doorstep. His venture “Abhimanyu” started with little investment now gives a profit of Rs 55,000- Rs 60,000 per month. He supplies tea and coffee to corporate offices and industrial workers. “After losing the job, I knew I had to do something about it. Most of the employees in offices need tea throughout the day. Amid lockdown, when offices were reopening in phases, staff were scared to go to their regular tea stalls because of the fear of virus spread. I filled the gap by bringing hot hygienic tea to them instead.” Armed with masks, sanitisers, thermos brimming with hot brewed tea, Shinde hit the roads of Pimpri-Chinchwad giving tea to passers-by. He started by supplying tea for free to many offices proving to them that the cuppa was prepared by following all safety measures. He got his clients hooked onto the tea and converted them into regulars. He now has a monthly contract with over 70 offices. According to Shinde, one can order tea by calling him and the hot beverage will be hand delivered within minutes. Now, five persons work under Shinde. “I was working with Shinde at his last job as a security guard. After the job loss, I had no way to feed my family. This new opportunity has saved my family from running into debt,” said Shantaram Navgire, 40, who is working with Shinde. Rahul Nimbalkar, a farmer from Belmachi village in Wai taluka, lost his job as a civil engineer in Pune after the lockdown left him stuck in his village. The 32-year-old started helping his father in turmeric farming. Tired of traders’ arbitrariness, Rahul decided to sell the spice on his own. “We have been growing turmeric for the last seven years. I would help my father in farming on and off, but never paid attention to the monetary side of the trade. This year, however, I noticed that farmers were extorted by traders and middlemen and they ended up getting less profit for their product. The payments were always late and very low. After taking family into confidence, I decided to start my business,” said Nimbalkar, owner of Anand Halad Powder. Nimbalkar started supplying packaged turmeric all over the country. Now, he gets inquiries from abroad and has also supplied spices to the United States. “Social media helped us. We get orders from all over the country through Facebook and WhatsApp. People started sharing about our brand online and that helped us sell around 750kgs of turmeric in the first 100 days of our business,” said Nimbalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/outbreak-crisis-turned-job-losers-into-entrepreneurs-in-pune/story-i3teeZ1NSw8OM5bSZ56jMN.html
05-01-2021||Jaipur||Bird flu samples from Rajasthan’s Kota, Baran found positive; over 600 birds dead||After Jhalawar, the test results have confirmed bird flu in samples sent from Kota and Baran. The test report identifies Avian Influenza subtype H5N8 in the birds, which according to experts, is less infectious. The death of birds is spreading at an alarming speed across Rajasthan. Till Tuesday morning, the tally had reached 625 from 16 of 33 districts. The state has sent 86 samples for testing from 11 districts. Agriculture and animal husbandry minister Lal Chand Kataria said the samples sent from three districts are found positive for Avian Influenza. This virus is spreading in other states also and it is a matter of concern, especially amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “The virus has not affected chickens or eggs yet but all precautions are being taken, looking at the way it has spread among crows. But the positive news is that the samples from Jodhpur have come out negative. Samples from Jhalawar, Kota and Baran have come positive,”he said. Also read: Budget Session likely from January 29, Union Budget on February 1The minister said the area where the flu is found will be sanitised as done for Covid-19. “There will be no ban on the sale of eggs as no impact of flu is found on poultry. Looking to possibilities, awareness is created in advance among the poultry owners and people,” he said. Kataria said the issue is that the state doesn’t have a laboratory to conduct tests and the samples are sent outside. “We want to establish a lab to avoid any delay and have spoken to the government,” he added. Department principal secretary Kunji Lal Meena said only the laboratory in Bhopal is accredited by the government to conduct tests for such diseases. The government has agreed in-principal to encourage regional labs – a proposal to setup one in Jaipur will be sent today. The state has the expertise to run such labs. On the type of flu variant found in state, department secretary Arushi Malik said it is found to be Avian Influenza subtype H5N8, which is not dangerous for people but precautions need to be taken. Also read: Farmers postpone tractor march by a day to January 7A senior department official on anonymity said random chicken faeces have also been sent for testing. The animal husbandry and forest department have already sounded an alert across the state and district collectors are directed to ensure regular monitoring. A control room has been set up at the state and district level; district-wise nodal officers are appointed, who are laying special focus on poultry farms and creating awareness. “As a precaution, the Jhalawar and Pali district administration has imposed section 144 a kilometre around the infected area. The government is also considering sealing Madhya Pradesh border for poultry transportation,” he said. Microbiologist Dr AK Kataria said the virus strain H5N8 is not fatal for humans and only H5N1 is known to be dangerous which leads to pneumonia. The strains, which are considered to be highly pathogenic, are N1, N2, N5, N6 and N9. “The situation can be dealt opting required precautions such as burying dead birds three feet down and away from water sources,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bird-flu-samples-from-rajasthan-s-kota-baran-found-positive-over-600-birds-dead/story-ovMEtS4LdEwcyqBvcKotLO.html
05-01-2021||Pune||PMC: No water supply in Pune on Friday||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is set to carry out repair work at the Parvati plant on Friday as a result there will be no water supply on the day in most parts of the city. Usually, the PMC carries out repair work on Thursday however, this week the civic body has taken up work on Friday as several corporators had requested the civic administration not to cut water supply on Thursday citing several marriages in the city.. According to the press release, PMC will restore water supply on Saturday though it will be of low pressure. The PMC has said that there is an urgent repair work being undertaken and therefore water supply will be affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-no-water-supply-in-pune-on-friday/story-EctB0OVpKCCgOQ8oGgP1MO.html
05-01-2021||City||Strawberry supply dwindles, cost shoots up tp Rs 250/kg||PUNE Supply of strawberries from Mahabaleshwar has dwindled due to a variety of factors and this has pushed the price of the berry to as high as 250 per kg currently Normally, given the seasonal supply of the fruit from the neighbouring hill station, January is the time for the strawberry glut, in terms of availability. However, this year, cue Covid-19 last year, it has not happened. Extended rainfall delayed cultivation and production. Therefore, the price was high in the pick of the season November and December. In the Mahabaleshwar, Panchgani and Wai belt of Satara district, 4,000 farmers produce strawberries. Balasaheb Bhilare, head of the Strawberry Growers Association of Maharashtra, said, “The rate of strawberry is Rs 250 per kg . The rate is high as compared to last year. Due to late cultivation, the fruit has come late into the market. The latest cloudy conditions affected fruit quality and size. Production is not up to the mark. Next month the price will drop as other seasonal fruits like grapes, apples, and watermelon will come into the market,” he said. At least 80 per cent of the year’s strawberry crop in India comes from Mahabaleshwar (Maharashtra); while rest comes from Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. Arvind More, a wholesaler of fruits in Market Yard said, “We sell strawberries in two-kg and one-kg boxes. Size and quality changes the rate. The top quality starts from Rs 200 per box to Rs 350 per box, per kg. There are three types of quality based on size - small, medium and jumbo.” At present, Pune is receiving its maximum quantity of strawberries from Nashik, Bhor and Velha districts. “Normally, the Pune market gets five to six tonnes of strawberries. Right now, we are getting only two tones of strawberries per day,” More added. According to the Strawberry Growers Association of Maharashtra, farmers this year, cultivated only 60 per cent of their usual layout. “Of the total 4,000 acres of farming land, farmers cultivated strawberries only on 2,500 acres of land fearing market uncertainty, bad weather and losses thereof,” an association member said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strawberry-supply-dwindles-cost-shoots-up-tp-rs-250-kg/story-BUe71BH03VUO1RTOJZtcaI.html
05-01-2021||City||Pune metro coaches to arrive in May from Italy||PUNE: The coaches for Pune’s Metro trains are likely to arrive in the city by May this year, said Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation’s managing director Brijesh Dixit, on Tuesday.The Pune Metro has started the trial runs on its corridors and is currently using coaches belonging to the Nagpur metro.Dixit said, “Pune Metro had given the purchase order for 102 aluminium bodied coaches. The Italian company Titagarh Firema, which is a wholly owned Italian subsidiary of Titagarh Wagons, is providing these coaches.”Maha Metro’s public relations officer (PRO), Hemant Sonawane, said, “As per the existing conditions, we are expecting that the coaches will start arriving by May 2021. But, as the Europe is badly affected due to the Covid-19 situation, the arrival might get little delayed. As per the present schedule we are expecting it by May.”Dixit said, “As per contract conditions, the company will manufacture 25 per cent of coaches at their plant in Italy and 75 per cent will be produced and commissioned at the Maha Metro manufacturing plant in Nagpur.”Dixit said, “We had prepared the detailed project report (DPR) for establishing a manufacturing factory for Metro coaches in India. We submit the proposal to the central government. As per that plan, if the manufacturing unit gets established, the coaches for other metros in Indian cities would be provided from this manufacturing hub.”Features of coaches- Aluminium body - CCTV coverage- Emergency/panic button- Passengers able to communicate with driver/operator- Physically challenged passengers can travel seamlessly with space earmarked for wheelchairs- Mobile and laptop charging facility- Coaches will be ergonomically and aerodynamically designed with the coach exterior reflecting the history and culture of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad- Coaches will be fit for a maximum speed of 95kmph - Coaches can accommodate 925 passengers- Lighter and energy efficient with better aesthetics||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-metro-coaches-to-arrive-in-may-from-italy/story-9aEgRquJkZJMnPKrHrxlJM.html
05-01-2021||City||46 lakh trees in the city... and counting; Pune tree census could get city past Bengaluru for no of trees||PUNE The geo-enabled tree census being conducted by Pune the Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now covered as many as 46 lakh trees in the city, even as the private agency conducting the census claims that a “few more” trees are yet to be counted. The PMC had allocated the tender for the tree census to SAAR IT Resources in 2016. According to the Environment Status Report (2019-2020) released by PMC, the census of 41,94,623 trees had been completed, while by the end of 2020, the number has gone up to 46 lakh. During the tree census conducted in 2013, PMC had counted 38.60 trees in the city, which has 350 sq km area and a population of 35 lakh, as per the 2011 census. PMC’s boundary has been extended twice after the tree census began in the city. In 2017, the state government merged 11 villages with the PMC, while recently the process of including 23 more villages into the civic limits has been cleared by the state government. The number of trees in PMC limits is expected to rise exponentially as the tree census in these newly merged villages has not been done yet. Also, apart from these 46 lakhs trees, over three lakh trees from the old limits of the city are yet to be included in the census, said officials from PMC and SAAR IT. “We have now completed the census of 46 lakhs trees in the city. There are 3-4 lakhs trees yet to be included. Right now we do not have any idea by how much this number will grow once we complete the census from these newly merged villages,” said Guruswami Tumale assistant garden superintendent, PMC. According to the officials from SAAR IT, most of the work related to the census was completed in 2018. Due to administrative approvals some patches of census work remain, expected to be finished in the next six months. “Till now we have completed the census of 46 lakh trees in PMC limits. Due to approvals and permissions census of 2-3 lakh trees is remaining. Some properties are closed permanently. Owners are abroad. We can’t go in there to complete the work. Some patches are still to be included. We hope to complete this work in the next six months. I don’t have any idea about the tree census in the newly merged villages. Maybe PMC will float another tender,” said Yogesh Kute, head of geospatial, SAAR IT Resources.“We have the data of a lot of cities. We all know Bengaluru as the green city. If the tree census of these newly added 34 villages is done then Pune will surpass Bangalore,” Kute said. Experts cite many reasons behind Pune’s leap in the number of trees that exist in the city. “Punekars are more aware now. We conduct a lot of tree plantation drives across the hills in Pune. We emphasize the plantations of diverse tree species. We are preparing a budget proposal for the 2020-2021. We aim to complete the tree census of these newly included villages as soon as possible,” said Sandip Kale, nominated member of Vruksha Pradhikaran, PMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/46-lakh-trees-in-the-city-and-counting-pune-tree-census-could-get-city-past-bengaluru-for-no-of-trees/story-nx7TBKtSVRTu0nAaIm6T3N.html
05-01-2021||City||Govt school in Ludhiana shut as officiating in-charge tests positive||Government High School, Lakkar Bazaar, was shut down on Tuesday after a science teacher, who is also its officiating in-charge, tested positive for Covid-19. As the post of the headmaster is lying vacant for the last few months, the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, Navdeep Romana, has been handling the additional charge of the school, apart from the science teacher. After the teacher informed Romana about her Covid test result on Monday night, the latter informed the health department, who asked the teacher to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. The school has been shut down and 11 other teachers have been tested at the civil hospital. Meanwhile, the students of Classes 9 and 10 have been directed to stay at home and revise their syllabus. Romana said a clerk of GHS, Lakkar Bazaar, visited the multipurpose school for some official work recently. Therefore, as a precautionary measure, all their teachers will also get themselves tested.Earlier on January 3, some teachers of the high school were also deputed at the senior secondary school as invigilators for the Punjab State Talent Search Examination. District education officer, elementary-cum-secondary, Rajinder Kaur said, “The teachers, who have been tested, have been asked to stay isolated till the results arrive. Students who came in contact with the teacher concerned should also get themselves tested.” Over the past four months, two principals, 16 teachers, one clerk and a mid-day meal worker at 10 schools have been found infected. Among them were four teachers and a mid-day meal cook at Government Senior Secondary School, Manak Majra, who tested positive in December last year. The same month, three teachers of Government High School, Kailash Nagar, were also found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-school-in-ludhiana-sealed-as-officiating-in-charge-tests-positive/story-4UwVx0gyWImEEvdyqGW1SN.html
05-01-2021||City||‘At the Pune railway station I personally conduct inspections on regular basis’||PUNE Renu Sharma, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Pune railway division speaks about the division’s work last year and its plans for future. When you look back at 2020, what major achievements do believe the Pune railway division has achieved? Safety of the train operations was our main focus. Railway track maintenance and improvement in signalling systems were some of the focus areas we worked hard on last year. As passenger trains were not running during lockdown, so we used our funds accordingly, more for development of our railway tracks and stations than passenger amenities. Overall, train operations and train punctuality improved in the last one year. At present, our focus is on loading of goods. Passenger trains are few, but we are taking all the necessary safety precautions related Covid at the stations. We followed all the guidelines given by the central and state government regarding the train operations. Safety information is displayed at each and every railway station and inside the trains, related to Covid. There was not a single unsafe incident on the railway tracks in the division last year. We voluntarily gave some optional services at the Pune railway station like luggage sanitation machines, face masks, hand sanitisers and other safety equipment for passengers. It is not compulsory for passengers, those who need it they can buy it at the station before travelling. What works were carried out by the division during the lockdown period? As passenger train operations were less, we are now focusing on maintenance and safety works. In this, we have recently completed the work of overhauling of 24 level crossing (LC) gates. For 11 LC gates we inserted boxes for subway roads and at four locations girders were replaced by concrete slabs. Apart from that, the doubling of railway tracks is going on at full speed across the division on various routes. While Pune to Kolhapur electrification work is on, it will be complete this year, 2021. At the Pune railway station I personally conduct inspections on regular basis. We are doing repairing and maintenance of circulating areas and platforms. Also flooring work at the platform No 1 is going on and new benches for passengers are being installed. For safety, we have stopped the entry from the ramp coming inside the station from the main chowk. When passenger movement gradually increases, then that entry gate will be opened as per requirement. What would be your appeal to passengers using the Pune railway station? As the Covid-19 pandemic has taught us a lot about personal hygiene and safety precautions, so every passenger needs to maintain social distance and wear a face mask while travelling by train. Only those people should come to the railway stations that are required to come, or are travelling. Avoid unnecessary crowding. It is our responsibility to keep our railway station and environment clean. Often we see people don’t have common civic sense. The railway station and the trains are our own property, our country’s property and we should treat it properly and keep it clean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-the-pune-railway-station-i-personally-conduct-inspections-on-regular-basis/story-907r6T9dI9v802jwG5CVCM.html
05-01-2021||City||Pune railway division’s business development units keep cash inflows on track||PUNE In a bid to improve train operations and facilities for passengers travelling from the Pune railway division, several new projects were undertaken in 2020. Right from the redevelopment of stations, to completing the electrification work of the Pune–Kolhapur section and working on track safety measures - all were undertaken done by the Pune railway division in 2020.“2020 has been a tough year for all of us due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but we looked at it as an opportunity to develop and improve our infrastructure, and passenger facilities under our division. Accordingly, various works and projects were undertaken. Some were completed, some are in progress and some are proposed. We redeveloped nine major stations in our division last year with improvements in lighting, a building for special toilets, a goods shed and installation of steel benches at all 72 stations in our division. Booking office augmentation was completed at five stations and most importantly, doubling of railway tracks on three major routes is done,” said Renu Sharma, Pune divisional railway manager.Over the last year seven stations platform were fully covered, four new foot overbridges (FOBs) were completed, at eight stations, high-level platforms were built, and at the Pune, Pimpri and Kolhapur stations escalators were installed; at the Miraj station a lift was installed. The Pune railway division has in place infrastructure to provide free Wi-Fi service at 72 stations. As passengers trains were stopped during the lockdown, the division focused on goods transport for revenue generation, for which, the division set-up business development units (BDUs). “These BDUs are for aggressive marketing to boost freight and parcel loading of railways. This unit consisting of senior officers interacts frequently with traders and industry to generate more traffic and revenue for railways. We have identified several goods sheds across the division to allow for traders to work. Also waggon repairing and maintenance work is going on. Our officials approach the traders and other logistic companies to get more trade. This project work is going on a big level now, and whomever we meet - industrial people, politicians or traders - we first tell them about BDU trade. The main reason behind this BDU project is to improve the earnings of the railways which has suffered allot due to Covid-19 pandemic.” added Sharma. Talking about the Pune division work and passengers requirement, Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group, said, “Last year passengers trains were stopped due to Covid-19 pandemic, but now train operations are increasing and accordingly, the passenger crowd is seen at the railway stations. Considering this, railways now need to work as per the new normal, post-Covid, and improve its safety arrangements at the station, in circulating areas and inside the trains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-railway-division-s-business-development-units-keep-cash-inflows-on-track/story-d8Nm0QSytDnN5mVHmR1r7H.html
05-01-2021||City||Speeding truck mows down 10-year-old boy cycling near his house in Ludhiana||A 10-year-old boy cycling near his house was mowed down by a speeding truck at Mullanpur Dakha village on Monday evening.The truck driver, Parminderdeep Singh, of Ratna village, tried to escape after the accident, but was nabbed by onlookers and handed over to the police.Police said the victim, Rivan Singh, was a Class 2 student at a private school in Mullanpur Dakha.His father, Kanwar Naunihal Singh, who works at a filling station in Mullanpur, said Rivan was his only son and older than his daughter. He had bought him a cycle six months ago.On Monday evening, Rivan was cycling in the street near their house, when a speeding truck hit him. Instead of stopping, the truck driver tried to speed away and ran over his son, killing him on the spot.Villagers managed to nab the truck driver and informed the police.“The accused driver has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code following a complaint by the victim’s father. We have also seized the truck, which was loaded with grains. The truck driver was on his way to deliver the grains at a warehouse in Waraich village,” said inspector Prem Singh, station house officer (SHO), Mullanpur Dakha police station.Hardev Singh, a local, said trucks were a huge menace in the area. They had requested the truck unions to ply on Sua Road to reach the warehouse, but truck drivers still took the roads in the residential area. He appealed to the police to ban the entry of heavy vehicles in the residential streets to avoid more mishaps.Killer trucks running amokJanuary 3: A 20-year-old man was killed and his friend was seriously injured after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle and drove off on RK Road near Cheema ChowkDecember 31: A 17-year-old boy died, while his parents and sister suffered injuries as their car crashed into a stationary truck on the national highway near Pawa village of Sahnewal. They were returning to Delhi after paying obeisance at Golden Temple in AmritsarDecember 20: A speeding truck claimed the lives of two young factory workers in a hit-and-run accident near Ganpati Chowk, Dhandhari. The victims were on a motorcycle and were out to buy something to eat during their night shift at a factoryDecember 10: A 19-year-old woman died and her father suffered severe injuries after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle in Sahnewal. After the accident, the driver of the truck managed to escape, leaving his vehicle on the spotDecember 6: A speeding truck ran over a man and his wife on a bridge over Sutlej river near Ladhowal. The victims were going to Nawanshahr on their motorcycle to visit their relatives. The truck driver was nabbed by passers-by.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-truck-mows-down-10-year-old-boy-cycling-near-his-house-in-ludhiana/story-sYZr9v3IVWpm720MvN9opI.html
05-01-2021||Kolkata||Single-screen theatre owners urge Bengal govt to allow 100% occupancy in halls||Single-screen owners in West Bengal on Tuesday urged the state government to allow 100 per cent occupancy in theatres, up from the current 50 per cent, citing poor box office returns as the reason.Owner of a prominent single-screen theatre and senior member of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA), Ratan Saha, said producers in Bollywood are hesitant to release big-banner films in Bengal, given the low turnout of audience at the cinema halls.“Many hall owners are now regretting their decision to open theatres in October. There had been several releases since Durga puja, but nothing changed the scenario. Even Christmas and New Year failed to draw audiences. This has made the producers and distributors jittery,” Saha told PTI.“We think removing the 50 per cent-occupancy cap will certainly help us recover the cost of running theatres to an extent. It will further boost confidence of the producers,” Saha, also the director of a local multiplex chain, stated.He said that a formal request to sanction full occupancy in theatres has been made to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and cinema hall owners have agreed to abide by all Covid-19 protocols to ensure safety of people.Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya Cinema, one of the iconic movie theatres in the city, said the entertainment industry is bleeding.“We haven’t registered more than 5 per cent occupancy even during Christmas-New Year. If the entertainment industry has to sustain, this cannot continue...” Dutta said 100 per cent occupancy should be allowed in cinema halls to help them stay afloat.“There has been a drop in active COVID-19 cases; almost everything has opened up with precautions. Then why do cinemas still suffer? We are implementing all safety guidelines,” he said.An EIMPA official said around 120 of the 250 single screen theatres are currently operational, the rest have closed shop, and some permanently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/single-screen-theatre-owners-urge-bengal-govt-to-allow-100-occupancy-in-halls/story-hubNOGiF56aRdKhWwGWI9M.html
05-01-2021||Pune||Five steps to rebate on property tax in Pune||Step 1:The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is offering a five per cent tax rebate for properties with an operable rain water harvesting system and/or solar water heating system. Housing societies or homes with either of the two facilities are liable to get the discount.Step 2:Citizens need to submit a no-dues certificate for the property. This certificate is available online on the property tax department’s website.Step 3:Citizens or housing societies need to submit bills showing purchase of material for rain water harvesting system and/or solar water heating system. These systems and the certificate must be certified by an authorised consultant.Step 4:If the housing society is applying for the rebate, it should give details of each flat owner residing in the society with the property number. The society will need to submit documents showing the same.Step 5:After submitting the documents, PMC officials will conduct a site inspection. If the systems are operational then the rebate will be granted.To boost rainwater harvesting, solar systems and garbage processing within the premises, PMC is giving a rebate to citizens. The condition is only that the system should be active and in a running condition. Those having these facilties should apply to PMC in the stipulated format, says Vilas Kanade, PMC property tax department head.For more information, visit https://www.pmc.gov.in/sites/default/files/Dept/rainharvesting.pdfHelpline 020-25501000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-steps-to-rebate-on-property-tax-in-pune/story-TDdnI9mc0jRBzez38ixFsN.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||HP steps up Covid testing after tourist surge||The Himachal Pradesh health department has stepped up testing for Covid-19 with tourist arrivals breaking 20-year-old records during Christmas and New Year celebrations and after widespread snowfall in the higher reaches. Though hotel occupancy has gone up to 75%, a welcome change from 15% last year when the Covid-19 lockdown hit the industry hard, the visitor influx raises concerns about an infection spike and other problems.Traffic jams are frequent, especially on the Kalka-Shimla and Mandi-Manali highways.Hotel staff tested“Medical teams have been constantly conducting rapid testing of hotel staff in Shimla and so far only two staff members have tested positive at the government run guest house at Willy’s park. We are trying to keep the sampling rate high to detect as many cases as possible. Hotel owners have been requested to get their staff tested on priority,” said Surekha Chopra, chief medical officer here.Police data shows that more than 1.4 lakh vehicles entered Shimla town from the barrier at Shoghi during the last 10 days. The biggest traffic inflow was reported on December 31 for New Year Celebrations with 18,000 vehicles,mainly from Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh, entering the city. On January 1, 2021, it was 15,000 after a snowfall forecast.20-year-old tourist arrivals record broken Tourism officials also estimate that more than five lakh tourists visited Shimla between December 25 and January 4, 2021, breaking a 20-year-old tourist arrivals record.High arrivals were also reported from Kullu-Manali, where Rohtang Tunnel has become a biggest attraction, Dharamshala –McLeodganj, Dalhousie, Khajjiar and Kasauli and Chail. “Tourists are thronging Shimla in large numbers since December 22 because of which the industry is slowly recovering from the huge setback of the total lockdown since March 22, 2020. Hotel owners are ensuring that all standard operating procedures are followed and are providing details of guests to the tourism department. Till now we have not received any news of cases in hotels or restaurants,” said Sanjay Sood, president of the Shimla Hoteliers and Restaurateurs association . Himachal Pradesh till date has recorded 55,811 Covid-19 infections with 934 fatalities, the maximum in Shimla with 258 deaths followed by 191 in Kangra and 119 in Mandi. Active cases have come down to 1,646 after while recoveries have reached 53,180 at a rate of 95.3%. To date, tests have been conducted in the state. The new cases have grown by 0.3% in the last one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-steps-up-covid-testing-after-tourist-surge/story-A4E37hz9n0mfbqLazNAXBK.html
05-01-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Why ‘gender budget’ is key to Pune’s well-being||Come the New Year and we await the draft municipal budget from the civic administration. It is usually presented around mid-January. This year, newspapers report a shortfall in revenue, resulting in a smaller kitty for new projects. All the more reason funds should be carefully allocated, especially for those who have been worst affected. By law, at least 5% is supposed to be a “Gender Budget”. On January 3, Savitribai Phule’s Jayanti, political and social leaders extol women’s empowerment. How should the municipal budget back these words? I asked Kiran Moghe, Poornima Chikarmane and Lakshmi Narayanan, who have for many years been strengthening livelihoods of waste-picker women and domestic workers. Women workers, such as waste collectors, domestic workers, street vendors, and construction workers, who are in public spaces for their work, are estimated to number at least three lakh in Pune. They provide critical services to the city, its neighbourhoods and families. Supporting them can help improve the resilience of our society as a whole. Marginalised women need a place to register for work and welfare, build skills, hold meetings to discuss and plan their work. A budget to create such Women Workers’ Facilitation Centres across the city would help their cause. Secondly, there is a need to ensure income support and work continuity. For example, public procurement of products like uniforms, office supplies, and mid-day meals from self-help groups of home-based workers. Continuing to contract SWaCH for doorstep waste collection provides stability of income, supports recovery of recyclables and helps create a circular sustaining economy. Studies show that poor women are more dependent on public transport, as well as walking and cycling for work and domestic chores. In the PMC 2021-22 budget, we would like to see allocations for street development using the Urban Street Design Guidelines, and implementation of the Pune Cycle Plan. Good street design would also make space for street vendors, an important livelihood sector in our city. Lakh ko Pachas, a recent campaign highlighted the need for 50 buses per lakh population. By rights, Pune should have at least 3,500 buses on road by next year. PMC and PCMC must provide a large grant to PMPML for the bus-fleet size we need, to avoid dangerous air pollution, road accidents and congestion. Working women and families also need creches and children’s centres near their homes and work places, near or at schools. How wonderful it would be to have well-run learning and play spaces, for children to be cared for before and after school hours, even as we wait for schools to reopen. Free or highly subsidised, not dependent on uncertain earnings from informal work, this is a critical service that PMC could enable. It’s not enough to just make budgetary allocations. Three crores were allocated for creches a couple of years ago, but never spent! We need more than noble pronouncements! Could a city with a multi-thousand crore public budget, generating several billion dollars worth of GDP every year, provide such services and facilities? After all, behind Pune’s success as a city, partly lies the hard work of its informal sector women workers. I also want to say what we don’t need in the civic budget - flyovers taking funds away from buses, cycle tracks and footpaths; conversion of water streams into concrete drains, increasing flash floods and destroying biodiversity. We don’t need tunnels through hills destroying local groundwater catchment areas and making us steal water from neighbouring villages. Let’s hope the civic budget will be spent wisely to enhance public well-being, support economic recovery, and environment conservation! Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education.She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-why-gender-budget-is-key-to-pune-s-well-being/story-pyvL8MwpKwm8D9sqYCIE7M.html
05-01-2021||Patna||Bihar prepared for Covid-19 vaccination drive, says CM Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Tuesday the state is prepared for the coronavirus vaccination and doses would be administered to healthcare, frontline workers and those above 50 years of age on a priority basis. He added that the state government would abide by the Centre’s guidelines and conduct the vaccination effectively.“We’re prepared for Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar. It will be given to the healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 50 years on priority. We will be following the central guideline & will conduct the vaccination effectively,” Kumar said while speaking to reporters.Also Read| 20 more people in India test positive for new UK Covid-19 strain; total reaches 58Earlier, the chief minister asked health officials to keep up the high rate of testing. Reviewing the functioning of the state’s health department, Kumar further told officials that vaccination drive should be accomplished with all alertness in accordance with the ‘pulse polio drive’ which saw Bihar getting rid of the disease. We're prepared for COVID19 vaccination in Bihar. It'll be given to the healthcare workers, frontline workers & people above 50 years on priority. We'll be following the central guideline & will conduct the vaccination effectively: Chief Minister Nitish Kumar pic.twitter.com/WZetTClyKEThe state cabinet on December 15 had approved the inoculation of the entire population free of cost once the vaccine becomes available.Bihar has registered nearly 254,000 coronavirus cases till now of which 1,408 people have died and 247,484 have recovered, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.Also Read| India reports 16,375 fresh Covid-19 cases, 201 deathsSchools and colleges in the state opened on Monday after a gap of more than nine months. Physical classes have been allowed for students of classes 9-12 and for final year students in colleges. However, Education department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar told news agency PTI that the classes would operate only at half the strength of total students and all Covid-19 protocols would have to be followed strictly.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry during a press briefing on Tuesday said that the total active cases in India were less than 250,000 and continued to decline. “Forty-four per cent of active cases are in hospital with moderate or severe symptoms needing regular care. Fifty-six per cent of cases are very mild or asymptomatic & are in home isolation. The overall burden on health delivery structure declined appreciably on account of Covid in India,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-prepared-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-says-cm-nitish-kumar/story-79chYeTTM8CftAZkjaXydJ.html
05-01-2021||Pune||‘Blackspots are a scientific study on police record; it is time action is taken’||She has been actively campaigning for safe road and blackspot free roads in the city with special focus on Western suburbs of Pune What is your view of the issues related to the traffic “blackspots”? We have been facing several issues related to accident and traffic jams at these blackspots on city roads and there is a need for complete transformation of these areas by scientific application of available traffic knowledge. The traffic police, PMC, PMRDA, district collector and citizens must come together to solve these pressing issues. Massive and intense social awareness and public awareness campaigns should be conducted with the help of students and NGOs. Other government bodies like the regional transport office (RTO), traffic engineers and experts must be involved to reduce accidents and fatalities. Blackspots are a scientific study on record of the police and it is time action is taken to reduce the accidents. What ails the rectification process? There is no plan in action to curb the menace of growing accidents. Accidents are regularly taking place in East, West, North and South Pune where the blackspots have been identified. The police have pointed out all the flaws, but no action is forthcoming at the spots. Measures to curb rash and negligent driving, inculcating traffic sense and self-discipline are the need of the hour. What does the Aundh Mohalla Committee plan to do? We are going to take up the issue with the police, state and central government and ensure that technology and other necessary assistance is sought for reduction of accidents at these blackspots. We believe that blackspots are not good for the city. We need smooth, accident-free roads for our citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/blackspots-are-a-scientific-study-on-police-record-it-is-time-action-is-taken/story-MCoABos7adX6zTfDUprWuK.html
05-01-2021||Pune||White marks at blackspots: Hope for change?||Twenty-three black spots – defined by the city police as specific roads and/or areas were accidents repeatedly take place – mark Pune’s topography entering 2021. The threat to lives of commuters and pedestrians at these 23 spots, several of them major chowks and thoroughfares in the city, is real. The Undri chowk is one such blackspot, and has been for the past decade. The panchayat samiti and gram panchayat members, including the sitting legislator, claim to have held a meeting with the public works department (PWD) to execute a series of changes to make the chowk safer for traffic. The changes include, land acquisition to widen the chowk, completion of cementing the roads and erection of traffic safety signs. Undri chowk connects the Katraj-Kondhwa-Mantarwadi bypass and therefore sees heavy traffic throughout the day. The chowk is a strategic junction which connects Khadi machine chowk, Kondhwa Budruk, Pisoli, Wadachiwadi and Saswad. The poor road condition generates clouds of dust that block motorists’ vision. Local residents allege that the condition of the chowk has made their lives miserable. A spot visited by HT found huge potholes on the road made commuting difficult. There was a constant stream of heavy vehicles which led to severe congestion at Undri chowk throughout the day. No traffic police were seen at the junction at 12 noon on January 3, 2021. Undri village, spread over a 10km area has a population of two lakh and was merged with the PMC in 1997. It was then de-merged in 2002 after objections were raised by the local gram panchayat. Panchayat Samiti deputy chairperson Sachin Ghule said, “We have developed an elaborate plan for decongesting the chowk and making it safe for commuting. Recently a meeting was held and the PWD has agreed to pay pending dues to the tune of Rs 7 crore to the contractor and he will construct the road with all the safety guidelines given by the traffic department.” Shweta Ghule Patil, former sarpanch of Undri village, said, “The chowk is prone to accidents and we have been following up with the government authorities. The PWD has committed that work will start soon. Authorities have been requested to make immediate changes to the chowk and permanently solve the traffic congestion and accidents issue at the chowk.” Jawatmal Solanki, a businessman who has a shop at the chowk, said, “Dust is a serious issue and I am taking tablets due to complications arising out of dust due to heavy vehicles and traffic jams. We clean the chowk with tanker waters by spending from our pockets to avoid dust-related diseases.” Prashant Inamdar, convenor, Pedestrian First, said, “The blackspot areas see very high traffic flow. There is a complete lack of planning which has led to this haphazard development of roads leading to accidents and fatalities. It is time for penal action including prosecution of concerned officials.” The Mai Mangeshkar chowk in Warje, also on the traffic police’s black-spot list is prone to heavy traffic jams due to traffic coming onto the chowk from the service road. There is no traffic signage at the location. Commuters find it difficult to locate the direction in which other commuters are moving, leading to accidents. In a major accident at the Mai Mangeshkar chowk, an oil tanker exploded on the connecting flyover on December 5. The chowk led the list of blackspots for traffic accidents in the city released by the traffic branch in 2018. Commuters habitually violating rules to travel short distances is also causing a number of accidents. Social activist Vaishali Patkar said, “The chowk has become a major death trap and there is little the government authorities are doing to clear traffic congestion and reduce the growing number of accidents in the area. The rules of traffic are not being followed by commuters and we need greater presence of traffic police at the chowk. Also, the CCTVs must be activated to ensure that the violators don’t go unpunished. The citizen groups of the area must work closely with police and civic authorities.” Area resident Virendra Chitrav said, “The service road is two-way, but that is a huge problem leading to congestion resulting from undisciplined driving. There is an auto-stand on the said road and two-wheeler parking is also a major issue. Parking areas must be earmarked properly and proper dividers must be in place.” Inamdar futher added, “There is a need for holistic planning for the resolution of the prevalent problems at the accident blackspots. Citizens’ lives are precious and as taxpayers, it is the need of the hour for all the departments to come together to put an end to this menace forever.” DCP (Traffic) Rahul Srirame said, “We will study these areas and based on new citizen inputs will add to the list of blackspots and ensure the earlier blackspots are successfully removed. Our efforts are to have no blackspots in the future, which we will achieve by coordinating with all the agencies of the government involved in traffic work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/white-marks-at-blackspots-hope-for-change/story-AGZMM4ohewobSUSHaAcnyH.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||NCS conducting surveys to study quakes in Delhi-NCR: MoES||The National Centre for Seismology (NCS) has started a geophysical survey over the Delhi region for accurate assessment of seismic hazards, following tremors in the NCR last year.The NCS will also carry out analysis and interpretation of satellite imageries and geological field investigations for locating the faults in the Earth’s surface, the Ministry of Earth Sciences said. Both the field surveys, geophysical and geological, are expected to be completed by March 31.Further, the seismic network in Delhi and surrounding areas has been strengthened after the tremors in 2020 to improve the accuracy of epicentre location to 2 kilometres, the MoES said.The NCS is a body under the Ministry of Earth Sciences. Delhi experienced four small earthquakes during April – August 2020, with the first event of magnitude 3.5 on April 12 in the northeastern boundary of Delhi. These earthquakes were followed by a dozen micro-events and a few aftershocks. Soon after the second event of magnitude 3.4 on May 10, the MoES held a detailed discussion with experts to address the ongoing earthquake activity. “It was felt that it is necessary to characterise the earthquake sources in Delhi and surroundings through strengthening of local seismic network and delineation of sub- surface features such as fault, which may cause earthquakes. A fault is a fracture or discontinuity in a volume of rock,” the MoES said.The seismic network in Delhi and its surrounding areas was strengthened by deploying 11 temporary additional stations covering the known faults in the region to precisely locate the earthquakes and their aftershocks for a better understanding of the causative sources. Data from these stations are received in near real-time and used for locating the micro and small earthquakes in the region. “A geophysical survey, namely, Magneto-telluric (MT) is also being conducted over the Delhi region,” the MoES said. Magneto-telluric (MT) is a geophysical method which uses natural time variation of the Earth’s magnetic and electic fields to understand geological structure and processes. These measurements are being conducted across three major seismic sources, namely the Mahendragarh-Dehradun Fault (MDF), Sohna Fault (SF) and Mathura Fault (MF). This will help ascertain the presence of fluid, which generally enhances the possibility of triggering of earthquakes. This survey is carried out in collaboration with the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), Dehradun. Analysis and interpretation of satellite imageries and geological field investigations for locating the faults are also being carried out, the MoES said. “This information along with the results of MT survey will be useful in accurate assessment of seismic hazard. It can also be used for designing the earthquake resistant buildings, industrial units and critical structures, like hospitals and schools,” the MOES said. The study is being conducted by the NCS in collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ncs-conducting-surveys-to-study-quakes-in-delhi-ncr-moes/story-WgZe4punD8dXujoJxA4C8N.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Centre should provide free Covid vaccine to poor: Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government has demanded free Covid-19 vaccination for the poor. The state government has said it would raise the issue during a video conference with the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on January 7.State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday that people below the poverty line cannot afford the vaccine even if its two doses are priced at Rs500 and so, the Centre should bear the cost for them. “People below the poverty line, persons with comorbidity and population above 60 years should be given the vaccine for free. We are going to raise this demand during our conference with the MoHFW on Thursday. Though there is no clarity on it as yet, we believe that it has been made free for health workers, frontline workers by the Centre. The poor people too should get it for free,” he said.Also read | 10 states with most number of fresh Covid-19 infectionsTope said that epidemic diseases and their handling is the responsibility of the Centre and the state has followed all its instructions and protocol right from the beginning of the outbreak. “For the past three months, the Centre has not been providing us equipment like ventilators, RT-PCR kits, and tablets like Remdesivir and Tocilozumab. The state has borne the expense of making them available through public health services...We have also been bearing the establishment cost for the drive including training of the vaccinators, storage of the vaccine. Now, the Centre should take the responsibility of cost of the vaccine for the poor,” he added.The health minister said that the state is going to conduct dry run for vaccination in all the 36 districts, including Mumbai, on January 8. “Maharashtra is all set for the vaccination, which we expect to be rolled out in the next 8-10 days. We have a cold chain system in place, 16,000 vaccinators have been trained and are ready for the drive. 780,000 health care workers have already been registered on CoWIN app, while people from other categories, like frontline workers, are being registered by the respective departments. We are all set to roll out the programme once it is announced by the Centre. We expect the release of the vaccine doses by the Centre in proportion of the registrations done,” Tope said.He said that in the wake of the second strain of the virus found in some of the UK returnees in Maharashtra, the state has decided to strictly follow the quarantine protocol. As per the new guidelines, asymptomatic passengers found with second stain of virus will have to go through 14 to 21 days of the quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-should-provide-free-covid-vaccine-to-poor-maharashtra/story-AwemlKdXaa3ddkDqyRihPO.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula poultry samples inconclusive, Jalandhar lab sends team to Barwala for bird flu retest||The cause of the death of more than 1 lakh birds in the poultry hub of Barwala in Haryana’s Panchkula district since December remains a mystery two days after 80 samples were sent to a Jalandhar laboratory, prompting the authorities to collect samples afresh on Tuesday. Since the 80 blood samples of poultry sent by the state animal husbandry department to the Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory in Jalandhar were inconclusive, a team from the RDDL arrived at Barwala to take fresh samples. Five carcasses were also sent to the laboratory to know the cause of the deaths. Also read: Zoos on alert across the country after bird flu deaths in HimachalNOT TAKING ANY CHANCES: LAB DIRECTOR RDDL director Dr Mohinder Pal Singh said: “On Sunday, we received four samples of birds. However, we couldn’t establish the cause of death of birds in such large numbers from the four samples.” “As bird flu has spread in adjoining areas, we don’t want to take any risk. We are taking the death of the large number of poultry birds seriously. We have sent a four-member team of experts to Barwala to collect fresh samples. The reports will be out on Wednesday evening,” he said. IF BIRD FLU, SAMPLES TO BE SENT TO BHOPAL The director said that in case the samples tested positive for bird flu then according to protocol, the samples will be sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for confirmation, as it is the final authority to declare any kind of virus. Considered Asia’s second largest poultry hub, with a daily production of more than 1 crore eggs and employing 15,000 workers at around 120 farms, the region has seen the death of over 1 lakh chickens in 10 farms over the past few days. Bird flu or avian influenza can spread to humans and can trigger a person-to-person transmission. While no updated mortality figures have been shared by the Panchkula administration, an official, requesting anonymity, said: “Deaths have increased manifold.” A poultry farmer in Barwala, who did not wish to be named, said over 1 lakh chickens had died at his farm alone since December 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-poultry-samples-inconclusive-jalandhar-lab-sends-team-to-barwala-for-bird-flu-retest/story-xqdDFf1M6T4XWpHQINzLlN.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain blocked, rain worsens traffic woes||The routes around Delhi’s borders remained restricted on Tuesday as farmers continued to protest against the three new farm laws.The Ghazipur and Chilla borders connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad and Noida remain partially blocked with only one carriageway open for those leaving Delhi. At both the borders, traffic going towards Delhi has been diverted, with farmers blocking one carriageway.Also Read: ‘Farmers were adamant on demand for repeal of farm laws,’ says Union minister Narendra Tomar on what happened in talksThe Singhu and Tikri borders, however, continue to remain completely blocked since November.A senior Delhi traffic police official said that the rains in the city on Monday and Tuesday, along with the traffic restriction, worsened snarls in other parts of the city.“There was water logging in many places and arterial stretches around Ashram, Kalindi Kunj, Sarita Vihar, Noida Link Road, Akshardham flyover were jammed in the morning hours,” said the officer. The Nizamuddin railway bridge, ITO, Teen Murti Marg, Sardar Patel Marg and Dhaula Kuan also saw traffic snarls on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sindhu-tikri-borders-remain-completely-blocked-rain-worsens-traffic-woes/story-CvLvGCiKaAZSmstHiKDsNO.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Light overnight drizzle recorded in and around Mumbai||Light spells of rain were reported overnight across Mumbai and its neighbouring areas late Monday night and early Tuesday morning. Cloudy skies continued to reduce visibility owing to a cyclonic circulation spreading from Punjab to the Arabian Sea.Parts of Mulund, Vikhroli and Thane saw light drizzle early Tuesday morning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). IMD has predicted that south Konkan, south-central Maharashtra and some areas of Marathwada are likely to see thunderstorm and light rainfall for the next four to five days. However, Mumbai is expected to see cloudy skies but no significant rainfall is predicted over this period. Also Read: Heavy snowfall warning for parts of Western Himalayas; thunderstorms likely in plains today: IMD“An active Western Disturbance lies as a middle and upper level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan and neighbouring areas with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and its neighbourhood at lower levels. A north-south zone of wind confluence continues to exist from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with strong interaction between the southwesterlies in association with the above Western Disturbance and lower level moist southeasterlies,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 21.5 degrees Celsius, which was 2.2 degrees above normal. Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 20.5 degrees Celsius, which was 3.4 degrees above normal.Air quality continued to remain poor on Monday with an overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator—of 252 (poor). The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. Safar categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 stations at which the air quality was measured, Mazagaon breathed the worst air with an AQI of 323 (very poor) followed by Navi Mumbai where the AQI measured 306 (very poor).“AQI of Mumbai for Monday was poor because of low dispersion, while the change in wind direction will increase the amount of clean marine air leading to poor to moderate AQI for Mumbai for the next two days,” said a spokesperson from Safar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/light-overnight-drizzle-recorded-in-and-around-mumbai/story-EQJuIlLjPlfUoL0TfDq5LK.html
05-01-2021||City||Continuous snowfall disrupts Kashmir’s air, road connectivity for 3rd consecutive day||Continuous snowfall disrupted Kashmir’s air and road connectivity with the rest of the country for the third consecutive day on Tuesday.The Kashmir Valley is under the influence of a Western Disturbance (WD), according to the India meteorological Department (IMD). There has been heavy snowfall in South Kashmir for the last three days which has led to the closure of the Srinagar -Jammu national highway. At the Jawahar Tunnel, close to four feet of snow was recorded leaving hundreds of vehicles stranded. Since Tuesday morning, almost all parts of Kashmir are witnessing moderate to heavy snowfall.Morning flights have also been cancelled at Srinagar airport due to fresh snowfall.“Today [Tuesday] weather at Srinagar airport not looks favourable for flight operation, Although @Aaisnrairport team working on it but it is requested to avoid inconvenience before reaching Airport, contact with concern airlines for status and then move,” the Srinagar airport handle tweeted.Today weather at Srinagar airport not looks favourable for flight operation , Although @Aaisnrairport team working on it but it is requested to avoid inconvenience before reaching Airport, contact with concern airlines for status and then move.@AAI_Official @aaiRedNRThe heavy snowfall has prompted the Jammu and Kashmir Disaster Management Authority to issue medium and low level avalanche warning for the upper reaches of avalanche-prone areas of Jammu and Kashmir. “Medium level avalanche warning has been issued for upper reaches of Poonch, Rajouri, Ramban, Jawahar Tunnel, Doda, Kishtwar, Anantnag, Kulgam, Kupwara and Tanghdar. Similarly, low level avalanche warning has been issued for upper reaches of Gulmarg, Gurez, Kanzalwan, and Sonmarg,” said an official of the disaster management authority.The tourist spot of Gulmarg received fresh one foot of snow while Sonmarg and Pahalgam received two to three feet of snow. The fresh snowfall has caused water logging at several places in Srinagar. Though the administration has set up several control rooms to clear snow from the roads and highways, at many places the locals complained that roads are yet to be cleared, especially in south Kashmir.“It feels like there is more than 10 inches of snow in the city. This time also its heavily snowing in the city,” said Shabir Ahmad, a Srinagar resident.According to IMD, Srinagar witnessed a minimum temperature of -0.2 degrees Celsius and a night temperature of 12.3 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/continuous-snowfall-disrupts-kashmir-s-air-road-connectivity-for-3rd-consecutive-day/story-W7onvYkg2ojnZKBmzsvpSM.html
05-01-2021||City||Akhilesh tweaks vaccine remark, says never raised questions on scientists||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday clarified that he had only questioned the preparedness of the governments at the Centre and the state in the Covid vaccination campaign and had not cast doubts on scientists, researchers, experts, or volunteers engaged in vaccine development.Yadav, who had triggered a controversy earlier last Saturday by saying that he would not take “BJP vaccine”, went on to say that “BJP (people) should get vaccinated first”.This was his third successive attack on the BJP-- the party leads the government at the Centre and also runs the state-- in as many days over the Covid vaccine. On Sunday, he had said the government should not treat the immunisation campaign as a cosmetic event but make concrete arrangements for it before the launch.At a press conference at the party headquarters on the sidelines of a Samajwadi Party Vyapar Sabha meeting here, Yadav said, “We do not trust the BJP’s decisions. The BJP government is in the habit of doing ornamental work, turning everything into an event. I questioned the preparedness for vaccination. The government is doing a dry run, but where are the priority lists, charts and protocol for the vaccination drive? Other countries made priority lists —frontline workers, 80+ citizens, 60+ citizens and so on. What is the BJP government’s plan?”He also asked, “When will the poor people get the vaccine, in one year, two years or three years? Would they get it free? They should get it free.”When it was pointed to him that people were expressing apprehension over the vaccine’s possible reactions, Yadav said, “The government should dispel doubts, if any. Yes, people are raising such doubts... Social media is flooded with it, other leaders and political parties are also asking questions.”The Samajwadi Party chief also attacked the Yogi Adityanath government in the state over the Ghaziabad crematorium tragedy that has claimed 25 lives so far. “This government is responsible for it. This is how they build structures...A compensation of Rs2 lakh (to kin of victims) is meagre, the government must give Rs50 lakh each instead,” he said.Yadav also hinted at having no alliance with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for the 2022 UP assembly elections. “It (AAP) can be considered a big party. It has a government, a chief minister and MPs. We will not ally with any major political party, we will ally with smaller parties,” he said.The SP chief said if his party came to power after the 2022 assembly polls, it would make some special arrangement for protection of businessmen in the state.“Our businessmen raised important questions because they suffered the most during the lockdown. They did not get support from the banks and the government. They were forced to pay electricity bills even when factories were shut...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-vaccine-questioned-govt-s-preparedness-not-scientists-says-akhilesh/story-KIUmJGVH16Anm9lhEso0TP.html
05-01-2021||City||5 booked for torching house of family that converted to Hinduism in UP’s Raebareli||Five people have been booked in Uttar Pradesh’s Raebareli district for allegedly torching the house of a Muslim family that converted to Hinduism in September.Police superintendent Shlok Kumar said the preliminary probe suggests that Dev Prakash, the convert, and Mohammad Tahir, the main accused, also had a dispute over a piece of land. “We are probing the case from all angles. Tahir and his brother have been detained and are being questioned,” he said. Kumar added a first information report has been filed and the accused have been booked for mischief by fire or explosive substance and rioting.Police said the family managed to escape even as the house was gutted and that security forces have been deployed in the area.Also read | UP: Dalit family claims beaten up by village strongmen for using hand pump, leaves homeMohammed Anwar converted to Hinduism last year along with his three children and renamed himself, Dev Prakash. Police said Prakash is a single-parent as his first wife died and his three subsequent marriages did not work.In his police complaint, Prakash alleged that former village head Tahir and his associates were upset over his conversion.He added he saw Tahir and his brother, Rehan, setting the house on fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-booked-for-torching-house-of-family-that-converted-to-hinduism-in-up-s-raebareli/story-YyZQwNxWcc81jpde2l0YGP.html
05-01-2021||Lucknow||224 former bureaucrats, judges, veterans back UP’s anti-conversion ordinance||As many as 224 former bureaucrats, judges, and veterans under the banner of Forum of Concerned Citizens have written an open letter backing the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, saying it applies to everyone and safeguards the dignity of women.The letter came days after another group of 104 former bureaucrats demanded the “illegal ordinance be withdrawn forthwith” while calling Uttar Pradesh the “epicentre of the politics of hate, division and bigotry” amid reports that the executive order was being used to target interfaith couples.Also Read: 3 men framed in false ‘love jihad’ case: CopsFormer Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Yogendra Narain, who is one of the 224, said there is nothing anti-constitutional about the ordinance. “It does not ban religious conversions or interfaith marriages. It is meant to regulate them. Also, it cannot be called divisive as it is applicable to people of all religions and does not single out anyone.”Former bureaucrats Sarvesh Kaushal, Dharam Vir, former Delhi High Court chief justice Rajendra Menon and former ambassador Lakshmi Puri are among signatories to the statement.The Forum of Concerned Citizens criticised the 104 former bureaucrats, including former national security advisor Shivshankar Menon, for asking Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to re-learn the Constitution. “...[it] is irresponsible... This group seems to have usurped to themselves the constitutional power of judicial review to put every law of the land to the test of their own whims. ...they are doing [a] monumental disservice to India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/224-former-bureaucrats-judges-veterans-back-up-s-anti-conversion-ordinance/story-Aun3DIsLvFhnoixYkk6nmK.html
05-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal to launch project today; free eye-care for all over next five years||The Mamata Banerjee administration would be launching on Tuesday a project to provide free eye-care to millions of people across West Bengal over the next five years. The project, Choker Alo (Light of the Eye), is to provide free eye-care, including cataract surgery, spectacles and eye check-up, to all. The name and logo of the project was decided by Banerjee herself. “We are launching a project from January 5 under which at least 2 million poor and elderly people can undergo free cataract surgery. We would also provide free spectacles to around 825,000 people,” the chief minister said while speaking to media persons from the state secretariat. Free eye check-up would be provided to all students in government schools across the state and around four lakh students would be provided with free glasses. Children visiting anganwadi centres can also get free eye check-up, so that eye problems could be detected at an early stage. More than 300 eye surgeons and around 400 optometrists would be working on this project. “In the first phase starting Tuesday, camps would be held in around 1,200 villages and around 120 primary health centres in cities and towns in the state. Later all villages, towns and cities would be brought under the project,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-to-launch-project-today-free-eye-care-for-all-by-2025/story-AYa8mO1D7CFlRxa2eLl5RN.html
05-01-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 4 fresh cases of new Covid strain recorded in Meerut||Four more persons were found to be infected with the new strain of Covid-19 in the city on Monday. They include parents and relatives of the 2-year-old girl who was found infected with the new strain last week.The total number of cases of new Covid-19 strain is now five in the city and health officials are taking every possible precaution to isolate the infected persons. Divisional surveillance officer Dr Ashok Taliyan confirmed that the 2-year-old’s parents and relatives, one of whom is a 15-year-old, have tested positive for the new strain. He added that the report of one more relative is awaited. Also Read: India has 38 cases of ‘highly infectious’ UK Covid-19 strain. Check state wise list hereSamples of 13 persons who returned from the UK were sent for testing to a laboratory in Delhi. Seven have tested negative. Meanwhile, health officials and district administration have sealed the area where the new cases were found for 14 days. “We have identified persons who came in contact with these infected persons and they would also be admitted in isolation in order to prevent further spread of the virus,” said Dr Taliyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-4-fresh-cases-of-new-covid-strain-recorded-in-meerut/story-UnzJSeZcIjURctnBQsHSAJ.html
05-01-2021||City||Two succumb to mishap injuries in Mohali||Four days after meeting with an accident at two different places on Airport Road, two persons succumbed to injuries on Monday.In the first case on December 31, Manu Mishra, 53, a plumber of Dhanas, was coming from Zirakpur with his son Kapil on a bike, when a car hit them from the rear near the airport roundabout injuring him. He was rushed to PGIMER, where he succumbed to injuries.In the second case, Ismail Khan was going back home to Manuli, when a car hit his car near JLPL square in Sector 82. He was rushed to GMCH-32, where he succumbed to injuries. Khan was working in the private sector and was married.The investigating officer in both the cases, Bhagat Ram, said, “We have registered the cases in both the accidents against unidentified drivers. After postmortem, the bodies have been handed over to the families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-succumb-to-mishap-injuries-in-mohali/story-cEdknzHruYpjDLQFnt96wJ.html
05-01-2021||City||Mohali: Dhakoli health centre to be upgraded to 100-bed hospital||Fulfilling the long-pending demand of residents, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday announced plans to make the community health centre (CHC) of Dhakoli into a 100-bed hospital.Making the announcement, Sidhu said the work will begin soon and the hospital will meet the healthcare needs of the Zirakpur area as the population here has increased manifold.Congress in-charge from Dera Bassi constituency Deepinder Singh Dhillon, who was also present on the occasion, said there was a demand from local people for a hospital in the area as they had to go to the Panchkula civil hospital, GMCH-32 or other private hospitals.Director health services, Punjab, Dr GB Singh, said that the upgrades will improve accessibility of healthcare and that the Covid vaccination drive will begin soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-dhakoli-health-centre-to-be-upgraded-to-100-bed-hospital/story-cCEEH87Bm2rVAG0LCr8c6J.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s dental college to reopen in phased manner, faculty asked to report today||After more than nine months of lockdown imposed in the wake of the pandemic, Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital is set to reopen in a phased manner.PU dental college to reopen in phased manner, faculty asked to report from TuesdayThe college has asked all its faculty members to report to the institute from Tuesday. The decision regarding this was taken in a meeting of all heads of departments of the institute on Monday.The development comes after the Union ministry of health and family welfare had recently asked the state governments and UT administrations across the country to take steps to reopen dental colleges by January 4 following a suggestion by the Dental Council of India (DCI).College principal Hemant Batra said, “We will reopen the institute in a phased manner and we are already preparing a programme for it.”At present, only emergency cases are being attended to at the institute, while teaching is being conducted online. However, the faculty members of the college said that it will take time for the institute to become fully functional.A faculty member seeking anonymity said, “The DCI has issued guidelines but the preparedness of the institute remains in question. A number of faculty members want to report back, but the standard operating procedures should be in place before we report back.”Guidelines issued by DCIAccording to the guidelines issued by DCI, college authorities may reopen their campuses in a phased manner, ensuring safety, health and well-being of students, faculty and staff.They should also be equipped to handle any eventuality arising due to Covid-19.The guidelines mandate physical distancing of six feet and use of face masks. Faculty, students, paramedical staff and other supporting staff have to be trained on methods to control the transmission of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-dental-college-to-reopen-in-phased-manner-faculty-asked-to-report-today/story-Kl4549HM5fH3OJVzQ1I53I.html
05-01-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 vaccination: Stage set for dry run in UP’s 75 districts today||The dry run for Covid-19 vaccination will be conducted in all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, said additional chief secretary, medical health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad here on Monday.“The dry run is to ensure the procedures for the actual vaccination are followed correctly by those responsible. Each district will have (at least) six sites, three in the rural pocket and three in urban localities,” Prasad said at a press conference.In a dry run for vaccination, the entire process is followed except for actually administering the vaccine.“Whenever the vaccine is made available, we will be able to vaccinate the pre-decided groups conveniently as the staff will learn the process in the dry run for the Covid-19 inoculation,” he explained.Also Read: No data to support delayed vaccine booster shot, says BioNTechIn Lucknow, the dry run will be conducted at 12 places which includes six that have already witnessed the dry run on January 2 – King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), community health centres at Mal and Malihabad, Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and Sahara Hospital. The six other (new) places are Medanta Hospital, Lok Bandhu hospital, RSM Hospital, Era Medical College and community health centres in Indiranagar and Kakori.Lucknow is likely to have 63 vaccination sites with over 150 vaccination booths for the actual inoculation.Police personnel and home guards will be part of the drill and ensure smooth transportation of the vaccine vans from the cold chain points to vaccination sites.“Each of the 12 vaccination sites (in Lucknow) will have two vaccination booths with separate six-member teams, including two vaccinators, two cops, a supervisor and an Asha (accredited social health activist) worker,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesperson for the office of the Lucknow chief medical officer.“Once the dry run goes smoothly, the actual vaccination will also be hassle-free as the practice session will make the staff confident,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.The nodal officers have been asked to reach the vaccination sites with volunteers at least 45 minutes before the vaccination time starts at 10am.An orientation session was conducted at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan on Monday where officials from police, administration, and health departments were called to discuss the dry run execution plan. Staff members involved in transportation, screening and vaccination were given training again by the experts. It was decided that logistics will be put in place and vans will carry vaccines to the venue early in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-vaccination-stage-set-for-dry-run-in-up-s-75-districts-today/story-IBvreTiAUWDiCNw1DkPfxN.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Three booked for vandalism in Chandigarh’s Sector 25||Miscreants burnt an Activa and damaged a car parked in Sector 25, the police said on Monday.In her complaint, Pushpa of Dainik Bhaskar Colony, Sector 25, said that on the intervening night of January 2/3, she was woken up by loud noises. When she looked out, she saw a group of youths with sticks moving in the locality and breaking windows of the vehicles parked there.The accused even pelted stones at a house, set her Activa scooter on fire and damaged three vehicles before leaving. Police have identified the accused as Shubham, alias Koda, Gaurav and Abhishek, who stay in the same locality.A case under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 336 (act endangering personal safety or life of others), 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-booked-for-vandalism-in-chandigarh-s-sector-25/story-oSd2l9HoRW92bYiEnNpP2H.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi breathes cleanest air since November; clouds, wind help keep pollution down||Delhi’s air quality improved on Tuesday, with the average hourly air quality index (AQI) reaching 148, in the “moderate” category, at 7am.On Monday, Delhi recorded an AQI of 151, placing it in the “moderate” category—a substantial improvement compared to the past three days. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that continued cloudy conditions and improved wind speed is likely to keep the air in Delhi clean on Tuesday. Also Read: Light rains predicted in Noida today; Wednesday may see dense fogOn January 1, Delhi’s AQI was in 441, placing it in the “severe” zone; while it was 443 on January 2, also in “severe” category; and it was 354 on January 3 in “very poor” category.This was the first time since December 14, 2020, that the air in the city was in the “moderate” category (AQI of 160) and the cleanest air that Delhi has breathed since November 27, when the AQI touched 137.The minimum temperature lodged on Monday at Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered representative for Delhi, was 11.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal and the highest in the last 22 days, according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The maximum temperature was 22.6 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-breathes-cleanest-air-since-november-clouds-wind-help-keep-pollution-down/story-MwjwUwZlnGnFY7zoq5hxlM.html
05-01-2021||City||34% students shifted to govt schools take admission in pre-board classes in Haryana||Haryana has witnessed a reverse trend in school enrolment amid the Covid-19 pandemic as 1.46 lakh students from private schools switched over to government ones this ongoing session, logging a sharp rise of 8% in the admission as per data provided by the Haryana school education department.Of these, 50,256 have taken admission in classes 11 and 9, which accounts 34% of the total new admissions. As many as 35,598 students, including 23,114 boys and 12, 484 girls took admission in Class 11 and 14, 658 students in Class 9, comprising 9,302 boys and 5,356 girls. Moreover, 19,902 students who shifted from private schools to government schools had taken admission in board classes 10 and 12 in Haryana. The figure of Class 12 students who moved to government schools stood at 7,877 and that of Class 10 is 12,025. Only 411 students have moved to government schools in Class 1. A total of 13,227 students have shifted from private schools to government schools in Hisar, followed by 9,798 in Faridabad, and 9,589 in Bhiwani. At least 2,688 students shifted to government schools in Panchkula, which is lowest in the state.Satpal Ahlawat, a resident of Jhajjar, said he moved both his kids to a government school due to the pandemic because private schools were charging high fees without conducting online classes on time.“Children have suffered a lot during online classes this year and they are unable to retain attention as compared to offline classes. While seeing all the pros and cons, I have shifted my son, who studies in Class 5 and daughter, a Class 7 student, to a government school,” he added.Nand Kishore Verma, assistant director, Haryana secondary school education department, said over 34% students, who have switched over to government schools are in classes 9 and 11.“We have recorded an improvement of 8%in enrolment this year. Students are choosing government schools due to improvement in education standards and infrastructure, apart from Covid-19 crisis. Income of people has declined during the pandemic and they have realised that good education can be achieved in government schools too,” Verma added.He said both the toppers in Haryana board’s Class 12 exams are from government schools in the 2019-20 academic session.“We have started online classes on Edusat and local cable TV channels free of cost. Class 12 board results show that government schools have given a tough competition to private ones as the difference in their pass percentage was less than 1.5%,” the assistant director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-students-shifted-to-govt-schools-take-admission-in-pre-board-classes-in-haryana/story-aa90rs5x8lkvBTHOXP2DVP.html
05-01-2021||City||Gurugram land release probe: CBI submits chargesheet against 3 ex-TCP officials||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has submitted chargesheet against three former Haryana town and country planning (TCP) officials and two firms under the charges of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act in the Gurugram land release scam.The officials are former chief town planner Jagbir Singh Redhu, former assistant town planner Satish Arora and former deputy superintendent Rajbir Singh, and firms Brahma City Private Limited through its director Amit Katyal and Commander Realtors. In September, the CBI had sought sanction from the Haryana government to prosecute three former officials of the TCP department for their alleged role in facilitating grant of real estate development licences on land released from the acquisition process in Gurugram.The CBI, which is investigating the case pertaining to release of about 95% of 1,407 acres under acquisition land in Gurugram during the Congress rule in 2009, had in January 2019 registered a case against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, an official and 15 real estate developers in the matter. The probe was ordered on directions of the Supreme Court.The three TCP officials have been accused by the CBI of making “back references” to real estate developers who had submitted applications for grant of licences. The “back references”, sources said, allowed the developers to rectify the deficiencies in the applications. The FIR also names Bhupinder Singh Hooda and others. However, no charges have so far been pressed against them. More chargesheets could be filed. The next date of hearing is January 18.The caseThe Congress government had in June 2009 issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act to acquire 1,407 acres for developing residential Sectors 58-63 and commercial Sectors 65-67 in Gurugram by HUDA.While issuing the declaration under Section 6 on June 2, 2010, the total area was reduced to about 800 acres. Finally, the award dated May 29, 2012 was passed for 87 acres only. The SC had said about 1,300 acres were released in the favour of private builders.The CBI in its preliminary Inquiry had prima facie established irregularities in the release of land from acquisition process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-land-release-probe-cbi-submits-chargesheet-against-3-ex-tcp-officials/story-kbTqEI7ailqzojX2a2mneM.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid curve continues to flatten in Haryana||Hitting yet another low for a sixth week in succession, Haryana reported 2,161 fresh coronavirus cases last week (December 28-January 3) as infection curve continued to flatten. A figure as low as this was last recorded in the state more than six months ago in the first week of June when 2,357 infections were reported. Health department data showed that last week’s count was also less by 1,102 cases as compared to the week before (December 21-27) when 3,263 new infections were reported. The sample positivity rate also declined to 5.7% . The case fatality rate was 1.1% and the recovery rate stood at 97.8%, officials said. While the infection rate continued to fall down and sampling also remained at an all-time high, there are now indications that sampling will get reduced gradually, officials said. As per the sampling data, the state health department has tested over 14.49 lakh people in the past six weeks (from November 23 till January 3) and more than 90% of the suspects were tested using RT-PCR kits. However, the sampling numbers declined last week with about 1.82 lakh people getting tested in comparison to over 2.27 lakh tested the week before. A record 2.81 lakh people were tested across the state during November 23-29 followed by 2.79 lakh people during November 30-December 6, 2.43 lakh during December 7-13, 2.36 lakh during December 14-20, and 2.27 lakh during December 21-27. Seven of the 22 districts continued to have a critical positivity rate of more than 6% though it’s on a continuous decline with every passing week. Faridabad’s positivity rate has come down to 10.4% while Gurugram’s has dropped to 8.4%. Rewari’s positivity rate has dropped to 7.9% followed by Panchkula at 7.1%. Panipat’s positivity rate has come down to 6.5% followed by Ambala at 6.3% and Hisar at 6.1%. Thirteen districts — Karnal, Mahendergarh, Sonepat, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Yamunanagar, Palwal, Jind, Kaithal and Jhajjar — have positivity rate of less than or 6%, but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Kaithal and Jhajjar with a positivity rate of 2.7% and 2.4%, respectively are close to touching the desirable positivity rate. Charkhi Dadri (1.4%) and Nuh (1.1%) continued to maintain their desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for the last six weeks. Vaccine dry run across the state on January 7The Haryana health department will conduct a dry run across the state on January 7 as a precursor to the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out.ACS, health, Rajeev Arora, said the dry run will help the state to identify the challenges in operational and technical aspects of vaccine administration and help to review the preparedness at the district and block levels and gather empirical data.“The amount of vaccine available and prioritisation of population groups for vaccination will depend on what the central government decides. As far as fixing the date to start inoculation, we will expeditiously roll it out once the vaccine becomes available. The platform of existing universal immunisation programme with enhanced capacities is being used for Covid-19 vaccination. Data of more than 1.9 lakh healthcare workers, both from private and government sectors, have been uploaded on CoWIN portal,” he added.The ACS said department has already identified 19,000 vaccination session sites and about 5,145 vaccinators have been mapped for the process of administering the vaccine. For ensuring that vaccine reaches every district in proper cold chain, the health department will deploy 22 vaccine vans for transporting vaccine across the state.He said vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially starting from healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-curve-continues-to-flatten-in-haryana/story-CGvXrCBRo4aPU3DqdI9rsL.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLAs to provide Rs 2 lakh each to kin of deceased farmers||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday announced that the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) would provide a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of farmers who lost their lives during the farmers’ agitation. In a statement, Hooda said that financial assistance would be paid to the families of farmers from the personal finances of Congress MLAs. Hooda, who is the leader of opposition, demanded that the state government should provide financial help and government jobs to one member of the family of such farmers. He said it is the responsibility of government to do so because all these people lost their lives because of the “stubborn attitude and insensitivity” of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-mlas-to-provide-rs-2-lakh-each-to-kin-of-deceased-farmers/story-SkaT73f5U3QYBzszhIPLFN.html
05-01-2021||City||Pakistan to make special arrangements for Indian pilgrims on Nankana Sahib massacre centenary||The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) on Monday said their government has agreed to make special arrangements for the Indian pilgrims visiting the neighbouring country on the 100th anniversary of Saka Nankana Sahib (Nankana massacre). Usually, such protocol is extended only to four jathas that visit Pakistan every year on the occasion of Baisakhi, Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary, Guru Arjan Dev Shaheedi Divas and Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary. It involves special security arrangements such as deployment of paramilitary personnel during the visit. The PSGPC office-bearers and government authorities including officials of the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) on Monday met at Lahore to discuss the arrangements of the centenary function. ETPB chairman Ameer Ahmed and secretary Tariq Wazir attended the meeting.“As Saka Nankana Sahib does not come under the protocol of four jathas coming from India, it was a big issue for us. But it is certainly a good development for the sangat that the Pakistan government has given nod for the similar protocol for this special jatha,” PSGPC president Satwant Singh said on phone. “Also, there is no cap on the number of pilgrims. We will host all the pilgrims coming from India on the historic occasion,” added Singh. Nearly 260 Sikhs were killed in the massacre that took place at Gurdwara Janam Asthan in Nankana Sahib on February 20, 1921. The gurdwara reform movement started in the wake of the episode.After the PSGPC got the nod of the Pakistan government for the event, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) initiated the visa process for pilgrims willing to go to Pakistan to attend the centenary event.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh said, “A jatha to be sent by the SGPC will include prominent personalities and sangats. The pilgrims who want to visit Sri Nankana Sahib on this day can submit their passports along with recommendation of their area members of the SGPC by January 15.”Gurdwara body president Jagir Kaur said the PSGPC chief has personally invited her and Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistan-to-make-special-arrangements-for-indian-pilgrims-on-nankana-sahib-massacre-centenary/story-mk99IeYQxekkX3BYroouvM.html
05-01-2021||City||Staff without salary for over 2 years, Sarhali Khalsa College in Tarn Taran district on the verge of closure||Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College, Sarhali, in Patti sub-division of Tarn Taran district is on the verge of closure as the members of its teaching and non-teaching staff are struggling to get their salaries for more than two years. Even the strength of students at the college run by a voluntary organisation, Sampardai Sant Baba Tara Singh, has seen a drastic dip from 2,300 in 2015 to 213 this year. The faculty members say the future of the staff and the students from scores of surrounding villages is hanging in the balance due to lackadaisical approach of the college management. They also demanded a vigilance inquiry into the financial transactions of the management since 2011. The college was built in 1970 by the voluntary organisation with the help and donation from residents of at least 22 villages in the area. “We have been working without salary for the last 25 months. Our repeated requests to the management have fallen on deaf ears. Some teachers have already left their jobs due to non-payment of salaries. We have also filed a court case against the management and the next hearing is scheduled in February,” said Prof Paramjit Singh who teaches Punjabi literature. The college has 18 members of teaching staff — some being permanent and others under the management quota. “The management is expressing inability to pay the salaries due to a decreasing number of students. But the reality is that they don’t want to run the college and are eying the land worth crores donated by the people to run the institution,” Prof Paramjit added. Prof Jasbir Singh, another faculty member, said the management deliberately closed several courses in the last few years. “Even, the fee is being increased by 8% every year on the lines of city colleges against the rules,” he said. Prof Balwinder Singh said they have written to the Punjab secretary (higher education) seeking a probe into the management’s functioning, but to no avail. The Punjab chief minister should intervene as it concerns education of students of this border district, he said. They accused the management of bungling crores of rupees from the college’s funds by flaying the guidelines of the University Grant Commission (UGC). College principal JK Arora said, “The issue of staff salary has been taken up.College chairman Baba Hakam Singh is the right person to tell as why the salaries are not being released. Even I have also not got my salary since March 2020.” Hakam Singh didn’t respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staff-without-salary-for-2-years-sarhali-khalsa-college-in-tarn-taran-district-faces-closure/story-qQKBGZHZaQtHxv0J7BSE4L.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale| A tale of two Premchands||The life of this betel leaf stall owner is marked by two special facets. First, his modest (but longtime) stall is situated directly beneath the landmark clock tower of the Kamla Market in Central Delhi. Second — and perhaps this is even more special — he shares his name with one of the greatest Indian writers.“Yes, I’m familiar with some of Premchand’s work,” says Premchand. It is afternoon, there are no customers for the moment and the gentleman finds it harmless to spend some time on literary matters. Premchand is particularly fond of one story written by his 20th century namesake, who has left behind several short stories and novels set in the milieu of the stall owner’s own part of the world—eastern UP. Premchand, the writer, was born in Benares. Premchand, the betel leaf man, spent his childhood in a village in Jaunpur, a district close to Benares.Premchand doesn’t clearly remember the name of thar beloved Premchand story, but thinks that it might be titled Mantra. He shares what (or how) he remembers the tale. “It is about a rich man and a poor man. The poor man’s child is seriously ill so he takes him the rich man, who is a doctor, but the rich man is enjoying his daily walk so he refuses to check on the child, who dies. Much later, the rich man’s child suffers from a snakebite and it’s the poor man who comes to the rescue.”Premchand recalls that he first encountered this Premchand story as a 9th standard student in Sri Ram Inter College. “I read it at least three or four times. It was easy to understand the emotions. I’m from a poor class, and I have directly experienced this divide between the rich and the poor.”Some three years after first encountering the story, Premchand finished the school and left his village “to take over this stall in Delhi, that was started by my father.”It’s his 21st year in Delhi. Premchand’s father is enjoying his retirement in the village — perhaps reading Premchand’s fiction? Premchand smiles, shaking his head. “Both my parents are angootha-chaap (illiterate)... they could not read Premchand... they probably named me so without even thinking of that other Premchand.”Now, as a customer arrives, Premchand gets busy in preparing a paan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-tale-of-two-premchands/story-X1lFffASSWZKt6uKkuHbXK.html
05-01-2021||City||Mumbai man kills self after shooting friend||A 26-year-old man allegedly shot his friend on her head with a pistol before shooting himself. The incident took place on a road behind Infinity Mall at Malad (West) around 9.30pm on Monday. Some locals informed the Mumbai Police’s control room about the incident and the duo were rushed to Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali (West) where they were declared dead before admission, said a police officer. The victims’ family have been informed about the incident. According to the police, the man is a Kandivli resident, while his 23-year-old friend used to stay in Malad (East). They knew each other from the past two years, said the officer. The woman got engaged to another man recently, owing to which there were frequent fights between the two. The police are probing to find the actual reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-kills-self-after-shooting-friend/story-3hrRrXFENXEbuLPR6uMvnJ.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||State forms special cell to encourage women entrepreneurs in Maharashtra||To encourage women entrepreneurs in Maharashtra, the state government has decided to set up a women entrepreneurship cell on Monday. It intends to increase the representation of women entrepreneurs in start-ups and entrepreneurship sectors, said Nawab Malik, skill development and entrepreneurship minister, on Monday. The women entrepreneurship cell will be formed under the Maharashtra State Innovation Society, a nodal agency formed to boost the innovation-driven entrepreneurial ecosystem in the state. It also provides financial assistance to start-ups by reimbursing a major fraction of their costs spent on filing patents and lab-testing for product launches. The cell will form a “girl-student entrepreneurship clubs” at colleges and universities where training will be provided to students with interest in the sector. It will develop new incubators for women entrepreneurs and will organise accelerator programs for expansion of the existing incubators. Financial assistance will also be given to set up start-ups by women entrepreneurship, Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-forms-special-cell-to-encourage-women-entrepreneurs-in-maharashtra/story-0x0bK4cQUuw4nGJ5QcdTsN.html
05-01-2021||City||29-year-old killed, 2 others hurt as trailer hits auto on old Mumbai-Pune highway||A 29-year-old woman died, while two others were injured after they were hit by a trailer on the old Mumbai-Pune highway at Panvel in the early hours of Monday. According to the police, Mumbra residents Deepali Vittumal, Muzammil Rauf, 22, and Yasmin Ansari, 22, had been for a picnic at Lonavala with four other people on Sunday. The accident took place when they were on their way back to Mumbra the next day. Assistant inspector Anil Devale from Panvel city police station, said, “Rauf and Ansari were travelling on a two-wheeler. Vittumal was travelling with the other four members of the group in an autorickshaw. Around 5am, as they were entering the Panvel area, the auto stopped at a gas station to refill its tank. Rauf and Ansari were waiting along the highway outside the gas station. A while later, Vittumal felt suffocated inside the auto and came out of the vehicle to have a conversation with Rauf and Ansari. A trailer, which was also coming towards Panvel from Pune side, hit the three people.” All the three were rushed to a nearby hospital. “Vittumal was declared ‘brought dead’ by the doctors. Rauf and Ansari were shifted to another private hospital at Taloja and their condition is stable,” said Devale. The trailer driver, 33-year-old Omraj Anuragi, fled the spot after the accident. A few hours later, he surrendered before the police. The police booked him under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Motor Vehicle (MV) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/29-year-old-killed-2-others-hurt-as-trailer-hits-auto-on-old-mumbai-pune-highway/story-pKl4ufEUKzOtg2yYrk4wzN.html
05-01-2021||City||Mumbai wakes up to mild showers||Light spells of rain were reported across Mumbai and its neighbouring areas early on Monday morning. Cloudy weather associated with low visibility was observed owing to a cyclonic circulation spreading from Punjab to the Arabian Sea.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted thunderstorm and light rainfall for south Konkan, south-central Maharashtra and some areas Marathwada for the next four-five days. Mumbai is expected to see cloudy skies but no significant rainfall is predicted over this period. “An active western disturbance lies as a middle and upper-level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan and the neighbouring areas with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and its neighbourhood at lower levels. A north-south zone of wind confluence continues to exist from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with strong interaction between the southwesterly, in association with the above western disturbance and lower-level moist southeasterlies,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD.Meanwhile, the minimum temperatures dropped marginally on Monday. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 21.6 degrees Celsius, which was 2.5 degrees above normal, but 1.4 degrees below Sunday’s minimum temperature. Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 20.4 degrees Celsius, which was 3.3 degrees above normal and 2.3 degrees below Sunday’s temperature. The maximum temperature at Colaba was 27 degrees Celsius— 3.5 degrees below normal— while Santacruz recorded a temperature of 29 degree Celsius— 2 degrees below normal. The city’s air quality continued to remain poor on Monday too, with an overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator—of 252 recorded. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 stations where the air quality was measured, Mazagaon breathed the worst air with an AQI of 323 (very poor), followed by Navi Mumbai where AQI was 306 (very poor). “Mumbai’s AQI was poor on Monday because of low dispersion. The change in wind direction will increase the amount of clean marine air, leading to poor to moderate AQI for Mumbai for the next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-wakes-up-to-mild-showers/story-lyOSOhTuaRgQRS7AEOJurN.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||70% parents want schools shut till April: Survey||Nearly 70% of parents who responded to a nationwide survey said they prefer schools in their respective states to reopen only post-April in light of Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown. The survey was conducted by Local Circles, a Delhi-based community social media platform, and was based on responses from 19,000 parents across 224 districts in the country – 58% from tier-1 districts, 21% from tier-2 districts, and 21% from tier-3, tier-4 and rural districts. In Maharashtra, more than 2,000 parents responded to the survey, of which about 52% said they want schools in the state to begin only in April this year. Of these, 1,325 parents were from Mumbai. In September 2020, Local Circles had conducted a similar survey, wherein only around 34% of parents had said that schools should begin from April 2021. Over the past months, the number of parents who think that way seems to have substantially increased. “A majority of parents are not willing to send their children to school even now, due to the risk involved. Some parents of students in Class 10 and 12 might send them as they have to prepare for board exams,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents’ Association. Parents were also asked about whether they would consider giving the Covid-19 vaccine to their child after it is rolled out for school children. Only 26% said they would approve of it, while 56% said they would wait for three months or more to see the data and findings, and then make a decision. In Maharashtra, as of December 14, over 10 lakh students are attending physical schools daily, while more than 15,000 schools have reopened in the state for Classes 9 to 12 since November 23. The administration of Pune will be reopening schools in the city for Class 9 to 12 from January 4, as per the Pune Municipal Corporation. In Delhi, education minister Manish Sisodia said that schools are likely to reopen only post-July 2021 after children are vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/70-parents-want-schools-shut-till-april-survey/story-C8Ee6DDuF80Ir3spjWciRK.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra election commissioner orders probe into auction of sarpanch post||The state election commissioner UPS Madan has ordered a probe into an alleged auction for the post of sarpanch ahead of the gram panchayat elections to be held on January 15. The commissioner has asked all district collectors to submit detailed reports following thorough investigations.The orders were issued following a video of an alleged auction for the post of sarpanch went viral on social media a few days ago. The video allegedly shows an open auction for the post in Khondamali village in Nandurbar district of north Maharashtra, followed by supporters celebrating after the highest bidder won the post for ₹42 lakh. Responding to the video, activist Anna Hazare termed the incident an “auction of democracy”.“We have received complaints about auctions for the post of sarpanch, and candidates making bids of large sums. Considering that the gram panchayat elections should be held in a free, fair and transparent manner, the matter is serious. Hence, investigate any such incident, if it has happened in your respective districts and submit a detailed report while seeking permission to approve unopposed elections of the gram panchayats,” Madan said in his order to district collectors.The commission has further asked district collectors to immediately submit detailed reports about villages where only one candidate is left in the fray for the polls after the withdrawal of nominations by other candidates. “There is a possibility that the candidates may have been pressured to withdraw their nominations. To avoid this, declaration of the winner shall be made only after prior approval from the state election commission,” adds the order.The election commission declared elections for 14,234 gram panchayats across Maharashtra on January 15. The elections were postponed by over nine months in the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-election-commissioner-orders-probe-into-auction-of-sarpanch-post/story-uSy7dbJV1eHJMcETrVTKkM.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Parents of medical students in Maharashtra seek hostel, mess fee waiver for lockdown period, colleges deny request||Many parents of medical students have questioned medical institutes’ decision to claim full fees for hostel and mess facilities even though these were not utilised last year because of the lockdown. A parent of a student at a private medical college in Pune said, “Since March 2020, my son has been studying from home. May onwards all second, third and fourth-year medical students were on Covid duty and there was no option of staying in hostels. Then why are we paying for services that were not used?”Some parents have raised their concerns with the respective college management. Certain institutions have offered discounts or given the option of paying the fees as instalments. A parent of a student at a Nashik-based private medical college said hostel and mess fees amounted to approximately Rs 1.45 lakh per year. “Based on our grievances, the institute agreed to reduce the component by Rs 15,000,” said the parent, who felt this was not enough.The director of a private medical college in Pune pointed out that medical institutes continued to incur costs during the lockdown. “No staff was sacked neither was their salary deducted because not only was our staff conducting classes, but we were also running the hospital, fighting Covid-19. We need the said fees to pay our staff and maintain the upkeep of the institute,” said the director.Not all parents are upset at the institutes claiming full fees. “Almost all state colleges asked for fees in 2020 and they gave enough time to make the payment. It was clarified that the institutes too have to incur cost of staff salary and maintenance of the hostels,” said activist Sudha Shenoy, who is also a parent of a medical student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-of-medical-students-in-maharashtra-seek-hostel-mess-fee-waiver-for-lockdown-period-colleges-deny-request/story-28NB4APt2nBZv1yrP0ulCL.html
05-01-2021||City||TRP fraud case: Mumbai court rejects bail plea of BARC’s former CEO||The Esplanade court on Monday rejected the bail plea of Partho Dasgupta, the former chief executive officer (CEO) of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), who has been arrested in connection with the alleged television rating points (TRP) fraud.Dasgupta’s lawyer Kamlesh Ghumre said they would approach the sessions court soon to apply for the bail.Dasgupta was arrested on December 24 by the Mumbai Police crime branch. The crime branch has alleged that Dasgupta had misused his official position and manipulated TRPs of certain news channels to benefit ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd’s Republic Bharat and Republic TV. It has claimed that Dasgupta is the key accused in the TRP fraud case. The crime branch also alleged that he had met Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in 2004 when they worked together at another news channel and Goswami was in touch with Dasgupta before launching Republic TV.The investigating team has claimed that Goswami had approached Dasgupta to manipulate TRP. It is alleged that the duo met around six times over the issue. The prosecution cited evidence in form of WhatsApp chats to prove the allegations against Dasgupta.The defence had argued against the charges under which Dasgupta has been arrested at the Esplanade court. “We submitted before the court that he had had no powers to make any decision [over the TRPs],” Ghumre said.Previously, a spokesperson from BARC India had said that the development is a part of an ongoing probe and it would be inappropriate for it to comment. Republic TV in its statement had earlier said the allegations against it by the police are “laughable”. It had also called the Mumbai Police’s allegations against the channel a “witch-hunt.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trp-fraud-case-mumbai-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-barc-s-former-ceo/story-znVEPJjYt0VdrfDnGho8YI.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Gangster Chhota Rajan, 3 others convicted in 2015 Mumbai builder’s extortion case||The special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court on Monday convicted gangster Chhota Rajan and three other accused for threatening a builder from Panvel.The prosecution alleged that the three accused – Suresh Shinde, Laxman Nikam alias Dadaya, and Sumit Vijay Matre threatened Panvel-based builder Nandu Wajekar and attempting to extort ₹26 crore from him. According to the prosecution, the three acted on the instruction of Rajan. The four accused, including Rajan, have been sentenced to two years’ imprisonment.In 2015, Wajekar purchased land in Pune, for which he paid a commission of ₹2 crore to his agent, Parmanand Thakkar, who later asked him for more money, which he did not agree to pay.Thakkar contacted Rajan to extort money from the builder, after which the gangster sent men to Vajekar’s office. They demanded that he pay ₹26 crore, and when he refused to do the same, they threatened to kill him.Lawyer Sameer Pradhan, who appeared for Rajan’s henchmen, said, “The court has convicted them for threatening and for demanding extradition money. However, the court has held that the charges under MCOCA were not proved.”Pradhan said that the accused had been in prison since five years. They would soon move the Bombay high court (HC) against the conviction order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gangster-chhota-rajan-3-others-convicted-in-2015-mumbai-builder-s-extortion-case/story-W6OcFPHCNvxgmH58oZyqHL.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||2008 Malegaon blast case: BJP MP Pragya Thakur appears before NIA court in Mumbai||charul.shah@htlive.com Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Pragya Singh Thakur appeared before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Monday in connection with the 2008 Malegaon blast case. Her lawyer sought exemption for her appearance in the future. The special court, however, refused to grant permanent exemption and has asked her to appear whenever she is called. As soon as the special court resumed trial in November 2020, it had asked all the accused to appear. However, Thakur had missed the court dates on previous occasions citing health issues. Her lawyer had also submitted that she was admitted to AIIMS hospital owing to multiple complications. The prosecution had objected to the excuse and said she was deliberately trying to avoid appearing before the court. The prosecution told the court that appropriate action must be taken against her. Meanwhile, the court adjourned the hearing of the case, as the lawyer of one of the accused who had to cross examine the witness could not attend the hearing, owing to a death in his family. The hearing in the case is now scheduled for Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2008-malegaon-blast-case-bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-appears-before-nia-court-in-mumbai/story-1mIMo2AdqpUvdeibJkaggK.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai gym trainer arrested for rape, assault||A 30-year-old gym trainer was arrested by Dindoshi police on Sunday for allegedly assaulting a woman in an autorickshaw on the Western Express Highway (WEH). The woman later revealed to the police that the accused had been raping and blackmailing her since January last year. According to Dindoshi police, at 2.30pm on Sunday, they received a call from a traffic constable stationed on the WEH, stating that he had witnessed a man assaulting a woman inside an autorickshaw. The constable gave the police the rickshaw’s number, which helped them track the vehicle and arrest the accused. The 25-year-old woman, who has a four-year-old daughter, told the police that the accused, Irfan Shaikh, had been her gym trainer her since 2019 after the woman’s husband left for abroad to work. The woman and Shaikh later had an affair. Shaikh promised to marry him and had been forcing the woman to leave her husband. The couple had stayed together during the lockdown from March to May. During the period, she had left her daughter at her in-laws’ house. She continued the affair even after her husband’s return from abroad. Shaikh forced her to continue meeting him and threatened to reveal about their relationship to her husband. Last year on November 27, the woman’s husband saw the two in a compromising situation, said the police. Following this, she filed a rape complaint against Shaikh and he was arrested. “After getting bail, Shaikh threatened the woman that he would post her photos on the internet, and extracted Rs50,000 from her along with gold jewellery worth Rs1 lakh,” said an officer. Inspector Pradeep Madhure from Dindoshi police station said on New Year’s Eve, Shaikh went to the woman’s house and fought with her, after which she demanded her cash and jewellery back. On Sunday, Shaikh called the woman near his gym at Santosh Nagar in Goregaon and made her sit in a rickshaw. When the woman demanded her money and jewellery back, Shaikh assaulted her. “We have arrested Shaikh for rape, cheating, assault and criminal intimidation under the relevant sections of IPC (Indian Penal Code),” said Madhure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-gym-trainer-arrested-for-rape-assault/story-BWPX9UJKb9u6ZAaFSxYbxL.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Eight cases of new Covid-19 strain detected in Maharashtra, five in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Monday found eight United Kingdom (UK) returnees, who had tested positive for coronavirus, to be infected by the new variant of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Of the eight patients, five are in Mumbai, while there is one each in Thane, Pune and Mira-Bhayander, state health minister Rajesh Tope said, adding that they are kept in isolation and there is no need to panic. The active caseload in the state went below 50,000 on Monday with 10,362 patients being discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,847,361.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with officials on the health of the eight patients and directed them to remain “extra vigilant”. Thackeray is expected to request the Centre to make quarantine of passengers returning to India from the UK, Middle East and South Africa mandatory. Senior government officials said they have found several cases where travellers come into Maharashtra through other states to skip compulsory quarantine for passengers coming in from UK where the new strain originated.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that samples of those testing positive upon arrival from UK were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to ascertain the type of virus they were infected with.“Between November 25 and December 21, over 4,000 passengers came to Mumbai airport from UK. They were kept in [an] institutional quarantine [facility] and were tested. Of them, 43 tested positive for coronavirus. To ascertain if positive cases are of the mutant strain, samples were sent to NIV [where] genomic sequencing was found. From the reports that came today, of the 43 patients, eight cases are of the mutated virus. “Five of them are from Mumbai and one person each from Thane, Pune and Mira-Bhayander. The contact tracing and tracking is happening at an expedited speed. However, there is no need to panic. Certainly, the new mutated virus spreads faster. Therefore, we must take all precautions. Covid-appropriate behaviour must be followed,” Tope said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai civic body said it has traced 40 close contacts of the five patients, and all 40 have tested negative.The discovery of the mutant virus that is believed to be 70% more transmissible than the original strain has created a flutter among the administration and the government. The Covid-19 cases in the state are seeing a decline, with the emergence of the new strain that spreads faster, the CM has asked the municipal commissioners in Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune to remain more vigilant in the wake of the new development. The new variant of the virus has affected people from the areas — Mumbai, MMR and Pune — that have recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Health secretary, Dr Pradeep Vyas, said that eight patients are in isolation centre and their contacts are been thoroughly traced.Thackeray, meanwhile, will ask the Union government to make institutional quarantine compulsory for passengers entering the country from UK to keep a check on people entering by road from states where there is no compulsory quarantine. “Although, the state is on a high alert due to the new strain in the UK, but considering the influx of abroad passengers arriving in Maharashtra from other states, the Centre must quarantine passengers at the airport they land,” Thackeray said in a statement from the CMO.He added, “Over the past few days, it has been observed that passengers arrive in Maharashtra by landing at airports in other states. So, it becomes difficult to track them down.”Thackeray on Monday also reviewed the preparedness for the vaccination drive. He directed officials to keep a plan ready for any side effects for people after the vaccination. He said that a task force should be set up to guide treating doctors. Thackeray directed officials to set up vaccination booths at health institutions only.In Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Coporation (BMC) is going to keep the jumbo facilities, which includes facilities at Mulund, Dahisar, BKC, NSCI Worli, Nesco Goregaon, as centres for vaccination, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. Besides, the jumbo facilities around 95 other centres will also be set up for vaccination. He told reporters that the civic body has planned to keep the entry exit points at these jumbo facilities separate to prevent Covid patients and people who come for vaccine to come in contact. Kakani said, “The five people who tested positive for the new strain arrived in Mumbai in the past 45 days, and we traced their 40 close contacts. All 40 have tested negative.”Kakani added, “Of the five, two have recovered, three are stable and are admitted in BMC’s hospitals. We have followed the existing protocols in tracing, tracking, testing and quarantining close contacts. We also sealed buildings of these five positive patients, following the existing protocols.”“There will be 100 centres in the city including the jumbo facilities that will be partially converted. Initially, we will start with 10,000 vaccinations a day and will take it up to 50,000,” he told reporters.Meanwhile, the state added 2,765 new cases on Monday, taking the tally to 19,47,011. Maharashtra also reported 29 deaths, pushing the death toll to 49,695. Mumbai reported 516 new cases and three deaths, taking the tally to 294,986 and death toll in the city to 11,138. So far, the state has tested 1,30,04,876 samples, and has an overall positivity rate of 14,97% for Covid-19 until today [Saturday]. In the last 24 hours, 46,374 samples were tested.Maharashtra also reported 29 deaths — the lowest single-day toll since May 3. Fresh fatalities pushed the toll to 49,695.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eight-cases-of-new-covid-19-strain-detected-in-maharashtra-five-in-mumbai/story-k7pf947gOho7NUATMLtDsN.html
05-01-2021||City||Mumbai: Man rapes 3-year-old in Talasari, arrested||Talasari police on Monday arrested 38-year-old for allegedly raping a three-year-old girl. The survivor is undergoing treatment at Cottage Hospital in Dahanu.According to police, the accused Rajen Burkhud is a resident of Patilpada, Talasari and worked at a factory at Kachigam, Daman. On Saturday, he abruptly entered a thatched hut, where the survivor was being breastfed by her mother. He snatched the child from the mother and ran into a thicket. The parents chased him, but he managed to escape. “Burkhud took the survivor to a paddy field, sexually assaulted her and then threw her. The survivor has suffered injuries. However, the accused left his footwear behind, which helped us trace him,” said senior inspector, Ajay Vasawe of Talasari police station. The police dog squad helped in tracking the accused.“We have arrested Burkhud under sections of 376(2) (rape) and 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. Burkhud was produced before Palghar court on Monday and has been remanded in police custody till Wednesday. We are investigating further,” said Vasawe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-rapes-3-year-old-in-talasari-arrested/story-89on29u0ROUB0xU132LDcP.html
05-01-2021||City||Covid vaccination in J&K: 1.6 lakh healthcare workers, 7 lakh frontliners to get priority||Even as the dry run for much-awaited Covid vaccine began in Jammu, Srinagar and Kulgam on January 2, the Jammu and Kashmir administration is yet to specify the date for immunisation across 20 districts.However, the UT administration will accord priority to healthcare workers followed by frontline workers and then those above 50 years of age.Financial commissioner of health and medical education in Jammu and Kashmir, Atal Dulloo said, “We will start vaccination as and when we get directions from the Union government. As of now, no specific date has been given to us.”“First 1.6 lakh health care workers in J&K will be vaccinated followed by 7 lakh frontline workers. Thereafter, around 20 lakh people who are above 50 years of age in the UT will be covered.”The financial commissioner, however, said it was not known as to when the vaccine will be made available in J&K.On Saturday, the dry run for Covid vaccination was conducted in three districts — Srinagar, Jammu and Kulgam. Dulloo inaugurated and monitored the sessions of vaccine administration to the beneficiaries at the selected sites.He said all protocols were strictly followed in all three districts adding that three rooms — waiting, vaccination and observation — designated for vaccination were set up as per the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-vaccination-in-j-k-1-6-lakh-healthcare-workers-7-lakh-frontliners-to-get-priority/story-DP3xDM5BLOm2Vg038uTgWN.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||First phase of Covid-19 vaccination will be completed within 10 days of receiving vaccines: Maharashtra govt||With the approval of two Covid-19 vaccines for restricted emergency use, the state health department is now gearing up for the mass immunisation process. Officials said the first phase of the vaccination will be completed within 10 days of receiving the vaccines from the central government.Expecting a roll-out of the vaccines by next month, the state health department has so far trained 16,000 vaccinators for the immunisation programme. They will be responsible for providing the vaccine to the 12 lakh healthcare workers including doctors, nurses, ASHA workers, Anganwadi, among others in the first phase. “One vaccinator can vaccinate around 100 people each day. So, we would take a maximum of 10 days to complete the first phase of the vaccination. We have enough manpower to vaccinate one lakh healthcare workers every day,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. So far, 7.50 lakh healthcare workers have registered themselves on the CoWIN app, which has been developed by the Centre to track vaccination and dosage. “Since the last 10 days, the registration has slowed down. So, we have decided to keep the registration process open,” he said.‘We are well prepared’Dr Archana Patil, director of health services also said the team is well qualified and trained to provide the vaccine. Every year, the immunisation department vaccinates around 20 lakh children, in addition to vaccinating 30 lakh pregnant women under prenatal programmes. “Overall, every year, we provide over 1.30 crore dosages. Our latest example was Rubella vaccination when we vaccinated around three crore children within three months. So, we hold practical experience in the immunisation process,” said Dr Patil.“The only new thing for the vaccinators will be to immunise adults. So, we also have to train them how to handle beneficiaries if they develop any discomfort,” said Dr Awate.The health department has identified 2,500 healthcare centres as vaccination points. “Depending on the need, we will extend the vaccination points. We have 2,500 healthcare centres for use. Along with that, if we need more centres, we can also ask the corporations to find places,” said Dr Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-will-be-completed-within-10-days-of-receiving-vaccines-maharashtra-govt/story-yQ4pqZcdD6s7cZ34s6OrXP.html
05-01-2021||City||Mumbai Police bust interstate car theft gang, arrest 3||The property cell of Mumbai crime branch busted an interstate car theft racket and recovered three stolen cars, collectively worth Rs9 lakh, from Gujarat. While two people were arrested around 10 days ago, the third arrest was made on Sunday. According to officers, the gang used to steal cars and would change the registration number and sell them in Gujarat, where these vehicles were used to deliver liquor illegally from Daman and Diu. The vehicles were also used to transport drugs, said officers. They also claimed that they have solved other cases of vehicle thefts registered at Virar and Mira Road police stations and the process of recovering cars stolen from those areas is on. The accused have been identified as Wadala (East) residents Nafis Shaukat Ali Khan, 23, and Mohammad Tafsir Mohammad Shaikh, 22, and Gujarat resident Rumil Dipakbhai Soni, 30. The police said Khan used to steal vehicles from areas where CCTV cameras are not installed. He used to hand over the stolen vehicles to Shaikh outside Mumbai check naka. Shaikh would drive the car to Navsari in Gujarat and then hand it over to Soni, who sell it to locals in Gujarat. After selling the vehicles, they distributed the amount among themselves, said police inspector Kedari Pawar from the property cell. Among the recovered cars, the first, which is around Rs3 lakh, was stolen on October 10 from Ghatkopar. The second car, worth Rs4 lakh, was stolen from October 28 from Santacruz and the third vehicle (worth Rs1.9 lakh) was stolen on November 13 from Bangur Nagar. The accused had allegedly stolen another car from Ghatkopar before the lockdown and the police are trying to trace where they had sold it, added the officer. After complaints of the car thefts emerged, the property cell checked the records of gangs and individuals who have cases of vehicle thefts against them in the city, and discovered about Khan. He was traced to Wadala and during inquiry, he revealed the names of Shaikh and Soni. Around 10 days ago, a police team visited Gujarat and recovered the three cars after arresting Soni, added Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-police-bust-interstate-car-theft-gang-arrest-3/story-BA6iJAW9pb956oiAbpJL4O.html
05-01-2021||City||Heavy snowfall keeps Jammu-Srinagar NH closed for second day||Vehicular movement on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained suspended for the second day after heavy snowfall at many places, especially around Jawahar Tunnel. As per traffic officials, more than 4,000 vehicles are stranded along the way.Though the road was cleared of landslides at Magerkot, Battery Chashma , Mom Passi, Marog and Panthial in Ramban district, heavy accumulation of snow at the north portal of tunnel in Lower Munda has been hampering vehicular movement.“Around 2,500 vehicles, mostly trucks, are stranded between Udhampur and Ramban since Saturday evening,” said a traffic police officer.Similarly, 170 Srinagar-bound light motor vehicles (LMVs) and 150 heavy motor vehicles (HMVs) besides 20 Jammu-bound LMVs were stranded between Ramsu and Jawahar Tunnel, the officer added.Around 80 Srinagar-bound LMVs have been stuck in Ramban and 50 HMVs in Chanderkot. As many as 190 Srinagar-bound tankers are stranded in Batote area.Mughal Road, which connects the valley to Jammu region through Shopian-Rajouri axis, is also closed due to heavy snowfall.NHAI authorities have pressed men and machinery into service to clear snow and debris from the affected stretches.Meanwhile, the meteorological department has given forecast of widespread moderate to heavy snowfall with isolated very heavy snowfall from Monday evening to January 6 with peak activity during Monday night to Tuesday afternoon in both Jammu and Kashmir regions. Significant improvement is most likely from January 6 onwards, an official said.Clear vital road links on priority : J&K Cong chief Congress on Monday demanded clearing of vital roads and other relief and rescue operations in snowbound areas on war-footing. Party president GA Mir said the Jammu-Srinagar national highway and other vital roads are blocked due to heavy snowfall and landslides, calling for “immediate relief, rescue and restoration work on war-footing” to give respite to the people stranded in the Valley and several parts of Jammu region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-snowfall-keeps-jammu-srinagar-nh-closed-for-second-day/story-xy3q9gtPi99EAorIKXMj1N.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Tollywood actor arrested by NCB in drug case||Tollywood actor Shwetha Kumari, who was allegedly detained by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) from a hotel in Mira-Bhayander, on Sunday, in connection with the alleged drug case, was arrested on Monday. Kumari was intercepted with an alleged drug supplier, Sayeed Shaikh. However, Shaikh managed to flee before the NCB officers could nab him. NCB officers have launched a manhunt for him. NCB had seized a small quantity of mephedrone (MD) from the hotel room, where she was staying. She has been booked under the relevant sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. NCB has found digital evidence as she was connected with Shaikh as well as arrested drug peddler Chand Shaikh, said an officer on conditions of anonymity. Zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed that she has been arrested and will be produced in the court today (Tuesday). “We have seized small contraband from the hotel room where she was staying,” said Wankhede.On January 2, the NCB officer laid a trap at Gurunanak Marg, near Bandra (West) railway station and had arrested Chand Shaikh and had recovered 400g mephedrone (MD), stored in a compartment of his two-wheeler. Chand lives in Bandra and has been supplying MD for a long time. After questioning Chand, NCB got another lead, and the team raided the Crown Business Hotel, near Golden Nest Circle in Bhayander (East), where they nabbed the actress. The drugs recovered from the hotel were allegedly sourced by Shaikh. After inquiry, it was learnt that he is the main supplier of MD in Mumbai and Thane areas, said the officer. NCB has registered an offence against Shaikh and Chand under NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-tollywood-actor-arrested-by-ncb-in-drug-case/story-qMqQDkjYww4Q0kelnwJrVK.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||14 Avanti cars, 40 engines seized during Mumbai crime branch raid of Dilip Chhabria’s Pune factory||The Mumbai crime branch’s criminal intelligence unit (CIU), which is probing the cheating case against car designer Dilip Chhabria, conducted raids at his factory in Pune and seized 14 DC Avanti cars and 40 engines. Additionally, CIU also found 19 other high-end cars and bikes on the premises.Chhabria was arrested on December 28 and is in police custody till January 7 for further probe. During the inquiry, police found that Chhabria and his firm had availed loans from some non-banking financial companies (NBFC) by posing as customers wanting to buy DC sports cars. The loans averaging ₹42 lakh per car had been availed by the firm, Dilip Chhabria (DC) Designs Pvt Ltd, on around 90 of the total 120 cars sold by the company in India. In some cases, loans had even been availed after the vehicles had already been sold to customers.The incident came to light after assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze of the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) had received a tip-off about a two-seater sports car – DC Avanti – plying towards south Mumbai with a bogus registration number. A trap was laid, and the car was stopped in Colaba on December 18. When police took the vehicle into custody, they learnt that another car with the same engine and chassis number had been falsely registered in Haryana.Chhabria had manufactured 127 DC-Avanti cars in the past four years, of which 120 had been sold in India. The crime branch suspects that 90 such cars were registered with the same engine and chassis number in different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/14-avanti-cars-40-engines-seized-during-mumbai-crime-branch-raid-of-dilip-chhabria-s-pune-factory/story-Ihdqw8aNI96uqRgtLEXEUL.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Health workers demand transparency before Covid-19 vaccination||After the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved emergency restricted usage of two Covid-19 vaccines, the healthcare workers are concerned about the lack of clarity. Several senior doctors are planning to wait for a few months to get the first shot until the central government brings more transparency about the efficacy rate and side effects of the vaccines.“I would prefer to wait for at least six months before taking the first shot,” said a senior officer who works with the state health department. “A vaccine’s side effect is dependent on the chromosomes and genes of people, which differs from place to place. So, if a vaccine shows 100% efficiency rate in the United States (US) or the United Kingdom (UK), it may not be suitable in India due to differences in genome structure. So, we know Covishield has a 70% efficacy rate, but we don’t know if they have found a similar result from the trials in India.”As reported, in the first phase of the mass immunisation programme, around 12 lakh healthcare workers in the state will be vaccinated as they are the most vulnerable in contracting Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Till December 25, as many as 16,102 healthcare workers in Maharashtra have contracted Covid-19. Out of these, almost 11,000 were working in the government sector. A total of 178 health workers have succumbed to the infection in the state. Among these, 46 were doctors, 11 were nurses and 121 were paramedical workers and other staffers who were involved in the Covid-19 treatment.So far, 7.50 lakh healthcare workers including doctors, nurses, ASHA and Anganwadi workers, among others have registered for the vaccination. But the health officers speculate that due to the opaqueness of information, the central government has failed to gain their trust and many would avoid getting vaccinated, after the starting of the immunisation process.“I believe in scientific development, but it should also take people into confidence. In the US, the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) holds public hearings where manufacturers present all data to the authorities, which are even available online for the public. Whereas in India, all the data is hidden. We don’t know if Covaxin works or not, as the regulating body isn’t providing its efficiency rate,” said Anant Bhan, public health expert. “Public wants to make an informative decision,” he added.The DCGI approved of Covaxin as ‘clinical trial mode’, but doctors aren’t aware if they will have to give written consent for the dosage, as done in clinical trials, and if a placebo (a replica of the actual drug) will also be part of it.“In clinical trials, volunteers are covered under insurance if they develop any adverse reaction. But in this case, I am not even aware if I will also get the benefit or not. If not, then why would any knowledgeable person take the risk?” said a senior epidemiologist.All India Drugs Action Network (AIDAN), a pan-India NGO has called Covaxin as an ‘untested and unproven vaccine’. “Concerning Covaxin, we are extremely shocked that the regulatory body has approved of the vaccine without any efficacy data. The phase-3 trials are currently ongoing and it is too early for data to meet the criterion for an interim analysis. The only human data available on safety and immunogenicity is on 755 participants in phase 1 and 2 trials. Other than this, the only data available are from animal studies,” said Malini Aisoli, co-convenor, AIDAN.At present, the state has achieved almost 95% recovery rate. On Sunday, for the first time since March, the city reported the lowest mortality rate with only three deaths related to Covid-19.In this background, the health workers are also contemplating to wait for a few months before taking the vaccine. “The pandemic curve in the city has flattened and things are under control. So, I would prefer waiting for a few months and see how the vaccine works. I don’t want to take the vaccine and worry about my health,” said a nurse with 15 years of experience, from King Edward Memorial (KEM), Hospital.Lastly, many senior doctors with over 25 years of experience in medicine have expressed dissatisfaction over the fact that they would have to go to vaccination centres for the dosages.“I am a resident of Bandra (West) but most of my hospitals where I consult are in South Mumbai. So, the question is, how the civic body would select my vaccination point. Also, it is impossible to stand in a long queue at these centres and leaving my patients and surgeries, to get vaccinated,” said a senior neurosurgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-health-workers-demand-transparency-before-covid-19-vaccination/story-wRvGVi5hRBSSYvxCpfSNqN.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC compiles list of 10,500 frontline workers to get Covid vaccine in second phase||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has compiled a list of almost 10,500 workers on the Covid-19 frontline and will be uploading it for vaccination in the second phase of the drive. Similarly, data of other frontline workers in police, civil defence, revenue and disaster management is being compiled. A total of 8,830 healthcare workers, including private healthcare providers, have been registered in Chandigarh, and are to be administered vaccination in the first phase. This was disclosed in the Covid-19 review meeting held under UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday. Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, said dry run of the vaccination was successfully conducted at three sites — Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Manimajra civil hospital and the Sector 22 hospital — to check end-to-end testing of CoWin portal. Meanwhile, one walk-in refrigerator has been sanctioned by the Government of India for Chandigarh to augment the vaccination effort.Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) said there was no adverse effect found during the trial of both doses of Covishield vaccine, which was conducted successfully on 149 volunteers. All OPDs functional at GMCH-32Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said outpatient departments (OPDs) of ENT, neonatology, pain clinic and pre-anesthetic checkups have been started on Monday. With this, all OPDs have been made functional at the hospital, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-compiles-list-of-10-500-frontline-workers-to-get-covid-vaccine-in-second-phase/story-P9NW5iBvr2u7aahD2pg2tM.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||4 years after Shiv Sena’s property tax waiver vow, Mumbai civic body now says it will issue bills||Four years after the Shiv Sena promised voters it would waive property tax of structures up to 500 square feet and won the Mumbai civic polls, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said it would issue property-tax bills to owners of such structures, with a partial waiver. The Sena-led BMC’s decision, even as it said the state government in 2019 had waived only the general tax component, would mean owners of 1.85 lakh properties (all less than 500 square feet) in the city will be issued bills worth over ₹500 crore, considering the BMC issues notices for unpaid taxes of the past two years.While the Sena, earlier, had blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Devendra Fadnavis government for not clearing the entire proposal for waiving property tax for structures less than 500 square feet, there has been no development on the same in the past year even though Sena is the ruling party in the state. The Sena, ahead of the 2017 civic polls, had made a promise that if voted to power, it will waive off property tax for structures up to 500 square feet. However, the decision could not be implemented as the waiver mandated the state government to amend the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act. Following this, the BJP-Sena government led by Fadnavis in 2019 made the required amendment. However, the rider was that the waiver would only be limited for the general component of the tax, which is 10-20% of the total.There are six to seven other components, including sewage charge, drain charge, which the property owners would be required to be paid. But the BMC did not implement this, and owing to the sensitivity of the matter, the BMC did not issue bills to property owners, citing ambiguity, for two years now. Later, it had also sought some clarification from the state and the BMC’s law department said it has written to the state, seeking some clarification on the waiver.However, now the BMC has decided that it will issue bills to such property owners as the state government has waived off only the general component. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We have given the bills for printing and now all property owners will be issued bills for property tax. In case of properties below 500 square feet, we will issue bills, excluding the general component of the tax.” Velrasu added, “We had sought opinion from our law department and it has given us the opinion that excluding the general component, the BMC should levy property tax from owners of properties below 500 square feet.”Property tax is one of the biggest revenue avenues for BMC. It collects annually around ₹4,000 crore to ₹5,000 crore in property tax, and the outstanding amount is around₹1,500 crore.The BJP has now claimed that the Sena has backtracked on its promise made to voters. The BJP on Monday staged a walk-out from the BMC’s law committee meeting, where there was a discussion on levying property tax for structures below 500 square feet.Atul Shah, BJP corporator, said, “We walked out of the meeting as the BMC is not implementing the order, regarding the 500 square feet waiver. We asked BMC to clarify. The BMC said they will look into the matter after getting details. After this, we [BJP] decided to walk out.”Harshad Karkar, Sena corporator, said, “The BJP is doing only politics on the waiver of property tax. In the BJP-Sena government also, we had taken up this issue. Also, in the coming days, we are confident that our state government will completely waive off property tax for owners of properties below 500 square feet.”Meanwhile, Nikhil Desai, a civic activist said, “The Sena should have clarified it earlier in 2017 that only the general tax component will waived and not complete property tax. But now due to slowdown caused by Covid-19, if BMC cannot waive entire property tax, the Sena should promise to implement a complete waiver in the coming years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-years-after-shiv-sena-s-property-tax-waiver-vow-mumbai-civic-body-now-says-it-will-issue-bills/story-qClUDD5Gj6bxsdAsJgsK8O.html
05-01-2021||City||GMADA chalks out plan to develop Mohali’s Sector 90||Five years after land acquisition, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has prepared a draft to develop Sector 90, which is situated near Lakhnaur village in Mohali. GMADA had acquired 229 acres under land pooling scheme in 2015, but around 70 acres are under litigation. Under land pooling, farmers were offered housing and commercial sites in lieu of their land. Initially, 144 acres of land will be developed, said a senior GMADA official, privy to the development. According to the plan, residential plots measuring 100 to 500 square yards will come up over 29 acres, commercial sites will come up over 14 acres and 11 acres will be earmarked for institutions. Parks will be developed over 8 acres, waterworks will take up 2 acres and roads will be constructed over 28 acres. “We are hopeful of sending the draft to the higher authorities for final approval this month,” said the official.GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said: “Once we get the drawings, we will start the development within a month. Sector 90 is a prime location for both residential end users, commercial real estate markets and investors.”Industries to come up over 500 acres in Sector 101After the Punjab cabinet gave its nod to a new land pooling policy for industrial development, GMADA has begun the process to acquire 500 acres of land in Sector 101.The land acquisition process has already begun at two villages: Manuli and Durali. Industrial plots of 550 and 1,100 square yards will come up at these sites.“The department has started the process to get approvals under Section 4 (publication of preliminary notification and powers of officers thereupon) of the Land Acquisition Act, which will be done within a week,” said the official, adding that the entire process will be completed by March this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-chalks-out-plan-to-develop-mohali-s-sector-90/story-7xi91VIW3QUEqHXRVewJ5L.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: 50,000 people to be vaccinated every day in Mumbai; 75 vaccine centres identified||A day after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved two Covid-19 vaccines, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has declared that they have upgraded their infrastructure which will now enable them to vaccinate 50,000 beneficiaries every day, in Mumbai. For this, 75 vaccination centres have also been identified.Expecting a roll-out of the vaccines by the second week of January, the BMC has converted a few more peripheral, maternity hospitals and primary health centres into vaccination centres. This has increased their total vaccination points to 75, which was only eight last week. With this, the BMC will be able to finish vaccinating the 1.25 lakh healthcare workers within just three days.“We are trying to increase the infrastructure as much as possible. We have identified 75 vaccination points. If needed, we can extend it further. This will enable us to vaccinate almost 50,000 beneficiaries every day,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Many doctors have raised the concern of waiting in long queues to get vaccinated which would affect their practice and patients have to suffer. Taking note of this, BMC is expanding the centres, so that healthcare workers don’t have to wait longer in lines.“We know the role of healthcare workers in the pandemic. So, we have created many vaccination points, which will help to save their time, while maintaining social distances,” he added.During the first phase of vaccination, around 1.25 lakh healthcare workers are expected to be immunised, while in the second phase, frontline workers such as police personnel and conservancy workers, will be vaccinated. In the third phase, around 50 lakh citizens will be vaccinated, of whom 30 lakh people are above 50 years of age, which are identified through ‘My Family My Responsibility’ survey.The civic body is in the process of uploading the details of these citizens on the Co-WIN application, the centralised mobile application for registration of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-50-000-people-to-be-vaccinated-every-day-in-mumbai-75-vaccine-centres-identified/story-knlCj5CgL2yOAnpwwygZeL.html
05-01-2021||City||L-G adviser reviews arrangements for vaccination in J&K||Adviser to Lieutenant Governor Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar on Monday reviewed arrangements for smooth implementation of Covid-19 vaccination plan across Jammu and Kashmir at a high-level meeting.The meeting was attended by financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo, National Health Mission director for J&K Bhupinder Kumar, JK Medical Supplies Corporation managing director Dr Yashpal Sharma, Jammu health services director Dr Renu Sharma among other officials.State immunisation officer Dr Qazi Haroon and other officials joined the meeting through video conferencing.Bhatnagar directed the officials to plan effectively beforehand and compile the database of potential vaccinators, prioritised groups of beneficiaries to be administered the vaccine in its initial stages so that no bottlenecks are faced during vaccination drives.‘Vaccine to be available in 10 days’ Atal Dulloo informed in the meeting that the Covid vaccine will be available in the next 10 days.He apprised the L-G advisor that district-level trainings have already been imparted and required workforce has been prepared for effective implementation of the vaccination plan.Revealing the priority order for immunisation, Dullo said, “First 1.6 lakh health care workers in J&K will be vaccinated followed by 7 lakh frontline workers. Thereafter, around 20 lakh people who are above 50 years of age in the UT will be covered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-adviser-reviews-arrangements-for-vaccination-in-j-k/story-bxAiSl2lgLvFhmogdI3PhP.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Three succumb, 123 test positive for Covid in Chandigarh tricity area||Three people succumbed to Covid-19 while 123 tested positive in the tricity on Monday.Mohali reported 71 fresh cases and two deaths, followed by 43 cases and a death in Chandigarh. In Panchkula, only nine cases surfaced while no death was reported. Mohali infection tally has climbed to 18,375, of which 954 cases remain active. While 17,074 patients have recovered, including 94 discharged on Monday, 347 have died. In Chandigarh, 19,936 cases have been reported, of which 267 are active and 19,348 have been cured.The death of a 45-year-old man from Manimajra has taken the toll to 321.In Panchkula, 10,055 people have tested positive so far, of whom 9,756 have been cured and 144 have succumbed to the virus. As many as 155 cases are still active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-succumb-123-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-hoeMa3DkVCxCBJayT7zOkL.html
05-01-2021||City||Chandigarh-Patna flight to resume on January 15||After a gap of nearly 10 months, Indigo Airlines is set to resume the direct flight to Patna from Chandigarh on January 15. To be operated six days a week, it will once again give direct connectivity to those visiting Takht Sri Patna Sahib, a gurdwara that commemorates the birthplace of Guru Gobind Singh.Just days after the flight made its maiden journey on March 5 last year, it was discontinued, following the closure of air connectivity due to Covid-19 pandemic. An airline spokesperson said it has already started online bookings. One-way travel will cost around ₹4,105 per person, subject to flexi-fare policy. The flight will depart from Chandigarh at 11:45am and will cover the distance in approximately two hours to reach Patna at 1:35pm. It will take off on its return journey at 6:10pm and land in Chandigarh at 8:15pm. At present, 33 flights are arriving and departing from Chandigarh on six days a week from Monday to Saturday and only 16 flights are operating on Sunday. Domestic destinations covered are Goa, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Srinagar, Leh, Dharamshala, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru. Weekly international flights to Dubai and Sharjah are also operating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-patna-flight-to-resume-on-january-15/story-VsbAu5eGG4KpsfVp9YnGSN.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees warmest January day in a decade||Maximum temperature reached 25.8°C in Chandigarh on Monday, five notches above normal and highest for a January day in more than 10 years. It was a sunny day, even as India Meteorological Department had predicted rain along with thunderstorm in the city. According to IMD, the highest day temperature in January was recorded in 1991, when it had gone up to 31°C.“While the night remained warm, the day was sunny, leading to rise in temperature. The city was also under the influence of easterly winds that are warm and moisture-laden,” said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh. Minimum temperature was recorded at 12.5°C, a notch above the previous day but seven degrees below normal. No rain was recorded at the IMD observatory in Sector 39 while traces were recorded at the airport observatory.Singh said similar conditions are expected in the next two days as well. “Light to moderate rain is likely in the city till Tuesday. If it rains during the day, temperature will fall. Otherwise, it is likely to stay over 20°C,” he said.There is only a chance of light rain on Wednesday, which will be followed by spells of dense fog in the coming days, said IMD director Surender Paul. He said once fog returns, both maximum and minimum temperature will fall below normal, as during December-end.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 20 and 21 degrees while minimum will remain between 12 and 14 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-warmest-january-day-in-a-decade/story-R4uM1PQMZN56aVRBOLTwyN.html
05-01-2021||City||Five succumb to Covid in J&K; 419 recoveries||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 133 fresh coronavirus cases and five more deaths on Monday taking the total case count in the UT to 1,21,786 and death toll to 1,891.Officials said 75 people tested positive in Kashmir and 58 in Jammu. Three persons lost their lives in Kashmir and two in Jammu due to the viral infection.They added that 1,17,211 people have recovered in the UT so far after 419 patients were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 96.24%. There are 2,684 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 39.43 lakh.A total of 1,190 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 701 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 29 more people tested positive, followed by Kupwara at 21 cases.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 37 while Poonch district reported 10 cases.Srinagar tops the case tally with 25,482 cases and 450 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 24,058 cases and 357 deaths.Till date, 9.04 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 16,963 in home quarantine, 2,684 in isolation, and 33,691 under home surveillance. Besides, 8.48 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-succumb-to-covid-in-j-k-419-recoveries/story-9cxej75jzILSmoGTMDbNoO.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: FIR against Arbaaz , Sohail Khan, son for violating Covid-19 norms||Mumbai Police on Monday booked actor Arbaaz Khan, his brother Sohail and Sohail’s son Nirvaan after the civic authority registered a case against them for violating quarantine rules. Despite repeated attempts, the Khans were unavailable for a comment at the time of going to print.The three had arrived from Dubai, but instead of quarantining at a facility, they went straight to their residences.A first information report (FIR) in this regard was filed against the three at the Khar police station on the complaint of Dr Sanjay Funde, a medical officer in H-West ward of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.The FIR stated that Arbaaz and Sohail on December 25, 2020, had arrived from Dubai, while Nirvaan arrived on December 30. They were supposed to undergo institutional quarantine for seven days, as per the rules, but they went straight to their homes, the police said.Funde said in the complaint that when he visited Sohail Khan’s residence, he told him that they had already made bookings at the Taj Land’s End hotel in Bandra, to quarantine, but on arrival when they tested negative for Covid, they decided to directly go to their homes.However, as per rules even if the test result comes negative, passengers are bound to quarantine for seven days, said Funde in the FIR.Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu said, “A case has been registered against the three under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (unlawful or negligent act) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-fir-against-arbaaz-sohail-khan-son-for-violating-covid-19-norms/story-4xpEDJsY65mmPKDl5isIfP.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Congress’s Maharashtra unit may have a new chief soon||There is speculation that there may be a leadership change in the Congress’s state unit. Heavy lobbying for the post of state Congress chief has begun in Delhi.A close aide of incumbent state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said Thorat had offered to quit as state president. He met Congress general secretary KC Venugopal in Delhi on Monday in this regard.Last month, Congress in-charge of Maharashtra, HK Patil had said that the process of changing the state unit chief would begin after the appointment of a president for the Congress’s Mumbai unit. This assumes significance as the state Congress has been less active than other political parties since the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government came to power in the state.Days after Ashok Jagtap succeeded veteran Congress leader Eknath Gaikwad as Mumbai Congress president, aspirants for the position of state Congress chief have begun lobbying in Delhi. The central leadership of the party is expected to pick a non-Maratha face to head the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee in the wake of the changes in the state. Member of Rajya Sabha and the party’s Gujarat in-charge Rajiv Satav; Maharashtra Assembly speaker Nana Patole; women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur; and relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar are all frontrunners for the post. Satav is believed to be a close confidant of Congress’s former president Rahul Gandhi, though a section of state leaders is opposing his appointment. Satav had opted out of Lok Sabha elections in 2019 though he was a sitting member of Parliament (MP). Patole is keen to give up the post of Assembly speaker for the top job in the state Congress. In the past, he had a stint in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and had quit as a sitting MP to return to Congress. According to a Congress leader in Delhi, the actual process of selecting a state chief is yet to begin, and it may take a few more months for an actual announcement. Patil is reportedly in favour of a change in leadership with immediate effect. At present, Thorat is the state Congress president, state revenue minister and Congress legislative party leader. Thorat’s detractors in the party have been demanding a change of guard in the state by pointing out that holding a key responsibility in the party while being a minister is against the Congress’s norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-s-maharashtra-unit-may-have-a-new-chief-soon/story-GiiWLNGIdycK9W53yFTO5I.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP demands arrest of NCP leader booked for rape; he claims charges are baseless||The state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit has demanded the arrest of Mehboob Shaikh, state president, youth wing of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The BJP alleged that the police are apathetic and not taking action against the political leader who was booked on rape charges in Aurangabad. Terming it a political conspiracy, Shaikh claimed his innocence and offered to undergo a narcoanalysis test to prove as much. Shaikh was booked for rape based on the complaint of a woman in Aurangabad, last week.“The state president of the NCP youth wing is being protected by those in the ruling party, hence the police are afraid of arresting the rape accused. Mehboob Shaikh should be immediately arrested and DCP (deputy commissioner of police) Deepak Girhe should be dismissed from the service for dereliction of duty,” said Chitra Wagh, state BJP vice-president, on Monday.“Going by the law, the accused should be immediately arrested so that he cannot pressure the victim or her family and destroy evidence. But the police have yet to make the arrest, even after eight days of filing the case,” she added.Shaikh denied the allegations and said they were unfounded and baseless. “It is a political conspiracy to defame me and my party. Following registration of the case, police had questioned me for seven hours. They have identified my mobile phone location on the days mentioned by the woman. They have also questioned all those who I have met on the day she claimed the rape was committed,” he said.“According to her complaint, I called her at a flat in Aurangabad on November 10 and said something objectionable. On November 14, the rape was committed. But the fact is, I was in Mumbai on November 10, to attend a programme at a party office, details of which are posted on our Facebook page. On November 14, I was in my village Shirur Kasar in Beed, to attend a Laxmi Puja event,” Shaikh claimed.The NCP leader said he was ready to undergo a narcoanalysis test and face the consequences if found guilty, but if not, I demand a narco test of the woman to find out those who are behind this conspiracy,” Shaikh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-demands-arrest-of-ncp-leader-booked-for-rape-he-claims-charges-are-baseless/story-yq7m540CsU3PMLSdkPNAKM.html
05-01-2021||City||Speeding Haryana Roadways bus leaves one dead, 4 injured in Kalka||A speeding Haryana Roadways bus killed a man while leaving four others injured in Kalka on Monday morning.The deceased has been identified as Vijay of Dhatiwala in Panchkula district, and the accused bus driver as Sanjeev Kumar, who fled after the accident.Another bus driver, who is the complainant, told police that he was on his way from Dharampur Colony to Gandhi Chowk in Kalka around 7am, and an auto-rickshaw and motorcycle were moving ahead of his vehicle. Suddenly, a speeding Haryana Roadways bus came from the opposite side and hit the motorcycle followed by the auto and his bus. He rushed the biker, auto driver and its three occupants to hospital, where one of them was declared brought dead.A case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (whosoever cause hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-haryana-roadways-bus-leaves-one-dead-4-injured-in-kalka/story-RYW45RiW7hw0I9XB1E8mML.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||75-year-old woman killed in Zirakpur road mishap||A 75-year-old woman was killed after a truck hit a scooter in Zirakpur’s Dhakoli area on Monday. The victim has been identified as Salinder Kaur, who was a resident of Defence Colony in Zirakpur. She was riding pillion behind her husband Suba Singh when a truck bearing a Himachal Pradesh number hit their Activa. She died on the spot. Meanwhile, the truck driver fled leaving the vehicle behind. It has been impounded.Dhakoli station house officer Deepinder Singh said a case has registered against the truck driver, who is expected to be arrested soon. After the postmortem, Kaur’s body was handed over to her family14-yr-old boy rams scooter into ATM booth, diesA 14-year-old boy died after he rammed a scooter into an ATM booth in Hallomajra, Chandigarh Police said on Monday.The victim has been identified as Satyam, a Class-8 student and a resident of Hallomajra. He was riding his neighbour’s Honda Cliq when the mishap took place on Sunday morning. Police said he was not wearing helmet.ATM security guard Vinod told police that due to the impact, the booth’s glass door shattered and a shard pierced into Satyam’s abdomen. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he later succumbed to his injuries. The body was handed over to his family after postmortem on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/75-year-old-woman-killed-in-zirakpur-road-mishap/story-3n06uxgwzoRU2IIbEGEP8I.html
05-01-2021||City||Panchkula admn takes samples of 30 poultry workers to test for bird flu||The Panchkula administration on Monday collected samples of 30 poultry workers in Barwala-Raipur Rani belt to test for bird flu.Considered Asia’s second largest poultry belt, with daily production of more than 1 crore eggs and employing 15,000 workers at around 120 farms, the region has witnessed the death of over one lakh chickens in at least 10 farms in the past few days. Two days ago, the animal husbandry department had sent 80 blood samples of poultry and five carcasses to a laboratory to know the cause of these mass deaths. The report is awaited.Meanwhile, there have been reports of bird flu from various parts of the country, including Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh. Bird flu, also known as avian influenza, is a variety of influenza caused by a virus in birds. It can spread to humans and can trigger a person-to-person transmission. While no updated mortality figures have been shared by the Panchkula administration, an official, requesting anonymity, said: “Deaths have increased manifold.” A poultry farmer in Barwala, who too did not wish to be named, said over one lakh chickens had died at his farm alone since December 17.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “We have taken 30 samples from workers working at three poultry farms in the Barwala-Raipur Rani belt as a precautionary measure. The samples will be sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to test for avian influenza.”Instructions issued to poultry ownersThe health department has also issued instructions to poultry farm owners to restrict unnecessary movement and to immediately inform the Raipur Rani senior medical officer in case any worker shows flu-like symptoms. They have been asked to wear masks and take other precautions, said Dr Kaur.Dr Anil Kumar, deputy director, animal husbandry and dairying department, said: “We have asked the poultry farm owners to bury their dead chickens deep into the soil and spray sodium bicarbonate on the burial site.”Meanwhile, Darshan Kumar, president, Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association, maintained that the number of deaths had not gone up, and there was no impact on sales. Even Ashish Kumar, president of the meat market association in Chandigarh’s Sector 21, said the deaths were due to extreme cold and there was nothing to worry. He, too, said there had been no adverse impact on sales.Chandigarh wildlife dept on alert tooThe Chandigarh forest and wildlife department has sounded an alert in the city after reports of deaths of birds due to avian flu in neighbouring states. The veterinary department has been asked to keep tight vigil. “So far, no unnatural behaviour has been seen among migratory birds at Sukhna Lake or the sanctuary. That’s why no sample has been taken at the lake so far,” an official of the wildlife department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-admn-takes-samples-of-30-poultry-workers-to-test-for-bird-flu/story-dg9nLxpWfhEFwfH1MBtKNN.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP, again, faces rebellion ahead of mayoral elections||Even a last-minute declaration of its mayoral candidate couldn’t help Bharatiya Janata Party from preventing an open rebellion in its ranks in Chandigarh on Monday.Only minutes after BJP nominee Ravi Kant Sharma filed his nomination, fellow party councillor Chanderwati Shukla too filed her papers as a rebel candidate for the mayor’s post. Soon afterwards, another councillor, Bharat Kumar, resigned from BJP in protest against Sharma’s selection.BJP enjoys majority in the House and would have sailed through if not for the rebellion. With Congress later in the day deciding to support the rebel candidate, BJP is now in a tight spot.Earlier, after much delay and suspense, BJP state president Arun Sood around 4.30pm declared outgoing senior deputy mayor Sharma as its candidate for the mayor’s post. Maheshinder Singh Sidhu was named for the senior deputy mayor’s and Farmila for the deputy mayor’s post.Miffed over this, accompanied by Congress leaders Devinder Singh Babla and Satish Kainth, Shukla filed her nomination even as her party leaders, including former mayor Asha Jaswal, tried to convince her against it. Babla proposed her name, and Kainth, who too had rebelled against BJP nominee in 2019 before moving to Congress, seconded it. There were also heated arguments between some BJP leaders and Shukla’s husband Gopal Shukla.“The party is rewarding those people with posts who repeatedly betrayed it. At the same time, it is ignoring people of Purvanchal, who have supported it wholeheartedly. It has to stop now,” said Gopal Shukla. He said the couple has no plans to leave the party as yet and will focus on winning the mayor elections.Party finds itself in a tight spotEven though BJP has 20 councillors in the House of 26, with a rebel candidate in the fray and one councillor tendering resignation, it finds itself in a precarious situation. There is a possibility that the winning candidate might need only 12 or 13 votes to get elected rather than 14.“BJP councillor Hira Negi and city MP Kirron Kher are unwell, and are unlikely to vote. Shiromani Akali Dal, a former ally, is likely to boycott the elections. If Bharat Kumar also absents on election day, there is possibility that only 12 votes will be required to win the elections,” said a BJP councillor, requesting anonymity. “Resentment is brewing in the party over Sharma’s candidature, and there are concerns that if it is not pacified immediately, this might even reverse the party’s dominant position in the House.”In 2019, rebel candidate Satish Kainth , supported by four Congress councillors and with the help of cross-voting by BJP councillors, had managed to get 11 votes. “Congress will support Chanderwati Shukla in mayoral elections. Congress candidate Devinder Singh Babla may withdraw nomination,” said Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra.No cause for concern: City BJP chief Downplaying the rebellion, Sood said, “It is only a spontaneous expression of disappointment by councillors. Shuklas and Bharat are very responsible and dedicated party workers. We are confident that they will respect the party’s decisions, as we are already in talks with them.”Sood also contended that nomination papers of both Congress and Shukla are liable to be rejected after scrutiny. “When Babla and Kainth themselves are fighting the elections, they cannot propose or second another person’s candidature,” he said. While Babla filed papers for mayor’s post, Kainth is Congress nominee for the post of senior deputy mayor and Rajinder Kaur for deputy mayor. On the selection of party nominees, Sood said: “The decision was taken after consulting all BJP councillors, senior leaders and more than 80 party functionaries in the city. We have 20 councillors, and in five years, all of them cannot become mayor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-again-faces-rebellion-ahead-of-mayoral-elections/story-XpbRoYUg8QgdUQisDdQUTL.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Three accused in N-E Delhi riots granted bail by court||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to three people who were accused in the north-east Delhi riots, while stating that the investigation carried out is “perfunctory” and the charge sheet has been prepared in a careless and lackadaisical manner.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat granted bail to Osama, Gulfam and Atir, arrested for allegedly rioting, arson, threat and unlawful assembly, for a bail bond of Rs 10,000 each. The judge said that the accused are entitled to bail considering the kind of investigation conducted and the type of the charge sheet that has been filed.“After going through the bail applications, reply and particularly charge sheet, I cannot help but notice the carelessness with which it has been prepared and filed. The investigation carried out, is perfunctory……..no statement under section CrPC 161 of any of the witnesses has been filed with the charge sheet.“The charge sheet was filed on May 22, 2020 in a very lackadaisical manner,” the judge said in a common order for all the three accused.While Aatir and Gulfam were formally arrested on April 8, 2020 from Mandoli Jail where they were lodged in connection to another case, Osama was arrested on April 10, 2020, from Tihar Jail .According to the charge sheet, the case was registered on the complaint of one fruit seller, Nasir Ahmad, who had contended that on Feb 25, 2020 at 11.00am, a group of more than 100 people came and looted fruits worth Rs. 2 lakh and burnt two fruit carts in his godown.The court, while granting bail, said, “Considering the period of custody of the accused that they have gone through and the nature of investigation and the charge sheet, all three bail applications are allowed”.The judge asked them not to leave the city without permission and not to tamper with the evidence or contact any witness.Communal riots had broken out in the north-east Delhi in February last year claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-accused-in-n-e-delhi-riots-granted-bail-by-court/story-gzyj2lJFa1HB6pRmAp1cPP.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Loud silencer of scooter, CCTV footage help police crack New Friends Colony, one other robberies||The noise from the silencer of a scooter, CCTV footage and the detailed description provided by a tea seller helped police arrest a 20-year-old man, who with two of his aides, robbed a man in Ashoka Park near New Friends Colony in south Delhi in the early hours of Saturday. The arrest of Kapil Mehrania also helped investigators in cracking another robbery case that the suspect and two of his associates had committed in nearby Jamia Nagar minutes earlier, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). The Ashoka Park robbery, police said, had taken place around 12.45am on Saturday, when a man was walking in the neighbourhood to meet a friend. “Mehrania and two of his friends approached the man and robbed his phone and R1,000 on cash,” said the DCP. The victim had described the scooter of the accused to be light blue in colour with a loud silencer. When the police checked CCTV footage, they found the scooter had moved towards Mathura Road after the crime. So, the police spoke to some people on the route and met a tea seller who said that three men riding a scooter of the same description had purchased cigarettes from him and then gone to Taimur Nagar. On the basis of this, the police zeroed down on the scooter rider as Mehrania and arrested him. The DCP said that he was found in possession of a pistol and two bullets. His interrogation revealed that the same night he and two of his friends had robbed another man in Batla House neighborhood of Jamia Nagar. The police continue to search for the other two suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/loud-silencer-of-scooter-cctv-footage-help-police-crack-new-friends-colony-one-other-robberies/story-UzZLZBj8VIaaDImjEPbuaO.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||4 arrested in Delhi police crackdown on child pornography||New Delhi: In its crackdown against circulation of child pornography on social media platforms, the Delhi Police have arrested five men following raids across Delhi on Saturday and Sunday. Senior officials said, these men used to allegedly receive the pornographic content on WhatsApp and through social media, and they circulated it by posting it on their own social media accounts. In a similar crackdown last year, police had arrested 26 men.Police have identified the arrested men as 26-year-old Ram Babu Kumar, Devender, 35, Abdul Rehman, 22, Mohammad Umar Alam, 22 and Santosh Kumar, 24. Police said, while Ram Babu is a school dropout and drives a cab, Umar Alam has completed his bachelor’s degree in business administration and sells mobile accessories online for a well-known e-commerce platform. Santosh is also a graduate and works as a delivery boy for a popular pizza chain, while both Devender and Abdul Rehman are school drop outs. Abdul is at present working as a data entry operator at a firm in Noida and Devender is aspiring to become a successful disc Jockey, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said the cybercrime unit, through its operation “Masoom”, started last year as a crackdown against sexually offensive content against children, acted on the incident reports generated by the online social media and messaging platforms, which are being shared through international coordination mechanisms.“Our teams registered multiple cases on these reports and manhunt was launched to track the suspects indulging in circulation of child porn. Following the crackdown, the five men were arrested from different areas in Delhi. During interrogation, the five men told police that the pornographic material was either shared with them on WhatsApp or was shared with them on their social media profiles by some of their contacts. They said they used to then forward the same to their contacts further or posted on the internet through their own social media accounts,” Roy said.The DCP said efforts are being made to track the source of the content that these men used to receive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-arrested-in-delhi-police-crackdown-on-child-pornography/story-cHjyYZwzZQoBXX9sMVu9kJ.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi assembly panel tells MCDs to curb dust, cut pollution||The environment committee of the Delhi assembly on Monday summoned the commissioners of the three municipal corporations (MCDs) and asked them to submit action plans within seven days to curb dust levels and check air pollution.The House panel headed by Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Kalkaji MLA Atishi also directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to take strict action against errant officers so that accountability is fixed for the anti-pollution measures. In a series of tweets on Monday, Atishi said that the MCD officials failed to give basic details with regard to roads and mechanical sweeping in the areas within their jurisdiction.“Environment Committee summoned the 3 MCDs today regarding rising dust levels and air pollution in Delhi, and sought an explanation as to why mechanical sweeping was not being done. The negligence of all the three MCDs was shocking,” Atishi tweeted on Monday. “None of the MCDs even knew the total length of roads in their corporation area they are meant to sweep mechanically. There is no mechanism for fines or penalties in case the contractor running the machine does not clean the prescribed area,” she said in another tweet.MLA Ajay Dutt, who is a member of the committee, said all the three MCDs have been asked to submit an action plan for reducing dust pollution. The DPCC has been asked to take strict action against individual officers responsible for rising dust levels in Delhi, he said.The commissioners of the three MCDs did not comment on the matter. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the Delhi government and the assembly panel headed by Atishi are “targeting the BJP-ruled MCDs as part of its political agenda” ahead of the upcoming municipal polls in 2022. “The BJP stands committed to ensure clean environment in Delhi and BJP ruled civic bodies will cooperate with the Delhi government on such matters. But it sad to see the Delhi Assembly’s environment committee carrying out a hidden political agenda against the BJP ruled civic bodies by raising a new issue every other day,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.“Everybody knows civic bodies are facing an economic crunch. The SDMC collects and gives crores of rupees of environment cess from vehicles entering in Delhi to the Delhi government which lie unspent for years. If the environment committee head, Atishi, is actually concerned to control dust pollution, she should ask the Delhi government to hand over funds of the environment cess to the civic bodies to ensure proper mechanical and manual sweeping in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assembly-panel-tells-mcds-to-curb-dust-cut-pollution/story-cp02Q2RKPPMAge9eLfAeCK.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||DDA drafts norms for planned development in unauthorised colonies||A year after the Centre notified a policy to give ownership rights to people living in unauthorised colonies in Delhi, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has drafted norms for planned development in these areas. The new norms have provision for the amalgamation of plot, creating social infrastructure and redevelopment of colonies.The norms were approved by the land-owning agency in a meeting, which was chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, in December end. A senior DDA official said that the rules will soon be put in public domain for suggestions/objections, after which it will be sent to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for notification and added in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021.The DDA, along with the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), is working on a new master plan (MPD-2041), which is the vision document for planned development of the city for the next 20 years.In 2019, the Centre had passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Act, 2019, to confer ownership rights to residents living in 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the national capital. Under PM-UDAY (Pradhan Mantri- Unauthorized Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana), DDA has been giving ownership rights to property owners living in these colonies.A senior DDA official said, “The development control norms for unauthorised colonies is part of the NCT Regulations 2019. It is for the first time detailed norms have been prepared for unauthorised colonies. Now that they are getting the legal tag, there is a need to have norms for planned development/redevelopment in these areas.”The DDA has proposed two approaches for planned development: a regeneration scheme and regularisation of existing areas.DDA officials say that regeneration or redevelopment schemes will help residents. “Amalgamation of plots will be permitted. The minimum area required for availing the benefits under the scheme is 2000 sqm. For this, residents have to pool land and form a developer entity and submit a regeneration scheme to local authorities for approval,” said the official.The second option provided by DDA is for the regularisation of existing colonies wherein people can get the layout plans prepared and get individual building plans approved by the DDA. “The unauthorised colonies will have to meet certain planning requirements such as having access for fire-tenders, open space for evacuation for effective disaster management, structural safety of buildings at plot level, provision for social facilities like healthcare and education facilities nearby etc,” said the official.The developer entity or the RWA or the plot owner will have to pay for civic infrastructure development charges (sewer, water) to the service providing agency.Residents of unauthorised colonies say that the most important thing right now is ownership rights. Kuldeep Chillar, president of Raja Vihar colony where 10 residents were among the first to get ownership rights in January last year, said, “The priority is to get ownership of the property first. Development or redevelopment of the area is secondary. People will be able to do or plan development of the colony only when the government acknowledges our ownership.” Regularisation of unauthorised colonies in Delhi has been a longstanding issue and a poll issue since early 2000. While the Congress-led Delhi government has announced regularisation of authorised colonies in 2008, it couldn’t be done due to technical issues. Ahead of the assembly elections in 2020, the BJP had promised to confer ownership rights to residents of unauthorised colonies. In 2019, the BJP-led Centre passed a law in this regard. While urban planning experts welcomed the move by DDA to draft these norms, they say that redevelopment norms should be further relaxed as some of the provisions will be difficult to be implemented.Shamsher Singh, former chief town planner with erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi said, “It is good that they have drafted special norms for these colonies. For any planned development in these colonies, redevelopment is the only option. But these norms are more builder-oriented, as it will be difficult for RWAs or individuals to comply with them. As for paying infrastructure development charges, it will be difficult to get people to agree to it as last time when similar efforts were made, RWAs had refused to pay for layouts, which were prepared by the corporations.”The DDA’s decision to get a developer entity, Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner with DDA, said, might pose a hurdle in the entire process. “In these colonies, on each plot there are three-four floors which have been sold individually. Getting people to agree to pool plots or amalgamate will be a challenge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-drafts-norms-for-planned-development-in-unauthorised-colonies/story-EHNChQt3JrFeFKfKmz1voJ.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||AAP to hold mohalla sabhas to highlight corruption in MCDs||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday announced it will hold 2,500 mohalla sabhas (public meetings) across Delhi between January 7 and 15 to highlight the alleged rampant corruption within the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations (MCDs). Addressing a press conference, senior AAP leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said through these meetings, the Arvind Kejriwal led party will apprise the people of Delhi about the alleged “scams done by the BJP” during its tenure of 15 years in the civic bodies. He said the party has identified around 600 speakers who will address these mohalla sabhas. Pathak said members such as AAP MLAs, councillors, district in-charges, Lok Sabha in-charges, sangathan mantris and ward in-charges have been trained by the party to communicate with people during these public gatherings.“In the last 15 years, the BJP has transformed MCD to a den of corruption. Be it the Rs 2,500 crore scam about the north MCD waiving off dues of the South MCD or the fodder scam or Rs.1,400 crores house tax scam or Rs 180 crores scam, in every case the AAP has presented proper documents to expose the BJP‘s corruption. Now the AAP wants to take these issues within the MCD to every single citizen of Delhi,” said Pathak.In a statement, the party said the AAP will go door-to-door and apprise the people regarding these alleged scams done by the BJP. A senior party official said the campaign will be crucial for the AAP as MCD elections in Delhi are scheduled next year. “We will invite every citizen of Delhi to attend these mohalla sabhas. We will ask for the suggestions from the people of Delhi on the matters of corruption by the BJP. We will ask the people to give their opinion about the facts like the non-performance of the BJP ruled MCD. We will ask them about their opinion on how the BJP-ruled MCD has transformed Delhi into a Garbage Capital.”The BJP said the AAP, like also political parties is free to push its agenda. “But it is really shocking to see that the AAP’s politics always revolves around baseless allegations against the BJP ruled civic bodies. The AAP is running the Delhi government and if it feels that MCDs are corrupt then they should order an inquiry against the civic bodies through the local bodies wing of its urban development department or through any independent agency like CBI,” said Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.“On December 11, 2020, minister Satyendar Jain had announced that he has asked additional chief secretary of the urban development department to conduct an inquiry into a Rs. 2,500 crore scam related to a rent dispute between the North and South civic bodies and give report in 2 days. Over 3 weeks have lapsed and Delhi is yet to see any inquiry report, this is so because no scam took place. It’s a dirty political campaign by AAP to tarnish image of BJP ruled civic bodies,” the Delhi BJP said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-to-hold-mohalla-sabhas-to-highlight-corruption-in-mcds/story-2CKqobY2qtkIkjTxilEqzK.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Police, paramilitary deployed in Chandni Chowk after temple demolition||A day after the North Delhi Municipal Corporation demolished the Hanuman temple in Chandni Chowk on the directions of the Delhi high court, there was heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces in the area. The political blame game over the issue also intensified with the AAP and the BJP stepping up the attack on each other, and the Congress accusing the two parties of demolishing the temple.Several shops remained closed in the area during the first half of the day when a protest march was taken out by a group against the temple’s demolition. Locals said police have cordoned off the area around the temple site.The temple was removed early Sunday morning following court orders for the Chandni Chowk redevelopment work--- which involves a plan to decongested and pedestrianise the heritage market along the 1.5-km road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid -- being executed by Shahjahanbad Redevelopment Corporation. As several right-wing organisations have given a call for protests at the temple site in Chandni Chowk on Tuesday, senior police officers said Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel will be deployed in the neighbourhood to maintain law and order.Officials said that since no public gathering or protests are allowed in Delhi due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no more than five persons will be allowed to assemble in the vicinity of the demolition site on Tuesday.“We will not stop any individual from visiting the place but groups will not be allowed near the site. No protests will be allowed. If anyone violates or attempts to violate the guidelines, we will take action as per law,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named, saying it was “sensitive” matter.The police placed four layers of iron barricades and deployed nearly 200 personnel so that people did not march towards the site in groups. “Similar security arrangements will be in place on Tuesday as well. The number of personnel may be increased, if required,” the officer cited above said.Pradeep Gupta, president of chemical traders’ association in the market, said, “Only shop owners and residents who live near the demolition site are allowed entry in the area, which has been cordoned-off. There is heavy police and para-military deployment in the area.”Traders in the market opened their shops after 1pm. “After police assured traders of their safety, traders opened their shop, though a little late,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal.Parties spar over the issueThe Aam Aadmi Party said the BJP-ruled North MCD demolished the temple in a suspicious manner, choosing 4am as the time to demolish the structure. The party also demanded action against the leaders responsible for demolition. Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said, “The BJP-ruled municipal corporation first razed the ancient Hanuman temple at Chandni Chowk and is now accusing the AAP to escape public anger over this heinous crime. The BJP demolished the temple with the help of Delhi police when everybody was asleep. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and other top leaders of the BJP are directly responsible for demolition of the ancient Hanuman temple. The AAP demands stringent action against these leaders for committing such a heinous crime.”Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said Gupta he, along with senior BJP leaders, will meet Delhi lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal and request him to get the temple constructed in Chandni Chowk.He said, “The Delhi government’s religious committee is headed by Satyendar Jain and if he wanted, he could have resolved the matter in the committee itself. But he did not do so at the behest of the CM. During CM’s visit last year to assess the progress of the development work, various stakeholders and BJP leaders gave him a memorandum requesting to include the temple in the redevelopment project. But he ignored it.”The Congress blamed both the AAP and the BJP for temple demolition. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said, “AAP and BJP are indulging in cheap publicity stunts. The North corporation and the Delhi government have admitted in the court that the temple is an encroachment. According to the procedure, if a temple or any other religious structure has to be removed for a development project, then they are allotted alternate place for relocation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-paramilitary-deployed-in-chandni-chowk-after-temple-demolition/story-SSFBD6N8z5ovapUpa9ReiI.html
05-01-2021||Delhi||Residents to be graded on basis of age, comorbidities for Covid vaccine shots in Delhi||The 42 lakh people, excluding health care and front line workers, who will be eligible for the Covid-19 vaccinations in Delhi in the first phase will be further graded on the basis of age and the number of comorbidities a person has, senior health officials said on Monday. With the Central government mulling to launch India’s Covid vaccination drive — the biggest such programme in the world — in a week’s time, state health officials urged people, especially senior citizens and those with co-morbidities not to panic and throng the vaccine centres once they are opened. “The Co-WIN mobile application is going to go live for everybody in a few days. One thing which the district administrations are being asked to publicise widely is that the government will only select individuals who are less than 50 with co-morbidities and those above 50 for the vaccination. The Co-WIN app will accept registrations with valid documents only if their names show up in the list within the app. Also, there will be an option to register through camps wherein distirct health officials will do the registration after basic verification. Just walking up to a vaccine centre will not work,” said Dr Suneela Garg, who is leading the Capital’s vaccination programme and is the director professor at the department of community medicine in Maulana Azad Medical College, University of Delhi.She, however, clarified that there will be division even within senior citizens and those having comorbidities. Read more| ‘From Andhra Pradesh to Assam’: How states are gearing up for Covid-19 vaccination“Within the third category also there are priorities. For example, if a person is 49 years of age and is diabetic and has hypertension and there is another person of the same age, who is diabetic, then priority will be given to the person with two or more comorbidities. Similarly, in the 50+ category, those who are above 60 years of age and with comorbidities will be given the vaccine shot first. The idea is to bring down Covid fatalities to bare minimum first,” she said. Senior government officials said database of those above 50 years is being taken from electoral rolls. “Just like before a polling day, voters get SMSes about their polling booth and other details, here also the same process will be followed. The beneficiary will have to wait for the SMS alert from the district after registration, to know the date, time and place of getting the vaccine shot,” said a health official. For vaccination of those below 50 years of age with co-morbidities, database from the door-to-door survey which started from November 20 in all the hot spots and containment zones of Delhi is likely to be considered.However, when HT contacted officers of at least five of the 11 districts of Delhi, all of them said there were no clear directions as on Monday evening on which datasets should be considered for compiling the “under-50 list”. “We have some data of all 11 districts from the multiple surveys conducted during the last seven months. But we don’t know whether that will be used or will some other mechanism will be used,” said one district magistrate. Read more| ‘Give me one week’s time’: Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covaxin efficacyAnother revenue official from the New Delhi district said there is no dedicated or fresh survey being conducted as of now to identify those below 50 with comorbidities.The last such survey was conducted between November 20 and December 31, when the Delhi government had initiated a massive survey, covering 5.73 million people, to identify those with symptoms of Covid or a history of contact with a Covid patient. “In all likelihood, it is from this survey that all districts will be asked to compile the final lists of those having comorbidities. But no clear directions have been issued to districts yet. The focus currently is on preparing the lists of health care and front line workers,” said a senior official in the office of the divisional commissioner of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/residents-to-be-graded-on-basis-of-age-comorbidities-for-covid-vaccine-shots-in-delhi/story-UTDyiFQA0dCZY77AxmepuO.html
05-01-2021||Pune||Pune district to get 9 new police stations||PUNE: Pune district will get nine new police stations at Wagholi, Uruli Kanchan, Baner, Kalepadal, Kharadi, Phursungi, Mhalunge, Ravet and Shirgaon. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Ajit Pawar, deputy chief Minister of Maharashtra, at Mantralaya in Mumbai on Monday.Apart from home minister Anil Deshmukh, the police chiefs of the district’s three forces— Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad city and Pune rural —were present.As per the plan, the nine existing police stations will be divided into the jurisdictions of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad while parts of Pune rural police jurisdiction will be reduced, according to the distribution statement issued by Pune district administration. Pune cityPune city police will get three additional police stations, two from Pune rural (Lonikand and part of Loni Kalbhor), and six newly formed police stations, including Wagholi, Nanded City, Baner, Kalepadal, Phursungi, and Kharadi. “A part of Loni Kalbhor will be turned into Uruli Kanchan police station and that part will remain with Pune rural, while a leaner version of Loni Kalbhor will be a part of Pune city. From Haveli police station, Nanded City police station will be formed and added to Pune city police while Haveli will remain with Pune rural,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police. The city police will also need to increase the number of zones from its present count of five, according to the police. Pune city currently has approximately 9,000 personnel including staff and officers. “Manpower and increase in zones will happen eventually after the police stations are established which will take some time,” said Gupta. Pimpri-ChinchwadThe Pimpri-Chinchwad police will get three new police stations, including Ravet, Shirgaon and Mhalunge. A part of Chatuhshrungi and Hinjewadi will be combined to form Baner police station. The separate commissionerate for Pimpri-Chinchwad came into being on August 15, 2018. “Baner police station will absorb Bavdhan police outpost which was earlier in the jurisdiction of Hinjewadi police station of Pimpri-Chinchwad police,” said Gupta. Pimpri-Chinchwad police will get Rs 2 crore for purchase of vehicles for police use. The force has a strength of 2,000 personnel which controls over 1.72 million population. Pune rural Pune rural police will hand over the responsibility of Lonikand, partial Loni Kalbhor and Haveli police stations to Pune city. Pune rural police will be given Rs 1 crore for vehicle purchase like Pune city police. “Manpower and increase in zones will happen eventually after the police stations are established which will take some time,” said Gupta.For better policingPune city police commissioner’s jurisdiction earlier had 39 police stations till August 2018.Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate came into existence on August 15, 2018, with 15 police stations, including nine from Pune city and six from Pune rural.After formation of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police, Pune city police went from having three zones to five zones with 30 police stations.From 30 police stations, the number will increase to 38, one shy of its strength till 2018.The additional police stations have been carved out from three police stations from Pune rural, five from existing Pune city police jurisdiction, and one from Pimpri-Chinchwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-to-get-9-new-police-stations/story-oKh2jVNtveYldPWFqKd7pJ.html
05-01-2021||Pune||Pune city’s accident ‘black spots’ put major roads in high-risk category||On Thursday, December 31, 2020, a woman pillion rider died, while her husband and two children escaped with various degrees of injuries, after the two-wheeler they were riding met with an accident involving a fuel tanker atop the Fursungi bridge in the Hadapsar area. According to the traffic police branch of the Pune police, there are 23 black spots in the city, prone to frequent accidents. These black spots have witnessed a number of accidents, including fatalities, over the past three years. However, according to police, a fewer number of accidents were recorded in 2020 due to the impact of the Covid-19-induced lockdown. According to statistics shared by the Pune police, there were 15 accidents at these black spots in 2020. These sites, as an HT spot check revealed, continue to be plagued with potholes, dim lights, ill-constructed and ill-designed speed-breakers.This is compounded by a lack of proper traffic enforcement and in some cases, the footpaths in a flawed alignment with the streets. Fursungi, where the accident took place last week, has been identified as an accident-prone spot by the police and has witnessed eight fatal accidents since 2017. The accident spot is close to a point on the bridge where what looks like a makeshift footpath, abruptly begins, reducing the width of the already-narrow road. No road sign informs vehicle users of the same. According Rahul Shrirame, deputy commission of police (traffic), the list of black spots has been prepared after a careful study of the frequency of accidents. “Due to Covid-19, the traffic volume has reduced on city roads, which has brought down the number of accidents at the blackspots in 2020 ,” said DCP Shrirame. The 23 traffic blackspots listed by the Pune traffic police include, Khadki Machine chowk in Kondhwa; Hemant Karkare chowk in Koregaon Park; Viman nagar chowk - Tata guard room - Kharadi dargah road in Viman nagar; Ramwadi octroi post - Sangamwadi parking in Yerawada; Vaiduwadi chowk–Phursungi phata in Hadapsar.Also, Walvekar chowk-Mundhwa railway bridge in Mundhwa; Sancheti hospital chowk –Shivajinagar; New Katraj Tunnel-Dari Pul - Bharati Vidyapeeth ; and Walvekar chowk in Sahakarnagar. As per the traffic police, the city had 27 accident-prone spots in 2017, 18 in 2018 and 23 in 2019. According to the citizen activists, the road department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is responsible for faulty planning of chowks and the city roads being in a state of disrepair. The PMC started several initiatives for road improvement and four road maintenance vans were deployed in four zones on a trial basis, to carry out on-spot road repairs wherever required. Later, the project seems to have been discontinued with no official willing to speak about it.The PMC then started a helpline number where citizens can call and report potholes, and request immediate repairs. Similarly, the PMC had even started surveying the speed breakers that do not adhere to the Indian road congress (IRC) guidelines, but the project has not been taken to its logical conclusion, till date. At present, traffic police personnel have been deployed at most of the crowded junctions, including the blackspots. Prashant Inamdar, convenor of the citizen forum Pedestrians First, said, “It is time that all the agencies of government, like PMC , Traffic Police, district administration and the planning authorities come together and find a holistic solution to this issue. We must bring down accident rates further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-s-accident-black-spots-put-major-roads-in-high-risk-category/story-8Tnn1VVPFcM0mC6PMscciL.html
05-01-2021||Mumbai||Congress, NCP slam BJP over Kangana Ranaut’s tweet about ‘appeasing’ the party||The Congress and Nationalist Congress Party have slammed actor Kangana Ranaut and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for her tweet on “appeasing BJP” and said this was proof that she was acting against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government on direction of the party. The ruling parties also said that the BJP had sinned and the sin could not be washed off even if the party apologised to the people of Maharashtra.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut slams Urmila Matondkar amid reports that she bought Rs 3 cr office after joining Shiv Sena: ‘Wish I was as smart as you’A day after Ranaut took a dig at Shiv Sena leader and actor Urmila Matondkar, the ruling parties said the people of Maharashtra will take a stand against the betrayal by the BJP. Ranaut had criticised Matondkar over a new office purchased by the latter after joining Sena. “Dear@UrmilaMatondkar ji the houses I constructed through my hard work were demolished by Congress. By appeasing BJP, I was handed just 25-30 cases. Had I been as smart as you, I would have appeased Congress. How stupid I am, right?” Ranaut tweeted in Hindi.Dear @UrmilaMatondkar ji maine jo khud ki mehnat se ghar banaye woh bhi Congress tod rahi hai, sach mein BJP ko khush karke mere haath sirf 25-30 cases he lage hain, kash main bhi aapki tarah samajhdar hoti toh Congress ko khush karti, kitni bevakoof hoon main, nahin? pic.twitter.com/AScsUSLTAAShe was referring Matondkar purchasing an office in a plush commercial area for Rs3 crore weeks after joining the Shiv Sena. Matondkar replied to the allegation in a video on Sunday, in which she said the facts related to the office purchased by her were twisted. “It is true that I purchased an office at Pali Hill, but it has nothing to do with me joining the Shiv Sena. The office was purchased from the amount I had received after selling a flat in Andheri. Ever since I entered into politics, there have been attempts to defame me, but I am not going to deviate from my aim. These attempts are not going to make any difference to me. I am open to disclose all the documents of the transactions related to the office to anybody,” she said. Matondkar also said the documents related to both her transactions (sale and purchase of the two properties) were available with the authorities concerned and she could make them available for media persons too. Congress’s state general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said it has been established that BJP was behind the conspiracy to defame Maharashtra and Mumbai. “Ranaut herself has admitted that she was trying to make BJP happy. This proves that BJP was behind the conspiracy [which according to the Congress was planned during the Sushant Singh Rajput death case probe] to defame Mumbai Police and Maharashtra. BJP cannot get wash off its sin even if it apologises to the people of Maharashtra. We condemn BJP,” he said. Sawant said it was unfortunate that BJP supported the actor who likened Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and termed Mumbai Police “mafia”. NCP legislator and party chief Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew Rohit Pawar, too hit, out at BJP. “We should congratulate Kangana for her candid admission that she was targeting Maharashtra government to make BJP happy. By doing so, she has exposed BJP. Now the people of Maharashtra will decide about this betrayal by BJP,” he tweeted in Marathi. BJP spokesperson Vishwas Pathak dismissed the controversy. “It is a battle between two film actors and no serious attention needs to be given to it. BJP has nothing to do with it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-ncp-slam-bjp-over-kangana-ranaut-s-tweet-about-appeasing-the-party/story-O9hgK8fRwyzx4SUYaX2xkK.html
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Former Union minister Shanta Kumar to undergo Covid treatment at Mohali hospital||A day after his wife died due to Covid-19, veteran BJP leader and former Union minister Shanta Kumar was shifted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali, on 30 December after he complained of uneasiness. Shanta Kumar’s son Vikram Sharma, who has flu and mild fever, was also brought to Fortis Hospital. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said that Shanta Kumar, who is also a former chief minister of Himachal Pradesh, felt uneasy and decided to undergo further treatment at the Mohali hospital. His wife, Santosh Shailja, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19, died after a cardiac arrest at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, on Tuesday. She was 83. The former chief minister and his family, including wife, son, daughter-in-law and granddaughter, had tested positive for Covid-19 last week. As per the statement issued by the Fortis Hospital, Mohali, Kumar is stable and has been shifted to a room. The hospital said that his treatment has been started as per protocol. Two of his staff members have also caught the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-union-minister-shanta-kumar-to-undergo-covid-treatment-at-mohali-hospital/story-WVXYe0GXpGQzee7ASBskgI.html
