06-01-2021||City||Ludhiana schools gear up to welcome students after nine months||Government schools and those affiliated to the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) will reopen for students of Classes 5 to 12 from 10 am to 3pm from Thursday. The government took the decision so that final revision can be conducted physically in schools before the annual exams. Anand Singh, principal of AVM Senior Secondary School, which is associated to PSEB, said, “We have over 750 students studying in these classes. A message has been sent to parents to send their wards to school from tomorrow. To maintain social distancing, we will accommodate one student on one bench.”Rajinder Kaur, district education officer, elementary-cum-secondary, said, “We had already opened the schools for the staff of primary and middle classes on January 1. The premises are ready for conduct of classes.”However, schools affiliated to Central Board Secondary Education (CBSE) have decided to take a few more days to prepare.Harmeet Kaur Waraich, principal of Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road, said, “We are holding a parent-teacher meeting to inform parents about the government’s decision to reopen schools. We will ask them to ensure that their wards are wearing masks. They will be asked to not send their child to school if he/she is unwell. We will make every child undergo thermal screening at the entrance.” School principals said that more time was needed to make necessary arrangements keeping in view the Covid norms. The schools will have to be reopened in two shifts and will have to make a seating plan, time table, and require additional rooms to accommodate students and extra staff to take classes. Many school heads said that students used to commute to school earlier by buses and vans, and now in the absence of transportation, it will be difficult for parents to pick and drop them.Vandna Shahi, principal, BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, said, “We will start the preparation from Thursday. The safety of students and staff will be our priority, and we will make the necessary arrangements for them. We will inform the parents regarding the reopening of schools once we are ready with all safety measures.” JK Sidhu, principal of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, said, “We can’t reopen the school on Thursday. The final call will be taken by the school management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-schools-gear-up-to-welcome-students-after-nine-months/story-gwyElSf9asVUqwmJStQt0H.html
06-01-2021||City||North MCD to tag cattle with chips||New Delhi: To control the stray cattle menace in the national capital, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation will tag cattle with chips so that owners do not abandon them to roam on city roads.According to senior officials of the north corporation, a policy in this connection is being drafted and it will soon be placed before the standing committee of the civic body for approval.A senior official said that the issue was flagged as the municipality lack enough resources to catch the cattle and there are over 250 illegal dairy operating in north Delhi.“We are yet to take a call on whether the expenses to install chips will be borne by the municipality or by the cattle owners, who often leave or abandon their livestock after they are of no use,” the official, who wished not to be named, said.He added that a code on these chips fitted on the body of cattle would be matched with the records of the corporation and the animal husbandry department of the Delhi government. It will have all the information of owners including their Aadhaar details.Yogesh Verma, leader of the House in north corporation, said that the coded chip would help officials to identify owners of cattle roaming on city streets and fix responsibility or impose penalties on owners.He said that the decision was taken after it was discussed in an earlier meeting that the problem of stray cattle has worsen in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-to-tag-cattle-with-chips/story-if7TeFyoe6gnbd897atXAP.html
06-01-2021||City||Buddha Nullah pollution: Project director reaches out to Ludhiana residents, gets their feedback||With an aim to expedite the campaign being conducted by the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) to stop people from dumping waste in Buddha Nullah, state project director of Swachh Bharat Mission, Puran Singh, on Wednesday went to the door-to-door drive and gather feedback from residents. The civic body teams also issued challans to 12 residents, who were caught throwing waste in the nullah during the campaign.More than 1,000 students and NCC volunteers from seven colleges of the city have also been made a part of the campaign wherein teams visit every house in 16 wards in the vicinity of the nullah to spread awareness among people. MC community development officer Maheshwar Singh said, “At least 250 students from different colleges participated in the campaign on Wednesday and more than 1,400 houses and shops situated in different areas falling under the Zones A and D of MC were covered. Puran Singh also moved to the field to get feedback from residents. The MC teams issued challans to 12 people as well for dumping garbage in the drain.” Earlier on December 28, the MC had commenced ‘Clean Buddha Nullah’ awareness campaign with a target to make the drain garbage-free by January 26. Maheshwar Singh said that hoardings have been installed in the area, warning residents about a fine of ₹5,000 to be imposed on the violators if caught dumping solid waste in the area. Over 60 marshals and guards have also been deployed at the 14km-long stretch of nullah to bar people from dumping waste. The drive will be supervised by 24 nodal officers. Focus of labour quartersMC officials said that during the campaign, they are focussing on spreading awareness among those living in labour quarters situated in the area near the nullah. “Large number of labourers reside in one building and they do not hand over the garbage to waste collectors. They are also not aware of the norms. We are asking them to hand over the waste to the garbage collector, otherwise challans will be issued in the coming time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buddha-nullah-pollution-project-director-reaches-out-to-ludhiana-residents-gets-their-feedback/story-Eq8DVXLRxkc7veWlKE9kSK.html
06-01-2021||City||Ludhiana receives 10mm rain since January 1||The city has recorded nearly 10mm of rainfall so far since January 1 and 5mm in the past 24 hours said, Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology.The weather is expected to remain partly cloudy with the possibility of isolated thundershowers over the district and its adjoining areas during the next 24 hours.However, the cloud cover brought some respite from the cold wave. The day temperature was recorded at 18° Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 10.2° Celsius, 4.8 degrees higher than the average temperature recorded during the season.Heavy showers coupled with strong winds were witnessed at midnight. However, the weather turned pleasant during the morning and light drizzle was witnessed during the afternoon.Kaur said the present spell of rain will be followed by foggy days for the next week.She said that such weather is beneficial for wheat crops while vegetable farmers need to stay alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-receives-10mm-rain-since-january-1/story-XvyPAZ9nb2cZD9LxZRckmJ.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Class 10 student beaten up by school staff for damaging bus seat||The family of a 17-year-old boy on Wednesday alleged that his teacher and school staff assaulted him for “damaging” his school bus seat. Till press time, however, police said they had not received a complaint in this regard.The boy is a class 10 student of a private school in Badalpur and lives in Chithera village of Dadri.“On Wednesday, he told us that the school manager and a teacher beat him up alleging he had damaged the seat of school bus,” said the father. “He was also made to do sit in the murga position (holding ears while sitting) as punishment.” The family shared the copy of their complaint on social media that drew strong reaction. Dharmendra Kumar, in-charge Badalpur police station, said, “The family had tweeted the matter but had not filed a complaint at the police station. We have come to know that the school management has apologised for the incident.”The school management could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/class-10-student-beaten-up-by-school-staff-for-damaging-bus-seat/story-cAx9sgYkqw5IZH2TbsqICJ.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad municipal corporation takes up ITMS project for Rs 47 crore||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation will implement the Integrated Traffic Management System (ITMS) that the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) had abandoned in 2020 citing doubts over the firm that won the contract. This time, corporation officials said they have decided to go ahead alone and will start the project afresh. They said that they have prepared its detailed project report (DPR), and is expected to cost around ₹47 crore, a steep downgrade from the earlier project’s ₹77-crore budget. The ITMS involves installation of a city-wide traffic management infrastructure which will help detect traffic violations, regulation of traffic signals besides providing a surveillance system at different traffic intersections. It also involves installation of high-tech red-light detection systems, speed violation systems and even incident detection system which will be helpful in case of accidents. “The GDA had initially planned the ITMS and we were a partner to the project. Since the authority has disowned the project, the corporation will now develop it on its own with the funds from the state smart-city mission scheme,” said M S Tanwar, Ghaziabad municipal commissioner. “The DPR will now be sent to the state government for approval in a couple of days. Once approved, we will begin the process of issuing a tender for the project and the work will likely be completed within a year of that.”The firm that had won the contract for the previous project will not be allowed to participate in the new one, said Tanwar.In September, 2019 the UP state cabinet rolled out a list of seven cities, which included Ghaziabad, whose municipal corporations would get ₹50 crore each year for five years to develop smart cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-takes-up-itms-project-for-rs-47-crore/story-376KDbCiTWSRLJTZpU8zmN.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Farmers’ ‘tractor-march’ to affect traffic on NH-9 and Eastern Peripheral Expressway||Ghaziabad: Farmers protesting at the UP Gate on Wednesday said they will carry out a dress rehearsal of their Republic Day “Dilli Chalo” tractor march on the 135-km Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) on Thursday morning. The march is likely to affect commuters on the EPE and the national highway-9 (NH-9). The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which maintains both highways, said that tractors were not allowed to ply on the EPE under even normal circumstances. The district administration said they had appealed to the protesters to desist from breaking rules.The protesters have been camping at the site since November 28 and have also blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of NH-9 since December 3. They, along with other protesters at various borders of Delhi, are demanding repeal of the three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. During the last round of their talks with the government, there was no decision on repeal of laws while the government has clarified that they were ready to discuss amendments. The next round of talks is scheduled on January 8. “As a dress rehearsal of our ‘Dilli Chalo’ call on January 26, our farmers will drive tractors and will enter the EPE from the Dasna interchange on Thursday around 10 am. The tractors will be lined up properly and no trolleys will be part of the march. Thereafter, the tractors will move to Palwal and come back to Dasna,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). They said they would move in such a way that the effect on traffic would be minimal.“Each of the tractors will bear the national flag and also the flag of the BKU. It is estimated that about 500-600 tractors will participate. Our leaders have already said that if our demands are not met, we will proceed to Delhi on January 26. So, in a way, we are conducting a rehearsal on Thursday,” he added. The NHAI officials said that the march will affect traffic on both the major road stretches. On normal days, the EPE has traffic of about 50000 passenger car unit (PCU) per day, while the UP Gate stretch has daily PCU of about 80000 vehicles per day. “Tractors are not allowed at the EPE and there will be traffic disruption if they carry out a march. We will speak to the district officials about the issue. Already, the farmers have made two major tolls at Palwal and Sonipat free and it is also affecting revenue. It is estimated that the tolls fetch us about ₹90 lakh per day but we are getting only about ₹25 lakh per day since December 25,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he has spoken to farmers and have asked them to abide by rules and regulations. “Also, our committee of officials is already in constant touch with farmers’ leaders. We will also ask the police to make more deployment to ensure that commuters do not face issues,” Pandey, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-tractor-march-to-affect-traffic-on-nh-9-and-eastern-peripheral-expressway/story-eycIcoOMxlUuzFUHvD3ocI.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Employers held for death of domestic help in Noida high-rise||Noida: A 62-year-old man and his 58-year-old wife were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the death of their 16-year-old domestic help who had allegedly taken her own life on January 1 in a high-rise under sector 49 police jurisdiction.The arrests came after the deceased’s elder brother filed a complaint with the Noida police alleging that the elderly couple had been harassing her. The girl was found hanging in her room at the high-rise in Sector 77, the police said, adding that no suicide note was recovered from the spot. When questioned, the couple had said that the girl’s paternal uncle was coming to Noida from Jharkhand to take her back home but she didn’t want to leave and had been upset about it for the past few days, said the police.In his complaint, the brother said that she had been working there for the past three years and they (the couple) had not allowed her to take any time off to visit us in Jharkhand. “They wouldn’t even let her keep a cellphone and would monitor her when she spoke with us using their phones. She wanted to come back home but they kept on making her work,” said the brother.Based on his complaint, a case was registered on Monday at sector 49 police station for abetment to suicide (section 306 of the Indian Penal Code).“A case was registered following the family’s complaint and on Wednesday the couple was apprehended,” said Sudheer Kumar, station house officer, sector 49 police station.He said that the girl’s body had been handed over to the family for last rites following the autopsy which was videographed.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.The elderly man is a manager at an MNC and the couple’s son also lived with them though his involvement has not been found in the case, said the police.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/employers-held-for-death-of-domestic-help-in-noida-high-rise/story-t2ovkaAM4AYAHWGHo0Q28K.html
06-01-2021||Noida||63-year-old murder convict dies on way to Noida hospital||A 63-year-old murder convict died while on his way from Luksar jail to a hospital after he complained of chest pain on Tuesday night, said police. The man was identified by a single name as Munawwar, a resident of Muzaffarnagar in UP. Vipin Mishra, Luksar jail superintendent, said that Munawwar was an inmate since June 24, 2018. “He was charged of murder in the jurisdiction of Kotwali Police Station in Muzaffarnagar a few years ago. He was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in 2013 and later transferred to Gautam Budh Nagar,” he said. On Tuesday night, Mishra said, he was brought to the jail hospital at 11:30 pm for treatment for chest pain and breathlessness. “When his health deteriorated, the jail doctor referred him to the Noida district hospital,” Mishra said. He was declared “brought dead” at the hospital. “The body has been sent for an autopsy. We have requested the judicial magistrate to conduct a judicial probe into the matter as per norms,” Mishra said. On October 29, 2020, a 31-year-old under-trial rape suspect had died following chest pain in Luksar Jail. The suspect Sarfaraz, a native of Meerut, was also rushed to Noida’s district hospital where he was declared brought dead.The Luksar jail, spread over 90 acres, was inaugurated in April 2014. The jail has 55 women inmates and 2,800 male inmates. The jail management had stopped meeting of inmates’ relatives with the inmates after the coronavirus outbreak in March 2020. The government has planned if the situation returns to normalcy, the meeting service can resume from February-March 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/63-year-old-murder-convict-dies-on-way-to-noida-hospital/story-MiAIBLuxW72RAuY2QnCywJ.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Air quality begins to dip, mercury to drop from Thursday||Noida: The air quality of Noida and Ghaziabad on Wednesday deteriorated again, slipping into ‘poor’ category or worsening within ‘moderate’ levels as the weather conditions begin to change. The unfavourable weather conditions from Wednesday night onwards will lead to further worsening of the air quality in the region, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The three cities of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad had been seeing ‘moderate’ air quality for the past two days – a major improvement over ‘severe’ levels on January 1 and 2. However, the western disturbance – which is now wearing out – led to drastic improvement of air quality and raised the mercury due to the cloudiness. On Wednesday, the air quality of Noida slipped within ‘moderate’ category, while that of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida became ‘poor’. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday was 200 which is still ‘moderate’ against 149 a day earlier. However, Greater Noida’s air turned ‘poor’ with an AQI of 239 against 120 a day earlier, while AQI of Ghaziabad was 234 or ‘poor’ against 140 or ‘moderate’ a day earlier. Weather experts said that the mercury is set to fall and the region to see dense fog in the coming days as the wind directions changed back to icy-cold north-westerly from the warmer easterly. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Noida recorded 1.5mm of rainfall on Wednesday against 5mm a day earlier. The average rainfall across NCR was 4.5mm based on the Safdarjung observatory against 4.7mm a day earlier. The weather department has said that the mercury will start falling from Thursday onwards this week. “The wind directions have changed from easterly to north-westerly, which will lead to drop in mercury from Thursday onwards. The minimum temperature may fall by 4 degrees Celsius over the next 24 hours,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 14.9 degrees Celsius same as a day earlier. The maximum temperature for Noida was recorded at 21.1 degrees Celsius, against 22.3 degrees a day earlier. For NCR, the average minimum temperature was 13 degrees Celsius and maximum was 21.6 degrees. “The mercury is set to fall that traps the pollutants, and the change in wind directions leads to calm winds for a day. So, in both the cases the ventilation will worsen and pollution levels spike,” Srivastava added. The major pollutant PM2.5 levels which continued to be under check for the past three days deteriorated to almost twice the standard limits. The PM2.5 levels in Noida worsened to 102.02 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 72.6 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 110.97 µg/m³ against 78.75 a day earlier. The PM2.5 levels for Ghaziabad was 106.86 µg/m³ against 71.50 µg/m³ a day earlier. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), AQI will deteriorate over the next two days and may slip towards ‘very poor’ by the weekend. “Rain observed over many places in the Delhi region kept AQI in check which has touched its low and further improvement is not expected now. Surface North-easterly winds are slowly getting moderate and Ventilation condition is likely to become unfavourable for dispersion. SAFAR model predicts a gradual deterioration of AQI in the coming days. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate to the poor category tomorrow and deteriorate from the poor to the very poor category on the 8th and 9th of January,” said the SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-begins-to-dip-mercury-to-drop-from-thursday/story-HBtcnNeEX1Dbz8AgH0iy7I.html
06-01-2021||Noida||EOW’s special investigation team to probe Muradnagar incident||Ghaziabad: The Muradnagar roof collapse incident, which claimed 24 lives on January 3, will now be investigated by a special investigation team (SIT) of the UP Police’s economic offences wing, state government officials said on Wednesday.  “The chief minister has taken cognisance of the incident at Muradnagar and has sought a detailed report from the additional director general (Meerut zone). The inquiry of the incident has been given to a special investigation team of the economic offences wing and assigned to find out lapses. The entire incident and lapses will be investigated by the special team formed for the purpose,” said Navneet Sehgal, UP’s additional chief secretary (information). “The chief minister has directed for fast and strict action in the incident,” he added. The incident took place at Ukhlarsi cremation ground in Muradnagar where roof of a shelter collapsed, leading to the death of 24 persons in age group of 22 to 60 years. The Ghaziabad police have arrested five persons in the case so far. Three officials of Muradnagar Nagar Palika -- executive officer Niharika Singh, CP Singh, a junior engineer, and supervisor Ashish Kumar -- were arrested on Monday. While contractor Ajay Tyagi was arrested on late Monday night, his accomplice Sanjay Garg was arrested on Tuesday morning.“We will respond to the directions issued. Regarding the SIT, we are awaiting written directions and they will be fully implemented. The CM on way to Delhi also met us on Wednesday and directed that all help should be provided to the victim families,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.Following arrest of contractor Tyagi, the Ghaziabad police on Tuesday had said that the suspect has told them that he allegedly bribed officials and also resorted to malpractices which finally led to the collapse of the structure at the cremation ground. Soon after the incident, the CM had sought a report from divisional commissioner (Meerut) and ADG (Meerut zone) about the incident. The police sources said that the confidential report was sent to the state administration and has highlighted the issues related to construction based on initial findings by a technical committee. During the initial inquiry, a committee of engineers found use of “substandard material” and “issues with design” which finally led to structural collapse. On Tuesday, the National Human Rights Commission issued notices to UP chief secretary and the director general of police calling for a detailed report in connection with the Muradnagar incident. Vishnu Kumar Gupta, a Ghaziabad-based social activist, has also approached NHRC, seeking the commission’s intervention for payment of compensation to the family of the deceased and other injured victims. “Issue notice to the district magistrate, Ghaziabad, calling for a report in the matter within two weeks,” NHRC said in an order on Wednesday. The UP government has announced Rs 10 lakh each as compensation for victim families, besides other help through various government schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/eow-s-special-investigation-team-to-probe-muradnagar-incident/story-VYLtcAsk1hxXjjZtMO5pqM.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Corporation blacklists contractor’s firm, stops pending payments||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation on Wednesday blacklisted contractor Ajay Tyagi who was responsible for the construction of the Muradnagar crematorium that collapsed and killed 24 people on Sunday.This comes a day after police said Tyagi had revealed to them during questioning that he had bribed municipal corporation for the work and also used poor quality materials to cut costs. Corporation officials said that Tyagi was involved in 30 other civic works -- from construction of drains, laying of interlocking tiles, revamping roads, constructing boundary walls, among others. These were allotted during the last two years and funded by the corporation, as well as other sources marked for development.These works in were spread across different wards of Kavi Nagar, Mohan Nagar, City, Vasundhara and Vijay Nagar zones. The official sources also said that he quoted the tender prices to the tune of 7.77% to 27.31% below the tender amount to bag the contracts. “We have blacklisted his firm and also stopped pending payments to other projects that he had taken up. He had been doing the works for past 10 years and now the ongoing works will be allotted to the firm that had quoted the next lowest price in the bid,” said M S Tanwar, municipal-commissioner. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he has written to the Ghaziabad municipal-corporation and development authority to blacklist contractor’s firm and also stop the pending payments for works. On Wednesday, the administration officials also sealed the Ukhlarsi cremation ground where the incident had taken place and also sealed important files of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika. “The cremation ground has been sealed and only a temporary platform for cremation has been left out. It will have a separate entry for people. The rest of the portion has been sealed after a team of senior engineers from GDA and corporation had inspected the site. They have also taken up samples of the debris for testing,” said Aditya Prajapati, sub divisional magistrate (Modinagar). “We have also sealed important files of the Nagar Palika which were related to contract works and accounts. This has been done so that they do not get tampered or damaged by anyone. These filed will now be part of ongoing investigation into the incident.” On Wednesday, the committee comprising of chief engineers of GDA, corporation and UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam inspected the cremation ground and have recommended testing from an expert agency. “The expert agency could be any IIT or any other renowned agency which will check up the load bearing capacity, quality of material among other factors. We have not been able to get the design of the structure,” said VN Singh, chief engineer of GDA. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the expert agency will be roped in at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/corporation-blacklists-contractor-s-firm-stops-pending-payments/story-hYG8GluKqKXcaujSI8REtM.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Nominated member of Muradnagar Nagar Palika says he complained about poor material being used at crematorium 5-6 months ago||Ghaziabad: A nominated member of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika on Wednesday said that he had apprised and written to the officials of the municipality as well as the district administration at least twice about the “inferior quality” construction material being used at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground, but they allegedly paid no heed to his letters. On January 3, the roof of a shelter at the crematorium had collapsed, claiming lives of 24 people. Vijaypal Hitkari, the nominated member of the Nagar Palika, said that he wrote two letters -- one dated June 16, 2020, to the district magistrate and another dated July 10, 2020, to the chairperson and executive officer of the Nagar Palika. The nominated members of the local bodies are appointed by the state government. “In both the complaints, I had clearly stated that there was very less use of cement (ratio 1:10) in the construction mixture and also that yellow-coloured bricks (semi baked) were getting used for construction. I had requested the officials to stop construction and take up an inquiry but it was never initiated. Now, they are conducting inquiries. Will it bring back the 24 lives lost in the incident?” said Hitkari, who is also a social activist.“I had given two letters by hand to the officials and they did not give me any receipt or stamped copy. I had also marked the copies of the letter dated June 16 to state officials. Still, no action was taken,” he added. The two letters written on the letter-head of Hitkari’s social organisation, ‘Nagar Vikas Parishad’, also went viral over social media. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, however, said that he did not receive any letter written by Hitkari. “I received no such letter. If the complainant says that he gave a written complaint, he must produce the receipt of it,” Pandey said. Nagar Palika chairperson, Vikas Teotia, also said that he did not receive any such letter written by the nominated member. “Had I received any letter complaining of poor construction material, I would have stopped the work and initiated an inquiry. But I received no such complaint,” he said. Niharika Singh, executive officer of the Nagar Palika, is already under judicial custody after she was arrested by the Ghaziabad police in connection with the roof collapse incident.A preliminary inquiry of the incident site by a committee of engineers of the Ghaziabad development authority and municipal corporation found the use of “substandard” material and “design issues” which allegedly led to structural failure on Sunday. “I have already directed that the firm of the contractor be blacklisted and pending works to be stopped, along with pending payments. The directions have been given to the municipal corporation as well as to the Ghaziabad development authority officials. They have also been directed to check the construction quality of previous works done by the contractor,” Pandey added. Contractor Ajay Tyagi involved in construction of the shelter at the cremation ground was also arrested by the Ghaziabad police on late Monday night. The police said that during questioning he confessed that he bribed officials of the Nagar Palika and also resorted to malpractices, including the use of material which was not as per norms. The victims of the tragedy who survived after the incident have already said that the roof of the structure, about 40 feet in length, collapsed completely and not in phases which led to number of deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nominated-member-of-muradnagar-nagar-palika-says-he-complained-about-poor-material-being-used-at-crematorium-5-6-months-ago/story-jL72qkdouvixN2HEB7mMvO.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi records slight rise in number of Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||Delhi recorded 654 fresh COVID-19 cases and 16 more fatalities on Wednesday, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.88 per cent, authorities said. The infection tally in the city rose to 6.28 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,625, they said. The national capital had recorded 442 cases on Tuesday with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday had tweeted that the positivity rate had been below one per cent for the past 11 days, and fresh cases were the lowest since May 17. From December 21 to 23, the daily cases count had been below the 1000-mark. On December 21, 803 cases were reported, 939 on December 22 and 871 on December 23. However, on December 24, 1,063 cases were recorded, dropping again to 758 on December 25 and 655 on December 26. On December 27, 757 cases were recorded while on December 28, the daily cases count was 564, the lowest in the last five months. On December 29 and 30, the city recorded 703 and 677 cases respectively. On December 31, 574 cases were recorded, and 585 on January 1 and 494 on January 2 and 424 on January 3 and 384 on January 4. These 654 new cases came out the 74,650 tests conducted the previous day, including 39,623 RT-PCR tests and 35,027 rapid antigen tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The active cases tally on Wednesday dropped to 4,481 from 4,562 the previous day. The bulletin said the total number of cases has climbed to 6,28,352.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-slight-rise-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours/story-hyP493BpC2rb5FTIrDaHWI.html
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination dry run on Thursday||The district health department will conduct a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination at six session sites on Thursday. The regional emergencies director of World Health Organisation, Dr Rodrico Ofrin, is likely to visit two sites — at Bhangrola and Wazirabad — to review the preparedness, according to health department officials. Bhangrola is a rural area, with the dry run being held at a primary health centre. Wazirabad, on the other hand, is an urban area, where the drive will be held at a government primary school, as per the plan prepared by the health department. Other sites are Tigra, Basai Enclave, Daulatabad and Chauma. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, along with his team visited the six session sites on Wednesday to check the preparedness for the mock drill. The drive will start from 11am at all locations simultaneously, and is likely to continue till 1pm.Since the mock drill will be conducted across 22 districts on Thursday, the state has been exempted from the massive nationwide mock drill to be held on January 8 across all states and Union territories, according to a statement issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/vaccination-dry-run-on-thursday/story-EAj7wIqp75c3ym5OAMeeWK.html
06-01-2021||Gurugram||No evidence of bird flu in Gurugram yet, officials on high alert||Nearly 80 blood samples from poultry farms across the district tested negative for any strains of avian influenza or its antibodies, officials in the animal husbandry department said. However, they also said that an outbreak of bird flu cannot be ruled out given an unusually high number of poultry deaths recently reported from Panchkula district’s Barwala tehsil. The samples were tested this week at a lab in Sonepat, as part of routine zoonotic serosurveillance.A district-level meeting of veterinarians and poultry farmers has been convened in Gurugram on Thursday to review existing protocols for controlling the spread of bird flu. Guidelines for the same were first drawn up in 2005, and then implemented and revised during bird flu outbreaks in 2006, 2012 and 2015. There are presently 48 veterinarians enrolled with the animal husbandry department in the district, who regularly visit poultry farms to inspect chicken and take samples for routine surveillance. An official with the district animal husbandry department, who requested anonymity, as they are not authorised to spread to the media, said, “There is no reason to believe that poultry in Gurugram has been affected by either strain of the influenza virus, H1N5 or H5N8, confirmed be to be circulating in India. We have directly reached out to at least 100 poultry farms in the district and as of today (Wednesday), none are reporting any unusual activity. Visits will be made by vets to check on the health of the birds. They will also be on the lookout to see if the farm owners are hiding any deaths from authorities.” Dr Punita Gahlot, deputy director, animal husbandry, Gururgam, declined comment. However, when asked whether it was safe to continue consumption of poultry, Gahlot responded, “No directions have been issued by the government yet to stop eating chicken.”The district wildlife department, too, has been conducting daily visits to Sultanpur national park, Basai, Najafgarh and Tau Devi Lal biodiversity park to check for excess deaths among migratory and local birds. “We found two pigeon carcasses in Tau Devi Lal Park today, but that’s quite common. We will be making daily trips to these places for the next few days. If we retrieve any bird carcasses, we will hand them over to the animal husbandry department, who will dispatch it to a lab in Jalandhar for testing,” said Rajesh Chahal, district wildlife inspector. After recent reports that nearly 400,000 poultry chicken died under suspicious circumstances in Panchkula, the state animal husbandry department has sounded the alarm across all districts to ramp up surveillance. Four states — Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh — have already confirmed outbreaks of at least one of two influenza strains (H1N5 and H5N8) which cause bird flu. However, despite this spate of poultry deaths which began in mid-December, Haryana has not yet detected a single lab confirmed case of avian influenza. “We will only know more in a few days if deaths start increasing on poultry farms in places other than Barwala,” said a senior official in the state department of animal husbandry, seeking anonymity. The official added that the cause of poultry deaths in Barwala has not yet been determined, saying, “We just don’t know yet. The report from the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL) in Jalandhar is awaited.” Dr Sukhdev Rathee, deputy director, department of animal husbandry, shared the same view. “There is no evidence of either influenza strain being present in Haryana, but we need to be careful. As far as poultry is concerned, we cannot say for sure that the deaths in Barwala were due to bird flu. We have send additional samples to Jalandhar yesterday after the first inquiry came up inconclusive. The report will come in another two days. Till then we are monitoring for any spike in deaths on poultry farms,” he said.ML Rajvanshi, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Haryana, said that all sensitive wetlands and bird habitats are being put on surveillance for the time being. “I have personally visited Bhindawas in Jhajjar two days ago. There is nothing untoward to report. But since there is evidence of a bird flu outbreak in nearby states, we will have to be very vigilant. Migratory bird populations will be monitored closely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-evidence-of-bird-flu-in-gurugram-yet-officials-on-high-alert/story-WDmgdsgyCJqmRc0V2KepLO.html
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Tractor march on KMP e-way on Thursday||Farmers from various protest sites in Delhi-NCR will be taking out a tractor march on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway on Thursday on a call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmers’ unions protesting at Delhi’s borders. The march, previously scheduled for Wednesday, was postponed by a day due to poor weather. Farmer leaders said that the rally was a rehearsal for the Republic Day parade that they plan to take out on January 26 to protest against the three agriculture laws. Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that farmers from several districts will march with their tractors and reach the Shahjahanpur protest site on Thursday. “A batch of farmers from Maharashtra joined our agitation today. Other farmers will be marching with their tractors tomorrow. Tractors from other protest sites at the Delhi border will start marching in the morning and we will have a huge cavalcade of farmers on the KMP stretch,” said Madhav. Deepak Lamba, member of Jai Kisan Andalon, which is a part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said that the march would start at 11am and continue through the day. “One batch of tractors will start from Singhu border and one from Tikri border. They will converge at KMP before returning to their respective protest sites. Other segments of tractors from Palwal, Ghazipur and Mewat will also come together on the KMP stretch,” said Lamba. Ramzan Chaudhary, another member of Jai Kisan Andolan from Nuh, said that tractors from various protest sites will follow different routes for the march on Thursday. “Farmers protesting at Tikri border will march till Singhu border and vice versa. Tractors from Nuh and Ghazipur will march till Palwal and return from there. Different units of tractors will cover a different stretch,” said Chaudhary.Rampal Jat, Kisan Mahapanchayat president, who is protesting at the Haryana-Rajasthan border, said that around 100 tractors from Palwal would be joining the tractor march on Thursday. “Tractors from different regions will join the march tomorrow. Due to rain, our tents at the border have been uprooted or flooded, but we will participate in the rally as much as possible. Around 100 tractors of ours will be joining the march from Palwal,” he said.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, station house officer, KMP Expressway, said that the police are on alert and would take steps to handle the traffic depending on the situation on Thursday. “ We are on alert. If the situation demands, we will make the necessary diversions,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/tractor-march-on-kmp-e-way-on-thursday/story-uvC40ZDk34jchLXussTMRJ.html
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Cops stopping supplies from reaching us, allege farmers in Haryana||Farmers protesting on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Sangwari Chowk in Rewari and Masani village near Dharuhera alleged on Wednesday that the police and administration had stopped tractor-trolleys that were ferrying their food supplies and other relief materials at least 10 kilometres before the protest site.Protesters alleged that they had run out of food on Monday and most of them had to sleep on an empty stomach. They alleged that the police were not allowing vehicles to deliver raw materials and ration for them to cook food.On December 31, farmers had broken the barricades at Shahjahanpur and entered Rewari, crossing the Shahjahanpur interstate border in Rajasthan. They have stayed put at Masani and Sangwari Chowk, from where their movement was stopped by the police, who had to use mild force and tear gas on January 3.Many women and children, who had joined the protest on January 3, returned home on Tuesday due to a lack of medical aid at the site as a few of them fell ill.Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said, “There are nearly 3,000 farmers protesting at Masani village. No water tankers are allowed to reach us nor any ration. How will we cook food and consume if the situation remains the same?”Ram Krishan Mehlawat, the Rewari president of Rashtriya Kisan Union, said that roadside eateries and residents of nearby villages are supporting them by providing food but that is not sufficient for all. “We are offering food to a few people and have divided them so that each one can get at least one meal a day. We did not prepare tea on Tuesday as there was no milk. The gas cylinders are empty and we have no means to get them refilled. If the situation remains the same for the next two days, the protest will turn into a hunger strike,” he said.Vijay Yadav, a social worker from Shikohpur village near Manesar, who has been protesting since December 12, said that they tried to use tractors from fields to deliver ration but were stopped by the police. “The tractors loaded with vegetables and ration are stationed 10 kilometres away. We tried to get ration and walked down to the border but we could not unload the sacks,” he said.Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, denied the allegations and said that they had not stopped any essential supplies. However, he said that farmers are not being allowed to cross the stretch. “Food and ration is being served to them by locals and is available At stores and shops along the national highway. If they are facing any issues, they should inform us or write to us. The allegations are baseless,” he said.The police said that due to the protest, commuters travelling from Gururgam to Jaipur have to take a diversion from Dharuhera to Kotputli in Rajasthan via Khori, Pali and Kund, increasing their commute by at least 50 kilometres. The diversion for commuters from Jaipur to Delhi is through Kotputli via Alwar, which connects Tauru via Bhiwadi and connects to the national highway at Manesar.The Gururgam police said that to ensure smooth traffic flow, they are diverting heavy vehicles from Rajiv Chowk towards Ferozepur Jhirka in Nuh, which connects to Rajasthan.Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “We are keeping a close watch on protesters’ movement and will not allow them to enter Gururgam district jurisdiction. The teams are on alert and we are managing traffic situation to ensure no congestion is reported on the national highway. We have deployed enough force on the highway so that daily commuters are not affected by the ongoing protest.”Five police control room (PCR) vans and six motorbikes have also been stationed at the Kherki Daula and Bilaspur toll plazas to resolve any snarls.Farmers, who have been protesting at the three sites since December 12, have alleged that there is no running water and no toilets for them at the protest sites in Haryana and Rajasthan and they have written to the local administration several times but to no avail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-stopping-supplies-from-reaching-us-allege-farmers-in-haryana/story-IMuQDL93Q70KJwEsv27e4O.html
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Yash Garg is Gurugram’s new deputy commissioner, to take charge Thursday||Yash Garg, a 2009 batch IAS officer of the Haryana cadre, was appointed the deputy commissioner of Gurugram on Wednesday. He will replace Amit Khatri, who has gone on study leave till October 2022 to pursue a course in the US.Garg has been relieved from his position as the commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) and will take charge in Gurugram on Thursday. “I will be taking charge tomorrow,” he said on Wednesday. In an order issued by the state administration, Yash Pal, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, has been given the additional charge of the MCF. Garg, of Sonepat, holds an MBBS degree from Maulana Azad Medical College and had worked as a junior resident doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital in Delhi. He had ranked sixth in the Union Public Service Commission in 2009.Garg took over the charge of MCF in 2019, replacing Sonal Goel, who was appointed the chief executive officer of Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL). Before MCF, Garg was deputed as a director and special secretary for industries and commerce, and advisor and special secretary for civil aviation with the Haryana government. He also served as deputy commissioner of Rohtak in 2018 and Rewari in 2017. Garg was deputed as additional deputy commissioner and CEO of District Rural Development Agency in Kurukshetra and Jind before 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/yash-garg-is-gurugram-s-new-deputy-commissioner-to-take-charge-thursday/story-SbFb2AKQg167L6HaMqIIjN.html
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Amendments to affordable housing policy notified||The department of town and country planning has notified the amendments to the Affordable Housing Policy of 2013, which allow changes to the size of housing projects, car parks and an increase in the commercial component of the project areas.Officials said that this amendment will help in expanding the footprint of affordable housing in the state, particularly in Gurugram, as there has been a high demand for such projects in the city. Last year, the department had increased the area available for the development of affordable housing projects in residential sectors, given the high interest of the buyers.The department expects a majority of developers to apply for changes under the amended policy, so that the projects become attractive for buyers and more profitable for them. At present, there are 80 housing projects being developed, with around 45,000 housing units in all.As per the detailed notification issued on Monday, the minimum and maximum areas allowed for such projects will be four acres and 30 acres, respectively. However, the department will also consider licence applications for two acres if the net planned area of 25 acres has already been licensed. The notification stated that if applications for more than 25 acres of net planned area in a sector are received, then successful applications shall be decided by draw of lots.Earlier, the minimum and maximum areas for such projects were five acres and 10 acres, respectively.Developers seeking the benefit of the present amendment shall be required to submit a fresh application, as per the notification. The norms of community sites shall remain as per the original policy, but for projects larger than 10 acres, the developer will have to provide additional community site for every 10 acres, said DTCP officials.The amendment also provides for an increase in the commercial component, from 4% to 8%. The notification states that developers of ongoing projects can also benefit from the changes, provided occupation certificates of all residential towers in a project have not been obtained. The developer also needs to obtain approvals from two-thirds of homebuyers for increasing the commercial component.The amended policy also allows developers to provide space for parking one car with each dwelling unit, at a rate not more than 5% of the flat cost. A DTCP official said that an average cost of a car park is likely to be fixed between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh, and is likely to find favour with a majority of buyers in such projects.Earlier, there was no provision for car parks in an affordable housing project and it was seen as a great hindrance for this segment, said officials.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that amendment in affordable housing policy will help in increasing supply of such units, for which there is high demand. “With an increase in plot size, larger projects can be planned which will lead to a bigger project and more units. Even smaller patches of land, which are leftover, can be developed under this policy. Also, there was a strong demand for car parks and more shops in such projects from buyers of existing projects as most people own cars these days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/amendments-to-affordable-housing-policy-notified/story-MMZ464Wglds9j8sKtpfA8H.html
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Sale of residential units registered almost 50% annual decline: Report||Sale of residential properties in the National Capital Region (NCR) fell by nearly 50% last year from 2019, as per a report released by real estate consultancy Knight Frank India on Wednesday. Last year, 21,234 housing units were sold in the NCR, a steep fall from the 40,000-odd units sold in 2019, as per the report. The third and fourth quarters of 2020, however, witnessed a strong recovery as the pent-up demand caused by the nationwide lockdown gave a push to sales and helped improve the figures. As per the data shared in the report, Gurugram accounted for nearly 29% of all housing sales in NCR. However, the share was 18% lesser than in 2019. The slowdown in sales was caused due to the lockdown, which also changed the dynamics of the real estate market in the city. Developers, who earlier focussed on premium housing, are now expanding their offerings to mid-income and affordable housing projects, the report stated.In 2020, Greater Noida emerged as the top destination for residential sales in NCR, accounting for 39% of the housing units sakes, followed by Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Noida and Faridabad. The reason for Greater Noida’s emergence as the top destination, say experts, is that units were available in the Rs 40 lakh to Rs 60 lakh price range, in the mid-premium segment. The maximum sales were reported in the above Rs 50 lakh category, the report said. Gurugram, however, witnessed maximum launches in NCR, accounting for around 47% of the residential units launched in the city, as well as in areas along the Dwarka Expressway and Southern Peripheral Road. Of the total launches in NCR, Greater Noida accounted for 20%, Ghaziabad 19%, Noida 11% and Faridabad 3%. Overall, the NCR witnessed a 57% decline in new project launches last year, the report stated. It also identified Ghaziabad as the new real estate hotspot in NCR, as it has been witnessing a constant rise in new launches and sales since 2018. Another key development in real estate markets that was seen in 2020 is that there was greater demand for plotted developments due to ease of getting possession as well as lower cost of units, the report observed. Mudassir Zaidi, executive director, north, Knight Frank India said, “While Gurugram and Noida continue to lead on various residential asset class statistics, Ghaziabad is seen continuously gaining its dominance on the NCR’s residential map. This is largely due to developers trying to capitalise on the latent demand in locations where affordable and mid-segment products have been receiving good response from buyers.”Overall, the report observed that while both sales and launches remained low in the wake of the pandemic, cheaper home loans, lower pricing and pent-up demand led to a faster recovery in sales leading to a 9% annual decline in unsold inventory and predicted a brighter picture for 2021. “The substantial decline in residential sales during 2020,compared to 2019,was on expected lines as the pandemic completely washed away two quarters. But then there is a silver lining in big uptick in sales during festive months of October-December which holds great hope for a good run in 2021.Though many attribute this spurt in sales to purely pent-up demand, I believe that it has a lot to do with the genuine desire of people to own homes. This is evident from significant rise in the sale of mid-segment homes due to safety and WFH factor. With expected range bound prices and low interest rates with fiscal incentives to continue, housing should register a substantial growth in 2021 across major cities including NCR, though uncertainty about jobs still remains a challenge,” said Vinod Behl, city based real estate expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sale-of-residential-units-registered-almost-50-annual-decline-report/story-E2ux1N769Us2cCU9x2lg0H.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia asks officials to expedite the setting up of tree transplantation cell||Delhi environment minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday headed a review meeting of the environment and the forest department and directed officials to expedite work on several projects, including the setting up a dedicated “Tree Transplantation Cell”.Sisodia directed the environment department to initiate work on the recently notified transplantation policy, which includes setting up the cell, and building the technical know-how of the transplantation process.“He also directed the department to initiate the process of empanelling agencies that have the technical skills and experience to carry out tree transplantation, and finish such work in a timebound manner,” said a statement issued by the Delhi government on Wednesday.The statement added, “The Delhi government under its campaign “Yudh Pradushan Key Virudh (war against pollution)” has taken several steps to control dust pollution. Along the same lines, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has been working on formulating new dust pollution control norms for big (greater than 20,000 square metres) construction sites.”The government said these norms would ensure that all big construction sites take adequate measures to control dust.In the review meeting, the minister was also reported to have stressed the urgent need to bring “regulations to control dust emanating from these big sites.”“He directed the department to discuss with various stakeholders as well as technical experts and finalise these norms on an urgent basis,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-asks-officials-to-expedite-the-setting-up-of-tree-transplantation-cell/story-WdzmYCBn0H3jrFGL4yUhRO.html
06-01-2021||City||Jai Ram interacts with students on 56th birthday, urges them to keep vigil against pandemic||Students must take examinations as a process of evaluating themselves and not as a burden, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Wednesday while interacting with students through video conferencing from Shimla on his 56th birthday.He thanked the students for their good wishes on his birthday. As many as 2,000 students from different schools of the state participated in the online interactive session.CM said examinations were a process of excelling in academics and a way that helps in the evaluation and assessment of students’ progress.He said that this pressure brings along stress, anxiety, and fear in students and that the major reason for exam stress was the notion that attaining good marks was the only way to judge them.In order to beat the exam stress, students need to be prepared for it beforehand, he said.Maintaining that students were the future of the nation, the CM urged them to work hard with dedication to achieve their goalsHe also urged them to continue to be vigilant as the pandemic is not over yet. The state government took several initiatives to ensure that student’s learning cycle does not suffer through the pandemic, he said, adding ‘Har Ghar Pathshala’, one of the initiatives undertaken by his government, was started to benefit the students. He said that optimum use of Doordarshan was also ensured to teach students.A student from Bilaspur, Bhawana Dhiman urged the CM to start offline classes for at least two months before final examinations.Another student Karun Kumar suggested providing adequate staff in the government schools, particularly in remote areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-interacts-with-students-on-56th-birthday-urges-them-to-keep-vigil-against-pandemic/story-Jq77sBgPqhjyUUY3CVh4CI.html
06-01-2021||City||Poultry farmers in trouble due to bird flu outbreak in Himachal’s Pong Dam||Following the outbreak of bird flu which has caused the death of 3,000 migratory birds, the domestic poultry industry is seeing a massive crisis and is forcing the farmers to bankruptcy. This has not only put the Kangra administration on tenterhooks but also triggered concern among poultry farmers as the demand for poultry products has dipped massively. Besides migratory birds, other local species, mainly crows, have been found dead in the Pong Lake Wetland area of the district. The origin of the virus is yet to be ascertained. The first fatality among the migratory birds was reported on December 28. Among the infected birds, 90% are bar-headed geese, the world’s highest-flying birds that migrate from far-off Siberia and Mongolia. So far, the virus has reportedly spread in the poultry in the adjoining area. NO WAY OUT TO DEAL WITH BIRD MIGRATION: DC Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said there is no way out to deal with the migration of birds. “We can’t stop bird migration as it will continue till February end. Though, we can prevent the spread of the virus among the local human population as well as livestock,” said Prajapati. The situation is under control as the virus largely has been found in migratory birds only but the administration is ready to deal with any eventuality, he added. As a precautionary measure, the district authorities have sent more than 100 samples of poultry birds from different farms for testing. Prajapati said if the virus is found in the poultry, culling activities would be carried out. “We are awaiting the reports and have directed the farm owners to report any symptoms in poultry birds,” he said. As of now, there is a complete ban on the sale and export of poultry products and fish in Dehra, Fatehpur, Jawali and Indora. Activities like fishing and grazing are prohibited within the one-kilometer radius of the lake. POULTRY FARMERS STARE AT HUGE LOSSES Meanwhile, the poultry industry is anticipating losses worth crores due to the outbreak. “I have more than 40,000 chickens at my farm. If the virus spreads, culling would be carried out and that would mean losses worth lakhs of rupees,” said Pushp Barotia, a poultry farmer in Dehra. He said the losses would run into crores for the industry in the state. He said the demand for poultry products is already declined after the outbreak. The farm owners have demanded compensation on the analogy of Kerala if culling is done. Not only them, but fishermen dependent on Pong Lake also fear the loss of livelihood. “We can’t do fishing until the situation is under control. How will I feed my family?” said Roop Chand, a local fisherman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poultry-farmers-in-trouble-due-to-bird-flu-outbreak-in-himachal-s-pong-dam/story-Dn9AIQ6OhFIapnOCuK07CK.html
06-01-2021||City||Jai Ram inaugurates 18-bedded makeshift hospital at IGMC||Even as celebrations were kept low profile, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur launched different welfare schemes on his 56th birthday in Shimla.Jai Ram inaugurated an 18-bedded pre-fabricated Covid hospital at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla.The CM also planted a sapling of Rudraksh at his official residence, Oak Over, on the occasion. He launched a wall calendar of the forest department, highlighting the scenic beauty of Himachal forests, and a table calendar on the theme of spreading awareness about medicinal plants in state.He was presented the State REDD+ action plan under which there is a Rs 102-crore plan to be implemented in five years. The plan aims to achieve climate change mitigation by incentivising forest conservation in developing countries.He launched a blood donation camp organised by chief security officer Bhim Singh Guleria, outsource official association, security staff, ward attendants at IGMC, Shimla. Total 75 units of blood were donated at the camp.Later, the CM honoured the in-charge of Lok Kalyan Samiti Rajesh Saraswati for rendering services for cremation of people who lost their lives due to coronavirus.Himachal Pradesh Secretariat Services Sports Control Board organised an awareness foot-march to prevent Covid on the occasion of the CM’s birthday. The march was flagged off by state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj.People from all walks of life gathered at Oak Over and wished the CM. His wife and State Red Cross Hospital Welfare Section chairperson Dr Sadhna Thakur was also present. Meanwhile, PM Modi, BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda, Union ministers, chief ministers of other states telephonically wished him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-inaugurates-18-bedded-makeshift-hospital-at-igmc/story-RW7N8S2bXSXoVXZhmOVWpJ.html
06-01-2021||City||2 held with 506gm charas from Hamirpur villages||The district police have arrested two men in separate cases and recovered a total of 506gm charas from their possession.In the first case, the Badsar police arrested a man from Haar village with 66gm charas. The man has been arrested and booked under the NDPS Act, said Hamirpur SP Karthikeyan Gokulachandran.In the second incident, the Bhoranj police arrested a man from Tikker Khatrian village with 440gm charas.A case was registered under the NDPS Act, the SP added.He said that police are interrogating both the accused about source of the contraband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-held-with-506gm-charas-from-hamirpur-villages/story-9szZMSk4ulKlz2gb155MjO.html
06-01-2021||City||Amit Shah to form panel to look into Ladakh 6th Schedule demand||Home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday met an 11-member delegation from Ladakh and assured them to form a panel to be headed by a minister to look into their demands of inclusion of Ladakh in the 6th Schedule of the Constitution.He chaired a high-level meeting with the leaders in Delhi. The delegation was led by former MPs Thiksay Rinpoche and Thupstan Chhewang. Besides Rinpoche and Chhewang, other members of the delegation include former BJP minister Chering Dorjay, chief executive councilor of Leh Council, Tashi Gyalson, sitting BJP MP and Ladakh unit president Jamyang Tsering Namgyal.“We met home minister Amit Shah who addressed our demands. Now, a panel will be constituted to look into the issue. It will be headed by a minister of state and bureaucrats from the Ladakh region,” one of the delegates, said, adding the panel will decide on the matter within three to four months.On December 21, 2020, the Apex Body of People’s Movement (ABPM) decided to reach out to the opinion-makers in Leh and Kargil districts to press for the sixth schedule to the strategic Ladakh region. The Apex Body of People’s Movement, an apolitical body, which has former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Thiksay monastery head Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora, has been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution to Ladakh on lines of north-eastern states.The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organisations as well as the all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association.The safeguards also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers.It may be recalled here that Thupstan Chhewang, the former BJP MP, had resigned from his post and primary membership of the party in November 2018 for not conferring UT status to the Ladakh region and other promises made by the BJP in the 2014 general elections. The sixth schedule also guaranteed no settlement of outsiders in the strategic region. According to the 2011 Census, Ladakh has a population of 1,34,000, the majority of them being Buddhists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amit-shah-to-form-panel-to-look-into-ladakh-6th-schedule-demand/story-Fq6w7NbS1xX8pPq7dGPHiM.html
06-01-2021||City||Himachal PRI elections: HC dismisses pleas challenging reservation roster||The high court of Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday dismissed all the petitions challenging the reservation roster for the upcoming Panchayati Raj Institution elections, citing provisions under the Article 243-o of the Constitution and observing that grievances of the petitioners cannot be looked into at this point of time as election has already been announced.The Article 243-o bars interference by courts in some electoral matters and provides that election to a panchayat member can be called in question only by an election petition presented to such authority provided for by law. The writ petitions, therefore, cannot be considered as maintainable, at this stage, the court said. Accordingly, these petitions are dismissed reserving liberty to the petitioners to avail appropriate remedy in accordance with the law, said the division bench comprising justices Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Jyotsna Rewal Dua.The court, however, taking note of the methodology adopted by the state in preparing the reservation roster and contention advanced by the counsels of the parties, issued some direction to the government for future. “In cases of re-organisation or creation of gram panchayats, reservation of offices therein should be allocated afresh based upon the changed’ population structure in accordance with relevant provisions of applicable statute and the rules,” ordered the court.Also, while applying the election reservation roster, proper care should be taken so that reservation roster gets rotated to the maximum extent possible, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pri-elections-hc-dismisses-pleas-challenging-reservation-roster/story-nHeRiAGAGnyU3Y5uwxybDN.html
06-01-2021||City||Atal J&K Yojana to cover 35K youth for entrepreneurial skill development||The J&K government is focusing on creating a robust ecosystem for growth and empowerment of entrepreneurs of J&K, besides paving a strong foundation to nurture entrepreneurship abilities in youth.Lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha made these remarks while chairing a meeting with officers of J&K Entrepreneurship Development Institute (JKEDI) and Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), Ahmedabad, at the civil secretariat.The EDII will play a significant role in implementation of entrepreneurship initiatives in J&K, including Atal J&K Yojana. It will provide area-specific technical expertise, handholding for entrepreneurship development solutions for J&K youth in talent, tradition, tourism, trade and technology.He asked the JKEDI and EDII, Ahmedabad, to work in close coordination with Mission Youth J&K to provide sustained handholding to young and budding entrepreneurs for their inclusive growth and development.Laying special emphasis on promoting self-employment for skilled youth, the L-G asked the officers concerned to identify potential sectors for growth and expansion in entrepreneurship.He further asked them to lay special focus on development and entrepreneurship training of SC & ST candidates and prioritising SC & ST majority districts for entrepreneur skill development of the youth.The chair was informed that duration of the project is from 2021-24 covering 20 districts with over 35,000 youth to be oriented, creating 10,000 CTE and over 1,000 IME to generate around one lakh direct or indirect employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atal-j-k-yojana-to-cover-35k-youth-for-entrepreneurial-skill-development/story-ZOhN5gz5Rg8pWPgmqprGLJ.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||IIT-Delhi students receive 925 job offers in phase 1 of placements||The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-Delhi) on Wednesday said its students bagged over 925 job offers in the first phase of placements for the academic session 2020-21 organised last month. The placements are crucial this year as educational institutions across the country have suspended in-person classes since last March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the IIT-Delhi said more than 200 firms have hired students for around 250 different job profiles, including pre-placement offers. “Top recruiters on the campus in terms of the number of students recruited include Microsoft, Intel, Oracle, Tata Projects, EXL Services, ICICI Bank, Goldman Sachs, HCL, Wells Fargo, and IQVIA,” the statement read.This year, the hiring processes were conducted in the virtual mode due to the pandemic. The institute did not reveal the highest package received by a student, citing an internal policy.It said confirmed international offers have been received from several countries including Japan, the Middle East, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan. “More than 20 selections for international profiles have been confirmed up to now. Many companies with multinational operations have currently offered students domestic roles.These may be converted to international offers depending on the situation,” the statement added. “Most students have opted for jobs in their technical core. We can say around 90% of students have bagged offers in their core areas,” said Anishya Madan, head, office of career services, IIT-Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-delhi-students-receive-925-job-offers-in-phase-1-of-placements/story-W3uhM1cLkCbFrsyjyYMQjL.html
06-01-2021||City||J&K transporters demand hike in tariff||Commercial vehicles including buses, trucks, mini-buses, light motor-vehicles and three-wheelers remained off road across Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday.J&K Transporters’ Welfare Association president TS Wazir said, “All modes of transport remained off road from Lakhanpur to Kashmir.”They are demanding hike in tariff, waiving off token tax, passenger tax and renewal fee penalties due to Covid-19. Wazir said that since March, 2019, transporters and transport operators have suffered a lot due to the Covid-induced lockdown.“Many transporters have turned bankrupt due to lockdown and in the absence of support from the government. The Union ministry of road transport and highways has extended the validity of all documents till March 31, 2021, but the J&K UT is imposing penalties for all documents at the time of their renewal,” he said.He added that the government has turned a blind eye to their demand of 30% hike in passenger fare. During the day, the transporters assembled at Jammu bus stand and other places in Jammu city and raised slogans against the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-transporters-demand-hike-in-tariff/story-FI3FifaENmqFDXA85siReK.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University allows more research scholars to return to its hostels||Panjab University has allowed research scholars, who have completed two years after enrolment and have experimental work in labs, to return to hostels at its Sector-14 campus with the consent of their supervisors.Besides, research scholars, who have completed five years after enrolment, will be allowed to avail hostel facility on daily charges. So far, only scholars, who have completed three years of study, were being allowed to visit the campus since October 15 last year and return to hostels since November in a phased manner.Meanwhile, the university has decided to also adjust scholars residing in the hostels at Sector 25 in its hostels on the Sector-14 campus. However, shops on these premises will not be opened for now. The development comes amid the demand from the Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) to open departments, hostels and AC Joshi library for all the scholars of the university. A university official said, “The scholars staying in hostels can access the AC Joshi library in case of urgent need.” Covid test mandatoryThe university in an official communiqué on Wednesday said every research scholar returning to the hostel should have a Covid test report, not beyond one week before joining.Scholars will also have to submit an undertaking to the hostel warden, forwarded through the head of department concerned, that they will follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) while residing in hostels, which have already been issued by the varsity.To minimise risk of spread of infection, food will be served through lunch box against cash payment. Guests and visitors are not allowed till further orders.In December, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had granted a six-month extension for submission of thesis to MPhil and PhD students in the wake of closure of universities due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-allows-research-scholars-to-return-to-its-hostels/story-pu3UwXvMUgVaSkkio6fBxN.html
06-01-2021||City||18-yr-old held for attempt to film woman in restaurant toilet||PUNE An 18-year-old man has been arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday for trying to record a woman in the toilet of a restaurant in Pashan.He was remanded to judicial custody by a local court, according to senior police inspector Anil Shewale of Chaturshrungi police station.The 18-year-old complainant was in the restaurant with her family on Monday night when the incident happened. The woman noticed the man recording her as she was entering the bathroom.“It is an open roof restaurant. He had climbed up and was recording,” said senior PI Shewale.When the woman rushed out to confront him, he fled from the restaurant, according to the complainant.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Chaturshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-yr-old-held-for-attempt-to-film-woman-in-restaurant-toilet/story-MhgAiC9QUKAq5dwGvGDiQK.html
06-01-2021||City||PMC files caveat against MIT in dist court; resumes clearing of debris on Vetal tekdi||PUNE After a local court on Monday rejected a plea filed by Maharashtra Academy of Engineering & Educational Research (MAEER) MIT seeking a stay on removal of debris by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) at Vetal tekdi, the PMC resumed excavation of the illegal road on the hillslope today.The PMC also filed for a caveat in the district court. “According to section 148A of CPC caveat petition as a precautionary measure taken by a person who holds a strong fear or uneasiness that some or the other case against him/her is going to be filed in the court of law regarding any manner. We have filed caveat praying that no order be passed without due notice under section 148 A of the Code of Civil Procedure to the Corporation in any application for stay / injunction / ad-interim injunction / temporary injunction etc. in any application likely to be filed before this district Court, by MIT,” said Manjusha Idhate, chief law officer, PMC.Advocate Sanjay Murkute of the PMC added that this was done as a precaution. “Because MIT may file an appeal against the order passed by PMC court and seek exparte injunction orders against the corporation, we have filed a caveat,” he said.At the site, PMC junior engineer Ramdas Pawar along with two PMC security personnel were present to oversee the work.Pawar said, “We began the work at 10 am, but took a long time to level the illegal road as it was difficult for the JCB. We have just begun, there is enough rubble laid on the hillslope which will need more than one dumper. This dumper can take seven tonnes of debris and by the looks of the debris, it will take more than 50 trips to get rid of the rubble used to make the kaccha road.”Annirudha Khandekar, a resident living in the society overlooking the tekdi said, “The rubble put for making the illegal road is atleast 10 to 15 feet raised above the actual hill slope and our worry is that if the rubble and debris is not removed then the large boulders could come rolling straight into the societies close by, some stones have already broken part of a wall of a society.”While residents Kiran Vairagkar and Dipti M added: “Hill slopes and hill top areas are prohibited for any type of construction. We expect the restoration to happen at a fast face. It was a cohesive efforts of all citizens with the PMC to get justice.”On November 19, 2020, the PMC had served a stop-work notice to the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT), citing unauthorised work on the hill slope at survey no 123 in Kothrud. The MIT denied reports that any norms are being flouted while carrying out the work. Following the campaign by residents, which, within 48 hours managed to get 30,000 signatures for a petition to save Vetal tekdi, which is also marked by PMC as a draft heritage site, PMC issued strict instructions to MIT officials to excavate the “internal road”, as well as clear the debris collected nearby housing societies. A stop-work notice was issued to MIT citing unauthorised work on the hill slope at survey number 123 in Kothrud, following which the PMC had dug up the road being constructed and ordered the institute to clear the debris within two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-files-caveat-against-mit-in-dist-court-resumes-clearing-of-debris-on-vetal-tekdi/story-iYYxuQUkQDP2cim6PPxGON.html
06-01-2021||City||Tanker carrying spirit used to make alcohol seized; driver illegally siphoning the spirit||PUNE A tanker carrying spirit used for making alcohol has been seized by the State Excise Department of Maharashtra on Wednesday morning. The seizure is worth Rs 36,30,160, according to excise department officials.The seizure was made at a time when the model code of conduct is in place for the gram panchayat elections, upcoming in the parts of the state.The arrested driver of the tanker has been identified as Pramodkumar Shamsundar Kushwaha (38), a resident of Uttar Pradesh, according to Prasad Surve, division deputy commissioner, Excise Department. He was intercepted in Kolewadi village, located along the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway stretch in Pune, after department officials sent a decoy customer to him.“The truck was carrying the 25,000 litres in spirit, used to make products like alcohol, legally. However, he was found illegally withdrawing the spirit from the tanker into separate barrels. We arrested him based on a tip and we have been granted his police custody until January 12,” said Surve.The excise department officials caught him while he was transferring the spirit from the tanker to a barrel, 200 litres in capacity. The officials found three barrels, 220 litres in capacity each; five barrels each with a capacity of 200 litres; a 25-foot long plastic pipe, and travel and transport documents for the spirit. “The vehicle was heading from a factory in Vita, Sangli to Palghar. That transport was legal,” said Santosh Zagade, Superintendent of Police, Pune, Excise Department.The excise department officials have seized the phone of the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tanker-carrying-spirit-used-to-make-alcohol-seized-driver-illegally-siphoning-the-spirit/story-uSgAwdnJgwFb7C8IlM84aI.html
06-01-2021||Pune||Hit-and-run: Two friends on bike killed in Pune||PUNE: The driver of an unidentified vehicle was booked in a hit-and-run case after two persons who were riding a motorbike were found dead in Dehu road in the small hours of Tuesday.The deceased were identified as Sagar Kalyan Degale (23) of Morevasti in Chikhali and a native of Barshi in Solapur; and Vaibhav Ramesh Nimbalkar (26) also of Morevasti.The duo, riding a Yamaha FZS registered in Pune, was hit by an unidentified vehicle around 11:30pm on Monday atop the bridge that connects Nigdi with Dehu Road, according to the police. “They were heading home from work at a private company and were staying together. Family members have taken their bodies,” said sub-inspector A Kokate of Dehu road police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 304(a), 279, 337, 338 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and other relevant sections of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Dehu road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hit-and-run-two-friends-on-bike-killed-in-pune/story-4gSlqoUKAOAgtLNsuCTegP.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||HC pulls up Centre for civil services selections without declaring exact vacancies||The Delhi high court on Wednesday pulled up the Centre for selecting candidates for All India Civil Services mains exam and subsequent interviews without declaring the actual number of vacancies, particularly for the disabled category. Such an act amounts to “arbitrariness”, it added.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the Centre and the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) that conducts the exam to explain how it was deciding who qualifies for the mains and interview.“When your vacancies are fluctuating, how many people will you call for the mains and interview? If you have the power to call any number of candidates for mains and interviews without declaring the actual vacancies, it is known as arbitrariness.”The court was hearing two pleases by Sambhavna and Evara Foundation, which have challenged the exam notification on the grounds that only approximate vacancies for the disabled are mentioned and not the 4% mandatory reservation mandated under the law.The court asked the authorities to explain the difference of eight seats in the vacancies for disabled calculated by Sambhavna, and the number advertised in the exam notification. According to the petitioner, the number should be 32, whereas the exam notice refers to 24 vacancies under the disabled category.“You have to explain these two aspects,” the court said.The petitioners urged the bench to stay the mains exam scheduled from January 8 to January 17 or direct the Centre to hold exams for the disabled persons later if the two petitions were allowed.The court refused to pass any interim directions and said that if the petitioners were successful, the reliefs would be moulded accordingly.On the last date of hearing in September, the court had termed as “absurd” the UPSC’s argument that while the number of vacancies in the All-India Civil Services may vary before the final selection of candidates, the number of seats for the disabled would remain fixed.Sambhavna has contended that the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act mandates that every government establishment shall reserve 4% of its total vacancies for those with benchmark disabilities. It has said that the expected approximate vacancies should be 796.The UPSC exam notice mentioned “expected approximate vacancies” -- a category that does not exist under the law.The matter would be heard next on January 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-pulls-up-centre-for-civil-services-selections-without-declaring-exact-vacancies/story-VSaaacJSx9lM9PSfEkFfcL.html
06-01-2021||Pune||Pune to have its first traffic garden||Pune: The Pune traffic police in collaboration with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will be building a traffic garden near Bremen chowk aimed at educating school students, parents and citizens about traffic rules and safety. Funds have been pledged from the corpus of the road department of civic body for the estimated Rs 3-crore project. According to Rahul Srirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), around 60 per cent work of the traffic garden has been completed and the remaining is likely to over in the next few days. “The traffic garden is a rich repository of traffic knowledge where prototypes and replicas of roads, signals, traffic jams and all aspects of traffic management and rules for children are being incorporated. The place will also have pictures and animated replicas of violators being booked for breaking traffic rules,” said Srirame. Dinkar Gojare, PMC executive engineer of road department, said that spread over one acre, the garden is developed on the concept where children can imbibe traffic rules. “It is the first garden of its kind in Maharashtra. We have surveyed school children and spoken to principals who have strongly backed our project. Children from 4 years to 12 years are being targeted to make them better citizens of tomorrow,” said Gojare. According to the traffic department, the garden replicas which will also include miniature models to educate children on various traffic rules, emergency services and tips on road safety through lane markings, zebra crossings, road signs which state no entry, crossings, turnings and other traffic safety sings. “It is essential that every child must know the importance of traffic rules and safe driving. Children and parents must also be educated of the safety norms to be strictly followed while driving or walking on the road, obeying traffic signals and abiding by the parking rules. The garden will play a crucial role in bringing all the traffic safety information at one place and serve as a hub of traffic literacy for Puneites,” he said. The future additions to the garden include setting up of miniature models of educational institutes, fire brigade, petrol pumps and hospitals and institutes of public importance. The traffic department has mooted the idea of free entrance to the garden citing traffic education and literacy as the motive behind starting the initiative. The department has also communicated in writing to the PMC to start more such initiatives in open spaces across the city to educate citizens and school children. Highlights Prototypes and replicas of roads Signals Traffic jams Traffic management system The place has pictures and animated replicas of violators being booked for breaking traffic rules Future plans LCD displays Demonstrations Slide shows, workshops, seminars, exhibitions, street plays Social media and online education platform Setting up of simulated audio-visual centre where students can learn driving a four and two-wheeler Training users to manoeuvre traffic virtually Driving skills enhancement programmes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-to-have-its-first-traffic-garden/story-EegeCkrDKnZmzCiKDk5lxK.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Cannot set aside convictions based on compromise between parties: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court has ruled it is not permissible to ordinarily set aside convictions for non-compoundable offences at appellate or revisional stage only on the grounds of compromise between the parties.A three-judge bench said the high courts should exercise powers under section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to set aside such convictions “only in rarest of rare cases,” when found necessary to prevent the abuse of the process or to secure justice. It added any compromise entered into post-conviction for a non-compoundable offence cannot itself result in acquittals. “Similarly, the court has no power to compound an offence, which is not permitted to be compounded under Section 320....”Also Read: TV channels airing ads promoting superstition liable to face action: Bombay HCThe compromise entered into, therefore, is just a mitigating factor, the bench said. It added such a compromise can be taken into account by an appeal or revisional court for the purpose of imposing an appropriate sentence.The three-judge bench was hearing a reference on whether the power under Section 482 ought to be exercised for setting aside a conviction altogether upon a settlement between the convict and the victim.The issue was referred for consideration of the larger bench after a two-member bench refused to accept the view taken by a division bench at Aurangabad, striking down a conviction on the grounds of settlement between the parties. The two-judge bench observed that maintaining cordial relations between the convict and victim, in that case, was in the larger interest of the society and therefore inherent powers under Section 482 were required to be invoked to set aside the conviction.The three-judge bench cautioned against a casual approach in setting aside convictions on the grounds of settlement. It said if a conviction cannot be set aside in an appeal or revision on merits, such a result cannot be achieved using Section 482 when the parties have compromised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cannot-set-aside-convictions-based-on-compromise-between-parties-bombay-hc/story-BmTFzXxrqMCcq6OQFpg9BL.html
06-01-2021||City||Forest dept’s Pune circle sees 15 leopard rescues in 2020, 14 deaths||PUNE At least 15 leopard rescues were conducted in 2020, while a total of 14 leopard deaths were recorded in the Pune circle, which consists of Pune, Solapur, Junnar and Bhor.Junnar, which has a high density of leopards, recorded the highest number of deaths as well, as well as the most rescues, seven. The Junnar division also has the Manekdoh Leopard rescue centre in its jurisdiction. “Our staff, and volunteers from the village are trained as these operations happen routinely. We do not maintain data of the rescued animals; our staff members just show up whenever there is a call or a sighting. Barring the lockdown period, we take monthly workshops for those involved in rescue missions,” Jayaramegowda R, deputy conservator of Forests (territorial), Junnar division, Pune circle.On Tuesday, forest department officials rescued a leopard which had injured itself by getting caught in a fence built around a sugarcane field, that was meant to prevent wild boars from entering.“We transquilised it and took it to the rescue centre. There it will be treated and kept along with 34 others. There are animals of various ages, some are man-eaters, some are younger ones who have been recently rescued,” said Jayaramegowda.One of the two deaths reported from Manikdoh leopard rescue centre in 2020 was that of a 22-year-old female who passed away on December 13. Of the 14 deaths reported in Pune circle, 13 are from Junnar division, of which five died of natural causes, three in road accidents, three fell to their death in wells, and two were killed due to unknown reasons. “It is a leopard rescue centre, but anytime any animal is in trouble, we offer rescue. It was established here in 2002 as the man-animal conflict is high in this area. Within five years, the number of sightings shot up so Wildlife SOS was involved in 2007. We have a limit of 35 animals so we cannot take in more. We keep the animal only if it is orphaned, old, or injured,” said Dr Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, working with the Forest department.The forest department, along with Wildlife SOS, provides help even elsewhere in the circle when it comes to wildlife rescue. The staff members from Junnar division, due to their skillset, were involved in the killing of a man-eater leopard in Karmala, Solapur in December, while they also helped rescue a deer in the Chakan area of Pune in the same month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forest-dept-s-pune-circle-sees-15-leopard-rescues-in-2020-14-deaths/story-GoFuzVhnlNu5iFIq4RO9QK.html
06-01-2021||Patna||No threat to NDA govt in Bihar, all matters being sorted out: RCP Singh||RCP Singh, the newly appointed national president of ruling Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), has dismissed speculation about the future of chief minister Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has begun asserting itself as the biggest party of the grouping. In an interview, Singh insisted the government does not face any threats and issues among NDA alliance partners will be amicably resolved. Edited excerpts:How challenging is your new role given your party now has lesser lawmakers than the BJP?The confidence level is not low. The numbers do not always matter. The [Bihar assembly election] results have been below par due to a number of factors. We are analysing everything. JD (U) remains a party with strong footprints in Bihar as well as a few other states like Arunachal Pradesh and Jharkhand. It has a charismatic leader [Kumar], who works for inclusive development. We are working on strengthening the party further.Also Read: BJP lawmaker takes part in Covaxin trial in PatnaThe BJP poached your lawmakers in Arunachal and due to a wafer-thin majority in Bihar, there could be a threat to your government too... the Rashtriya Janata Dal still hopes to form the government...In Arunachal, the BJP had a majority on its own. But six of our lawmakers switched over apparently lured by power and prospects of getting posts. JD (U) had no alliance with the BJP there. Such a thing also happened in Nagaland. But these things will not make any difference to Bihar. Here NDA is old and both the BJP and the JD (U) have been together for years.Do you see any threat to the NDA government in Bihar?The NDA has the numbers. It also has the support of Independents and the Lok Janshakti Party. There is no threat to the government, which has started working on its promises. The opposition is daydreaming. The first priority for the government is free Covid-19 vaccination. Our state executive meeting is also scheduled for January 9-10, where we will reassess the organisational situation. A tall leader like Nitish Kumar, who walks the talk, makes a huge difference. Our leader has a reputation not only in the state but at the national level. That is a big advantage for the party to build on. People trust him not because he talks, but because he delivers. I have been with Kumar for 23 years and I know he is one who cannot compromise with his ideology and principles. Ideology is what makes a party. We have remained with our ideology all through.Why is there a delay in cabinet expansion...? The expansion will happen and there is no confusion. It is natural that the BJP being the larger party will have a larger share. The ministries have been allotted to all four constituents. ...it will happen at the right time. It is for all the alliance partners to decide who they want in the cabinet. ...Union cabinet [expansion] is the Prime Minister’s prerogative. All parties want to have a bigger share. In a coalition, all sides need to respect each other’s sentiments.Why are 12 nominations to the legislative council stuck?The seats have been vacant since May 2020. [The issue] will also be resolved amicably. The opposition is unnecessarily trying to find fissures. Talks will happen in this regard soon. In the NDA, the relationship is built on trust. Who gets how many will be decided once talks get underway?Will JD (U) also contest elections in West Bengal and Assam?We do want to spread our footprints, but a decision in this regard will be taken on the basis of the reassessment by the party’s state units. We do not want to fight just for the sake of it. We will like to fight to win. Wherever the organisational base is strong, the party will take feedback and accordingly decide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/no-threat-to-nda-govt-in-bihar-all-matters-being-sorted-out-rcp-singh/story-lO0KekoqSMAce3G2tI988J.html
06-01-2021||City||‘Actual number of leopards is much higher considering non-forested areas’||PUNE The report, ‘Status of leopards in India 2018’ was published by Prakash Javadekar, minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, on December 22, 2020. The report has shown an increase in the population of leopards in India, with the third largest population of the wild cat in Maharashtra. NH Kakodkar is one of two chief wildlife wardens in Maharashtra involved in the tiger and leopard status estimation between 2017 and 2019, according to the report. Following are the excerpts from an interview with Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of Forests (Wildlife), Maharashtra.What are the conclusions from the “Status of leopards in India 2018” report?This is a periodic report that is generated. The last was in 2014. The vegetation, herbivores, carnivores, and other factors are studied in tandem. For leopard estimation, tiger-dominated forest areas were sampled. Other areas like tea, coffee plantations and sugarcane fields in Maharashtra were not sampled. Due to the limited number of staff, we could not cover those areas. Therefore, the actual number of leopards is much higher considering those living in non-forested areas.Will it be right to say that most of the leopard deaths are in non-forested areas? Is the non-sampling of non-forested areas a drawback (in this context)?Yes, that is correct, but there is no drawback. The number of leopards has increased. In Maharashtra, sugarcane fields become good habitats due to the ready availability of water, easy prey and minimum human presence. Naturally, more population would mean more deaths even though there are reasons like road accidents and leopards falling in to wells. Of the 172 deaths recorded, 86 are due to natural causes and 62 are accidental deaths.Under what circumstances is it decided to put a leopard down?If an animal is causing repeated human deaths, the Wildlife Protection Act has provisions to allow for such orders to be issued. The first attempt, of course, is to capture it. Lot of cages are laid and in most situations, with leopards, this works. Rarely will a leopard not enter a cage. In that case, it has to be shot. That is not the case with tigers. Tigers generally do not enter cages. It is risky because sometimes you do not realise when the animal is in close proximity. Tranquilising needs you to be in short range, while shooting allows for a longer range. How many sightings of the Great Indian Bustard have been reported in 2020?There have been two separate sightings from Nannaj in Solapur in 2020. We keep a watch on these sightings and our people talk to the farmers to tell us when they witness the bird. The reason for decreasing sightings are multiple. Bustards only lay 1 egg per year. For that to happen, there needs to be a male and a female. They are birds of grasslands. There are wild animals like wolves in the grasslands which affect these birds. People may have disturbed them. Electrocution is another reason given their wing span and typical placement of lines. There is also a change in the crop patterns (in areas where these birds breed); they require a certain height of grass to breed.Why is there such an uproar about Indian bison sightings? Gaurs have been seen in the outskirts before as well.It is unique for a gaur to be seen in the city. It is not normal. Yesterday (Tuesday), the animal did not enter the city, but it was very close. Had it crossed the highway, it would have been inside the city. Should city-dwellers get used to co-existing with the Indian bison?It will be very difficult for it to be taken normally. It is a heavy animal and shy too. It would not like to be around human beings. If it strays from its usual path and comes in contact with humans, it will difficult to manage. It is same as saying that city-dwellers should get used to tigers or leopards roaming around. And it is disturbing for the gaur too, to come in contact with vehicular traffic and humans. It gets confused. However, people should not chase them and create panic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/actual-number-of-leopards-is-much-higher-considering-non-forested-areas/story-sfbeAocBCUW4q78o9z6vTM.html
06-01-2021||Pune||ZP CEO to intervene in non-payment of school fees issue||Despite several notifications from the Deputy Director of Education (DYDE), four private schools in the city have not filled class 10 forms of students who have not paid full fees this academic year. In an attempt to provide relief to parents and resolve the matter, Zilla Parishad (ZP) chief executive officer Ayush Prasad will be conducting a hearing on January 6. Prasad said that the schools have been asked to allow the students to fill the form and appear for class 10.“Parents approached us regarding the matter. So we have asked the parents and schools to meet us on January 6. We will be asking schools to let the students fill the form and appear for the class 10 from their respective schools as they have been students for a long time there. Because of pandemic, some parents are not able to pay the entire fees. They should be given a few more months to pay the fee. However, meanwhile the child should not suffer. And so we have called the meeting to resolve the matter,” said Prasad.Jayshree Deshpande, president of the parents’ association of Pune said that due to the pandemic, the parents were able to pay only half the fee. “But the schools have refused to fill the class 10 form of students. The children as well as parents are suffering due to this attitude. Despite several complaints launched at the DYDE and several meetings with the school management, the issue has not been resolved,” said Deshpande. She added that at last there is a hearing on this matter. Parents are hopeful that some concrete decision will be taken to give relief to parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/zp-ceo-to-intervene-in-non-payment-of-school-fees-issue/story-EgdsUNv1bWvNZJOQlmm6wL.html
06-01-2021||Pune||SPPU senate meeting to be held offline on January 9 and 10||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will be holding a two-day offline senate meeting on January 9 and 10. It will be the first physical senate meeting by SPPU post-lockdown. Earlier, in the month of August, an online senate meeting was held. While the agenda for the forthcoming senate meeting has been released by SPPU, the senate members have given their points of demand and issues to be discussed in the senate. “We are fully prepared for conducting the offline senate meeting on January 9 and 10. Various issues will be discussed in this meeting as we are now going towards opening up of colleges in a phase-wise manner. Also, demands and issues raised by the senate members will be discussed and accordingly further decisions on it will be taken. It is the first physical senate meeting we are holding post lockdown and senate members from all the three districts, Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar will be present for it,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Dr Nitin Karmalkar. Sudhakar Jadhavar, SPPU’s management council member and part of the senate meeting said, “This senate meeting has a lot of importance looking at the Covid-19 pandemic. Several issues related to students, academics and faculty recruitment will be discussed in it. We will be taking extra precautions while conducting it, proper social distancing will be maintained and PPE kits will be given to members who will be attending it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-senate-meeting-to-be-held-offline-on-january-9-and-10/story-w6zoxNCOYGKRAYFN0XiDXK.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police’s Durga Shakti app spreads wings in Punjab, HP, Delhi, Rajasthan and UP||Chandigarh: Durga Shakti, the software application of Haryana Police that offers panic button facility for women in distress, has also started spreading its wings in Rajasthan, Delhi, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Having gained more than 51,000 new users in Haryana between January and November 2020, the total count of followers of this app has now crossed 2 lakh. Durga Shakti app is available on both Google and Apple play store. According to Haryana Police, 133 people in Rajasthan, 118 in Delhi, 104 in Punjab, 60 in Himachal Pradesh and 14 in UP downloaded the application last year. “In 2020, Haryana Police received a large number of complaints through this app and registered 21 first information reports (FIRs),” additional director general of police (ADGP), crime against women, Kala Ramachandran said. While preventive action was taken in 33 matters, over 1,100 issues were resolved amicably after the police received complaints via the app. The ADGP said that users of neighbouring Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Chandigarh have installed the app to ensure safety in case of an emergency. 33 EXCLUSIVE WOMEN POLICE STATIONSHaryana has 33 exclusive women police stations at present. “We are establishing a women’s help desk in 200 police stations to make the process approachable and women-friendly,” Ramachandran said. She said to provide women a sense of security, Haryana Police has improved the working of its women helpline number 1091. While all complaints received on the helpline were looked into and disposed of, 2,802 of the 88,000 complaints received on 1091 (accessible from anywhere in the country) were converted into FIRs between January and November 2020. Women police personnel have been deputed exclusively in each district to attend to such complaints on priority. In 2021, the outreach of Durga Shakti App and other women’s safety measures would be increased further, she said. SIXTH IN TRACKING SEXUAL OFFENCES Haryana Police have secured the sixth slot across the country under the investigation tracking system for sexual offences (ITSSO) ranking introduced by the Union home ministry. “We are performing well on the ITSSO dashboard, which is an online module available to law enforcement agencies at all levels that allow the state police to undertake real-time monitoring and management for completing investigation in rape cases within two months. Haryana Police is at the sixth position in India with a compliance rate of 54.2 %,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-police-s-durga-shakti-app-spreads-wings-in-punjab-hp-delhi-rajasthan-and-up/story-eArydRD2WYeYItEM1ozFvN.html
06-01-2021||Dehradun||Bird flu scare: Uttarakhand sounds alert as five birds die in 2 days||As bird mortality increases in Uttarakhand, state government authorities on Wednesday started conducting inspections at poultry farms and conservation areas where migratory birds arrive. Officials are planning to use drones to monitor birds in wetlands in the Terai region of the state. The Terai region in the state witnesses the arrival of many migratory birds during the winter, making it a sensitive area. Abhilasha Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) of the Terai central forest division, said that an alert has been issued and patrolling increased in wetland areas. Dr. SB Pandey, chief veterinary officer of Dehradun district, where five birds have been found dead in the past two days, said, “From the postmortem examination report of the two crows and one bird that were found dead on Tuesday, it has been revealed that they died likely due to worm infection. They did not show any signs of bird flu, however, their viscera samples have been preserved and in case large number of mortalities is reported then those samples will be sent for testing at the high-security animal laboratory in Bhopal.” Also Read: Uttarakhand BJP chief calls leader of opposition ‘Budhiya’, stirs political stormHe further said that an inspection of Asan Conservation Reserve, the state’s sole wetland of international importance, was conducted by both forest and animal husbandry department on Wednesday. “I inspected the entire premises of the Asan Conservation Reserve, which is home to maximum migratory birds in the state on Wednesday and we did not find anything suspicious. We have asked all officials to stay alert and ensure maximum cleanliness to keep the birds safe.” Sandeep Kumar, DFO, Terai east forest division, said “The wetlands will be monitored by drones. We have directed patrolling staff to identify dead birds using drones in the wetlands.” Officials from Nainital forest division are also considering limiting giving eggs or poultry items as food to animals in the region. TR Bijulal, DFO Nainital and in-charge of high-altitude zoo in the district said, “We have decided to prohibit giving eggs as part of meals to wildlife. Only mutton and fish are being given as food. Apart from this, all guidelines issued by the state government to prevent bird flu are being followed completely.” The state animal husbandry department has also issued guidelines for monitoring and controlling the spread of bird flu in the state as around five birds (till the filing of this copy) have been found dead in the past two days. The guidelines state, “Maintain self-distance and ensure to keep domestic birds at a distance from migratory birds. Ensure the migratory birds are not poached or hunted. Looping of trees should be done at poultry farms where other domestic birds sit. Unnecessary movement of people from outside must be stopped at poultry farms. Shoes, slippers should be sanitised with phenyl before entering poultry farms and vehicles must not be allowed to enter poultry farms.” KK Joshi, director of animal husbandry department in the state said, “No case of bird flu has been detected in the state so far, but all officials are on alert. Our district chief veterinary officers have started conducting inspections of sensitive areas.” According to the guidelines, the Uttarakhand government has also stopped purchase of any poultry items from states where bird flu cases have been reported. Officials have been asked to check health status of birds in all poultry farms on a daily basis and report any suspicious or unusual activity/response. Any bird which shows symptoms like difficulty in walking, loose motions; must be separated from other healthy birds. All districts or citizens can provide updates on the health status of poultry or birds to the state control room on the number 18001208862 or 0135-2532809||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/bird-flu-scare-uttarakhand-sounds-alert-as-five-birds-die-in-2-days/story-5Q02Zx1XMMbw4M1hwZSUaO.html
06-01-2021||Pune||All PMC-run schools reopen after lockdown, most private schools await civic body’s letter||A total of 160 schools reopened on Tuesday but many private schools, especially schools with a higher number of students in class 9 and class 10 are yet to receive permission from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). All the PMC-run schools reopened on Tuesday; however, some private schools are pending inspection and will be given the orders to reopen soon, according to PMC officials. Archana Panch, vice-principal of New English Medium school Ramanbagh said that the Covid test of all teachers is negative. “We are submitting the test results and the consent from parents to the PMC. After this, we are waiting for the written approval of the officials to grant us permission to start classes 9 and 10,” said Panch. Madhuri Gokhale, principal at MIT Vishwashanti Gurukul School (VGS) said that the school is ready to reopen with all the necessary precautions in place. “Over 50 per cent parents have given consent to sending their children to school. And all our teachers have tested negative for Covid-19. Initially, we were a little apprehensive as we thought the schools may not reopen. But as we are ready now, we shall reopen soon,” said Gokhale. Medha Sinnarkar, principal at Apte Prashala said that the PMC team visited on Tuesday for inspection. “We are ready with all the required precautions. We have made different seating arrangements so that social distancing is followed. The consent by parents is very low with us but we are hopeful as schools open up, parents would be willing to let children attend school,” said Sinnarkar. Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner, PMC said that on Tuesday a total of 160 schools reopened. “There are a total of 529 schools, government and private, in the PMC limits. The department is conducting inspection and checking all the necessary standard operating procedures. Once the checking is done, the school is handed a written permission to reopen,” said Jagtap. Box *Total schools in PMC limits: 529 *Total schools Tuesday: 160 *Private schools reopened on Tuesday: 126 *PMC run schools reopened Tuesday 34 *Total inspection conducted by PMC teams on Tuesday: 265 visits *Parents’ consent: around 20 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/all-pmc-run-schools-reopen-after-lockdown-most-private-schools-await-civic-body-s-letter/story-ifVqjpI01MaOB83kZAbVcI.html
06-01-2021||Pune||Case against Girish Mahajan transferred to Pune||A case registered in Jalgaon against former minister and senior BJP leader Girish Mahajan and 28 others for extortion, criminal conspiracy, and forgery among multiple other allegations, was transferred to Kothrud police station in Pune on Monday. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Vijay Bhaskarrao Patil (53), a lawyer and a resident of Jilhapeth in Jalgaon. He also works for the education society. Maratha Vidya Prasarak Samaj Limited, Jalgaon, is an education society that has 29 schools, 10 junior colleges, 10 skill development institutions, three graduate colleges, and one teaching college, according to the complainant. He also claims that the total valuation of the society is over Rs 1,000 crore. “Yes, a case has been registered at Kothrud. I have appointed ACP Machindra Chavan (of Kothrud division) as the investigation officer. The case has come to us only today. Once we go through it, accordingly the next step will be taken,” said Pornima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3 of Pune police. One of the accused, Tanaji Bhoite, is allegedly a former secretary of the society. The complainant has claimed that 20 people were appointed to the society office through elections in May 2015. Earlier when case was lodged at Jalgaon, Mahajan refuted the allegations saying they concocted. “There has been an attempt to drag me in vendetta politics,” he had said while speaking to news channels in December. In January 2018, Bhoite allegedly sent people to call the complainant to Pune under the guise of handing over official documents to him at Bhoite’s flat in Pune. Patil went to Pune in his Swift Dzire car after two to three days and was asked to redirect to a restaurant in Kothrud instead of Bhoite’s flat. At the restaurant, he was escorted by four men towards Bhoite who connected with former minister Girish Datta Mahajan through a video call, according to the complainant. Over the call, Mahajan allegedly asked the complainant to force every member of the society to resign and sell the society to him. Bhoite offered Rs 1 crore for it during the alleged meeting. After the meeting, the complainant claims to have been taken to a flat in Sadashiv peth in a Skoda car. The complainant and his brother were stripped and kept in the flat for a day after which he was threatened with a false case under MPDA if he refuses to force the society members to resign. Since then, the complainant was allegedly extorted for Rs 5, 00,000 from time to time, according to his complaint. A case under Sections 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 331 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to extort confession, or to compel restoration of property), 384 (extortion), 379 (theft), 447 (criminal tresspass), 448 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking), 449 (house-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death), 454, 465 (forgery), 467, 468, 471, 474, 504, 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 511, 109, 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/case-against-girish-mahajan-transferred-to-pune/story-K5yX1WJAA51ModayfsC7EP.html
06-01-2021||Pune||Five steps to get duplicate marksheet from the Pune university||Step 1:Applicant first needs to go to SPPU official website – Certificate section – then student first needs to create an account on the SPPU website, by clicking on the ‘Create Account’ link.Step 2:Once Account has been successfully created, student needs to complete his/her profile information and then save it. After successfully saving the profile, click on ‘Certificate Section’ link in the left hand menu.Step 3:In Certificate Section, student needs to select the certificate type he/she wants and then proceed to fill application details and click on ‘Save’ button.Step 4:Then, click on ‘Proceed to Print’ button. It will show upload Document page, upload all required documents for the certificate and then to print click on ‘Print to Proceed’ button.Step 5:Finally to make payment - the ‘Payment Mode’ page will show up, select your Payment Mode and Bank type. Then click on download application and download Challan.Both links will generate PDF files, save them and print them.“When a student applies for a duplicate marksheet it is important to fill all the details carefully . Once your online application and payment is done successfully, the student needs to visit our Student Facilitation Centre and by producing the payment receipt you will get the duplicate marksheet,” says Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation.To register: visit www.unipune.ac.inContact number: 020 25621343||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-steps-to-get-duplicate-marksheet-from-the-pune-university/story-wmzpp0xXAKvRy7qMHqJTyL.html
06-01-2021||Pune||ED seeks documents in corruption case against Khadse||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sought help from a Pune-based lawyer in the pending case of corruption against minister Eknath Khadse, lawyer Asim Sarode said on Tuesday. “I had received a call and email from an officer of ED for help in the case of corruption against Eknath Khadse. I was representing Anjali Damania and have court documents from the time when the proceedings were on in court. I agreed to hand over the documents provided that they pay for the photocopies. There are 1,054 documents,” said Sarode. A man had come to the lawyer’s office in Pune on Tuesday but upon failing to produce an identification of ED, the lawyer refused to hand over the documents. “For all those documents, one man showed up claiming to be from ED but he did not have an identity card,” said Sarode. The case against Khadse is of corruption registered by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on April 10, 2017, based on a 2016 complaint of Pune-based builder Hemant Gawande. The land in the industrial area of Bhosari was allegedly handed over to Khadse’s wife, who is also accused in the case, without following due procedure. The ACB had filed a c-summary report, giving Khadse a clean chit, in 2018. The ACB’s summary report was challenged by activist Anjali Damania who was represented in court by Advocate Sarode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ed-seeks-documents-in-corruption-case-against-khadse/story-woo7NuePFQ9gMi1gsb3XyN.html
06-01-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata residential property price eases 4% in 2020||Kolkata residential property prices had moderated by 4% in 2020 amid strong demand in the second half of the year, a property consultant said on Wednesday.Sales in city’s residential properties were up by over 100% to 5,975 units in the second half (July-December 2020) period over the first six months of the pandemic year when it sold 2,937 units in the metropolis, Frank Knight, property consultant said.However, the washout of April-June of the year dragged overall home demand in 2020 by 21% in terms of unit sold over 2019, Knight Frank Kolkata head Swapan Dutta said.Despite work-from-home demand jump could not match 2019 sales of homes.The home sales rebounded sharply in July-September strongly after the lockdown and it was the best quarter for the industry backed by pent up demand. The October-December demand was down 40% 2,054 units compared to the corresponding period of 2019.Now unsold residential stock in Kolkata stands below 29,000. Demand in South and Northern part of the city was higher in the H2 of 2020 while other regions witnessed decline including Rajarhat.Dutta said now parameters are best for investment in properties even as prices for 2021 are not projected to rise unless any major sop like waiver of stamp duty is announced.But, excess stock will continue to decline.Speaking about office space trend Knight Frank said demand for office space is also picking up from smaller IT and ITeS companies who are reshuffling their premises to optimise cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-residential-property-price-eases-4-in-2020/story-GNp1jFyfZHqgZwaFeGauuL.html
06-01-2021||City||Dadri govt school kids ‘forced’ to study in open in absence of enough classrooms||Students of the government senior secondary school at Nandha village in Charkhi Dadri are forced to study in the open amid bone-chilling weather conditions in the absence of enough classrooms. As many as 170 students are enrolled in this school in classes 6 to 12. This school has three rooms: one is being used for teachers and the remaining two house library and science lab. The school falls under Badhra constituency represented by Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s mother Naina Singh Chautala.Neha Kumar, a student of Class 9, said they are forced to study under the open sky irrespective of any season.“We are studying in the open for the past four years. In such cold conditions, it is very difficult for us to study, but we do not have any other option. During rain, we were asked to go home as the school does not have a building for students,” she added.A Class 12 student, Nitesh Kumar, said, “We managed to save ourselves from Covid-19, but this chilly weather will someday prove dangerous. Our parents have requested senior officials to construct more rooms, but to no avail. The government’s claim of providing good infrastructure has fallen flat. I have been studying in the open since 2017,” he added. School principal Surajmal said their building was abolished in 2017 after it was declared ‘unsafe’.“Since then, not a single room has been built here and our students have no option other than studying under the open sky. We met local MLA Naina Chautala and Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharmbir Singh, urging them to construct more rooms, but they failed to fulfill their commitment. The construction of the building process has yet to start,” he added.As per the principal, 102 students of classes 9-12 are attending classes these days. Block development officer Jaldhir Singh said the government has floated a tender of Rs 4.17 crore to construct the school building and the process of construction will soon get started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lack-of-classrooms-force-dadri-govt-school-kids-to-study-in-open/story-IYSHxeecyFnIdFnKYe5eGJ.html
06-01-2021||Education||Attendance grows by five times as more schools reopen in Maharashtra||Nearly 88% schools for classes 9 to 12 reopened in Maharashtra by January 4, with over 15 lakh students physically attending schools daily. The attendance of students in schools has increased by nearly five times as compared to a month before, as per state government data. On January 4, the state education department released the data for phase-wise reopening of schools across the state and the number of students attending physically. Until Tuesday, over 19,000 schools in different parts of the state had reopened for classes 9 to 12 while also adhering to the guidelines with respect to offline learning during Covid-19. The highest attendance of students in schools was recorded in Parbhani – 85.8% followed by Kolhapur, where 64.6% students physically attended schools. In districts such as Akola, Amravati and Dhule, the attendance was below 10%.Also Read: Bombay HC restrains state from granting final nod to 5 junior colleges In Palghar district, 240 schools have reopened so far with more than 25,000 students attending them regularly. After schools in Pune reopened on January 3, more than 82,000 students attended in the first week itself. Overall, only about 29% students in the state are attending regularly. As per the standard operating procedures laid down by the education department, 50% students are allowed to attend school on a day on an alternate day basis. Officials from the state education department said that the attendance was bound to increase with time as students and parents get more confident about schools being safe. “Schools are following all the precautions and especially in rural and semi urban areas, a large number of children are keen on physically attending schools. Some parents are still scared but are likely to send their children to school soon after seeing them operate without any issues,” said the official. The state education department has still not taken a decision about reopening schools for classes 1 to 8. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad had said that a decision in this respect was yet to be arrived at. Meanwhile, schools in Mumbai will remain shut at least until January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/attendance-grows-by-five-times-as-more-schools-reopen-in-maharashtra/story-8y2DsJS1yQhMUQMldKf9gN.html
06-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan schools, colleges, coaching centres to reopen from January 18||The Rajasthan government has decided to reopen school, colleges and coaching centres from January 18 encouraged by the declining number of active Covid-19 cases in the state. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot after a Corona review meet on Tuesday evening, directed to open schools for students of class 9th to 12th, colleges for final year students, coaching institutes and government training institutes.Also medical colleges, dental colleges, nursing colleges and paramedical colleges were also directed to open from January 11 to ensure readiness for carrying out the vaccination drive. The CM said to ensure social distancing, all educational institutions will cater to 50% students on the first day and the remaining 50% on the second day in each class. Teachers will be given necessary training by the health department for the prevention of Covid-19 infection. The chief minister asked officials to ensure all coronavirus containment and prevention protocols, including social distancing, wearing of masks, are followed in all institutions as per the Central guidelines and SOPs. “The presence of new Covid-19 strains in the country and in the state is of concern. Any kind of negligence can create a big crisis. In view of this, special monitoring of travellers coming to the state from abroad should be done, including those affected by the virus,” said Gehlot. The CM said that the coronavirus situation in Rajasthan was very much under control due to the effective management and cooperation of the people. The recovery rate has risen to an all-time high of 96.31%. Also Read: REET 2021 notification released, exam on April 25, check details hereGehlot said that preparations for the vaccination drive in the state should be completed in mission mode. The entire database of health workers should be uploaded as soon as possible for vaccination, he added. State health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that special vigilance is being done in the state regarding the new strain of coronavirus. The medical department is conducting contact tracing and screening of passengers from the UK, and sending the samples for testing to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) lab in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-school-colleges-coaching-centres-to-reopen-from-january-18/story-QuZksaPWYgkw8ro08vPe2M.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Schools set to reopen in Punjab from January 7||Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday announced that following the persistent demand of parents, the state government has decided to reopen all government, semi-government and private schools in the state from January 7. Singla said that the schools will function from 10am to 3pm and students of Classes 5 to 12 will be allowed to attend classes. While giving his nod, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh directed schools to ensure the safety of children amid the Covid-19 pandemic. All school managements have been asked to strictly comply with the directions of the government and advisory issued by the health department. Singla said that the education department had taken feedback from the school heads, who also suggested the department reopen the institutions before the annual exams for final revision of students. “Capt Amarinder Singh launched Mission Shat Pratishat while presiding over an event for distributing smart phones to students of Class 12 on November 7 last year. After the announcement of the mission, the education department’s cutting edge, particularly school teachers, are set to ensure a good result,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schools-to-reopen-for-students-of-classes-5-to-12-in-punjab-tomorrow/story-0V0KEbIuOCjOMhOsXdsNcI.html
06-01-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa points fingers towards BJP high command on cabinet expansion||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday pointed fingers towards BJP high command regarding the much awaited expansion or reshuffle of his cabinet, saying the central leadership of the party will decide on it.The statement of the chief minister amid speculations that the cabinet expansion or reshuffle was likely this month, is seen as an indication of the process getting further delayed.“Regarding cabinet expansion, central leaders (of BJP) will take a decision.Someone (aspirant) might have given a statement... why should I make a promise? Naturally whoever has to become (a minister) they will become,” Yediyurappa told reporters in response to a question about promising cabinet berths.Some ministerial aspirants have thrown their hat into the ring, making no secret of their wish amid renewed speculations that the cabinet process was likely this month.BJP MLC R Shankar had on Tuesday met chief minister Yediyurappa and later claimed the expansion would happen in 2 -3 days and that he will be made a minister.However, reacting to Shankar’s claims, chief minister’s political secretary and MLA MP Renukacharya had clarified that no discussion has taken place on the expansion or reshuffle yet, and the party national general secretary (Arun Singh) has instructed them to wait for the right time.While Yediyurappa has pointed fingers towards the high command regarding the cabinet exercise, BJP national General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh after attending party meetings in Shivamogga on Sunday had maintained that the expansion of the state cabinet was likely soon and it was chief minister’s prerogative.Yediyurappa has been waiting for some time now to carry out the cabinet exercise, as he was asked by BJP president JP Nadda during their meeting in New Delhi on November 18, to wait for the clearance from the central leadership.The cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope walk for the chief minister, considering that there are too many aspirants, from the party old guard to Congress- JD(S) rebels who are now BJP legislators.The cabinet currently has 27 members, and seven berths are still vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/yediyurappa-points-fingers-towards-bjp-high-command-on-cabinet-expansion/story-I5163BqyBFRNOpsgZhjfiM.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Centre politicising farmers’ protests, alleges Shiv Sena||Alleging that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government is doing politics over farmers’ protest against the three agriculture laws, Shiv Sena on Wednesday said the government at the Centre does not want to resolve farmers’ issues and is playing “meeting-meeting” with them.Through its mouthpiece Saamna, the Shiv Sena said so far 50 farmers have lost their lives on the borders of freezing Delhi, and yet they are not ready to back out without the laws being repealed.“Despite eight rounds of discussion between the farmers and the Union ministers, if there is no result. The government has no interest in it. The government is doing politics and the farmers’ movement has to continue,” the party said.“It is freezing in Delhi. It has also been raining for the last three days. Water has entered the tents of the farmers and their clothes and beds are wet. Yet the farmers are not ready to back out. Farmers are determined to get the agriculture law repealed,” it said further.Shiv Sena further said in the eyes of the government, farmers’ sacrifice has no value, and added Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have intervened to resolve the issue.“If the government had a soul then the agriculture law would be repealed and this game played with the lives of farmers would have stopped immediately,” it added.After the eighth round of talks, the Centre could not reach any “solution” as the farmer unions remained “adamant” over repealing of the three farm laws, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said after the meeting on Monday.“We wanted farmer unions to discuss three laws clause-wise. We could not reach any solution as farmer unions remained adamant on the repeal of the laws,” Tomar had said.Earlier, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson, Rakesh Tikait had claimed that 60 farmers have so far lost their lives during the ongoing agitation. He further said one farmer is dying every 16 hours and it is the government’s responsibility to give an answer.Farmers have been protesting at the borders of Delhi since November 26 last year against the newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-politicising-farmers-protests-alleges-shiv-sena/story-l64Jg7etVGcRkT51cdPhzH.html
06-01-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: FIR against farmer leader for threatening to blow up RSS HQ, Mohan Bhagwat||The Betul Police on Tuesday registered an FIR against Maharashtra’s farmer leader Arun Bankar for his alleged speech in Betul district in Madhya Pradesh threatening to blow up the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters in Nagpur along with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, said police. The case was registered at Kotwali police station in Betul under sections 505 (2)(statements conducting to public mischief and with an intention to incite public) and 506 (criminal intimidation) on the complaint of BJP Betul district president Aaditya Babla Shukla, said police. No arrest has been made so far. Also Read: SC to hear pleas against farm laws, issues related to farmers protest on January 11Kotwali police station in-charge Santosh Pandre said, “During a rally of farmers in Betul on their way from Nagpur to Delhi, farmer leader Arun Bankar paid tributes at Shaheed Kisan Stambh at Multai in the district on Monday and also addressed the farmers. In his speech, Bankar said if Prime Minister Narendra Modi will fire gunshots on farmers, we will blow up RSS headquarters in Nagpur with the RSS chief in it.” Police are investigating the matter, said the police officer. The complainant Aaditya Babla Shukla said, “Arun Bankar is trying to disturb the peace and harmony in society by inciting public. Police should arrest him immediately.” (With inputs from Mayank Bhargava)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-fir-against-farmer-leader-for-threatening-to-blow-up-rss-hq-mohan-bhagwat/story-tucVtkml9Bpso0aRMJFtSO.html
06-01-2021||Jaipur||Mayhem on Jaipur Delhi highway as truck rams into vehicles, overturns, 3 killed||Three persons were killed and at least four were injured when a speeding truck-trailer overturned on the Delhi bypass road in Jaipur late Tuesday night. The condition of one of the injured is critical. All the injured were sent to the trauma center of the SMS hospital. The accident occurred at the Bengali Baba Ashram Circle at Dhobi Ghat turn in Brahmapuri area. A few minutes before it overturned, the truck had smashed bike riders near Idgah Pada Mandi on the Delhi highway and hit about half a dozen other vehicles after its break failed reportedly, said police. “At around 7 pm on Tuesday, the trailer carrying rice sacks was going from Transport Nagar in Jaipur towards Delhi. The truck was passing through the Delhi bypass road when the brakes failed and it hit two bikes near Idgah. The impact was so severe that the bike drivers fell a fair distance away. The truck driver panicked after the accident and drove faster to escape,” said a police official. Also Read: Schools, colleges to reopen in Rajasthan from Jan 18He added that the truck overturned about two kilometers from the first accident spot. At the time of the accident, commuters were waiting at a nearby bus stand at Dhobighat road. Thankfully, none of them were caught in the accident. However, two people on a bike were crushed under the heavy vehicle. After the accident, policemen including senior officers reached the spot and supervised the removal of the overturned vehicle with the help of a crane. The bodies were sent to a mortuary and the injured were rushed to SMS hospital for treatment. The driver of the truck has been detained. Chief whip of Rajasthan Assembly Mahesh Joshi also visited the injured in the hospital. The accident caused a traffic jam on the highway lane from Jaipur to Delhi. Traffic had to be diverted from Ramgarh towards Amber Road to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/mayhem-on-jaipur-delhi-highway-as-truck-rams-into-vehicles-overturns-3-killed/story-MeuSahV7v7jdVkOcsl3LzO.html
06-01-2021||Bhopal||Ecstasy pills worth Rs 50cr seized in Indore, racket has Telangana & Africa links||Five people were arrested in Indore with 70 kg of MDMA or methylenedioxymethamphetamine pills commonly known as ecstasy, worth Rs 50 crore, said police. The accused Dinesh Agrawal and his son Akshay Agrawal, residents of Indore, Ved Prakash Vyas, and Mangi Venkatesh, residents of Hyderabad and Chiman Agrawal, a resident of Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh were arrested by crime branch, Indore in connection with the supply of the drugs, said Yogesh Deshmukh, additional director general (ADG) of police, Indore. “Police got a tip-off that two drug dealers from Hyderabad had come to Indore for the supply of drugs. Police nabbed all the five accused on Tuesday,” said Deshmukh. He said this was perhaps the biggest seizure of MDMA in the country in recent memory and that the initial interrogation of the accused suggested that the drug consignment was headed for Africa from Hyderabad via Indore. The police officer added that the party drug was supplied in Indore too. The accused confessed to their crime and accepted that Dinesh, Akshay and Chiman used to purchase ecstasy pills from Ved Prakash and Mangi and used to supply the same to parties held in the city. Also Read: Similar pattern in murders help MP police nab killer in Bhopal During the initial investigation, it came to be known that Ved Prakash started his career as a medical representative in Mandsaur three decades ago and is now an owner of a pharma company in Hyderabad. Indore police has passed on the information to Telangana police to check what medicines are being produced by the pharma company in Hyderabad. Dinesh, Akshay and Chiman are owners of a tent house, said Yogesh Deshmukh, the inspector general of police (IGP), Indore. He said investigation was going on and the police were interrogating the accused to elicit more information about the supply of the drugs and their buyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ecstasy-pills-worth-rs-50cr-seized-in-indore-racket-has-telangana-africa-links/story-qlq2c7zLUWuxHukoxBS4RJ.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Ice cream craze melts at India Gate this winter: Denizens fear Covid, vendors miss regulars||One would imagine ice cream to be the last thing people would venture out for when winter is at its peak. But when it comes to Delhiites, they have a thing for cold treats, especially when savoured with the gorgeous view of India Gate in the backdrop! This year, as mercury plummets to record lows, ice cream vendors around India Gate say they are disheartened at the abysmally low sales unlike previous years, and blame coronavirus for their losses. “There is a cold wave in northern India, and rain too showed it’s magic recently. Itne degree me to gadiyon ki line lag jati abhi tak. Pichle saal isi time pe yahan khoob bheed thi kyunki sardi me ice cream khane ka alag hi maza hai... But this year, the crowds are absent. Many people who used to come regularly to buy ice cream from us are not venturing out due to the fear of coronavirus,” says Rohit Gupta, an ice cream vendor at India Gate, where almost a dozen vendors set up shop every day, and stay put for the entire year. The lockdown last year was the first blow to their income, and led to many a vendors going back to their home towns since they couldn’t make ends meet in absence of a livelihood. And now they have returned only to face low sales, in winters, too. Gupta rues, ”Pichle saal January me itni sale thi jaise June ka mahina ho (The sale of ice cream last January was the same as it’s at the peak summers in June). Tab toh raat hone se pehle hi stock khatm ho jata tha. Par is baar toh pure hafte mein sirf ₹2,000 ka saaman bechna mushkil ho gaya hai. Saturday, Sunday mein sirf ₹200-300 ki ice cream hi bik pa rahi hai!” The regular vendors at India Gate say their ice cream stands bear a melancholic, desolate look, much like the lanes that lead to the C-Hexagon. “Hum ne milk wali ice cream stock karke rakhi thi because people prefer those in winter over ice lollies. Par uske liye bhi bahut hi kam log aa rahe hain. Aur baraf ka kharcha kaafi mehenga pad jata hai ice cream ko sahi taapman par rakhne ke liye,” says Anuj Kumar, another vendor whose stall is stationed in the same vicinity. He informs that vendors here work on a 15% commission basis, and hence the disappointing sales are a source of major concern. “Ye maan lijiye ki ₹500 ki sale pe ₹100 milte hain. Par itne kam mein hota hi kya hai aajkal! Most of us have exhausted our savings already,” adds Kumar.The ongoing Republic Day parade rehearsals has also caused the vendors to park their selling booths a little far from the usual spots, which doesn’t allow the cars to halt. “Safety to zaruri hai. Par isse hume dikkat hoti hai; gaadiyan ruk nahi paati to bikri aur kum hoti hai. Is baar toh New Year pe bhi bahut kum log aaye; jitni umeed thi, uski 10% sale bhi nahi hui,” says Devinder Singh, another ice cream seller at India Gate, adding, “Kuchh college ke bachche pehle regular aate the humare paas ice cream khareedne. Par ab unko dekhe huye bhi mahine beet gaye.” Those who relished the winter treats at this popular spot share that Covid-19 is certainly raising concerns, but they do make a trip to India Gate hoping to try out cups and cones. Mahima Bharadwaj, an IAS aspirant, who recently visited India Gate only to have an ice cream with her friends on New Year’s Eve, says, “Having an ice cream in winter is an inexplicable joy! I love having ice creams here. In fact earlier my friends and I would ride our bikes to come here every week. But now, because of Covid-19, we don’t step out that frequently. It feels sad to see very few vendors around here. And we had to park very far away and walk down looking for the vendors from whom we usually buy. This is bit inconvenient.” Another regular at India Gate, Delhi-based businessman Atul Bhatnagar, says his family had restricted their weekly visits to the ice cream stalls here, but have planned to resume them in 2021. He muses, “It’s such a nostalgic feeling! We have been coming here since our childhood, and can’t stop ourselves from visiting for the pure joy of having an ice cream here. I personally like to have tea whereas my family enjoys ice creams. Before the pandemic hit, we would often spend our evenings on weekends taking a stroll at India Gate, and indulging in our favourite delights. Now, we are careful to come only when there’s absolutely no possibility of bumping into a swarm of people, and we can maintain social distancing. We are going to resume our weekend trips after a long hiatus, and are excited about it!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ice-cream-craze-melts-at-india-gate-this-winter-denizens-fear-covid-vendors-miss-regulars/story-kpvTJ9oTOGJyNTnzaFO4PO.html
06-01-2021||Bhopal||Similar pattern in murders help MP police nab killer in Bhopal||Bhopal police on Tuesday arrested a murder convict for killing another man three years after he was released from jail. Police was able to crack the case after studying several cases of murder in the past and finding a similarity in the manner of killing of five persons in 2000 by the suspect.Maniram Sen, 58, the murder convict and resident of Ashoka Garden in Bhopal, was arrested for allegedly murdering Aadil Wahab, a resident of Bhopal, with a stone on November 7, said Rajesh Bhadoriya, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Bhopal. “Maniram Sen had borrowed Rs 17,000 from Aadil Wahab in the name of helping him find a hidden treasure. When he didn’t get any hidden treasure, Wahab started demanding his money back. Sen took Wahab to the forest in Sukhi Sewaniya area in Bhopal on the day of the crime. He started demonstrating some occult practices and asked Wahab to close his eyes. When Aadil shut his eyes, Sen hit Wahab with a stone and killed him,” the ASP said.Also Read: Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui’s bail plea rejected by Indore courtPolice recovered Wahab’s body the next day from the forest of Sukhi Sewaniya area. Police cracked the case and arrested the killer after going through several old cases of murder and interrogating at least 74 people, said the police officer.In 2000, Sen had killed five people in Vidisha district in a similar fashion after blindfolding the five victims on the pretext of performing a special ritual to help them find a hidden treasure. Sen hit and killed all the five people to death with a stone. He was arrested in 2002 and the court sentenced him to life imprisonment. He was released from jail in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/similar-pattern-in-murders-help-mp-police-nab-killer-in-bhopal/story-GNZjqbyjFke50KnTL8ptVI.html
06-01-2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly wished to stay back another day, say Kolkata hospital doctors||Former Indian skipper and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) chief Sourav Ganguly is likely to be discharged from Kolkata hospital on Thursday. The BCCI president was supposed to be discharged on Wednesday morning but he told the doctors that he wished to stay back for another day. “He slept well. He had his meals and is clinically fit. He wanted to stay back in the hospital for one more day, so he will go home tomorrow,” said Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO of Woodlands Hospital, on Wednesday. Ganguly was rushed to the hospital last Saturday after he complained of chest pain and dizziness. He was later diagnosed with three blockages in the coronary artery and had to undergo angioplasty for the same. On Tuesday, noted cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty was in Kolkata to examine him. Doctors have advised Ganguly to undergo the remaining angioplasty after two weeks. Hospital authorities had said on Tuesday that the former cricketer would be discharged on Wednesday morning around 9.30am. Dozens of his fans and well-wishers were gathered outside the hospital with placards and raised slogans wishing the iconic sportsman, amid tight security. He would be on oral medications and would be monitored by doctors and nurses on a daily basis at home. “His heart didn’t suffer any damage and is still as strong as it was when he was 20. This event will not affect his lifestyle or lifespan. He is going to lead a normal life like anybody else. Sourav can participate in a marathon or fly a plane without this event being a setback,” Dr Shetty had said on Tuesday, after physically examining the sportsperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sourav-ganguly-wished-to-stay-back-another-day-say-kolkata-hospital-doctors/story-bZiPlH5rdPxvgVzKxrflZI.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Rain accompanied with high velocity wind brings down mercury in Shimla, Manali||The tourist destinations of Shimla and Manali in Himachal Pradesh received rain accompanied with high velocity wind on Wednesday morning with the minimum temperature dropping by 2.1°C. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said snow and rain is forecast at scattered places in the hill state over the next few hours, while the weather will remain cloudy. Also read: Heavy rain, hailstorm hit several parts of Delhi-NCRShimla received 17.5mm of rainfall, while Kufri, 14km from the state capital, got 8mm of rain. The minimum temperature in Shimla was 4.5°C on Wednesday morning, while it was 6.6°C on Tuesday. Though Shimla town did not get snow on Tuesday, its higher reaches such as Narkanda, Chanshal, Khadrala, Khidki, Sungri, Fagu and Kufri got light snowfall on Tuesday. ATAL TUNNEL REMAINS CLOSED The Leh-Manali National Highway and Atal Tunnel remained closed for traffic due to heavy snowfall in the higher reaches. Kalpa got 71cm of snowfall, Keylong 20cm, Kothi 35cm, Khadrala 28cm, Moorang 18 cm and Pooh 15cm. Manali received 43mm of rainfall, Dalhousie 38mm, Bhuntar 22.3mm, Una and Nahan 18mm each, Solan 17.3mm, Dharamshala 13.6mm, Mandi 5.3mm and Bilaspur 4.5mm. KEYLONG STAYS COLDEST AT -2.6°CThe minimum temperature in prominent tourist destinations of Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie and Kufri was 0.2°C, 3.4°C, 2.8°C and 1.4°C. Una recorded a low of 9.5°C, while Solan was 7.5°C, Bilaspur 12.5°C, Hamirpur 12.3°C each, Mandi 7.1°C, Nahan 11.9°C , and minus 1°C in Kalpa. Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 2.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-accompanied-with-high-velocity-wind-brings-down-mercury-in-shimla-manali/story-G4dyRdjC51pK15gINRYYAP.html
06-01-2021||Patna||Man found dead in Bihar, family accuses neighbour of murder||Unidentified assailants strangulated a man at his residence at Raghopur in Bihar’s Ahiapur on Tuesday. Ashutosh Anand, the man, was preparing for the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering after completing his B Tech from Muzaffarpur Institute of Technology. He was alone at home when he was murdered.Anand’s father, Daya Shankar Shahi, said his son was killed two days after he had an argument with a woman in their neighbourhood. “She threatened him with dire consequences. And this has happened after 48 hours of that.”Also Read: After horror tales, Bihar child care homes focus on making girls self-reliantAnand’s sister, Arya Anand, said they were away with her mother to see a doctor when her brother was killed. “I jumped from the roof of my house [and]...found my brother hanging from an iron rod.”Police superintendent Rakesh Kumar cited the probe so far and said a personal dispute could be behind the murder. “It is clear from the review of the spot that he was killed and hanged from the iron rod to give an impression of suicide. His knees were touching the floor, while his legs and private parts were tied with thin nylon ropes. His neck was tied with a thicker rope,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/man-found-dead-in-bihar-family-accuses-neighbour-of-murder/story-jlutEMrFm2icsQHoMJkzKI.html
06-01-2021||City||With 751 recoveries, Manipur’s Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 97.16%||With 751 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases in Manipur reached 27,613, officials said.Following the sharp rise in recoveries, Manipur’s recovery rate jumped to 97.16%. The recovery rate was 94.81% on Monday, Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of health department, said in a release on Tuesday.However, in the last 24 hours, two persons, a man aged 34 years and a woman aged 75 years died of Covid-19-related complications at JNIMS and RIMS hospitals respectively,the press release said. The cumulative death toll in the state is now 363.Also Read: In a first, flower documented only as dried specimen in India photographed in ManipurA total of 86 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours.The cumulative number of positive cases is 28,418 while the number of active cases has also drastically declined to 442, the press release added.As of Tuesday, 528,680 people were screened at various entry points into the state, while 482,953 individuals were tested for the disease, said officials.The state health department has also urged the public to self-isolate and contact Covid control rooms or the chief medical officer for testing on coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-751-recoveries-manipur-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-97-16/story-5udRgtJDoEisQEho3cr7NJ.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||TV channels airing ads promoting superstition liable to face action: Bombay HC||Stating that television channels that telecast advertisements promoting superstitious material are liable to face action, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to register offences against four TV channels for telecasting an advertisement promoting “Hanuman chalisa yantra.” The division bench of justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar declared that telecasting such advertisements was illegal and punishable under provisions of the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013.The bench said Section 3 of the Black Magic Act prohibits not only the act of black magic, evil practices, etc., but also propagation and promotion of such practices and magic. Under Section 3(2) of the Act, abetment of such activities is also an offence. “Thus, TV channels, which telecast advertisements (promoting superstitious material) also become liable under Section 3 of the Black Magic Act,” said the bench.Also Read: 24 years on, Maharashtra may okay waiver for Michael Jackson concertThe bench was hearing a petition filed by Rajendra Ambhore, a teacher from Aurangabad, complaining about advertisements being telecast on several channels that promoted certain “yantras” in the names of gods and godmen, luring people to buy articles claiming that they possessed miraculous supernatural powers and helped people get rid of almost all kinds of problems and fulfil their wishes.Ambhore claimed that in March 2015 he came across advertisements promoting “Hanuman chalisa yantra” on at least four channels and sought action against not just the advertisers, but also the TV channels and the actors who supported the purportedly false claims by stating that they had experienced the supernatural powers of the “yantras.”The advertiser, Telemart Shopping Network Pvt. Ltd., had responded to the petition contending that the rituals mentioned in their pamphlet were routine Hindu Vedic practices and could not be termed as black magic practices; in any case, the firm claimed, the petitioner purchased one “yantra” and immediately sent representations to various central and state authorities because he was not satisfied with the product.The argument, however, failed to impress the bench. The bench analysed the provisions of the Black Magic Act and declared that not only the advertisers of such products, but the channels telecasting the advertisements were liable to face action under provisions if the Black Magic Act.Taking due note of the fact that unsuspecting people fall prey to such false advertisements, the high court has also directed the state government to create a special cell at the state level to stop such advertisements, if they are aired on any channel and also to ensure that no such advertisements are telecast on TVIn the course of the judgment, the bench also expressed anguish over the fact that though basic education is available to everybody in Maharashtra, people’s scientific temper and spirit of inquiry and reforms are not yet developed.“Even highly educated persons get attracted to things like mantra-tantra, black magic. Due to this superstitious approach of the rich and poor, educated and uneducated persons they are being exploited by so-called babas,” said the bench, adding that because of this, the Black Magic Act was required to be enacted in a state like Maharashtra, which is considered to be a progressive state and a state of reformists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/channels-airing-advertisements-promoting-superstition-liable-to-face-action-bombay-hc/story-NSg4Stf4SzQXLqhIVEBWNK.html
06-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP chief calls leader of opposition ‘Budhiya’, stirs political storm||A political storm is raging in Uttarakhand after the ruling BJP’s state president, Bansidhar Bhagat, called the leader of opposition and a senior Congress leader, Indira Hridayesh, a ‘Budhiya’ (an old woman) while addressing party workers in an event in Bhimtal area of Nainital district on Tuesday evening. Bhagat use of the term, which was perceived to be derogatory by the Congress party, came while he was responding to the 79-year-old Congress leader’s recent claim that several BJP MLAs were in touch with the grand old party eyeing a switch.Soon after the video of Bhagat’s address started making the rounds on social media, Congress leaders demanded an immediate apology while some party members burnt his effigy alleging he had “insulted motherhood.”Bhagat was addressing BJP workers in Bhimtal as part of his ongoing visit to all the 70 constituencies in the state. “Humari neta-pratipaksha keh rahi bahut se vidhayak humare sampark me hain...Are budhiya tujhse kyun sampark karenge??? Doobte jahaz se koi sampark karega???” (Our Leader of Opposition says that several MLAs are in touch with us. Why would they contact you old woman? What would one want to do with a sinking ship?)Reacting sharply to his statement, Hridayesh said, she was “hurt and saddened” with the kind of language used by the BJP state president and demanded that the ruling party’s national leadership takes “serious notice” of the incident.“I was deeply hurt and saddened with the kind of derogatory and highly condemnable language used by BJP state president who symbolizes the party and leads it. If he uses such language, then it is an insult to the motherhood which the women of our hills will never forgive,” said Hridayesh. “I don’t use such dirty language, so won’t reply to him by stooping to his level. But I request the BJP governments in both state and the Centre and well as their national leadership to take notice of this episode and demand answers from him. Those raising the slogan of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao should at least take care of their language.”Also Read: Char Dham shrines, hilly areas of Uttarakhand receive fresh snowfall Congress state president Pritam Singh too condemned Bhagat and demanded an apology. “His words just show the sort of mentality BJP leaders have towards women. He should offer an apology immediately for his highly condemnable language,” said Singh. Amid the furore over the incident, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat offered an apology to Hridayesh on Twitter at midnight and said that he would call her on Wednesday to apologise again. “Respected Indira Hridayesh ji, I am very upset today. Women are very respectable to us. I personally apologise to you and all others who are saddened like me. I will speak to you personally on phone and apologise again.” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-bjp-chief-calls-leader-of-opposition-budhiya-stirs-political-storm/story-ONHPIFa3cnMYB3fEZCloMI.html
06-01-2021||Patna||BJP lawmaker takes part in Covaxin trial in Patna||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Sanjiv Chaurasia participated in the phase III trials of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine for Covid-19, at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Tuesday. He will be administered the second trial dose after 28 days, said Dr CM Singh, principal investigator of the trial.Chaurasia said, “Everything is fine. I feel absolutely all right. I hope my action will dispel doubts raised by some opposition leaders over the reliability of the indigenous vaccine. I thank the Prime Minister and our scientists for developing the indigenous vaccine.”The Opposition has criticised the Centre for prematurely rolling out Covaxin without the completion of its phase III trials. The Drugs Controller General of India on Sunday announced that it has approved Covaxin along with the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India. The immunisation roll-out will begin with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.Also read | Vaccine dry run at 8 centres in Delhi todayBihar health minister Mangal Pandey said Chaurasia has given a befitting reply to the detractors. “He is the first MLA [member of legislative assembly] to have not only won the battle against coronavirus but also sent out a clear message about the safety of the vaccine by participating in its trial.”Around 1,215 volunteers have so far participated in the phase III trials of Covaxin in Patna since December 7, said Dr Singh. Researchers are looking at a sample size of 25,800 volunteers across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bjp-lawmaker-takes-part-in-covaxin-trial-in-patna/story-LF8pMui6Q6Kxa1Ll6IPfJI.html
06-01-2021||Patna||Bihar govt to pay for treatment of congenital heart defect in newborns||The Bihar government will now bear the expense of treating infants suffering from congenital heart defect or a hole in heart, clinically known as atrial septal defect (ASD).This was one of the nine policy decisions to be approved by the state cabinet, in a meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday.A senior officer of the information and public relations department said the state government has decided to bear the cost of treatment of ASD as part of Nischaya (resolve) part-2 of the Aatmanirbhar Bihar programme.Around two-three newborns per 1000 suffer from the ASD in the state, where private hospitals charge around Rs 1-1.50 lakh for its treatment.In another important decision, the cabinet cleared the transport department’s proposal to waive road tax for almost three months (from July 6 to September 2) as part of Covid-19 relief measures for commercial passenger vehicles registered in Bihar. Besides, it also decided to waive off the fine for defaulting on the payment of road tax between March 21, 2020 and March 31, 2021.Also Read: After horror tales, Bihar child care homes focus on making girls self-reliantThe state cabinet also modified the procedure to appoint the chairman of the special purpose vehicle (SPV) companies, set up to develop Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Bihar Sharif as smart cities using Central government funds under the smart city mission. Doing away with the tradition of nominating the divisional commissioner as ex-officio chairman of the SPVs, now the secretary of urban development department will function as the head of the companies.Home guard jawans, who are on a regular salary, will also be given the benefits of grade pay structure just like their Bihar police counterparts. Officials said that home guard jawans’ salaries will increase substantially since the grade pay system will be enforced with retrospective effect from January 2006. However, financial benefits would be doled out to home guard jawans with effect from January 21, 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-to-pay-for-treatment-of-congenital-heart-defect-in-newborns/story-6fl9tqru0Wb5BChzXR3WEI.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||24 years on, Maharashtra may okay waiver for Michael Jackson concert||The Maharashtra cabinet is likely to take up on Wednesday a proposal regarding a Michael Jackson concert held in the state capital way back in 1996. The proposal seeks waiver of Rs3.4 crore entertainment duty and release of the amount to the organisers of the late pop singer’s concert.The concert was organised on November 1, 1996, by Raj Thackeray-led Shiv Udyog Sena and the then Shiv Sena-BJP state government had granted waiver of Rs3.4 crore in entertainment duty to them. However, the waiver amount was deposited in the court’s treasury after it was challenged in Bombay high court by Mumbai Grahak Panchayat the same year.The state revenue department has now prepared a proposal for a decision on the waiver. It is of the opinion that the state has discretionary powers under Section 6(3) of the Maharashtra Entertainment Duty Act 1923 to grant the waiver. It has now left it to the state cabinet to decide whether to uphold the previous Sena-BJP government’s decision or make the changes. It has also taken an opinion from the law and judiciary department before moving the proposal before the cabinet, said a senior official from the state revenue department.“We have taken an opinion from the law and judiciary department, which states that the waiver was granted according to the law. The organisers have also requested the state government to release the amount,” he said.The then Shiv Sena-BJP government had granted the waiver from the entertainment duty to the concert on the grounds that the profit will be used for charity purposes.However, in April 2011, a division bench of the Bombay high court slammed the state government for “non-application of mind” and set aside its order for exemption from the entertainment duty. It has further asked the state government to reconsider its decision. Interestingly, the proposal is again coming for discussion before the state cabinet headed by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/24-years-on-maharashtra-may-okay-waiver-for-michael-jackson-concert/story-9ANFkdOmtiZpFbPjFHIihO.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||NCB summons Arjun Rampal’s sister in drugs case: Official||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned actor Arjun Rampal’s sister to its Mumbai office for questioning in connection with a drugs case, news agency ANI quoted an officer as saying on Wednesday. Rampal also appeared before the agency in November and December last year in connection with the case following which the NCB said he might be called again due to ‘discrepancy’ in his statement, according to Sameer Wankhede, Zonal Director of NCB, Mumbai. “There was a discrepancy in Arjun Rampal’s statement. He can be called for questioning once again,” he told ANI The anti-drugs agency raided the residence of the actor on November 9 and seized some electronic gadgets. His girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades was later questioned for six hours the same day. Rampal and Demetriades were allegedly roped in by the NCB after they discovered the involvement of the latter’s brother Agisilaos Demetriades in drug cases and found that he was in touch with many Bollywood celebrities, an NCB officer said.However, in a post on Twitter on January 1, Rampal reiterated that he has ‘never been on the wrong side of the law’. “So, as we head into 2021 it is concern that makes me pen down my thoughts of a year that filled millions of lives with fear, anxiety, disruption, scandals, hypocrisy, lies, truths, realisation, enlightenment, bravery, strength, courage, charity, confusion, clarity and character. Most of these emotions I have felt myself, as I silently observed each and every one of them overwhelm me with an emotion that each of the adjectives bring,” he wrote on the microblogging site. The federal agency has been quizzing an array of Bollywood actors and their contacts regarding the investigation into the Mumbai-based film industry’s alleged drug links. The matter reportedly came to light during the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June last year at his Bandra apartment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-summons-arjun-rampal-s-sister-in-drugs-case-official/story-7nFDoQZKHuCnr3mtNaZUJP.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Heavy rain, hailstorm hit several parts of Delhi-NCR||Several parts of Delhi witnessed heavy rains and hailstorm on Wednesday morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that heavy rains and wind are likely to follow in the next two to three hours in Delhi-NCR.“Hailstorm was witnessed in several parts of the city around 7.30am on Wednesday,” an IMD update read. Delhi and parts of NCR have been receiving rain over the past three days because of the impact of a passing Western Disturbance. Scientists said that this Western Disturbance was the most intense one to have crossed the city over the past few months. IMD recordings show from 4pm on Monday to 8.30am on Tuesday, the Safdarjung observatory recorded 4.7mm rainfall, while at the Palam and Lodhi Road observatories 4mm and 4.8mm rainfall was recorded respectively. At the Aya Nagar observatory, 8mm rainfall was recorded till 8.30am on Tuesday. Light rain was also recorded across the city on Tuesday, with the Safdarjung observatory recording 1.2mm rainfall while at the Palam observatory, 5.3mm rainfall was recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hailstorm-reported-from-parts-of-delhi-heavy-rains-to-continue-for-few-hours-imd/story-79sRsmXdZxYKpYHEcyTIvN.html
06-01-2021||Lucknow||Muradnagar roof collapse- Yogi Adityanath orders recovery from those responsible||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered the recovery of the loss to the state exchequer and the government compensation, paid to the families bereaved in Muradnagar crematorium roof collapse that killed at least 25 persons on January 3, from the persons responsible for the tragedy including the engineers and the contractor. This is the first time that such a step has been taken, said a state government statement. Till Tuesday, five suspects including the prime suspect were arrested. The Ghaziabad police have arrested Niharika Singh, executive officer of Muradnagar Nagar Palika, besides CP Singh, a junior engineer and Ashish Kumar, a supervisor, as well as the prime suspect, contractor Ajay Tyagi. His alleged accomplice Sanjay Garg, who is a contractor of another private firm, was also arrested. Yogi also warned that in case the construction quality of any government project was found to be sub-standard anywhere in the state, the district magistrate and divisional commissioner will face the music along with contractors and engineers. Yogi also said that a task force had already been constituted to check the quality of construction works carried out by the government departments in every district. It would conduct surprise checks of all construction works in projects with costs exceeding Rs 50 lakh. The chief minister also instructed officers to conduct surprise quality checks on every major project thrice at three different stages and document it. He also cautioned officials against any laxity and said the most stringent punishment will be handed out to those failing to meet quality standards in construction. Also Read: Muradnagar roof collapse: NHRC issues notice to Uttar Pradesh govtThe chief minister asked officials of the urban development department to stick to quality norms and guidelines. He said if quality of work was found to be sub-standard, then the contractors, engineers as well as the responsible administrative officers should be prepared to face action taken by the state government. The CM ordered action under NSA against those responsible for the Muradnagar incident. He said the strictest action should be taken in the case to make an example for the rest of Uttar Pradesh. The CM also sought an explanation from the commissioner and the district magistrate in the matter. Yogi instructed officials to provide an assistance of Rs 10 lakh each to the families of the deceased in the Muradnagar tragedy. The CM also asked officers to provide houses to homeless dependents of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/muradnagar-roof-collapse-yogi-adityanath-orders-recovery-from-those-responsible/story-0oBiWcAStNmt7BIQqxK6JI.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University issues guidelines for students writing online reappear exams||Students who are appearing in the online reappear examinations of Panjab University can download the admit cards from the varsity’s undergraduate and postgraduate examinations website.The reappear exams for professional courses, deficient subjects and the candidates of intermediate semesters, who could not clear their exams even after taking average marks as per instruction/models issued by the PU Authority, will be conducted from January 15 in online mode.The varsity has also issued date-sheets of the reappear exams. The examinations will be conducted in two slots. The question papers will be available both on www.ugexam.puchd.ac.in and www.pgexam.puchd.ac.in, and the students can download the question papers directly from the homepage of the above websites without logging-in. The duration of the exam will be mentioned on the question paper.Writing the answer sheetsThe undergraduate students can use 36 A4 size sheets and the postgraduate students can use 40 A4 size sheets, and only one side of the sheet should be used for writing the answers. The candidates are required to write the details including their name, semester, class, total number of pages written on the first page of their answer sheet.Submission of answer sheetsStudents appearing in the morning slot will need to post the hard copy of the answer sheet in a sealed envelope to the university through speed post/registered post on the same day of the examination.Students appearing in the evening slot (1.30pm to 4.30pm) have to upload their answer sheets within one hour of completion of paper on the link provided on the website where the question paper was downloaded from. However, they also have to post the hard copy of the answer sheet to PU on the next working day within two hours of opening of the post office.Moreover, the visually-impaired and/or disabled students are allowed to take assistance from a scribe or writer as per university rules and no separate permission is required for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-issues-guidelines-for-students-writing-online-reappear-exams/story-43ISXVhBy5RfcGp9M5hujN.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University traders’ body seeks relief in rent; varsity panel to take decision today||Already facing financial losses in the wake of last year’s pandemic, the Panjab University Traders’ Welfare Association has sought relief from the varsity in the payment of the monthly rent.The traders have also sought the deposition of the outstanding rent to be allowed in six to eight instalments, instead of two, and without interest.The matter will be taken up by the seven-member shops committee of PU, which is headed by the dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla. The panel is scheduled to meet on Wednesday and will consider giving 50% relief in the monthly rent to the shopkeepers.The PU traders’ body has said that they are facing great hardships in earning their livelihoods. The body has also requested that the interest on the monthly rent not be charged till the Covid-19 period was over and has ensured that every occupant would deposit their rent immediately after the favourable decision is taken.According to the agenda papers of the meeting, the decision of the university regarding relief in the payment of rent during the lockdown period may also be applicable to defaulters.The panel will also take a decision on the proposal regarding the opening of various closed shops, which include administration block canteen, Kailash tea stall near post office, shop number 69, booth number 70 and Golden Jubilee guest house to avoid any further losses of income to the varsity.Besides this, the members of the panel will also review the earlier decisions of the panel regarding arrears of all the rental properties to be recalculated again, including the interest in respect of all occupants.Extension of period of agreement with posts deptIn the next meeting, the panel will also take up the proposal for the extension of the agreement with the department of posts, Chandigarh, for the collection of examination fee, re-evaluation fee and USOL fee through various post offices throughout the country, on the existing terms and conditions for a period of three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-traders-body-seeks-relief-in-rent-varsity-panel-to-take-decision-today/story-6cAL2L8kjUhphC2R6dzSVN.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s borders with Haryana, UP remain partly closed||The National Capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed at several points on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur have remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad while the opposite carriageway remains open. For those coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, the traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected. Also read | Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PILThe police have continued checking these border points for groups of protesting farmers who may try to sneak in, but it has only slowed down the traffic there, not choked or blocked it entirely. For borders between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, Saboli, and Mangesh have continued to remain closed.Jhatikara border is open for light vehicles and pedestrians while only a single carriageway of the Jharoda border is open for traffic. The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists who need to travel between Delhi and Haryana can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-borders-with-haryana-up-remain-partly-closed/story-zdufVvqFLlTAopHI8PziKI.html
06-01-2021||City||Mayor, councillors take oath in Panchkula||The newly-elected mayor of Panchkula, Kulbhushan Goyal of Bharatiya Janata Party, along with 20 councillors of the municipal corporation, on Tuesday, took oath at the PWD Rest House here.Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta was also present at the ceremony.On December 30, after a closely-contested mayoral election, Goyal had trumped Congress’ Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia by 2,057 votes in his first success at electoral politics. Fighting the assembly elections on the INLD ticket, he had lost to Gupta in 2014. He later joined BJP in 2019.As the BJP also secured a majority in the 20-member MC House by winning 11 seats in alliance with the Jannayak Janata Party, the term seems like a cakewalk for the new mayor, whose party is in power in the state and at the Centre as well. The Congress won seven seats; the other two went to independent candidates.The councillors who also took oath on Tuesday include Narinder Pal Singh Lubana (BJP) from ward 1, Suresh Kumar Verma (BJP) from ward 2, Ritu (BJP) of ward 3, Sonia Sood (BJP) of ward 4, Jai Kumar Kaushik (BJP) of ward 5, Pankaj (Congress) of ward 6, Usha Rani (Congress) of ward 7, Harinder Malik (BJP) of ward 8, Rajesh Kumar (JJP) of ward 9, Gurmail Kaur (Congress) of ward 10.Other councilors are Omwati Punia (independent) ward 11, Sonu (BJP) of ward 12, Suneet Kumar (BJP) of ward 13, Sushil Garg (JJP) of ward 14, Gautam Parsad (Congress) of ward 15, Rakesh Kumar (BJP) of ward 16, Akshay (Congress) of ward 17, Sandeep Singh (Congress) of ward 18, Paramjeet Kaur (Independent) of ward 19 and Salim (Congress) of ward 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayor-councillors-take-oath-in-panchkula/story-ygop0T4vUcEe62AFvMAKyK.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI deteriorates slightly; rainfall likely to continue in parts of city||Air quality in Delhi showed minor deterioration on Wednesday morning but remained in the moderate zone with the hourly average air quality index at 7am reaching 171.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that on Tuesday the overall air quality index (AQI) was 140, in the moderate category. It was 151 on Monday, also in the moderate zone. Wednesday’s AQI is in line with the prediction of Union environment ministry’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar). “The AQI is likely to stay in the moderate to satisfactory category on Tuesday and in the moderate to poor category on Wednesday. It is likely to marginally deteriorate on January 7 and January 8,” the Safar analysis read.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) regional weather forecasting centre, said that light rain is likely to continue through Tuesday night, till Wednesday morning.“Till 12pm on Wednesday, some parts of Delhi are likely to receive light rainfall but by midday, the Western Disturbance will pass from over Delhi,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-deteriorates-slightly-rainfall-likely-to-continue-in-parts-of-city/story-hGL9ZyvDJmPu7XZcmz1h9O.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Parts of Delhi, neighbouring areas witness spells of rain, hailstorm||Parts of Delhi witnessed spells of rain and hailstorm on Wednesday morning. In its early morning bulletin, the India Meteorological Department had predicted thunderstorm with light to moderate rain in the national capital and the neighbouring regions. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain would occur at isolated places over and adjoining areas of South, Southwest, Northwest Delhi, Rewari, Bhiwadi, Manesar, Gurugram, Palwal, and Muzaffarnagar during next 2 hours,” the weather department said.  #WATCH Parts of #Delhi witnesses spells of rain and hailstorm; visuals from south Delhi pic.twitter.com/MFdUjBXlOs #WATCH Heavy rains, hailstorm lash Haryana's Gurugram; Visuals from Kherki Daula pic.twitter.com/dqZBdBC2OTHail precipitation would occur over and adjoining areas of Kherkhoda, Southwest, South, Lodhi Road Delhi during next one hour, it added in a tweet around 7:30am. In its forecast for the week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the city may get colder from Thursday and also predicted fog in the morning.“Till 12pm on Wednesday, some parts of Delhi is likely to receive light rainfall but by midday, the western disturbance will pass from over Delhi,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, had said on Tuesday. From Thursday, the temperature will start falling again, settling at around 7 degrees Celsius, he added. From 4pm on Monday to 8.30am on Tuesday, the Safdarjung observatory recorded 4.7 mm rainfall, while Palam and Lodi Road observatories recorded 4mm and 4.8mm rainfall respectively, according to IMD.Following rains in the national capital, the pollution levels have gone down leading to improved air quality index. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, Delhi reported an air quality index value of 140, in the moderate category. On Monday, the AQI was 151.At 5 pm on Tuesday, at least six out of the total 37 air quality monitoring centres recorded ‘satisfactory’ AQI. This included areas around Alipur, Dwarka, Mandir Marg, Aya Nagar, Pusa, and Lodhi Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-witnesses-spells-of-rain-hailstorm/story-fV5U9beA2cKcmdywz7y7vJ.html
06-01-2021||City||Millers did not return over 2 lakh MT rice worth ₹523 crore to Haryana govt since 2012||Putting a check on rice scam remains a challenge for the Haryana government, which is staring at a loss of ₹523 crore inflicted by millers who have not returned rice to the government agencies since 2012. As per the figures provided by officials of the Haryana food and supplies department, the default amount is increasing every year as total 2,02,562 MT of rice hasn’t been returned to the state government since 2012. The biggest default by rice mills, the information points out, was reported in 2013-14 when millers did not return 61,365 MT rice worth ₹145.29 crore. In 2019-20, 26,844 MT rice worth ₹84.75 crore failed to find its way back to the government.Officials claimed that most of the defaulting rice mills are located in Karnal and the food and supplies department has found that 34 mills from the district did not return rice worth around ₹200 crore. On failing to make any recovery, the Karnal district food and supplies department has now attached properties of 15 millers to recover rice worth ₹60 crore. “We are making efforts as per the government policy for the recovery from mills which failed to return rice to the government as per the schedule,” said Nishant Rathee, Karnal district food and supply controller. In October last year, Haryana food and civil supplies department had sealed two mills of a Karnal-based trader for not returning 10,696 MT custom milled rice (CMR) worth ₹37 crore since 2019. In July last year, Panipat police had booked a mill owner for not giving back 3,349 MT rice. Millers were engaged in procurement of paddy for the government agencies on MSP as per the CMR policy under which, they return 67% of the rice of total allotted paddy. According to the food and supplies department, recovery from these mills is a tough task for government as last year, a similar case was reported in Kaithal district when the government had also ordered registration of criminal cases against the owners of RG Enterprises, Rajnish Miglani and Girish Miglani, who had failed to return 400 MT rice worth ₹7 crore. However, as per the officials, no recovery has been made from them till date and process to auction their properties is going on.Two officials from Haryana food and supplies department, on the condition of anonymity, said rice millers took advantage of the weak CMR policy under which they could procure rice worth several crores with surety of ₹50 lakh. In the case of millers, who have taken rice mills on lease, they will be allowed to procure paddy on a surety of ₹50 lakh each from two guarantors and two running rice mills.Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department additional chief secretary (ACS) PK Das said efforts were being made for the recovery of pending rice or equal amount from these mills. “We are now attaching their properties. These properties of rice millers and their guarantors will be auctioned for the recovery if required and criminal cases are also being registered against them,” he added.When asked if there is a need of amendment in the CMR policy to avoid such losses in future, the ACS said, “We have already tightened the noose around defaulting rice mills. We will make sure that entire rice comes back to the government as per the schedule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/millers-did-not-return-over-2-lakh-mt-rice-worth-523-crore-to-haryana-govt-since-2012/story-4XEgxiUO06fgUZJKyokiKO.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Termination of driver over Facebook post: HC summons Haryana financial commissioner||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday summoned financial commissioner, revenue, Haryana government for January 8 in the controversy surrounding sacking of a driver in Hisar district over his Facebook post against deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. The order was passed by high court bench of Justice Anil Kshetarpal as the bench was not satisfied with the response of the state government. “Detailed order is awaited. However, the court has summoned financial commissioner, revenue, for January 8,” Anil Mehta, counsel for Panna Lal, said. On December 29, the government had admitted to sacking of a driver, Panna Lal, who was a contractual employee with subdivision officer (civil), Hansi, and was terminated from services on December 15. It had reasoned that the driver’s conduct and work were not satisfactory as he wrote a post on social media against the deputy chief minister, which is a serious offence. After conducting preliminary inquiry, his service was dispensed with. State’s response had come on the plea of Panna Lal, who had alleged that he was terminated without being afforded an opportunity of personal hearing and without following the principles of natural justice. As per the government, he was appointed in May 2018 for one year and thereafter his term was extended up to July 25, 2020. He has no right of continuity in service. On violation of Article 311 (2) by the government in his termination, which lays down that a chargesheet has to be issued and the employee has to be afforded a reasonable time to put across his stand, the government had argued that him being a contractual employee, these provisions do not apply in his case. Lal had further claimed the posts in question against the deputy chief minister were made by someone else and not him and that too in 2018-2019, when he was not even a deputy chief minister. However, state had countered it by stating that the posts in question were put out recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/termination-of-driver-over-facebook-post-hc-summons-haryana-financial-commissioner/story-cnb2gZ6EVD9bhv9di44CZO.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram land release case: Contempt petition filed by appellant in apex court, TCP official asked to respond||The Supreme Court has issued a notice to a senior Haryana town and country planning (TCP) and urban estate department official in a contempt petition filed by an appellant in Gurugram land release case. The petitioner, Jai Naryana, in his contempt petition, has said that despite the apex court orders of November 1, 2017, the TCP department has not decided his representation pertaining to the release of his four-kanal land. The SC, while ordering a CBI inquiry in the release of 95% of the about 1,400 acres under acquisition land of eight villages of Gurugram, had also ordered that the representation of appellant Jai Naryana pertaining to release of his land be considered and decided objectively. “In the facts and circumstances of the case, it was submitted by the counsel for the appellant that as his land is not required, he may file a representation to the respondent for the release of land. It is assured by the counsel for the state that in case representation is filed, it would be considered and decided objectively,” the November 2017 apex court order reads. Taking up the contempt petition, the SC bench of Justice Vineet Saran and Justice Ajay Rastogi on January 4 ordered: “Issue notice returnable immediately after six weeks. In case response is filed by the next date of hearing, the respondent need not be present in person.” The petitioner contended that he had filed a representation for release of his acquired land on November 24, 2017. But despite the orders of the apex court and assurance given by the counsel for the state government, the orders have not been complied with. “Thus, the contemnor has committed contempt of the Supreme Court and liable to be punished,” the petition said. The petitioner also contended that the state government had told the apex court that this land was required to be acquired for setting up a power substation in Gurugram’s Sector 65. “ It is relevant to note that an electricity substation has already come up wherein the land of the petitioner was not even required. The possession of the land on which the electricity substation came up had been handed over by Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) to Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam (HVPN),” the petitioner said. The erstwhile Congress government had in 2009 issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act to start the process to acquire about 1,400 acres of eight Gurugram villages — Nagli Umarpur, Tigra, Ullahwas, Kadarpur, Maidawas, Badshahpur, Behrampur and Ghata — for development of residential Sectors 58 -63 and commercial Sectors 65- 67. However, while issuing the declaration under Section 6, the total area was reduced to about 800 acres. The award dated May 29, 2012 was finally passed for 87 acres only. The apex court in its order said that about 1,300 acre was released by the government in favour of private builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurugram-land-release-case-contempt-petition-filed-by-appellant-in-apex-court-tcp-official-asked-to-respond/story-8zh0309WoRbHcXHZyKftXP.html
06-01-2021||City||Rain brings cheer to wheat growers||Tuesday’s showers rejoiced wheat growers in Haryana as the resultant drop in temperature is considered good for the growth of crop. As per the reports from meteorological department, rains lashed most parts of northern districts of Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Yamunanagar. The MeT department has also predicted rain in several parts of the state in the next 24 hours. As per the experts, the prevailing cold conditions are favourable for wheat plant. “This rain is a boon for wheat crop as it will improve tailoring and growth in both the early and lateral varieties,” said Karam Chand, deputy director, Haryana agriculture department. He said light rainfall is also good for vegetables and other crops as it will lessen the impact of icing and snow. According to experts, the crop requires temperature below 22°C. “This year, weather is good for the crop and rainfall at regular intervals will help in increasing the yield,” said a farmer, Sunil Kumar, of Karnal. The agriculture experts have advised the farmers against excessive use of fertilisers and pesticides as the ongoing weather conditions will work as growth promoter. A spokesman of meteorological department Chandigarh, said thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with hailstorms are likely to be witnessed at isolated places in Haryana.“Dense fog is expected to prevail in the state on January 6 and light fog is likely to continue at isolated places till January 9,” the spokesman added.Vikas Dhatarwal, a farmer from Garwa in Bhiwani, said such unseasonal rain is helpful in the growth of mustard, wheat, barley, vegetables and gram crops.Ankit Beniwal, a farmer from Hisar, said they witnessed hailstorm for a short duration, but it would not impact the crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-brings-cheer-to-wheat-growers/story-GiYxz5MZ9GemwX00IaXZUM.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege cases: High Court wants SIT head DIG Khatra replaced||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Punjab government to replace the head of special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases. In a detailed judgment released on Tuesday, the bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh observed that even though it is not discarding the probe conducted by the SIT led by deputy inspector general (DIG) RS Khatra, the team should be headed by a different officer so as to ensure that “no element of prejudice”, whatsoever, remains in the mind of the petitioner. The judgment has come on the plea of one Sukhjinder Singh, a dera Sacha Sauda follower, who had challenged a summoning order by a trial court, passed after the chargesheet was filed against him by SIT into an registered on June 2, 2015, at Baja Khana police station in Faridkot. The bench further clarified that the petitioner cannot chose an investigating agency of his own choice and the court directing such change would not in any manner reflect on the conduct of the officer. The court also questioned how the petitioner levelled allegations of mala fide against Khatra, but did not make him a party in the case. Khatra, though associated with the probe almost since beginning, was made the SIT head on April 22, 2020. The second SIT, being headed by Bureau of Investigation head Arpit Shukla with Inspector General of Police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh as member, is looking into violence case reported after the sacrilege incidents of 2015. On Monday, the high court had asked the CBI to hand over case files pertaining to sacrilege cases within one month. It had quashed the summons issued by Faridkot court to the petitioner issued on the basis of challan presented by SIT in July 2020. The high court has also termed proceedings before special CBI court, Mohali, in this case as “unsustainable” and further directed that all material presented before it would be handed over to Punjab Police. The Punjab Police would take into account evidence collected by the CBI and file a supplementary challan in the FIR, the court has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2015-sacrilege-cases-high-court-wants-sit-head-dig-khatra-replaced/story-mrq4UyLZ3XLCIGxIPIDIrJ.html
06-01-2021||City||Modi’s stance anti-farmer, won’t invite him for upcoming Sikh centenary events, says SGPC||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Bibi Jagir Kaur on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi won’t be invited for the upcoming Sikh centenary events as the latter had taken an “anti-farmer stand by enacting the three agri laws.” “The Prime Minister’s stance has caused a great damage to farmers. So, we have decided not to invite him for the events being organised by us,” the SGPC chief told mediapersons here after the executive committee meeting of the apex gurdwara body. Modi was the chief guest at the event to mark the 550th birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak. Currently, the SGPC plans to celebrate the upcoming 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadur in a big way. Demanding immediate reopening of the Kartarpur corridor, the SGPC chief said, “The Government of India should respect the sentiments of the sangat (community). The corridor, which was temporarily closed due to pandemic, should be reopened as the situation has now improved.” The SGPC has also decided to organise a grand function to commemorate Baba Jiwan Singh, a Sikh general and companion of 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh. “Guru Gobind Singh gave Baba Jiwan Singh a title of ‘Ranghreta Guru Ka Beta’. A joint function will be organised every year at Anandpur Sahib on a grand scale to commemorate his sacrifice”, said the SGPC chief. “To cut down expenditure on power, we have decided to install solar panels at gurdwaras. Besides, we are also mulling to implement the concept of a steam kitchen in the gurdwaras”, she said. The SGPC president also appealed to the sangat visiting the shrine not to do anything to offend the dignity of the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modi-s-stance-anti-farmer-won-t-invite-him-for-upcoming-sikh-centenary-events-says-sgpc/story-27UjgCBkh7cYA14LfSJeWK.html
06-01-2021||City||Tarigami seeks probe into Hokersar encounter||CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, on Tuesday, called on lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha and raised the issue of Hokersar encounter. He demanded an impartial and time-bound investigation into the incident.Three youth, all 17-year-olds, from South Kashmir’s Pulwama and Shopian districts were killed by security forces in a joint operation on December 30 inside a house in Hokersar on the outskirts of Srinagar.While police and army claimed that they were militants, relatives of the deceased said that they were students and were killed in a staged gunfight.In his meeting with the L-G, the CPI (M) leader briefed him about the slain youth’s families’ version and urged him to order an impartial and time-bound probe into the matter so that the reality can come to fore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarigami-seeks-probe-into-hokersar-encounter/story-88Bo3KQGKYrVqZMAFS2eRK.html
06-01-2021||City||State in-charge Rajiv Shukla exhorts HP Cong to gear up for 2022 assembly polls||All India Congress Working Committee and Himachal in-charge Rajiv Shukla on Tuesday asked party leaders to gear up for the forthcoming 2022 assembly elections and strengthen their mutual coordination.He was chairing a joint meeting of state Congress political affairs, election strategy and coordination committees through video conferencing.Shukla said the party must put in concerted efforts to win maximum seats in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) and Urban Local Bodies (ULB) elections slated this month.He also inquired about the state party’s strategy for the PRI polls.“Though these elections are not being held on party symbols, efforts should be made to bring people of the party ideology forward and get them elected,” said Shukla adding that this would strengthen the party base in the hill-state.He felt the need for better coordination and mutual cohesion for success in elections.Apprising Shukla about organisational activities in the state, Himachal Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the party was working with full coordination to ensure that the Congress vote is not divided in these elections.“The reservation roster has been manipulated by BJP government for its political gains,” alleged Rathore. Despite this, he said, Congress is actively playing its role in this festival of democracy.In his address, Congress veteran and six-term former chief minister Virbhadra Singh emphasised on discipline and said now the youth in Congress needed to come forward.Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said Congress is firmly responding to every propaganda of the ruling BJP in and out of the House. He said the party’s protests against the “anti-people” policies of BJP government were getting huge public support statewide, claiming unity among members.Former MP Viplove Thakur and former minister GS Bali also stressed on the need to walk together to strengthen Congress.Committee members Kuldeep Kumar, Chander Kumar, Colonel Dhaniram Shandil, Harshvardhan Chauhan, Rajendra Rana, Pawan Kajal, Indradutt Lakhanpal, Rajesh Dharmani, Youth Congress President Nigam Bhandari also participated in the meeting.HP Congress general secretary Rajneesh Khimta, who is the convener of the three committees, conducted the meeting and thanked the leaders for giving their valuable suggestions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-in-charge-rajiv-shukla-exhorts-hp-cong-to-gear-up-for-2022-assembly-polls/story-QXYzA0p7y8TjBAxrlKyfFJ.html
06-01-2021||City||Leh-Manali NH, Atal Tunnel shut after heavy snowfall||The Leh-Manali national highway, Atal Tunnel in Rohtang and national highway 305, connecting Aut and Sainj in Kullu district, have been blocked due to continued spells of snowfall and rainfall at many places across Himachal Pradesh.The state meteorological department had issued an orange weather warning for Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti and yellow warning for Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Mandi, Kullu, Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Una districts. A yellow warning has also been issued for Bilaspur, Kangra and Mandi districts for January 6 in anticipation of heavy rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning in isolated areas of these districts.Kullu district administration has advised the people not to venture out to snow-prone areas.Chanshal in Shimla district has witnessed 60cm snowfall, Kalpa 17.8cm, Khadrala 15cm, Pooh 5cm Keylong, Sungri, Khada Pathar, Shilaroo and Dodra Kwar have received 3cm snow each. Apart from this, Dalhousie has received 14mm rain, Palampur 7.4mm and Dharamshala 2.4mm. Meanwhile, Shimla has been witnessing light rainfall.Meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said snowfall and rainfall will continue throughout the state on January 6 and 8 while the weather will remain clear on January 7 and from January 9 till 11.Minimum temperature in Shimla on Tuesday was 6.6°C while prominent tourist destinations, including Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie and Kufri, recorded 4°C, 5°C, 3.5°C and 2.7°C minimum temperatures respectively.Una saw 9.7°C minimum temperature while Solan and Hamirpur recorded 8.2°C each; Bilaspur and Mandi 8°C each, Nahan 8.9°C, and Kalpa 0°C.Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 4.3°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leh-manali-nh-atal-tunnel-shut-after-heavy-snowfall/story-E5yuWnsCs3fTz7xkr9MlDO.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi winter: Soak in the sun at these scenic spots in the city||Chilly winter and on top of that a long spell of rain that recently enveloped the Capital. Wanna feel the bright and beautiful sun on your face without worrying about breaching social distancing norms? There are quite a few spots in Delhi-NCR that offer a chance to do just that. Here you can enjoy a leisurely stroll, indulge the photographer in you, or even have a picnic with your loved ones. Plant lovers’ nook: Sunder Nursery Many cracked reading the recent viral tweet that mentioned how Delhi is now divided into North Delhi, East Delhi and Sunder Nursery! The popularity of this place, since it’s revamp and from the time when the pandemic struck, has risen so much that it has become a Delhiites’ go-to spot to escape Covid-19 blues! The lush lawns beckon revellers from far and wide, with people enjoying the weekly organic market, or the cafe on its premises. You could even carry a picnic basket and revel in the beauty of beautifully manicured gardens with friends and family. Shikha Sharma, a Delhi-based postgraduate student, says, “I enjoy going to the nursery because I love plants. I go and buy small plants for my room, or just to have a day out with my college friends. We are averse to the idea of crowded places and Sunder Nursery is our slice of green haven!” An avian photographer’s paradise: Okhla Bird Sanctuary There’s nothing like being in the lap of nature to beat the stress that Covid-19 has brought in our lives. And if you get company of feathered beings, then it’s cherry on the cake! After spending most of the time indoors, a number of denizens have taken to enjoy the sight of migratory birds at Okhla Bird Sanctuary, which follows strict social distancing norms. Kiranmoy Sarangi, a Delhi-based doctor and avian photographer, informs that the place is teeming with wildlife this time of the year, and adds, “The winter sun makes the park literally come alive! During my recent visits, I’ve spotted Eurasian Hobby, Peregrine Falcon, Common Kingfisher, Oriental Darter, White-throated Kingfisher, Striated Babbler and some ducks as well. It’s a terrific place to spend a day with a pair of binoculars.” Joggers’ delight: Nehru Park With a face lift that the park recently got, and a 22 meter synthetic track, it has become a favourite among running and jogging enthusiasts. The greenery only adds to the charm of a morning well spent under the bright sun. “I would walk in my colony earlier, but now I prefer walking at the park since it has good paths. The morning air is also fresh especially after the rain. It’s certainly difficult to get out in the winter, but my wife and I have made it ritual to go for a jog and then get tea from a nearby stall,” says Anil Bali, a Delhi-based businessman. Sunny side up: Garden of Five Senses Stunning art installations and aroma of freshly-bloomed flowers make Garden of Five Senses an ideal location to soak in some sunshine on a winter morning in the Capital. Barkha Bhatia, a Noida-based corporate employee, says she likes to explore the food joints near the lush gardens after a leisurely stroll. “I often go there just to clear my head, or practise yoga. It is getting more visitors of late than earlier, but you can still find solitary spots that are ideal for meditation. Plus, a lot of really cosy eateries in the vicinity make it a perfect hangout to spend a winter weekend,” she says. Archaeology on the side: Agrasen ki Baoli Steeped in history, this stepwell situated in Connaught Place has been ever popular among the tourists and locals alike. But, for Delhiites, it offers a quiet and serene spot that often turns into a photographers’ paradise due to its scenic architecture. Malyaj Asthana, a regular at this place, says, “I cycle every morning, and while crossing Connaught Place I often go to Agrasen ki Baoli. Sometimes I simply race up and down the steps whereas on other days I sit and read here. In winters, the place isn’t as crowded as usually, and allows me to lose myself in history without worrying about social distancing.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-winter-soak-in-the-sun-at-these-scenic-spots-in-the-city/story-mQwoeEBL8KiP3SbRmq5PTM.html
06-01-2021||City||Himachal records 102 Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 102 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s case tally to 55,910, while the death toll mounted to 938 after four more patients died of the virus. Of the new cases, 29 were reported in Kangra, 17 in Shimla, 14 each in Chamba and Solan, 12 in Mandi, four in Una, three in Kullu, two each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, and one in Kinnaur. Active cases have come down to 1,437 while recoveries rose to 53,487 after 307 more people were cured of the disease. The recovery rate is at 95.6%. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,165 cases, followed by Mandi where 9,759 people have been detected positive, Kangra has 7,879 cases, Solan 6,526, Kullu 4,376, Sirmaur 3,213, Chamba 2,887, Bilaspur 2,879, Hamirpur 2,873, Una 2,778, Kinnaur 1,328, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,247. To date, a total of 8,09,088 tests have been conducted in Himachal. The state has a case fatality ratio of 1.7% while the new cases have grown by 0.3% in the last one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-records-102-covid-cases/story-86AqEKBvzYuyCt7UePQcUJ.html
06-01-2021||City||Himachal lifts night curfew in four districts||With a considerable relief in the Covid situation in the state, the Himachal cabinet on Tuesday lifted night curfew in the four districts of Shimla, Mandi, Kullu and Kangra, besides restoring six day working in all government offices.Chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, the cabinet also decided to allow coaching classes with 50 percent capacity all over the state. There was a demand from students and parents that coaching be allowed as was being done in other states. The health department will prepare the SOPs for holding coaching classes.On the request of the State Election Commission, the cabinet relaxed the condition of allowing no more than 50 persons in an indoor meeting to facilitate training of staff for election duty. All other restrictions of a maximum of 50 persons on social gatherings will continue.Three makeshift Covid hospitals soon The state will also operationalise the three makeshift Covid hospitals at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla; Tanda Medical College, Kangra and Community Health Centre, Nalagrah with outsourced healthcare staff for the time being.The cabinet also approved single-window empanelment for registration of private hospitals for effective implementation of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, Him Care and government medical reimbursement scheme in the state.Avian flu advisory After a presentation on avian influenza, the cabinet advised the health and animal husbandry departments to ensure adequate availability of medicines specific to the avian flu and PPE kits for staff. It also advised strict enforcement of restrictions on movement imposed by the Kangra deputy commissioner.The state cabinet thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union government for approving coronavirus vaccine for use in India. It also hailed the scientists of the country for successful production of the vaccine as part of the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat programme. It also congratulated the PM for being adjudged as the best and most popular leader worldwide for effective handling of Covid-19 pandemic by American Data Firm Morning Consult in its recently held survey.The horticulture department also gave a presentation on its six months target till March 2021 and next year’s target from April 2021 to March 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-lifts-night-curfew-in-four-districts/story-ghHkrdikkoc18m29PyigZO.html
06-01-2021||City||Bombay HC allows transgender to fight panchayat poll as female candidate||In relief for a member of the transgender community from Jalgaon, the Bombay high court (HC) has permitted the candidate to contest the panchayat elections, after she said she was opting for “female as her self-perceived gender identity for her entire life”. A single-judge bench of Justice Ravindra Ghuge, while hearing the petition of the 42-year-old candidate, was informed by advocate AP Bhandari that his client had filed the nomination form by choosing female gender for contesting the election from the ward reserved for women-general category. However, the returning officer (RO) had rejected the nomination form on December 31 on the grounds that the petitioner is a transgender and there is no reservation for the transgender category in village panchayat elections. Bhandari further submitted that it was the first occasion in which the petitioner had opted for a ‘right to a self-perceived gender identity’ and selected the female gender for all purposes during her lifetime, and therefore, her nomination form should be considered. He assured the court that the petitioner would not switch to male gender under any circumstances anytime in future during her lifetime. Additional government pleader SB Pulkundwar for the state government and advocate AB Kadethankar for state election commission said they would not make submissions contrary to the directions of the Supreme Court to the central and state governments to formulate various welfare schemes for transgender community members and grant legal recognition of their gender identity such as male, female or as a third gender. They submitted that the RO had, as likely to be unaware of this law, must have been in dilemma while deciding the issue of acceptance of the nomination form of the petitioner. After hearing the submissions, the court noted that the Centre had introduced the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, and permitted a transgender person to have a right to be recognised, and a transgender is permitted to have a right to self-perceived gender identity. The court further observed, “It is quite apparent that the RO was handicapped insofar as the knowledge of law was concerned, while deciding the fate of the nomination form of the petitioner.” The court held that as petitioner has opted for the female gender as her self- perceived gender identity and had given an undertaking to not change it to male in her lifetime, the RO should accept the candidature, and quashed the RO’s December 31 order. “Since the nomination form of the petitioner is otherwise complete in all respects, the same stands accepted and she is permitted to contest the election from the ward and category which she has opted for in her nomination form,” the court concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bombay-hc-allows-transgender-to-fight-panchayat-poll-as-female-candidate/story-1Kqu5gYywsz4jx0TkCkYdM.html
06-01-2021||City||Cidco appoints Maha Metro to fast track Metro Line 1 project in Navi Mumbai||To fast track the Navi Mumbai Metro line 1 project, the remaining work will now be completed by Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha Metro), as per the decision taken by City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco). The work on the Metro was delayed owing to the pandemic, after a trial run in September 2019. Sanjay Mukherjee, managing director and vice-chairman of Cidco said, “Due to pandemic situation and some technical issues, the development work of six stations out of 11 is not being implemented at expected speed. Therefore, to complete the work of the line at the earliest, Cidco is appointing Maha Metro for Navi Mumbai Metro line 1.”He said that Maha Metro had recently executed Nagpur Metro phase 1 and are executing the Metro line 1 and 2 at Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cidco-appoints-maha-metro-to-fast-track-metro-line-1-project-in-navi-mumbai/story-Ser1jPazmkW1BR8CDU8ujN.html
06-01-2021||City||Stranded on Jammu-Srinagar NH, truckers face tough time||As the Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained closed for the third day following heavy snowfall and multiple landslides, truckers and cab drivers stuck at different points along the way continue to face hardships amid the inclement weather conditions and “absence of help” from the administration.Manzoor Ahmed, a cab driver stuck in Jammu, said, “We are stranded here for the past four days and have exhausted all our money. We don’t have woollen clothes and blankets with us and it has been raining for the past four days. No one has come to our rescue.”Another taxi driver, Ishtiyaq from Budgam, said, “We don’t have any room or accommodation in Jammu to take refuge and the administration has done nothing for us.”With no let-up in the snow in and around Jawahar Tunnel coupled with multiple landslides, mudslides and shooting of stones from the hillocks overlooking the highway at various places between Samroli and Banihal, the strategic road was closed for vehicular traffic since Sunday, the officials said.A passenger at Jammu bus stand, Bilal Dar from Baramulla, said, “While we are running out money, shopkeepers and eateries have been fleecing us. On Tuesday, they sold a plate of food for Rs 70, and on Wednesday the same cost us Rs 100.”Dar claimed that like him many Kashmiris were forced to spend chilly nights under the crumbling Jammu bus stand where no bedding or heating arrangements were available to them. “The bus stand does not have multiple electricity sockets to charge mobile phones and shopkeepers take money from us to charge our phones,” he added.This is even as over 250 stranded vehicles, mostly carrying passengers, were cleared after the arterial road was briefly opened for one-way traffic between Banihal and Qazigund.“While no fresh traffic was allowed to ply on the highway due to inclement weather, most of the vehicles stranded between Ramban and Jawahar Tunnel were cleared,” said ADGP (traffic) T Namgyal.Ramban district administration has set up an emergency control room to meet any contingency and redress the grievances of the public and commuters. The district administration has advised the public to remain indoors and not venture out unnecessarily in view of snowfall and rains.Meanwhile, Jammu and other plains were lashed by heavy rains, while high-altitude areas in the region experienced intermittent snowfall for the third day on Tuesday. Jammu recorded 32.4mm of rain during the past 24 hours ending 8.30am Tuesday. Bhaderwah in Doda district, Banihal and Batote in Ramban district experienced 4cm, 3.2cm and 0.5cm of snowfall during the same period, an official said.Train service from Katra, Jammu unaffected Rains and snowfall across Jammu and Kashmir had no impact on train services from Katra and Jammu, said senior divisional traffic manager Sudhir Singh. However, nine flights in all — five to Srinagar, three to Delhi, one to Ahmedabad — were cancelled from Jammu airport due to bad weather.Weather to improve from todayThe meteorological department has predicted improvement in the weather from Wednesday forenoon. IMD director Dr Sonam Lotus has issued orange weather warning for south Kashmir, Banihal-Ramban, Chenab valley, Poonch and Rajouri for the next 24 hours.“Widespread heavy to very heavy snowfall and rain with thunder in plains of Jammu have been reported for the past two days. The same is most likely to continue till Wednesday forenoon, especially in South Kashmir, Poonch, Rajouri, Chenab Valley, Pir Panjal range,” he said. “We expect significant improvement in weather from Wednesday afternoon with decreased snowfall, better visibility, but from Thursday onward cold wave will return. Expect warmer days and colder nights for the next one week from Thursday onwards,” he added.Traffic advisory • No vehicular movement shall be allowed on NH-44 from Jammu towards Srinagar and vice-versa in view of snow accumulation around the Jawahar Tunnel, landslides/shooting stones/mudslides at Samroli, Dalwas, Cafeteria Morh, Sitaram Passi, Panthyal, Magerkot, Gangroo, Salad.• Mughal Road is blocked due to snow accumulation.• People are advised not to travel on Jammu-Srinagar highway without confirming status of the road from traffic control units.Helpline• Jammu (0191-2459048, 9419147732)• Srinagar (0194-2450022, 2485396, 18001807091)• Ramban (9419993745)• Udhampur (8491928625)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-on-jammu-srinagar-nh-truckers-face-tough-time/story-YRpeOXvyy7Ds7KBqBfu0CK.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Former Mumbai Dabbawala Association spokesman held for fraud||The Ghatkopar police have arrested a former spokesperson of the Mumbai Dabbawala Association for allegedly duping his 61 colleagues of Rs7 lakh in an alleged loan fraud case. The accused, Subhash Talekar, was arrested near his native home in Pune on Monday night and produced before a court on Tuesday. He has been remanded to police custody till January 9. Apart from Talekar, a co-operative bank official and two of Talekar’s associates have also been booked in the case, and the police are on the lookout for the trio. The complainant in the case, 38-year-old Sachin Gavade, along with other members of the association, approached Ghatkopar police station in February 2019 and registered a case against Talekar and his two associates, Vitthal Sawant and Dashrath Kedari. As per the complaint, the accused took a meeting with the 61 dabbawalas in September 2015 and allegedly promised to give each of them a free moped to make their commute easier while delivering lunch boxes. The accused told the dabbawalas that there is a cooperative bank which was ready to provide them with the mopeds. The accused then took the signatures of the 61 people on papers and also collected their documents, said a police officer. After a year, the dabbawalas started receiving notices from the cooperative bank stating that the loan they had taken to buy the mopeds were sanctioned. The loan amount was transferred to the vehicle company to provide the mopeds. Thirty-eight of the 61 dabbawalas received the two-wheelers, but their documents were not cleared by the regional transport office (RTO) not did they did not got proper documents for the mopeds. The remaining 23 dabbawalas did not receive the two-wheelers, deputy commissioner of police Prashant Kadam of zone 7 (covering Mulund, Bhandup, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli, Ghatkopar areas) said. However, all of the 61 dabbawalas had to repay the amount for the loan taken on their names, since 2015, which has incurred to around Rs7 lakh. “We conducted an inquiry into the matter and booked three members of the association, including Talekar, for cheating, criminal breach of trust and common intention” said senior inspector Nitin Alakhnoore from Ghatkopar police station. The inquiry against the cooperative bank involved in the matter also ongoing and the official who connived with the Talekar and his associates will be arrested once the role is verified, added Alakhnoore. “There is an allegation that Talekar had taken the money on the name of the association, but we are verifying it, added another officer. Alakhnoore said the investigations in the case had begun in 2019 after the case against Talekar was lodged, but last year, investigations faced some roadblocks owing to the lockdown. “He had also moved the Bombay high court for anticipatory bail. After the court rejected the bail, we arrested him,” Alakhnoore added. Ulhas Muke, the chairman of Nutan Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Charitable Trust (NMTBSCT), which is the official body of dabbawalas, welcomed the development and said the accused has been “ruining the good image” of dabbawalas with such fraudulent practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-mumbai-dabbawala-association-spokesman-held-for-fraud/story-1IJ4qwLJS1glwk6Yt0AmSN.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC restrains state from granting final nod to 5 junior colleges||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday restrained the state school education department from granting final permission to five junior colleges, run by Rao Educational Trust, without the leave of the court. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni also restrained the department from acting on provisional index number granted to the trust by Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education.The order came on an interim application filed by Manju Jaiswal, a city resident and trustee of an educational trust, seeking stay to an order passed by school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on December 18, 2020, granting Rao Educational Trust time till academic year 2021-2022 to comply with the infrastructural requirements of the junior colleges.Gaikwad had also directed the department officials to take further steps to grant index number to the trust, to enable about 672 Class 12 students to fill forms for the board examination. Accordingly, a provisional index number was granted for five junior colleges run by the trust at Andheri, Borivli, Sion, Kharghar and Thane.Jaiswal had taken strong objection to the order and filed the interim application seeking stay on it. Her counsel, senior advocate Anil Sakhare, pointed out that the education minister had no authority under the Maharashtra Self Finance Schools (Establishment and Regulation) Act, 2012, to pass such an order.Sakhare also pointed out that the minister’s order was completely contrary to earlier orders passed by HC on Jaiswal’s petition, especially the order of January 28, 2020, by which HC has restrained the government from considering any application, either to start a new school or for permission for additional divisions or classes.In November 2020, HC modified the 28 January order and allowed the government to consider 410 applications of existing schools either for additional divisions in junior colleges or for starting new junior colleges, after the state assured that the applications will be considered strictly in accordance with the the Maharashtra Self Finance School (Establishment and Regulation) Rules, 2020.In her petition, Jaiswal has complained about permissions granted to several coaching classes for setting up junior colleges on the ground that those institutions did not fulfil legal requirements like 500-square-metre plots either on ownership or leasehold basis and the infrastructure mentioned in the 2012 enactment.She has sought cancellation of the permissions granted to several coaching classes to start junior colleges and also a direction for restraining the government from granting any new permission for self-financed schools, without strictly adhering to the provisions of the 2012 enactment.The January 28 order was passed by HC after noticing that the government machinery was not fully functional to implement the 2012 Act, and important authorities under the enactment were not notified and appointed.In this backdrop, HC had restrained state government from considering any pending or new applications for starting new schools under the 2012 Act.The bench had also restrained the government from renewing existing approvals or permissions unless a full-fledged inspection and scrutiny was undertaken by the state or field-level authorities – as may be notified by the rules – and directed to keep on hold all applications seeking renewal of existing permissions, until such scrutiny and verification was undertaken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-restrains-state-from-granting-final-nod-to-5-junior-colleges/story-DjbAYw46SLvByEDVCXVniK.html
06-01-2021||City||Six Covid deaths reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 137 fresh coronavirus cases and six more deaths on Tuesday taking the total case count in the UT to 1,21,923 and death toll to 1,897.Officials said that 66 people tested positive in Kashmir and 71 in Jammu. One death was reported in Kashmir and five in Jammu due to the contagion.They added that 1, 17,426 people have recovered in the UT so far after 215 patients were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 96.31%. There are 2,600 active cases while the total tests conducted in the UT have crossed 39.70 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 22 people tested positive, followed by Pulwama at 18 cases. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 49, while Udhampur reported seven cases.Srinagar has topped the case tally with 25,503 cases and 450 deaths, followed by Jammu with 24,107 cases and 361 deaths.Till date, 9.12 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 14,992 in home quarantine, 2,600 in isolation, and 33,783 under home surveillance. Besides, 8.58 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-covid-deaths-reported-in-j-k/story-W3uxYdzXLnjxNTRoVW1ZcK.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccination in all Maharashtra districts on January 8||Maharashtra is planning to demand free Covid-19 vaccine shots for its poor as it prepares to roll out its immunisation drive with another dry run to be undertaken in all 36 districts on January 8.The state government on Monday also announced stricter norms for United Kingdom (UK) returnees detected with the new virus strain, especially after the Central government’s decision of resuming flight services between India and the UK from January 8. The state government has clarified that the quarantine period for passengers found with the new variant of the virus will range between 14 and 21 days and may be prolonged, depending on clinical conditions.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that in a video conference with the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on January 7, the state government is going to request the Centre to bear the cost of the vaccine shots for the poor. He said the people below poverty line cannot afford the vaccine even if two doses of it are priced at ₹500. “People below the poverty line, persons with comorbidities and above 60 years should be given the vaccine for free. We are going to raise this demand during our conference with the MoHFW on Thursday. Though there is no clarity on it as yet, we believe that it has been made free for health workers, frontline workers. The poor, too, should get it for free,” he said.Tope said that epidemic diseases and their handling is the responsibility of the Centre and the state has followed all its instructions and protocol right from the beginning of the outbreak. “For the past three months, the Centre has not been providing us equipment like ventilators, RT-PCR kits, and tablets like Remdesivir and Tocilozumab. The state has borne the expenses of making them available through public health services...We have also been bearing the establishment cost for the drive ,including training of the vaccinators, storage of the vaccine. Now, the Centre should take the responsibility of the cost of the vaccine for the poor,” he added.The health minister said that the state is going to conduct dry runs for vaccination in all the 36 districts, including Mumbai, on January 8. “Maharashtra is all set for the vaccination, which we expect to be rolled out in the next eight-10 days. We have a cold chain system in place, 16,000 vaccinators have been trained and are ready for the drive. 780,000 health care workers have already been registered on CoWIN app, while people from other categories, like frontline workers, are being registered by the respective departments. We are all set to roll out the programme once it is announced by the Centre. We expect the release of vaccine doses by the Centre in proportion to the registrations done,” Tope said.Meanwhile, keeping with the trend of fewer than 4,000 cases for the past 20 days, Maharashtra clocked 3,160 new infections and 64 new deaths. The case tally touched 1,950,171 and toll stood at 49,759. Mumbai clocked 539 new cases and nine deaths, taking the tally to 295,525 and toll to 11,147. Nagpur city reported 300 cases and three deaths, while Pune city clocked 250 cases and four deaths. The number of active cases further fell to 49,067 after 2,828 more patients were discharged over the past 24 hours. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) remains high at 2.55%, although the weekly mortality rate has dropped significantly over the past few weeks.In the wake of eight UK returnees found with the new strain of virus, the state government has decided to implement the health protocol for such patients strictly. Dr Shashank Joshi, leading endocrinologist and member of the state-appointed task force for clinical management of Covid-19 patients, said that they have chalked out stricter norms for UK returnees testing positive for the new strain. “The institutional quarantine period will be longer, ranging between 14 and 21 days or more than that for these passengers. The period varies on the basis of the immune competent and immune compromised conditions of the patients. Unless and until the doctors treating them are not convinced that they are not a threat to the community and their contact tracing is not completed, they will not be allowed to go home. We have asked the state for an aggressive approach in case of these passengers and have revised the guidelines of quarantine after few of them found with the new variant,” he said.Dr Joshi said district and state authorities have been directed to not let their guard down as the next few weeks are crucial. “The citizens should stick to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to avoid a second wave or any spike in cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-all-maharashtra-districts-on-january-8/story-pMGw00Gxpe7UzoDZCcCGBN.html
06-01-2021||City||NC delegation meets L-G, highlights attempts of ‘horse-trading’ of DDC members||An eight-member National Conference (NC) delegation on Tuesday met Lt Governor Manoj Sinha here and drew his attention to alleged attempts being made to mutilate the mandate of the people by encouraging horse-trading of the recently elected district development council (DDC) members, the party said.The NC stressed the crucial need for ensuring neutrality and impartiality of the administration in establishment of DDCs and said this is imperative for respecting the mandate and upholding people’s faith in the grass-roots level democratic institutions which hold promise for transforming rural landscape in Jammu and Kashmir.The delegation was by led by party’s Jammu provincial president Devender Singh Rana and included former ministers Ajay Kumar Sadhotra, Surjeet Singh Slathia, Syed Mushtaq Ahmed Shah Bukhari and former legislators Javed Rana, S Tarlochan Singh Wazir, Rattan Lal Gupta and Sheikh Bashir Ahmed, the party said in a statement here.“Peoples’ mandate has to be respected,” the delegation said, adding that this is actually the message sent out by the electors, loud and clear.They lauded the efforts of the L-G in ensuring peaceful conduct of the polls and said the promise of upholding democratic values has to be kept by foiling the machinations of reversing the will of the people. “This is imperative for the larger interests of democracy”, the senior leaders said.They also referred to the impressive turn-out in elections despite weather vagaries and said this reflects people’s unflinching faith in democracy and the democratic institutions.The delegation also expressed concern over the Laweypora incident and brutal assassination of goldsmith Satpal Nischal in Srinagar city and sought judicial probe into these incidents. They called for measures to instil sense of security and trust among the people.Sinha assured the delegation that the administration will play a non-partisan role in the establishment of the DDCs. He also assured transparent and fair conduct of enquiry in the two incidents referred by the NC delegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nc-delegation-meets-l-g-highlights-attempts-of-horse-trading-of-ddc-members/story-QpLQoaldn7SODp4Qlqh5hM.html
06-01-2021||City||Amarnath Yatra 2021: L-G calls for hike in pilgrim insurance cover||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday called for best-in-class arrangements for Amarnath pilgrims to improve their overall yatra experience.The arduous pilgrimage at a height of 13,500 feet in south Kashmir, considered to be one of the holiest Hindu pilgrimages, attracts lakhs of devotees every year.However, last year it had to be cancelled due to Covid pandemic and only Chari Mubarak was facilitated.Sinha was chairing a preparatory review meeting of Amarnath Yatra-2021 here. He will personally review the preparations and setting up of on-ground facilities for the pilgrims.Laying special emphasis on providing best medical facilities to the pilgrims, the L-G passed directions to increase the accidental insurance of pilgrims during the yatra, besides doubling the number of life-saving ambulances.Explore the possibility of setting up a well-equipped community health centre to handle emergency cases, Sinha told the officers.Sinha directed the concerned officers to improve the utilities enroute, besides repair of roads and other infrastructure well in time. He asked them to take all requisite measures and involve more NGOs and religious organisations to ensure a smooth pilgrimage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarnath-yatra-2021-l-g-calls-for-hike-in-pilgrim-insurance-cover/story-YLWYb9J8118Q7Vx15xPxbJ.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Hema Upadhyay murder case: Mumbai Police produce ‘missing’ tempo before the court||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday produced the tempo, allegedly used for disposal of the bodies of artist Hema Upadhyay and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani, before the sessions court. Upadhyay and Bhambani were allegedly smothered with a chloroform-laced cloth at a warehouse owned by one of the accused, Vidhyadhar Rajbhar, on December 11, 2015. The killers then packed their bodies in boxes and dumped them in a sewer in Kandivli. The prosecution has alleged that the tempo, belonging to another accused, Vijay Rajbhar, was used to transport the dead bodies from the warehouse to the sewer. Vijay’s lawyer Hassan Ali Moomen confirmed the development but said the tempo is not in the court’s custody. The tempo was seized by the police during the investigation in 2016. On October 21, 2016, Vijay’s father Ramadhar was allowed to take custody of the tempo with the police. He was asked to sign a bond stating that he would present the tempo before the court during the trial whenever asked for it. However, when the court asked Ramadhar to produce the tempo on one of the previous occasions, he said it was sold by Vijay’s wife. As Ramadhar failed to produce the tempo, the court on November 27 had directed the police to look for the vehicle and bring it before the court and also gave Ramadhar the last chance to produce the tempo. Meanwhile, Ramadhar on Tuesday moved an application claiming that the tempo was never seized by the police during the probe and his son has been falsely implicated. The prosecution has denied the claims.The prosecution also examined another witness, who had helped Rajbhar to travel to Bengaluru in August 2015 to buy chloroform. Moomen has alleged that the witness is fake. The main accused in the case, Upadhyay’s estranged husband Chintan, was arrested on December 22, 2015. The police believe Rajbhar committed the murder at Chintan’s behest over a property dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hema-upadhyay-murder-case-mumbai-police-produce-missing-tempo-before-the-court/story-dEVydYBhdxWchQmGwwOSAL.html
06-01-2021||City||6th Schedule inclusion: Ladakh delegation to meet Amit Shah today||An 11-member delegation led by former MPs Thiksay Rinpoche and Thupstan Chhewang will meet home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday to press their demand for constitutional safeguards to Ladakh under the 6th Schedule of the Constitution. “The home minister had to meet us today, but the meeting has been deferred to Wednesday because of his busy schedule,” said Chhewang.He said the constitutional safeguards will be discussed with the home minister in the meeting.“We are confident of getting it because the home minister had given us his commitment. In fact, he had invited us to meet him soon after Leh Hill Development Council elections, but we could not go to Delhi because of Covid pandemic,” he said.“Delay happened on our end but we are now hopeful of a fruitful discussion. We are confident that the discussion will pave the way for the constitutional safeguards to allay our fears,” said Chhewang.Besides Rinpoche and Chhewang, other members of the delegation include former BJP minister Chering Dorjay, Leh chief executive councillor Tashi Gyalson, sitting BJP MP and Ladakh unit president Jamyang Tsering Namgyal.On December 21, Apex Body of People’s Movement had decided to reach out to the opinion-makers in Leh and Kargil districts to press for the UT’s inclusion in the 6th Schedule of Constitution.The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organisations and Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. The safeguards would also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6th-schedule-inclusion-ladakh-delegation-to-meet-amit-shah-today/story-mwNuUzDvOQPpWlrgOA2XeP.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Watch movies, soaps, songs on Mumbai’s Central Railway locals soon||Passengers travelling by local trains on Central Railway (CR) will now be able to view movies, soap-operas, audio and video songs, inside the train compartments, before the monsoon.Infotainment hotspot devices will be fitted inside local train compartments that will have pre-loaded contents and advertisements. A commuter will be able to stream movies and soap-operas inside the compartment with the help of a mobile application.After downloading the mobile application, commuters will have an option to select a language and then stream the loaded movies and videos on their smartphones. The contents will be provided without requiring the internet.“The process of installation will soon begin. The devices will be installed in the local train compartments before the monsoon.” said a senior CR official. The CR has awarded a contract for installing the infotainment devices in 165 local trains.The hotspots devices are also being introduced in a move to increase the railways’ non-fare revenue. Railway board; apex body of all zonal railways had issued directives to the 18 zones of Indian Railways to increase its revenue.Earlier, the Central Railway was conducting trials of the devices at Railways car shed in Kurla.Presently, luxury trains operating on the Indian Railways have pre-loaded infotainment contents provided on LCD devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/watch-movies-soaps-songs-on-mumbai-s-central-railway-locals-soon/story-0piOPy7GJG9wXfVBj3q0TN.html
06-01-2021||City||Khar victim’s kin meet Mumbai Police chief, demand justice||Nidhi Kukreja, the mother of 19-year-old Janhvi Kukreja who was found dead in a Khar building on January 1 following a New Year’s Eve party, met Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Tuesday, demanding justice for her daughter. Kukreja requested for a thorough probe and said her daughter’s case must be tried in a fast-track court. Janhvi’s parents asked Singh to accelerate the case so that they could get closure as well as to set a precedent for other youth.Janhvi’s boyfriend, Shree Jodhankar, and a friend, Diya Padankar, have been arrested for murder and assault. An emotional Kukreja said she and her husband had trusted Janhvi’s friends and had allowed her to go with them but they killed her daughter. “I had sent Janhvi with friends and not strangers. A friend’s job is to protect,” said Kukreja. She and her husband said that even if there was a fight between two people, it was the duty of the other friends to stop them. “The statements of all the party attendees should be taken as it is shocking that no one heard my daughter’s screams. We are also trying to find out what exactly happened between the friends that it ended up in her murder and why did Shree Jodhankar flee the spot if it was an accidental death,” said Nidhi. The police on Tuesday had collected forensic evidence from the rooftop, where the party was held, as well as from the spot (second-floor staircase) where the body was found, and sent them for analysis. They are also probing if Janhvi was sexually assaulted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khar-victim-s-kin-meet-mumbai-police-chief-demand-justice/story-nbCW4XXO3VLexhF60F0fDL.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Traffic diversion at Mahim from January 9 to 13 due to Mumbai Metro railway construction||Brace for traffic chaos as the Mumbai traffic police have put in place road restrictions and diversions in areas of Mahim, where underground Metro railway construction will be carried out from January 9 to 13.According to the traffic police officers, installation of monitoring instrument and excavation work will be carried out at Paradise Cinema in Mahim. The south-bound carriageway at Lady Jamshedji Road between Mahim Junction and Paradise Cinema will be closed for vehicular traffic. Lady Jamshedji Road will be a no-parking zone for 24 hours from January 9 to 13.There will be no entry on Mohammed Chotani Road and Gabriel Road.Vehicular traffic from north to south will be diverted to SVS Road (Cadel Road), one-way from Mahim Junction towards Dadar. By taking left from Mahim Junction to Mori Road, right towards Senapati Bapat Marg, left through Sitladevi Road, then proceed to LJ Road. SVS Road from Hari Om Junction to Mahim Junction will be closed for vehicular traffic towards Bandra. The traffic towards Bandra will proceed by taking a right turn from Hari Om Junction to Sitladevi Road, then left turn towards LJ Road.Vehicular traffic from Sitladevi Road towards north will not be diverted. Barricading will be done on the south-bound road at Mahim Junction.Saint Mary Road from Haribahu Vadgaonkar Chowk towards Dallas Kolu Chowk will be closed for vehicular traffic till January 31, 2021. There will be no parking on this road on account of excavation work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/traffic-diversion-at-mahim-from-january-9-to-13-due-to-mumbai-metro-railway-construction/story-k5iI5ZqZxJ7e6947qElvtJ.html
06-01-2021||City||Mumbai man who killed his friend before ending life had criminal past: Cops||Bangur Nagar police officers who are probing the Malad murder-suicide case said the 27-year-old man who shot his female friend before killing himself on Monday night had multiple cases of robberies, chain snatchings and extortion registered against him in Bangur Nagar, Malad, Malwani and Kandivli police stations. The woman’s 53-year-old father told the police that his daughter had an affair with the man. However, when he found out that the was a criminal, he got his 22-year-old daughter engaged to another man. Police believe the two had met to discuss the arrangement between them at the back road of Infiniti Mall. “We are recording more statements to find out whether the couple had a suicide pact or if the man was angry about the woman getting engaged to someone else,” said an officer from Bangur Nagar police station. Eyewitnesses told the police that they saw the duo at a stall near Link Road around 8.45pm on Monday. It was not clear if they were arguing , said eyewitnesses. The man then pulled a country-made revolver from his pocket and shot his friend in her head. He then shot himself. The stall workers and commuters alerted the police who reached the spot within minutes and rushed the couple to a nearby hospital, where both of them were declared dead on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-who-killed-his-friend-before-ending-life-had-criminal-past-cops/story-VotKebxDkRSgTnqkguur8J.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Arbaaz, Sohail Khan, son quarantine at a hotel in Bandra||After registering a first information report (FIR) against actor Arbaaz Khan, his brother Sohail and Sohail’s son Nirvaan for flouting Covid-19 norms, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday, quarantined the trio at a five-star hotel in Bandra for seven days.Despite repeated attempts, the Khans were unavailable for a comment at the time of going to print.On December 25, the Khan brothers had arrived from Dubai and were asked to quarantine themselves at a hotel in Bandra, but instead, they went straight to their residences.Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner of H west ward (Bandra-Khar), said, “They have been quarantined at a hotel in Bandra for seven days. There is no provision to penalise the trio for violating the quarantine norms, however, further investigation into the matter will be done by the police.”An FIR against the three was filed at the Khar police station on Monday, acting on the complaint of Dr Sanjay Funde, a medical officer in H-west ward of BMC. In his complaint, Funde said that when he visited Sohail Khan’s residence, he told him that they had booked rooms at a five-star, Bandra, to quarantine; but on arrival when they tested negative for Covid-19, they decided to directly go to their homes.Two days after they arrived in Mumbai, they had also gone for Salman Khan’s birthday celebration in Panvel. Vispute said, “As per the protocol, we are supposed to trace close contacts of a positive patient. In this case, they both have tested negative. If the contacts will be traced, it will be done by the public health department and not by our ward officers.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “They will be tested on the seventh day and if they test positive, contact tracing will be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-arbaaz-sohail-khan-son-quarantine-at-a-hotel-in-bandra/story-a8mUV6W54LMYB28eRiMpLJ.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder case: Court reserves its order on Indrani’s plea to not wear prison uniform||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Tuesday reserved order on the application of Indrani Mukerjea seeking exemption from wearing a green saree - a uniform for prisoners across Maharashtra. Mukerjea is lodged at Byculla jail since her arrest in August 2015, in connection with Sheena Bora murder case.On Tuesday, the prison authority of Byculla jail submitted a reply on Mukerjea’s plea stating, that as per rule undertrial prisoners booked in a murder case, fall under the category of prisoners, who have to wear a jail uniform.Mukerjea’s lawyer Gunjan Mangla opposed this and argued that there is no specified rule as to what uniform should be worn. “Indrani suffers from mental health issues since her arrest. If she is asked to wear the prison uniform, it would affect her further. Besides, the undertrial prisoners are allowed to wear their regular clothes,” Mangla argued.It was also pointed out that why after almost five years prison authority is insisting her to wear the prison uniform.On December 22, Mangla had approached the special CBI court with a plea that Mukerjea be permitted to wear regular clothes. Mangala pointed out that she was an under-trial prisoner and not a convict.Sheena Bora, 24, was allegedly strangled in a car by Indrani Mukerjea, her then driver Shyamvar Rai and her former husband Sanjeev Khanna, on April 2012. Her body was later burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-court-reserves-its-order-on-indrani-s-plea-to-not-wear-prison-uniform/story-ycYwBA7qgTcovh7rsYZhEL.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body polls: Snack in Sena’s tagline to woo city Gujaratis||With an eye on the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections in February 2022, the ruling Shiv Sena now plans to woo Gujarati voters, who have the potential to impact a sizable number of seats in Mumbai, with a tagline involving their traditional snack – ‘Mumbai ma jalebi fafda, Uddhav Thackeray aapda’. The BMC election will be a major battle between the two former allies – the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena – after the shift in the political dynamic in November 2019. Traditionally, Gujaratis and Marwaris are BJP voters. As a part of the campaign, Hemraj Shah, an organiser of the Shiv Sena, has arranged for a gathering of people from the community on January 10. The party’s campaign leaflet said the BMC election was “prestigious” for the Sena. It added that the elections in February 2022 will be held in a totally different environment because the power has been “wrestled away from the narrow-minded BJP leaders by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray” and the “BJP has become sick”. Shah said that the idea behind the gathering is to create awareness of the work done by the party and the CM for the community. He said that senior party leaders will not be present at the gathering. However, the party chief and other leaders may address the community at a later stage of campaigning, he said. The Shiv Sena has not had a great connect with the Gujarati community over the past few decades. The party targeted the community on several occasions and issues. In the past few years, under Uddhav Thackeray, the Shiv Sena shed its Mumbai-centric image to be seen as a Hindutva party. The Sena has been insisting that the trading community was protected by its cadre during the 1991-92 Mumbai riots. “The younger generation of Mumbai does not know what the party has done for the community. Among other things, I plan to tell them how Balasaheb [Thackeray] stood with the community during the Mumbai riots,” said Shah, adding that the party reaches out to all communities. Shah said that owing to the restrictions for Covid-19, only 100 people who arrive first at the hall in suburban Mumbai will be allowed to attend. He added that he will also speak to the community members about the work done by Thackeray to bring Covid-19 under control in Mumbai. Although a few Gujaratis have been elected as councillors on Sena tickets, the Sena does not have a strong leader from the community. Ahead of the 2017 BMC elections, there was an influx of leaders from the community, who were given tickets to contest. Several of the Gujarati faces were defeated by BJP candidates. Subsequently, the Sena saw many Gujarati leaders leave the party as they felt they did not get enough representation in the party. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said the move is a “humble” attempt to woo the community. “There has been soft animosity between the Shiv Sena and Gujarati community. With the rise of [Narendra] Modi, the community became politically assertive. Now, the BMC election is crucial for the Sena as it is going against the BJP,” he said. BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar, who is the party’s in-charge of the BMC polls, said the Sena only remembers Gujaratis during an election. “Let the Shiv Sena woo them, but the Gujarati community has decided to overthrow the Janaab Sena (referring to an Urdu calendar published by Sena’s youth wing where Bal Thackeray was referred as Janaab )”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-polls-snack-in-sena-s-tagline-to-woo-city-gujaratis/story-u2IZZKN59BCky7R6448wiL.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai businesswoman gets fake car number plate similar to Ratan Tata’s, booked||Mumbai traffic police have filed a complaint against a businesswoman from Matunga for allegedly duplicating the number plate of the car of 83-year-old chairman emeritus of Tata Sons and chairman of Tata Trusts Ratan Tata on Tuesday. According to traffic police officers, they received a complaint from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office to conduct a probe after Ratan Tata approached the CM’s office informing of two e-challans for traffic violations which the business tycoon had not committed. The traffic department then went through pending e-challans and found that Gitanjalli Samirr Shah, a director of a customs house agent and freight forwarding company, Narendra Forwarders Private Limited, had created duplicate number plates of Tata’s car. “There were three e-challans registered against the number which were being used by the accused,” said Yashasvi Yadav, joint commissioner of police. The traffic police then approached Matunga police. On questioning the accused, the police discovered that Shah had replaced just two numbers on her number plate to match Tata’s number plate as it was her ‘lucky’ number. Matunga police have registered a first information report (FIR) and are in the process of arresting the accused. Yadav has awarded ₹5,000 to constables Aziz Shaikh and Sandeep Phanse for investigating the case and finding out the details of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-businesswoman-gets-fake-car-number-plate-similar-to-ratan-tata-s-booked/story-z7192N1aLPwXsUm9mrnhuI.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB questions actor’s manager for six hours||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday questioned late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s former business manager, Shruti Modi, for around six hours, at their south Mumbai office. Modi reached around 11:45am and left from the NCB office around 6pm, said an official.She was questioned earlier by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), who was probing the financial angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. She was also questioned by the NCB in September, last year, and was called for second round questioning again on September 16, 2019. However, she was sent back as some of the NCB officials had tested positive for Covid-19.A senior official said NCB is preparing to file charge sheet in Sushant Singh Rajput death case, so we called her again and her statement was recorded. We will call a few more people whose statement has already been recorded earlier, to verify some more facts and record their further statement, before filing the charge sheet.The NCB has so far arrested over 25 people including Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and several drug peddlers from Mumbai in the case. Chakraborty and Showik are currently on bail, and they visited NCB office on Monday (January 4) to mark their attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-questions-actor-s-manager-for-six-hours/story-GqM7mEp0iKlrEOE09MVNwM.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||163% increase in seat vacancy in Maharashtra deemed dental institutes under management and NRI quotas||Deemed dental institutes in the state have witnessed a 163% increase in seat vacancy under the management and NRI (non-resident Indian) quotas compared to last year. This can be attributed to the on-going pandemic that delayed admissions to most professional courses and the fear among students to travel far for colleges this year.According to information shared by the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS) recently, close to 318 seats are vacant under the management and NRI quotas this year after three common admission and two mop-up rounds. Last year, this figure in deemed dental institutes stood at 122. Similarly, around 290 seats had gone vacant under the management and NRI quotas of medical institutes last year as compared to 318 this year. Many have blamed this increase in seat vacancies on the financial strain on families due to Covid-19 and the lockdown in 2020. “Deemed as well as private medical and dental institutes charge as much as three to five times the regular fees for seats under the management and NRI quotas, which many students might not be able to afford this year. This could be one of the biggest reasons for the seats under these two quotas to go unclaimed this year,” said Dr TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). The list of vacant seats was released after the Central government extended the admissions deadline from December 30, 2020, to January 15 this year, for the 2020-21 academic year. These vacant seats will now be allotted under the stray vacant seats round, which will be conducted this week. DGHS conducts counselling for 15% of all India quota (AIQ) seats, all deemed institute seats, as well as admissions to central universities. The stray vacancy round is conducted at the institute level, for which the list of eligible candidates is forwarded by the Medical Counseling Committee (MCC) to the respective institutes. “While finance is one major reason for many students not opting for management or NRI quota seats, another reason also could be more students choosing to take a drop-year to apply for the national entrance exam again next year and better their score, with hopes of bagging a seat in a government medical or dental institute,” said Archana Purohit, parent of an MBBS aspirant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/163-increase-in-seat-vacancy-in-maharashtra-deemed-dental-institutes-under-management-and-nri-quotas/story-BCXctRXcxMUmMimqPF4hCP.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||BMC to start a separate jumbo Covid centre for those returning from UK to Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is setting up a separate a 50-bed Covid-19 centre where travellers from the United Kingdom will be quarantined for seven days. This decision comes after several returning travellers said they could not afford the cost of the mandatory institutional quarantine. Last month, a new strain of Covid-19 was discovered in UK, following which the state set up new guidelines for all travellers from the country. The amended standard operating procedure (SOP) requires all returnees from UK to be in institutional quarantine for seven days after their arrival. On the seventh day, they would undergo a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at their own cost to know their Covid status. On an average, institutional quarantine for seven days would cost a traveller approximately ₹50,000 and according to BMC, some passengers have provided false information to avoid being quarantined. “Many returnees are daily wage earners who cannot afford to bear the cost of institutional quarantine for seven days. So we are starting this facility with 50 beds, which will be provided to those who demand free accommodation. Once their test reports come negative for the virus, they will be discharged,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Following a negative RT-PCR test report, travellers must be in home quarantine for 14 days. Those who test positive will be sent to Seven Hills Hospital and the civic body will send their swabs to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genome sequencing, to find out if they are carrying the new strain of the virus. “We are making all possible arrangements to ensure citizens act responsibly and don’t violate quarantine rules,” said Kakani. Health activists have questioned whether a separate centre is necessary as more than 75% of beds in existing Covid care centres (CCC) are lying vacant at present. “BMC should help decrease the rate of institutional quarantine since all passengers cannot afford to pay ₹40,000-₹50,000 from their pockets. Secondly, BMC should first utilise the existing vacant CCC facilities,” said activist Dr Ravikant Singh. So far, eight people in Maharashtra have tested positive for the new strain of Covid-19, of which five are in Mumbai and one each in Thane, Pune and Mira-Bhayander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-start-a-separate-jumbo-covid-centre-for-those-returning-from-uk-to-mumbai/story-DLLCo5T9n8UXheEeJzz7AM.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||60,000 cops registered so far to get Covid-19 vaccine shots||Delhi Police on Tuesday said they had completed the registration and updating the personal details of nearly 60,000 personnel of the force so far, with the process for the remaining 20,000 staff likely to be completed in a day or two.The registration and details update drive by the city police for their personnel, who are among the list of front line workers, was started last week following Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement that the Delhi government had identified 5.1 million people who will be the first to get the Covid-19 vaccine shots under the Central government’s “priority category”. On December 28, special commissioner of police (operations) Muktesh Chander, who is the Covid-19 nodal officer for Delhi Police, had issued a notice along with the declaration form, asking all police personnel to update their age, mobile numbers and place of posting, apart from details of one or more comorbidities that they may be suffering from.“The updated data of 70-75 % personnel from various departments has been received so far. We are expecting to complete the entire process by Wednesday. The data is now being uploaded on intraDP, the internal network of the Delhi Police,” said special CP Chander, adding that the compiled list will further be uploaded on the government’s Covid-19 vaccination portal.About the process of vaccination, the special CP said that the personnel would receive SMS on their registered mobile numbers, asking them to be present at the vaccination centre nearest to their place of posting on the day they are called on.At least 32 Delhi Police personnel have lost their lives due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since May last year, while 7,612 personnel in total so far have been infected, show statistics shared by the police department on January 1.A senior police officer, associated with the drive, said that the registration and update drive was scheduled to be completed by January 3 (Sunday), since the police department already maintains a record of the details of all their staff including their age, mobile numbers and their current place of postings.“However, the process got delayed because many personnel had changed their mobile numbers and had not got them updated on the main record book maintained by the establishment branch. Such personnel were directed to get their new contact numbers updated immediately,” the officer said.Officials said that although all police personnel are expected to receive the Covid-19 vaccines, the priority would be given to those above the age of 50 or personnel suffering from one or more comorbid conditions.“Since the personnel have also been given a declaration form, asking them to mention the comorbidities they are suffering from, the exercise would also help us maintain a database of the health issues of all police staff and decide their nature of job and place of postings accordingly,” said another police officer.Police step up security arrangements at vaccine centresAnticipating that people, who are not being included in the first phase of vaccination, may turn up at centres and insist on getting the Covid-19 shots, adequate security arrangements is being put in place. Between 5 and 10 personnel will be deployed at each vaccination centre, depending upon how big the centre is and the number of people arriving there for vaccination, senior officials said.The city police have already started deploying personnel at the 600 plus vaccines storage centres, where arrangements for storage by the Delhi government is on in full swing. The delivery of the vaccines is yet to commence.There are 41 such centres in areas falling under the territorial jurisdiction of south district police, while west police district have 85 such centres. Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Delhi’s Tahirpur is the only centre in Shahdara police district.“As of now two-three personnel remain deployed round-the-clock at each storage centre. The number may be increased once the storage of the vaccines starts. The security arrangements at the vaccination centre would start when the vaccination drive is started,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Apart from security personnel from Delhi Police and paramilitary forces, the surveillance of vaccine storage and vaccination centres would also be done through CCTV cameras, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-000-cops-registered-so-far-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-shots/story-Y3OX6TkV6Ag0OPSp3izBhP.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet may discuss waiver of ₹3.40 crore to organisers of Micheal Jackson concert||A proposal to waive off entertainment duty worth ₹3.40 crore and releasing the amount to the organisers of a concert of late American singer Micheal Jackson organized in Mumbai around 24 years ago, is likely to come up before the state cabinet for discussion, on Wednesday.On November 1, 1996, the then Raj Thackeray-led Shiv Udyog Sena (SUS) had organised a Michael Jackson concert in Mumbai and the then Shiv Sena-BJP led state government had granted a waiver in the entertainment duty worth ₹3.40 crore to the organisers. However, the waiver amount was deposited in the court’s treasury after it was challenged before the Bombay high court (HC) in 1996.The state revenue department has prepared a proposal for a decision on the waiver. It is of the opinion that the state has discretionary powers under section 6(3) of the Maharashtra Entertainment Duty Act, 1923, to grant the waiver. It has now left it to the state cabinet to decide whether to uphold the Sena-BJP government’s decision or make the changes. It has also taken an opinion from the law and judiciary department before moving the proposal to the state cabinet, said a senior official from the state revenue department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-may-discuss-waiver-of-3-40-crore-to-organisers-of-micheal-jackson-concert/story-yqTmnAfYt9i4na227SeXMI.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Municipal employees to go on indefinite strike from January 7 to demand pending wages||Employees of the three municipalities of Delhi have decided to go on an indefinite strike from January 7 against non-payment of their salaries and pensions. The decision was taken after a meeting with senior civic officials failed on Tuesday break the deadlock on pending payments. According to office bearers of Confederation of MCD Employees Union — an umbrella body of employees’ unions — thousands of employees from the various department in the three civic body will observe “indefinite pen-down strike” from 10 am January 7. The employees union said the strike will include teachers, engineers, the staff of horticulture department, clerical staff, Domestic Breeding Checkers (DBC) workers, and class-4 employees such as beldars and labourers.Representatives of the confederation said that employees in various departments of the north civic body have not been paid salaries for the last 4-5 months, while in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) salaries are pending for the last three months.AP Khan, convener of the Confederation of MCD Employees Union, said that it was time that authorities realised that their employees are working without money for 4-5 months and are unable to look after their families. The pendency of pensions in the north corporation is beyond six months, he sid. “After many reminders about the payment of dues, we were called for a meeting with the additional commissioner in the north civic body. The meeting was not fruitful. So we decided to go ahead with our plan to go on an indefinite strike from January 7. We want our pending salaries and pensions to be cleared as soon as possible,” he said.Khan added that civic workers had withdrawn their strike twice in the past after they were given assurances for payment of pending salaries, dues and pensions by November-end. But nothing was done in this regard.Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary of the Confederation of MCD Employees Union said that salaries of teachers and engineers are pending for the months August, September, October, November and December. He said that employees of all other departments were suffering similarly.“It has been five months since teachers were paid in the north corporation. The east corporation teachers have not been paid for the last three months. We can’t keep working without salaries and are compelled to go on a strike,” he said.Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that salaries are being released as and when funds are available with the civic body. “We are going through a financial crisis and still salaries of sanitation workers have been cleared till the month of September, DBC employees till October, doctors and nurses till September. Efforts are being made to clear maximum dues in a phased manner,” he said.Nirmal Jain, mayor EDMC, said, “Efforts are being made to clear pending salaries. I understand their pain but they should also cooperate with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/municipal-employees-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-from-january-7-to-demand-pending-wages/story-OaWDnZDyXFOHoQFUk8XpfO.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Panel on Yamuna asks for a report of ammonia sources in the river by January 10||The National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee has asked the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to identify pollution sources leading to high levels of ammonia in the Yamuna river and submit a report by January 10. The directions were issued, after Delhi Jal Board (DJB) alleged that Haryana had not stopped discharging industrial pollutants in the river despite repeated reminders. In a letter written by the DJB last week, the department had urged the CPCB to take immediate remedial measures to control the pollution being released into the river. “It has also been reported that the reason primarily is the industrial effluent/untreated domestic sewage entering river Yamuna through drains number 6 and 8 and through the Rohtak regulator,” the panel, comprising former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra and retired NGT expert member B S Sajwan, said. It added, “Considering the recurring nature of the problem, it is incumbent upon the CPCB and Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) to put in place a robust surveillance system, particularly during the critical winter months, for monitoring the activities of the industries and the functioning of STPs and also take coercive action against defaulting units.” The panel asked the CPCB to associate with Haryana pollution board and depute a team to identify point sources of pollution leading to high levels of ammoniacal nitrogen in the Yamuna and submit a report by January 10. The Yamuna monitoring panel has also taken up the matter with the chief secretary of Haryana, requesting him to direct authorities to take immediate action to prevent the flow of untreated sewage and industrial effluent from Haryana into river Yamuna. The DJB said that the high levels of ammonia in the Yamuna had forced them to reduce or stop water production at its plants at least five times this year, which had affected water supply in several parts of the city. According to officials, the DJB’s water treatment plants can treat up to 0.9 parts per million ammonia concentration in the river water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/panel-on-yamuna-asks-for-a-report-of-ammonia-sources-in-the-river-by-january-10/story-g3K6SIrKoqy9HtVZi2SsTI.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra on alert but no need panic: Government on bird flu threat||Following reports of bird flu (avian influenza) cases in many states, the Maharashtra government has put the administration on high alert. However, officials assured that there is no need to panic as there is no imminent threat before the state. The government has issued an alert to all local officers from the animal husbandry department to report any unusual death of birds if found, and send samples to the Western Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (WRDDL) that has already conducted over 5,000 tests on birds in the last nine months, and found no strain of avian influenza. The National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, a nodal body for testing the disease, has also not issued any warning as of now, state officials clarified.The state government has also issued an advisory to those in the poultry business and consumers of non-vegetarian food not to panic unnecessarily.Several states such as Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh reported bird flu cases, which lead to panic and culling of ducks, hens and other domestic birds within a 1-km radius of the affected areas at a few places.Anoop Kumar, principal secretary, animal husbandry department, said that the situation in Maharashtra is different. “Going by the annual surveillance plan, we conduct tests of birds and livestock on a regular basis at WRDDL. In the last nine months (between April and December 2020), 1,715 samples of excreta, 1,913 blood samples and 1,549 oral swabs of birds were collected for RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) and ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) -based tests, and none of them were positive for avian influenza so far,” Kumar said.The principal secretary said that NIHSAD, the authority to declare a national-level epidemic, has not issued any warning. “There is no red alert issued by the Centre; also, there is no report of migratory birds dying of bird flu in the state. Hence, there is no need to panic. We may have been in trouble if Himachal Pradesh was our neighbouring state,” Kumar added.Dead migratory birds at Pong Dam lake in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh were found be infected with H5N1 (bird flu) by NIHSAD, while deaths of crows in Jhalawar and Jodhpur in Rajasthan, and Indore in Madhya Pradesh, were due to the H5N8 strain (a subtype of the influenza A virus), which can cause mortality in poultry birds, but chances of their transmission to humans are very low, said officials from the animal husbandry department.An advisory issued by the state animal husbandry department states, “We have yet not found any death of birds owing to bird flu. Hence, those in the poultry business and people who prefer to eat non-vegetarian food have no need to worry unnecessarily. They are suggested to report if found, any unusual deaths of wild animals, domestic hens and poultry birds.”Dr VV Limaye, joint commissioner (disease investigation), animal husbandry department, said, “We have issued an advisory to all the district deputy commissioners and district animal husbandry officers to report to the state government if they find any unusual deaths of birds or poultry in their jurisdiction. They have also been directed to send samples to WRDDL for testing to ascertain the actual cause of death.”“The bird flu virus doesn’t transmit to the human body directly. The virus can cause mortality only in poultry birds. However, it may transmit to human beings in case of a mutation. Even mutation is of two types, and we called them ‘antigenic drift and antigenic shift’. In the case of antigenic drift, there are no chances of the virus infecting human beings because of a slight modification. However, in the case of antigenic shift, major changes in DNA or RNA take place and the virus can acquire the capability to infect human beings. In the last 15 years, there have hardly been any instances where the virus has been transmitted to human beings from poultry birds,” Dr Limaye explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-on-alert-but-no-need-panic-government-on-bird-flu-threat/story-N2UxaDDtOzguqW0r4DLFeJ.html
06-01-2021||City||Farmers make their protest waterproof at Singhu border||New Delhi: Farmers at Singhu border launched a massive exercise on Tuesday to cover all the tents with waterproof plastic sheets following rains in the city. Large bamboo sticks and iron pipes were brought to the border with hundreds of waterproof tarpaulin sheets to cover the tents. Farmers said a mega tent is also being set up at the centre stage from where the leaders address the protesters every day.As light rains were witnessed in parts of the national capital on Monday and Tuesday, many tents at Singhu border where farmers have been staying since November 26 last year collapsed, while some started leaking. Many of these tents had to be dismantled and re-erected.On Tuesday, labourers were climbing atop the tents tying huge tarpaulin sheets around them by erecting bamboo sticks and iron pipes around them to make the tents withstand strong winds and shower. The labourers had been brought in by the gurudwara committees from various parts of Delhi. The tarpaulin sheets, commonly known as tirpaal, were either donated by people or bought by these committees.Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), said all material required for waterproofing tents were brought at the border on Monday, as soon as the weather changed.“The tents have been covered with plastic sheets. These provide insulation as well as water slides down without entering the tents. Separate waterproof tents have also been set up for women. In the evening, we also brought in more mattresses and blankets as it is getting colder,” Sirsa said.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Ludhiana, said they also announced from the central stage on Tuesday that anyone who needs a tarpaulin can get it. “We have asked for more waterproofing material. It is also expected that the weather will improve by Wednesday afternoon,” he said.On the farmers’ next move, Lakhowal said on January 7, they will conduct a rehearsal rally in which tractors will move from Singhu to Tikri and from Tikri to Singhu, on the Haryana side and similarly between Ghazipur border and Palwal. “This is just a rehearsal for our massive rally planned for Republic Day when hundreds of tractors will participate in a national rally,” Lakhowal said.As it rained again on Tuesday, buckets, tubs or utensils had been placed in most tents which had started leaking. The rainwater was later used for washing utensils and for laundry.Sardar Singh, 53, a farmer from Ropar, said the roof of their tent had loosened as rain water got accumulated over it. “Before it fell, we had to remove it and now the cloth is being replaced with plastic sheet. We reassembled our tent where as many as 100 people sleep every night. The tarpaulin will not only stop rain but will also keep us warm. They are also fire-resistant,” he said.Those sleeping in tractor trolleys also covered both ends of the trolley with plastic sheets. They said it worked best to stop strong winds from blowing away the bedsheets that they had been using so far to cover the trolleys in order to keep themselves warm during the nights.Farmers had also used the plastic sheets to cover piles of wood that they to cook meals at langars. “Our woods are all wet. We had ration covered in time but the woods lie in the open and they are wet now. Tarpaulin are being used to cover the ration and places of langars are also being converted into covered set ups so that whether it is rain or cold wave, our langars do not stop,” said another farmer, Satnam Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-make-their-protest-waterproof-at-singhu-border/story-6Aq5901cJ4NNyCFZZO1fwI.html
06-01-2021||City||Right-wing groups protest, demand reconstruction of Chandni Chowk temple||New Delhi: Hundreds of workers of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Bajrang Dal and other right-wing organisations took out a march in Chandni Chowk on Tuesday to protest the demolition of a Hanuman temple by the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation on the orders of the Delhi high court. VHP leaders said the protest will continue till the Adami Party government in Delhi allocates land for reconstruction of the temple near the existing site.On Tuesday morning, hundreds of members of right-wing organisations, Delhi BJP and locals shouted slogans demanding reconstruction of the temple. The protest was planned on Tuesday as it is considered the day of Lord Hanuman, said a VHP member. The temple was demolished at 4am on Sunday. It was located on the road which is being redesigned only for pedestrians as part of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment plan. The structure was declared illegal by the high court and the order for its removal was passed in 2015. The protesters were restricted near the Sis Ganj Gurdwara and nearly 30 members of VHP and Bajrang Dal were detained by the police. All detainees were later released.No first information report (FIR) was registered in connection with the gathering of nearly 500 protesters even though it was in violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. The protest began around 11 am and continued for over two hours, the police said. Nearly 300 security personnel were deployed to maintain law and order in the area. The police personnel also recorded video of the entire event.Surender Gupta, state vice-president of VHP, said, “The temple could have been saved had the Delhi government planned the redevelopment project carefully. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (which removed the temple) is just an executing agency. We want the government to allocate land on the central verge so that we can construct the temple. We don’t need any assistance from the government to construct the temple.”The AAP has maintained that it was the North MCD which had admitted before the court that the structure was encroachment and undertaken to remove it. VHP and Delhi BJP leaders said that they will meet Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to request him to intervene and allow the construction of the Hanuman temple.A four-layer security cordon was put in place to stop the protesters from marching to the demolished temple site. The gathering of the members of the right-wing with saffron flags began around 10.30 am near the Red Fort-Chandni Chowk crossing. As their number swelled up and they began marching towards the temple site raising slogans, the security personnel stopped them at the first barricade placed near the Gauri Shankar temple. However, the protesters managed to break the barricade and proceeded towards the site where the temple existed.“We used mild force to contain them at the second barricade near the Sis Ganj Gurdwara, where they continued their agitation and delivered speeches. No The crowd dispersed after 1pm. We are considering legal action in connection with Tuesday’s protest,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named. Unlike Monday, the business in the heritage market was not affected as the police had made adequate arrangements. Pradeep Gupta, president of Chemical Market traders’ association, said, “Today, all shops were open and it was business as usual. The protesters were restricted towards the Red Fort side. But people want the temple to be constructed nearby, as it is a matter of faith.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/right-wing-groups-protest-demand-reconstruction-of-chandni-chowk-temple/story-wVFSYxcL11kLXtnf9m6eYM.html
06-01-2021||City||Delhi riots: Court takes cognizance of charge sheet against Khalid||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Tuesday took cognizance of a charge sheet filed against former JNU student Umar Khalid in connection to the riots in the Khajuri Khas area in February last year while stating that there is sufficient material on record to show that he had conspired with suspended councillor Tahir Hussain and others to orchestrate the riots.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar said that a statement b a witness was sufficient to show that during the relevant time, Khalid was allegedly in contact with Hussain, the alleged “main conspirator” who had funded the communal riots and instigated the mob from his house.The court took note of the statement of a witness, Rahul Kasana, Hussain’s driver who had contended that he had seen his employer distributing money during the anti-CAA protests.The witness had also told the police that on January 8, 2020, he had taken Hussain to Shaheen Bagh where the former councillor entering an office. Kasana said after sometime he had seen Khalid along with Khalid Saifi entering inside the same. After 1-1.5 hrs, Hussain had come out of the office, he added.The police had filed the supplementary charge sheet on December 26, contending that Khalid was active participant in the criminal conspiracy to instigate communal riots in various parts of Delhi. It has alleged that the due to the instigation by the accused persons, a mob had gathered which had robbed persons and burnt down public and private property. Earlier the police had filed a charge sheet against Saifi, Hussain and others charging them of unlawful assembly, rioting, arson, destruction of property and criminal conspiracy among other sections on which the court had taken cognizance on October 12. Khalid was arrested on October 1 in this case.“The statement of this witness is sufficient to show that during the relevant time, accused Umar Khalid was in contact with accused Tahir Hussain against whom there is sufficient material on record to prima facie show that he was the main conspirator who had funded the communal riots and instigated the mob from his house to rob the persons and to burn down the properties.“Thus, there is reasonable ground to prima facie show that accused Umar Khalid, accused Tahir Hussain and other accused persons had conspired together to commit offences as mentioned in the charge sheet. Hence, there is sufficient material on record to proceed against accused Umar Khalid,” the court said in its order.The court also directed the investigating officer to supply a copy of the supplementary charge sheet to Khalid through the concerned jail superintendent.Meanwhile, the judge also issued notice to the police on an application moved by Khalid alleging that a “vicious media campaign” was being conducted against him. The application claimed that sections of the media were getting access to the charge sheet even before the accused or his counsel got it. Khalid had told the court on Monday that this is affecting his right to free and fair trial. The matter would be heard on January 7.Communal riots had broken out in the city in February last year claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-court-takes-cognizance-of-charge-sheet-against-khalid/story-WIvLeDvwMKPoVGYvxG7m8N.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Vaccine dry run at 8 centres in Delhi today||Delhi has prepared for another round of dry runs for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive at several centres run by the municipal corporations as the city reported fewer than 1,000 cases of the viral infection for the twelfth day in a row. On Tuesday, the city added 442 new cases of Covid-19 to its tally, taking the total to over 627,000 cases so far. Another 12 deaths reported in the daily health bulletin took the toll to 10,609. Covid: What led to DCGI nod of Covishield & Covaxin in India? IMCR DG explainsAlso Read: Covid-19: WHO chief ‘disappointed’ at delayed access for China investigation teamWith few cases even as the city conducted almost 80,000 tests, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – to 0.55%. The positivity rate in the city has remained below 1% for nine days now indicating that the spread of the infection is in control. This comes even as the city has reported 13 cases of infections with the new UK variant, eight of whom are Delhi residents. The new variant has at least 23 mutations, one of which is in the receptor binding domain of the spike protein that is used by the virus to enter the human cells. Experts believe that the new variant is 70% more transmissible that the ones currently in circulation, sparking fears of a surge again. Also Read: Covid pandemic spurs most bankruptcy filings since 2009The number of people hospitalised with the infection has remained below 2,000 for three days now for the first time since the numbers started increasing in May-end. The vaccination dry run will be held on Wednesday at Hindu Rao hospital and Kasturba hospital of the north corporation and six polyclinics and maternal and child welfare centres under the South Corporation in Hari Nagar, Madipur, Bijwasan, Sriniwas Puri, Fatehpur Beri, and Defence Colony. Also Read: Nearly 25,000 birds die of 2 strains of bird flu, states on alertThe dry run helps in addressing any functional issues that might arise when the actual vaccination drives begin. Two vaccines – by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech – have already received emergency use authorisation from the country’s apex drug regulator and the union health ministry plans to roll them out within ten days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vaccine-dry-run-at-eight-centres-8-centres-today/story-yKrmfVhGGfm4S7FqP6LpXN.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||13 people in Delhi have mutant variant of Covid-19, eight are city residents||A total of 13 people in Delhi so far have been detected with the new UK variant of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Of the 13, eight are Delhi residents, even as all of them are currently getting treated at the Lok Nayak Hospital, senior government officials said on Tuesday. The tally in Delhi increased, after 20 more people from across the country tested positive for the new strain of the virus on Tuesday, taking the total number of UK returnees having tested positive for the mutant virus in the country to 58.Until December 30, eight UK returnees with the new mutant strain were being treated in Delhi of which four were residents of the national Capital. “As on Tuesday, a total of 13 people have been detected with the new UK strain of which eight are Delhi residents. The numbers may incrementally increasing as more results of genome sequencing arrive. Contacts of these eight people are being traced. They are being isolated at the institutional quarantine facility at Terapanth Bhawan in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur area. Some of them have also opted for the paid facility set up in Aloft hotel, Aerocity,” said a senior government official, on condition of anonymity.A senior official of Lok Nayak Hospital, where a separate isolation ward has been created for those detected with the new strain, said, except one, all Covid-19 patients caused by the mutated strain are stable.The new variant – which has 23 mutations, including one on the receptor binding protein on the spike used by the virus to enter the human cells – is thought to be 70% more transmissible, raising concerns of super-spreading events.However, doctors monitoring these patients have not found severe illnesses because of the new variant.From November 25 to December 23, 2020, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK.All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to detect Covid-19.The Indian government had suspended flights from the United Kingdom from December 23 onwards after a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 was found to be circulating in London and other parts of that country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/13-people-in-delhi-have-mutant-variant-of-covid-19-eight-are-city-residents/story-CCPW4R1GVd7gQkOFGuovWO.html
06-01-2021||City||Sisodia invites U’khand minister for debate on governance model||New Delhi: A day after deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited Dehradun for a debate with Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik, the senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader on Tuesday wrote another letter to Kaushik, inviting him to visit Delhi on January 6 and debate the “Kejriwal model” of governance.“You had told the media on December 20, 2020, that I could come to Uttarakhand whenever I wanted and you would easily list 100 works. But when I came, you were missing. When your government did not do even one thing for the public in the past four years, what would you debate on?” Sisodia wrote in his letter on Tuesday, adding that he understood Kaushik’s “helplessness”. “I will be waiting at 11am on January 6, to have an open debate with you on the Kejriwal model of governance,” he wrote, adding that he would take Kaushik to schools and mohalla clinics. In his letter, Sisodia also alleged that Uttarakhand BJP had engaged in corruption in the state in the past four years as pointed out by BJP MLA Puran Singh Fartyal and mentioned corruption case against the OSD of Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat.In his letter, Sisodia said those who fought for a separate state of Uttarakhand 20 years ago now feel cheated by BJP and Congress governments. “Those who dreamt of good education, schools, hospitals, electricity, water, and employment for their children in Uttarakhand are now looking with hope at the Kejriwal model in Delhi,” he wrote.Responding to Sisodia’s challenge, Kaushik said, “AAP’s Sisodia had come to Uttarakhand for tourism. He did his tourism politics and returned. As far as his January 6 invitation is concerned, we are not answerable to AAP but the people of Uttarakhand. We will show our development work to them, not AAP.”Meanwhile, the Delhi units of BJP, and the Congress slammed the AAP government for their “poor performance” in the education sector and accused the party of indulging in “political tourism”.In a statement issued on Tuesday, Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said, “Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia has been touring other states to fulfil expansion plans of AAP, and is challenging their CM and ministers for debate on the so-called education model of Delhi. But he is not challenging the main opposition party of Delhi, i.e. BJP because he knows that we will expose the faults in the education model of Delhi government.”The Delhi Congress alleged a drop in the number of enrolments in government schools. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Kumar alleged that the major reason behind the drop was “discrepancies” in the mid-day meal scheme under the AAP government. The AAP did not respond to the allegations by the Delhi BJP and Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-invites-u-khand-minister-for-debate-on-governance-model/story-iypvOB4ZGnDkQZ42GsWTEJ.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Court quashes plea by CBI to examine foreign national against Jagdish Tytler||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a plea seeking permission to examine a foreign national as a witness in a case involving Congress leader Jagdish Tytler and arms dealer Abhishek Verma for allegedly writing a forged letter addressed to then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2009.The agency has challenged a trial court’s October 23, 2020 order by which its plea to examine C Edmond Allen was dismissed.Opposing the plea, Verma’s counsel Maninder Singh told Justice Yogesh Khanna that the CBI had tried to summon this witness earlier and he was summoned on four occasions but he did not appear before the trial court after which the prosecution evidence was closed.He said that the apex court had fixed one year for completing the trial in the case and that has expired and allowing examination of the witness would start the trial de novo.To this, CBI counsel Anil Grover sought time from the high court to seek instructions, if they need to apply for extension of timeline for trial.The agency submitted that Allen could not be called earlier for examination since he had put in various conditions for coming to India, including business class flight ticket, but now he has agreed to depose as a witness through video conferencing.CBI wants to examine Allen to prove certain e-mail IDs, allegedly used by the accused to send the purported forged letter.However, the application was dismissed by the trial court noting that despite an order of November 26, 2018 of closure of evidence of this witness, no effort was made by CBI to challenge it and if he was really important, the CBI ought to have examined the witness by challenging the earlier order.The trial court had on December 9, 2015 put Tytler and Verma on trial after framing charges for alleged offences punishable under various sections of IPC, including 420 (cheating), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using as genuine any forged document or electronic record) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy).The charge sheet was filed by CBI on a complaint of then Minister of State for Home Ajay Maken, alleging a forged letter on his letterhead was addressed to Manmohan Singh seeking easing of business visa norms in 2009.Verma and Tytler were named in the charge sheet for the offence of attempting to cheat under IPC and a provision of Prevention of Corruption Act. Tytler was granted bail by the court after he had appeared before it in pursuance to summons. Verma, who was lodged in Tihar Jail, was later granted bail in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-quashes-plea-by-cbi-to-examine-foreign-national-against-jagdish-tytler/story-UpGKGYykQEay9YpmAY5HrO.html
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees light rain, air quality remains poor: IMD||Light spells of rain were reported overnight across the city and its neighbouring areas on Monday and early Tuesday. Cloudy skies continued to reduce visibility owing to a cyclonic circulation spreading from Punjab to the Arabian Sea.Parts of Mulund, Vikhroli and Thane experienced drizzles on Tuesday morning. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that south Konkan, south-central Maharashtra and some areas of Marathwada are likely to experience thunderstorms and light rainfall for the next four to five days. Mumbai is expected to see cloudy skies, but no significant rainfall is predicted over this period. “An active western disturbance lies as a middle and upper-level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan and neighbouring areas, with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and its neighbourhood at lower levels. A north-south zone of wind confluence continues to exist from north Punjab to the northeast Arabian Sea, with strong interaction between south-westerly winds in association with the above western disturbance and lower-level moist southeasterlies,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of western region, IMD. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded a minimum temperature of 20.5 degrees Celsius, 3.4 degrees above normal. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 21.5 degree Celsius, 2.2 degrees above normal. The maximum temperature at Santacruz was 29.5 degree Celsius, 1.5 degrees below normal, while Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 27.7 degrees Celsius, 2.8 degrees below normal. Air quality continued to remain poor on Tuesday, with a marginal improvement. The overall air quality index (AQI) — a pollutant measuring indicator— of 242 (poor) was recorded. AQI is calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor, and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 stations at which the air quality was measured, both Mazgaon and Navi Mumbai breathed the worst air with AQI of 309 (very poor). “AQI of Mumbai for Monday was poor because of low dispersion. The air quality will remain poor for the next two days because of local emissions,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-light-rain-air-quality-remains-poor-imd/story-TxmASKIks6THOFeCjYgwIM.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Police to allow access to charge sheet on jail computers||The Delhi police on Tuesday agreed to allow 15 people, accused of conspiracy leading to communal riots in Delhi, access to soft copies of the charge sheet on jail computers. The accused had contended before a court that it was difficult for them to discuss the 17,000-page document during the half-hour legal interview with their lawyers.Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that they have no problem if the charge sheet was uploaded on the computer inside the jail complexes and all the accused in the case have access to it.The submissions were made when the counsel of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid told the court he has moved an application seeking permission that Khalid be permitted to access the soft copy of the charge sheet in jail.Khalid, through his counsel, said that it was difficult to discuss the legal strategy and the charge sheet, running into more than 17,000 pages, during the legal interview as it was only for half an hour.The counsel urged the court that his client may be permitted to access soft copy of the charge sheet in jail, adding either a computer is brought to jail number 2 or he is taken to the computer centre inside the jail premises. “We have half an hour interview. We cannot discuss the charge sheet or our legal strategy during that time. It is running into thousands of pages,” the counsel said, adding it was hindering Khalid’s right to a fair trial.Co-accused JNU student Sharjeel Imam also said that the order be extended for all the accused as everyone was in the same boat.“I have been trying to get access to the charge sheet. Same order be passed for all the accused in the case as we are all in the same boat. I have spent two months in prison speculating news reports,” said ImamAdvocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, appearing for accused Asif Iqbal Tanha, said she had moved an application before the Tihar jail authorities on November 18, seeking access to a computer for Tanha but has not got any response till date.SPP Prasad said similar orders would be passed for all jails in lines with Khalid’s application.“So far as Khalid’s application is concerned, similar order be passed for all the jails. I completely agree to that. I agree to it that the charge sheet be uploaded to a computer all can access it,” Prasad said.The judge concluded, “The accused needs to read what is in the charge sheet”, and put the matter for further hearing on January 19.Meanwhile, advocate Arjun Dewan, appearing for another accused Athar Khan, claimed that he was suffering from serious medical condition and was not provided proper treatment in jail. Khan’s counsel further alleged that inmates passed communally coloured remarks against him and were causing trouble for him.Khan also directly addressed the court and claimed that he was not being given the high-fibre diet in jail which the doctor had prescribed for him.He further said he was quarantined for 14 days every time he was taken out for treatment and during the entire period he was not even allowed to go out of the cell and not allowed to meet even his lawyer.The accused, including former councillor Ishrat Jahan, Pinjra Tod members Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, have been charged with the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), for their alleged role in the conspiracy to orchestrate the north east Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-police-to-allow-access-to-charge-sheet-on-jail-computers/story-uaOp4u85T8lOJsK6XzQcCP.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||NDMC to give Rs 200 per month to students for internet data package||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has decided to provide a financial assistance of Rs 200 to each student of class 10 and class 12 of its schools towards Internet data package cost for attending online teaching and learning activities. This facility will continue till schools are closed.According to NDMC officials, a proposal in this connection was passed in a meeting of the council last week. Officials of the civic body said that online classes are still being conducted and there is no clarity when schools will be opened so this proposal has been approved to provide financial help to students to continue with their online classes.A senior official of the NDMC said that students studying in NDMC and Navyug Schools are generally from poor backgrounds and they do not have adequate resources to afford internet data pack required for online classes. “This data pack subsidy will motivate students of class 10 and class 12 to attend more and more online classes which will minimise the academic loss and improve their performance in board exams in 2021. Therefore, it is proposed that the scheme of payment of an amount of Rs 200 per month to students of class 10 and class 12 of NDMC schools for data package through direct benefit transfer (DBT) for online teaching learning activities may be implemented till the schools are closed,” the proposal passed by the municipality said.Online classes in the NDMC were started on April 3 last year after schools were shut due to coronavirus pandemic lockdown.A senior official of the NDMC said that there are around 3295 students enrolled in class 10 and class 12 out of which 2748 students attend online classes. “As many as 1264 students are attending online classes in class 10 while 1484 students in class 12. This amount will be given monthly to students in their accounts. Total financial estimate of the scheme for both the classes will be Rs 6.02 lakh per month,” the official said.Prior to this, the NDMC had in December distributed tablets pre-loaded with study materials to 811 students of class 10 and class 12. These tablets were distributed among students free of cost to promote e-learning especially during the pandemic.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-to-give-rs-200-per-month-to-students-for-internet-data-package/story-aqxK5XL1RwRE9SUt8Kgc2O.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||24-year-old man, aide nabbed for murder inside jeans factory in Seelampur||A 24-year-old man was arrested along with his associate for allegedly bludgeoning his brother-in-law to death with a cooking gas cylinder after the New Year party at a jeans manufacturing factory in north-east Delhi’s Seelampur on January 1, police said on Tuesday.The arrested man, Monu alias Monty, was annoyed with his brother-in-law, Rajesh,30, (single name) because he suspected him of having an affair with another woman. Monu had apprehensions that the brother-in-law may leave his sister for the other woman, said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya.On January 2, the DCP said, the Seelampur police received information that a person with head injuries was admitted to a government hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The person, Rajesh, was found unconscious in his jeans manufacturing factory in Seelampur by some locals. A murder case was registered and the investigation was taken up.During the probe, the DCP said, investigators scanned the CCTV cameras installed around the factory and found the movements of one employee of the dead man suspicious. The employee, Ankit Rajput,23, was taken into custody and interrogation.“Rajput confessed to killing his employer (Rajesh) by hitting his head with a cooking gas cylinder. He disclosed that he committed the murder on the behest of Rajesh’s brother-in-law Monu. We arrested Monu as well. The cylinder used in the crime was also seized,” added DCP Surya.Interrogation of the arrested men revealed that on January 1, they celebrated the New Year with Rajesh and consumed alcohol together. After the party, Rajesh remained at the factory while others left. A few minutes later, Rajput returned and attacked Rajesh’s head with the gas cylinder, said an investigator who did not want to be named.“Monu planned the murder because he was annoyed with Rajesh because of his affair with another woman. He told Rajput about his apprehensions that Rajesh may desert his sister just to marry the other woman. After gaining Rajput’s sympathy, Monu convinced him to kill his brother-in-law,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/24-year-old-man-aide-nabbed-for-murder-inside-jeans-factory-in-seelampur/story-CoKegGS28vunWPdDfJ140J.html
06-01-2021||Lifestyle||Rights to admission reserved at restaurants: Colonial hangover or a vibe thing?||Sunday evening, filmmaker Faraz Arif Ansari and their friends went to a restaurant in Benares, where they were refused entry. In a social media post, Ansari alleged that it was because of their attire. Dressed in a traditional kurta with churidar and Kolhapuri chappals, Ansari visited the restaurant for brunch at about 5.30pm. This is what they say ensued: “When we arrived, we were asked not to enter the restaurant because most of us were in Indian attire and Indian footwear. We were made to wait outside for 20 minutes, and then asked to leave. The manager was deeply prejudiced, snobbish and utterly rude to all of us. He didn’t even address us and just walked away after listening to us, telling his staff to put up a board mentioning about footwear. They only have a board for masks and weapons.” Ansari alleges that the restaurant management’s behaviour was out of line. “The manager refused to even acknowledge us or look at us while we were standing right in front of him. And this isn’t a club; it’s a regular restaurant,” they add.Upon contacting Molecule, the restaurant in question, it was found that they have a policy against open-toed slippers or sandals. “We have a policy of not allowing people with a certain dress code and we stick by it. But if the staff didn’t behave well, I apologise for that,” says co-owner Sahil Sambhi. He further elaborates, “There is no incorrect or correct dress code — we don’t allow people wearing slippers; you have to be wearing covered shoes.”Read: Delhi eatery denies entry to woman wearing ethnic wear, videos sparks anger Restaurants everywhere reserve the right to admission, which depends on certain parameters set by the management. We speak to some restaurateurs to find about their policies and how they train the staff to manage violations.Dress code is relative to the ambience and the vibe of the place, feels Suveet Kalra, owner, Ardor 2.1. “We are already suffering because of Covid, do you think we even have time to discriminate against people? In our restaurant, we allow people in Indian wear, but our lounge area is where everything is flashy and all about showing off, so we don’t allow certain dress code. It’s as simple as that,” he says adding that it all boils down to how you groom your staff. “The way you treat your staff, they will treat your guests. You will never encounter any such problems at our restaurant. Our managers conduct regular training and grooming sessions with our staff. If the staff is courteous and well-trained in their approach to the guests, then these situations are easily avoidable,” he says.Navneet Kalra, owner Townhall, says that as long as guests can carry themselves well in whatever they are wearing, no one is denied entry. “The kind of guests we get at are all sharply dressed, be it kurta pyjama, shorts or any Indian attire. There is no discrimination. There is a way to carry yourself and as long as people are decently dressed, everyone is welcome,” he says. Dinesh Arora, founder, La Roca says that both the management and the guests need to apply reason when in such a situation. “We follow different dressing rules for different concepts. For a nightclub, we follow a strict dress code as those places have more of international vibes. Our cafes, fine dining and lounge bars are open to any sort of dressing as we get guests across generations. Our staff is trained to explain to customers the reasons behind our policies and usually, people respect it. But there are times when customers also provoke the staff. However, we make sure that our staff always remains courteous,” he says.Read: All doors should open for those in traditional Indian wear: Delhi restaurateursHowever, there is a view that restaurants are built upon a certain vibe, which takes a lot of hard work and investment, so it is solely upon the management to decide whom to allow entry. “We invest a lot of time, money, and passion to bring a particular vibe to a place and the vibe is the soul of any restaurant, bar or club. If someone is dressed in a particular fashion which is not incorrect in any way, but kills the vibe and decorum of the place, then one can be denied entry as others are respecting the same. You still can’t enter a golf club or gymkhana clubs in round neck t-shirts and jeans, or t-shirts with a lot of branding. All members and guests respect and follow it,” says Akshay Anand, co-founder, Ophelia.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/rights-to-admission-reserved-at-restaurants-colonial-hangover-or-a-vibe-thing/story-3bkdeN7eVAeaiplAuZEutN.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Infrastructure upgrade at GMCH-32 for TB patients||Private rooms will now be converted to isolation rooms as part of a drive to upgrade infrastructure for better management of communicable diseases at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32. Isolation units with around 30 beds will be created for which the initial drawings and approvals have been granted.“GMCH-32 offers treatment to patients suffering from diseases such as drug resistant tuberculosis. There are specified guidelines by the regulatory bodies which have been replicated here. The isolation rooms actually decrease the chances of other infections and will be good for patients and healthcare staff. So far, this is the only facility we are coming up with,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH-32.The hospital will also operationalise the seven-bed respiratory intensive care unit.“We are expected to start the DM courses in a few specialties for which better infrastructure is required. Thus more ICUs have to be created. This will also help in patient care,” Kaur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infrastructure-upgrade-at-gmch-32-for-tb-patients/story-s2MrE3NWrmCgNIoJJm5AGM.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Five injured after cylinder blast causes wall collapse in Hari Nagar||Five people, including three children and a woman, were injured after the wall of a house collapsed following an explosion in a cooking gas cylinder in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar on Tuesday morning, the police said. The injured persons do not belong to the same family and all of them were discharged after medical attention, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said that around 5 am, the police received a call about a blast in a gas cylinder and fire in a house in Asha Park’s G-block. The Hari Nagar police station team reached there and found that the explosion had led to the collapse of a wall of the house.“All the injured were shifted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital from where they were discharged after treatment. The injured persons included three children between the age group of 10 and 12 years. The woman and the man are both 36-year-old,” added DCP Purohit.Police said they were probing the cause of the explosion in the cylinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-injured-after-cylinder-blast-causes-wall-collapse-in-hari-nagar/story-wN92LV2dNyWVjrbmCVszTI.html
06-01-2021||Kolkata||Suspended TMC leader held after raping minor for 3 days in Darjeeling||A former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader, who was suspended from the party years ago for breaching discipline, has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl for three days in his poultry farm in the Kharibari area of West Bengal’s Darjeeling district.The alleged crime took place about two weeks ago but the victim’s mother lodged a complaint at Kharibari police station on Sunday night. Ujjwal Sarkar, the accused, was arrested in the early hours of Monday. It is alleged that he threatened the victim with dire consequences if she opened her mouth. The family belongs to a tribal community.The girl, whose father is a TMC worker, has been sent to hospital for medical examination, said a police officer who did not want to be named as he is not authorized to brief the media. TMC leaders disassociated themselves from Sarkar, saying he was suspended seven years ago for his activities.Also read: US welcomes LeT commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi’s arrest on charges of terror financingThe victim’s family has alleged that Sarkar took the girl to his farm when her parents had gone somewhere. He locked her up for three days and tortured her. Hiranmoy Roy, TMC Kharibari community block committee president, said, “Sarkar was suspended from the party long ago. He was not an active worker. Law should take its own course.”Before his suspension, Sarkar was president of the TMC’s Kharibari block youth wing.Kalyan Debnath, BJP Siliguri district youth committee president, said, “The girl narrated the incident to her grandmother and the matter was brought to the notice of TMC leaders. However, there was an attempt to suppress the crime. We helped the family get justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/suspended-tmc-leader-held-after-raping-minor-for-3-days-in-darjeeling/story-yIaSRp3gGeBtwGbUYwKYTO.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Man killed in accident near Punjabi Bagh flyover||A 26-year-old man was killed while his friend was critically injured after they met with an accident on a scooter they were riding near the west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh flyover on Monday night, the police said.The police said they were probing if it was a case of a hit-and-run or the duo’s scooter slipped on the road because of the rain. A case of rash and negligent driving causing death and hurt was registered at the Punjabi Bagh police station.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said that around 11 pm on Monday, the Punjabi Bagh police station received a call regarding an accident near the Punjabi Bagh flyover. A police team reached there and found a scooter in a damaged condition. Two injured persons were moved to a nearby hospital in an ambulance. They were identified as Kunal Sadana and his friend Sukash Mandal,25.“Sadana was declared brought dead while Mandal is undergoing treatment at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital. His condition is critical,” said DCP Purohit.Police said that both Sadana and Mandal worked as salesmen at a garment shop in Karol Bagh. Sadana lived with his family in northwest Delhi’s Rani Bagh while Mandal is a resident of Karol Bagh.“Where the two were going at the time of the accident is also being ascertained. The CCTV cameras installed around the mishap spot and on the route where it happened is also being probed for clues to find out if any other vehicle had hit the scooter,” said a police officer, associated with the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-killed-in-accident-near-punjabi-bagh-flyover/story-OKIofRUVmQ1N3fiUIrKWvN.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||War of words between AAP, BJP intensifies over temple demolition||The war of words between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) triggered by the demolition of a temple in Chandni Chowk intensified on Tuesday with both parties blaming each other for the razing of the religious structure. The AAP criticised the BJP for “falsely alleging” that the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi was responsible for demolition of the temple even as BJP repeated its charge that the chief minister could have intervened and tweaked the design of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project to save the temple. Addressing a press conference, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said it was the BJP-ruled municipal corporation which had told the court that it was going to demolish the temple. He shared a copy of an affidavit filed by the North MCD in the high court to support the claim. Also Read: Rebuild Chandni Chowk temple: VHP, Bajrang Dal“The affidavit shows that the north MCD conveyed to the court that the demolition would take place on December 20. The affidavit was signed by the deputy commissioner North MCD, Satnam Singh. The BJP does not have the required police force to stop illegal constructions, but they deploy thousands of police personnel at night to demolish a temple,” Bhardwaj said. The BJP, however, blamed the Delhi government for temple’s demolition. “In all these 15 months, the Kejriwal government could have put this matter before the religious committee of the Delhi assembly to review the matter and provide relief to the affected parties. The Delhi government could also have got the Chandni Chowk redevelopment plan amended. But they did nothing,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor. The AAP said the BJP indirectly took the help of an NGO, Manushi Sangathan, to file a writ petition in the court for demolition of the temple. Bhardwaj alleged that the people who lead the NGO are close to a senior BJP leader. Sanjay Bhargava, member of the NGO and president of Chandni Chowk Sarva Vyapar Mandal (CCSYM), rejected AAP’s allegations as “a bunch of lies”. “I am not linked to any political party. This project has been monitored by the Delhi high court since 2007 when AAP was not even born. I am the president of CCSYM and we have been trying to redevelop Chandni Chowk since 2000. I request Bhardwaj to withdraw his comments as it amounts to contempt of court orders,” Bhargava said. Bhargava added,“There were five religious structures, three were removed in 2016. This temple was one of the two left. In fact, Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehra was present when the Delhi high court passed its order,” he said.Continuing his attack on the BJP, Bhardwaj said, “We would like to tell the BJP that your animosity is with the AAP. Please do not take your revenge on Lord Hanuman. If you will upset Hanuman, it will affect Lord Ram because Ram loves Hanuman, and not the BJP. Also, BJP will not be able to form a government in Delhi by doing this,” Bhardwaj said.BJP’s Kapoor said the Kejriwal government has little concern or respect for Hindu temples, citing an attack on a temple in old Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/war-of-words-between-aap-bjp-intensifies-over-temple-demolition/story-H9RvV27VovmW62huKQjJ6K.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||One held, two apprehended for firing at bakery shop||Delhi Police have arrested a 23-year-old man and apprehended two 17-year-old juveniles for allegedly firing at a bakery shop and thrashing the shop owner in Ranhola on January 1 because all the cakes were sold. The arrested man has been identified as 22-year-old Rahul Ahlawat, a resident of Meham in Haryana. Fourth associate of the trio is yet to be arrested. According to the police, one Rajesh Yadav, a resident of Ranhola, who runs a bakery shop, reported that on January 1 four boys came to his shop to purchase cake but all the cakes were already sold.“When he told the four of them that cake is not available, they created ruckus inside the bakery. When he tried to stop them they thrashed him and even used a hammer to vandalise the bakery. Yadav said when he cried for help, one of them took out a pistol and fire gunshot,” said a police officer.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan said the men were identified with the help of CCTV footages and three of them were caught from Kotla Mubarakpur area on Monday. They have all been arrested for assault, criminal intimidation and for illegal possession and use of firearms,” Koan said.Efforts to arrest him are in progress, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/one-held-two-apprehended-for-firing-at-bakery-shop/story-IlLUEJUUisQj1QAxoh4PHO.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||2 booked in Ambala for threatening to jump off illegal building being razed||Ambala police have booked two men for attempting suicide by threatening to jump off an “illegal” building that civic body officials tried to demolish at the BC Bazaar area of the Cantonment on Monday night.  Rakesh Kumar and Rajesh Kumar were named in the FIR for attempting suicide and obstructing government officials from discharging their duties on the complaint of Apurva Chaudhary, executive officer of the Ambala Sadar municipal council (MC). Chaudhary said when MC the officials, with a duty magistrate went to the spot to demolish the illegally constructed propertie(s) for an action-taken report to be submitted to the high court, the building owner, “Rakesh and his brother Rajesh Kumar with other family members gathered and locked all the doors. All of them climbed onto the roof of the house and threatened to commit suicide, due to which the illegal construction could not be demolished,” he said. A case was lodged under sections 186, 353, 309, 34 and 511 of the Indian Penal Code at the Ambala Cantonment police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-booked-in-ambala-for-threatening-to-jump-off-illegal-building-being-razed/story-i5mKaBUKEztDu6s4UrceIJ.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Five incidents of ceiling plaster collapse have residents concerned about safety in Noida housing society||Noida: Five separate incidents involving the collapse of ceiling plaster in two days at a housing society in Noida’s Sector 74 have left residents worried about their safety.Residents of Supertech Capetown alleged that such incidents happened due to poor construction quality of the buildings. The society has around 6,000 flats in which nearly 25,000 people live. “We have had five cases of ceiling plaster collapse in the last two days. Two such incidents took place in common areas, but three cases occurred in separate flats. Though there were no casualty, they were still narrow escapes for the residents,” said Arun Sharma, president, Apartment Owners Association of Supertech Capetown.The information about the collapse was shared with the maintenance team, he said.Hirak Dasgupta, a resident, said that he and his wife had just moved inside from the balcony of their flat when a portion of the ceiling in the balcony collapsed. “We are thankful to god that it didn’t happen in one of the rooms. The maintenance team did the repair, but such a collapse should not happen in the first place,” said 66-year-old Dasgupta.The residents alleged that such incidents show that the quality of construction material is poor. “There are 25,000 people in the society who are worried about their safety. We have asked the developer in the past as well for a structural survey but to no avail. Action needs to be taken soon in this regard,” said Sharma.The Supertech group, developer of the society, said that the recent incidents weren’t major ones and due repairs were done for them. “It was not a serious situation. People are creating unnecessary issue for their own vested interests,” said Rajesh, assistant general manager, Supertech group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/five-incidents-of-ceiling-plaster-collapse-have-residents-concerned-about-safety-in-noida-housing-society/story-N6I2OwyjU1NcAtkuFXtrWL.html
06-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to use colour-coded slips during actual vaccination drive||On Monday, Yashoda Hospital nurse Harjeet Kaur got a text messaging asking her to be at the hospital at 10 am to get her Covid-19 vaccine shot.She was among the 50 practice volunteers called to help the Ghaziabad district administration figure out if they had any chinks in their process before the actual vaccine is rolled out.“It took me about 40-45 minutes to complete the entire run,” said Kaur. “Once I entered, I had to verify my identification which I did through driving license. That hardly took a minute after which I was seated inside a waiting area. In another 3-4 minutes, I was assigned a vaccine session room where the vaccination was administered in another minute.”Then, after 30 minutes in the observation room, where the real vaccine beneficiaries would be observed for any adverse reaction, she was out.Hospital’s chief medical officer Dr Sangeeta Garg said, “We have prepared two rooms for vaccination session and one more room will come up soon. The entire process for beneficiaries was expected to last 45 minutes each and the dry run went smoothly as planned.”The Ghaziabad health department completed the dry run at IDST College at Modi Nagar, ITS Dental College at Muradnagar, community health centre at Loni, Gayatri Hospital at Lohiya Nagar, Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar and Santosh Hospital near old bus-stand. During the dry run process, two batches of 25 beneficiaries each were assigned to two vaccine-session rooms each at the six sites. In all, 300 beneficiaries took part during the dry run process.  The health department officials said that the actual vaccination process would be similar to the dry run. “At one vaccination centre we observed that the vaccination rooms should be assigned a colour and the beneficiaries should also be given similar coloured slips so that they easily can be identified and assigned to respective room. At another site we found that the forms with instructions written for vaccination process were not printed,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. He said that at one other site they found that the observation room was in an emergency ward. “We directed that the room be a separate enclosure in order to ensure privacy and also to ensure that other patients do not panic. At one other site we found that the home guards reached late. So, directions were issued to the competent officials to ensure timely arrival,” Dr Gupta, added. Tuesday evening, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey also attended a video-conference with the UP chief minister and other district magistrates. “The CM told all officials to adhere to strict phase wise vaccination process. People must get the vaccine in the manner directed by the Centre. During the dry run, we observed some issues and they have been corrected,” he, added. The health department has identified 21,850 healthcare workers who would be taking the shots under phase 1 when the actual vaccine arrives. The second phase is for frontline workers which are estimated to be about 44000 in the district while the third category will have highest number of beneficiaries estimated to be more than 500,000. “We estimate that the first and the second phase will be conducted smoothly while we will have to make extra efforts for the third phase as beneficiaries will be much higher in number,” said an officer from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-to-use-colour-coded-slips-during-actual-vaccination-drive/story-kvnVveWbRzXfzQSBoW3AjK.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Light rain, wind, mercury keeps air cleaner||Light rain, high wind speed and relatively higher temperatures ensured that Delhi’s air stayed in the moderate zone for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. In its forecast for the week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the city may get colder from Thursday and also predict fog in the morning. the India Meteorological Department (IMD) from 4pm on Monday to 8.30am on Tuesday, the Safdarjung observatory recorded 4.7 mm rainfall, while Palam and Lodi Road observatories recorded 4mm and 4.8mm rainfall respectively.At the Aya Nagar observatory 8mm rainfall was recorded till 8.30am on Tuesday. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said light rain is likely to continue through Tuesday night, till Wednesday morning. “Till 12pm on Wednesday, some parts of Delhi is likely to receive light rainfall but by midday, the western disturbance will pass from over Delhi,” said Srivastava. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, Delhi reported an air quality index value of 140, in the moderate category. On Monday, the AQI was 151. At 5 pm on Tuesday, at least six out of the total 37 air quality monitoring centres recorded ‘satisfactory’ AQI. This included areas around Alipur, Dwarka, Mandir Marg, Aya Nagar, Pusa, and Lodhi Road.Delhi had just one moderate air day in December on 14th. The air quality last month was mostly in the very poor-poor zone, as per CPCB data. Union environment ministry’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said by Tuesday night, the AQI at many parts of Delhi is likely to enter satisfactory zone. “The AQI is likely to stay in the moderate to satisfactory category on Tuesday and in the moderate to poor category on Wednesday. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate on January 7 and January 8,” the Safar analysis read. Srivastava said from Thursday, the temperature will start falling again, settling at around 7 degrees Celsius. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 13.2 degree Celsius. This was 6 degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 22.6 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature at Palam observatory was 14.4 degrees Celsius, 7 degrees above season’s normal, according to IMD. The IMD also warned that from Thursday, the passing western disturbance had increased the moisture content in the air, which would cause dense fog on Thursday and Friday morning. “Even though the western disturbance will pass from over Delhi, but the moisture content in the air will remain high, this will lead to foggy conditions in the morning hours. Visibility is also expected to fall drastically,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/light-rain-wind-mercury-keeps-air-cleaner/story-W26DrirJyPF8Qd9Coleu9J.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Rebuild Chandni Chowk temple: VHP, Bajrang Dal||Hundreds of workers of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Bajrang Dal and other right-wing organisations took out a march in Chandni Chowk on Tuesday to protest the demolition of a Hanuman temple by the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation on the orders of the Delhi high court. VHP leaders said the protest will continue till the Aam Adami Party government in Delhi allocates land for reconstruction of the temple near the existing site.Also Read: War of words between AAP, BJP intensifies over temple demolitionOn Tuesday morning, hundreds of members of right-wing organisations, Delhi BJP and locals shouted slogans demanding reconstruction of the temple. The protest was planned on Tuesday as it is considered the day of Lord Hanuman, said a VHP member. The temple was demolished at 4am on Sunday. It was located on the road which is being redesigned only for pedestrians as part of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment plan. The structure was declared illegal by the high court and the order for its removal was passed in 2015. The protesters were restricted near the Sis Ganj Gurdwara and nearly 30 members of VHP and Bajrang Dal were detained by the police. All detainees were later released.No first information report (FIR) was registered in connection with the gathering of nearly 500 protesters even though it was in violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. The protest began around 11 am and continued for over two hours, the police said. Nearly 300 security personnel were deployed to maintain law and order in the area. The police personnel also recorded video of the entire event.Surender Gupta, state vice-president of VHP, said, “The temple could have been saved had the Delhi government planned the redevelopment project carefully. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (which removed the temple) is just an executing agency. We want the government to allocate land on the central verge so that we can construct the temple. We don’t need any assistance from the government to construct the temple.”The AAP has maintained that it was the North MCD which had admitted before the court that the structure was encroachment and undertaken to remove it. VHP and Delhi BJP leaders said that they will meet Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to request him to intervene and allow the construction of the Hanuman temple.A four-layer security cordon was put in place to stop the protesters from marching to the demolished temple site. The gathering of the members of the right-wing with saffron flags began around 10.30 am near the Red Fort-Chandni Chowk crossing. As their number swelled up and they began marching towards the temple site raising slogans, the security personnel stopped them at the first barricade placed near the Gauri Shankar temple. However, the protesters managed to break the barricade and proceeded towards the site where the temple existed.“We used mild force to contain them at the second barricade near the Sis Ganj Gurdwara, where they continued their agitation and delivered speeches. No The crowd dispersed after 1pm. We are considering legal action in connection with Tuesday’s protest,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named. Unlike Monday when shops opened late, the business in the heritage market was not affected as the police had made adequate arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rebuild-chandni-chowk-temple-vhp-bajrang-dal/story-r3ZNv8UxDaa1NqWvLpJtaN.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Court takes cognisance of charge sheet against Umar Khalid||A Delhi court on Tuesday took cognisance of a charge sheet filed against former JNU student Umar Khalid in connection to the riots in the Khajuri Khas area in February last year while stating that there is sufficient material on record to show that he had conspired with suspended councillor Tahir Hussain and others to orchestrate the riots.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar said that a statement by a witness was sufficient to show that during the relevant time, Khalid was allegedly in contact with Hussain, the alleged “main conspirator” who had funded the communal riots and instigated the mob from his house.Also Read: Media reporting on charge sheet, my lawyer is yet to get it: Umar Khalid tells courtThe court took note of the statement of a witness, Rahul Kasana, Hussain’s driver who had contended that he had seen his employer distributing money during the anti-CAA protests.Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid arrested for alleged role in Delhi riotsAlso Read: One year since violence in JNU, no arrests yetThe witness had also told the police that on January 8, 2020, he had taken Hussain to Shaheen Bagh where the former councillor entering an office. Kasana said after sometime he had seen Khalid along with Khalid Saifi entering inside the same. After 1-1.5 hrs, Hussain had come out of the office, he added.The police had filed the supplementary charge sheet on December 26, contending that Khalid was active participant in the criminal conspiracy to instigate communal riots in various parts of Delhi. It has alleged that the due to the instigation by the accused persons, a mob had gathered which had robbed persons and burnt down public and private property. Earlier the police had filed a charge sheet against Saifi, Hussain and others charging them of unlawful assembly, rioting, arson, destruction of property and criminal conspiracy among other sections on which the court had taken cognizance on October 12. Khalid was arrested on October 1 in this case.The court also directed the investigating officer to supply a copy of the supplementary charge sheet to Khalid through the concerned jail superintendent.Meanwhile, the judge also issued notice to the police on an application moved by Khalid alleging that a “vicious media campaign” was being conducted against him. The application claimed that sections of the media were getting access to the charge sheet even before the accused or his counsel got it. Khalid had told the court on Monday that this is affecting his right to free and fair trial. The matter would be heard on January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-takes-cognisance-of-charge-sheet-against-umar-khalid/story-tyQ2jHXVHFUCvf4uBWxa8J.html
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Six-storey office building in Sector 44 gutted in major fire; no injuries as building was unoccupied||A six-storey office building was completely gutted following a major fire in Sector 44, near Huda City Centre, early on Tuesday. No injuries were reported in the incident.More than 20 fire tenders were called into action to douse the fire. Fire department officials said that it took over two hours to get it under control, and nearly four hours to douse.Assistant divisional fire safety officer, IS Kashyap, said that the fire is suspected to have started around 3am and that the building, which is privately owned, was not occupied at the time of the incident. “The security guard of the adjoining building came on his motorcycle and alerted the officials at the Sector 29 fire department about the incident at 3.21am. Two fire tenders were immediately sent to the spot,” said Kashyap.Kashyap said that the two fire tenders reached the spot within three minutes as it was less than two kilometres from the station.“When the first batch of vehicles reached the spot, the first three floors of the building had been completely engulfed in the fire and the firemen immediately realised that a large-scale operation was needed. Upon alerting us, three more fire tenders were sent from the Sector 29 fire station, two each from the Bhim Nagar, Udyog Vihar, Manesar, and Sector 37 fire stations, along with fire tenders from private companies such as DLF, Maruti, Medanta, as well as the Indian Air Force. A total of 20 fire tenders were used for dousing operations,” said Kashyap.Fire officials said that due to the weather conditions, the blaze became difficult to control. “Although the building did not have any flammable objects inside, the wind speed was extremely strong at the time of the incident. The entire building was covered with glass panels. As soon as even one glass panel broke, the intensity of the fire increased rapidly with the gush of fresh air and it spread upwards, engulfing the floors above as well,” said Kashyap. “We were in a situation where we didn’t know which floor of the building we should focus our resources on. The entire operation was extremely tricky and difficult,” he said.Fire officials said that office items, electronic items, flooring, tiles and glass panels were completely gutted in the incident. “Our dousing operations ensured that the intensity of heat in the building remained under control, which ensured that it did not collapse. The owners had a valid no-objection certificate (NOC) and four of their hydrants were used for drawing water for the dousing operations, which lasted for nearly two hours. Subsequently, a fire hydrant from a nearby private hospital was also used for drawing water,” said Kashyap.Kashyap said that a short circuit is suspected to have been the main cause of the fire.As a precautionary measure, fire officials have kept a fire tender at the spot on standby until early Wednesday morning to extinguish any stray sparks that may occur.Despite repeated calls, representatives of the building management could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/six-storey-office-building-in-sector-44-gutted-in-major-fire-no-injuries-as-building-was-unoccupied/story-3hLj09S2wQDq97xEZUIZaP.html
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Sale of poultry, fish banned in four sub divisions of Kangra district to control bird flu spread||With over 2,700 migratory birds having died of the avian flu (H5N1) at Pong Dam in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh in the past week, the district administration on Tuesday imposed strict restrictions in four sub divisions adjoining the wetland. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that in the interest of protecting the health and safety of public at large, the sale, purchase and export of poultry, birds, and fish is prohibited in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora sub divisions. “The slaughter of poultry, birds and fish in all slaughter houses or at home is barred in these four sub divisions,” Prajapati said adding that administration was on high alert to meet any eventuality as it arises. The practice of offering feed to birds and fish is also prohibited. “No movement of humans shall be allowed within 1 km of Pong Dam or the alert zone except those related to managing the avian influenza outbreak,” he said. No movement of livestock or domestic animals shall be allowed within 1km of Pong Lake and the deputy director, animal husbandry, shall deploy staff to ensure compliance in the area. All agriculture or horticulture related activities are prohibited and staff of the two departments would be deployed to check such activities. The chief conservator of forests, wildlife, North, will ensure the quick burial of the dead birds and disinfection of infected areas. Beyond the jurisdiction of the forest department, the task is assigned to deputy director, animal husbandry, who shall constitute rapid response teams, the DC said. “The chief medical officer, Kangra, based at Dharamshala shall ensure stockpiling of medicines, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and keep vigil of the human transmission of the avian influenza and keep details of the testing labs for bird flu ready,” Prajapati said.No way to deal with bird migrationThe DC also said there was no way to deal with the migration of birds. The arrival continues till March. “What we can do is protect our local population, humans as well as livestock, from infection.”He said if virus spreads to the poultry, culling will be done. “We can’t stop inward or outward movement of the migratory birds,” said Prajapati. Most of the affected birds are bar-headed geese. Birds from other species such as the common teal, shoveler, river tern and black-headed gull were also found dead. These birds migrate from far of places including Siberia, Mongolia, China, Central Asia and Europe to Pong Wetland in winters.He told that some local birds, mainly crows, have been found dead. Their samples have also been sent for testing and report is awaited.Health dept has adequate resoruces: CMOKangra chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said so far there have been no human transmission cases, but since the virus is contagious, the department is on high alert. Those handling the disposal of dead birds will be provided preventive equipment and medication. We have adequate stock of medicines, he said.Meanwhile, chief conservator (wildlife) Upasana Patiyal said the dead birds were being buried as per protocol using lime and salt. All the personnel involved in the process are taking precautions and using PPE kits, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sale-of-poultry-fish-banned-in-four-sub-divisions-of-kangra-district-to-control-bird-flu-spread/story-fDA4LX8hVFuAFvUxSjfeMK.html
