07-01-2021||City||Students to be served mid-day meals at Ludhiana schools||The state education department has directed the government and aided schools in the district to serve mid-day meals to the students of classes 5 to 8 after the schools reopened on Thursday.Directions were issued to deliver food grains to students who are attending classes online and to transfer the cooking costs to their bank accounts, as it was being done earlier when the schools were shut owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.The higher authorities issued directions to the schools at 9 am on Thursday, and majority of the schools decided to make the required arrangements from Friday. The move by the higher authorities has left the school heads in a tizzy as to prepare the meals, they will have to make arrangements to purchase vegetables, pulses, salt, and oil commodities. A school head of a government primary school, requesting anonymity, said, “Around 210 students are studying in Class 5 in our school out of which 20 of them have submitted a written consent from parents and rest are not going to come to school to attend physical classes. It will be a task to make arrangements. If anybody gets infected from the virus, then who is to be held responsible?” As per government orders, the students will be attending classes in school for five hours therefore, the department decided that meals should be provided to them.As per instructions, the mid-day meal kitchen has to be sanitized, and utensils to be washed thoroughly so that food is prepared hygienically. Instructions have also been issued to maintain social distancing while serving meals to the students.The school authorities have been asked to make it mandatory for the students to wash their hands before taking meals for at least 40 seconds. It should also be ensured that the cook-cum-helpers are not Covid-19 positive.Prabhcharan Singh, general manager of the state mid-day meal cell, SAS Nagar, said, “Students have to attend school from 10 am to 3 pm and it will be difficult for them to stay in school without food for five hours. So, we decided to ask school heads to make arrangements and start serving meals to students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-to-be-served-mid-day-meals-at-ludhiana-schools/story-27RtyfTDqv2xTB6uaxazeK.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Light rain and thunder likely in Mumbai; AQI remains very poor||The city’s air quality deteriorated further on Thursday as the air quality index (AQI) — a pollutant measuring indicator — measured 313, the worst so far this year. Mumbai is also likely to receive light rain with thunderstorms and Thane may see thunderstorms with lightning on Friday, according to a forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). An overall AQI of 313 (very poor) was measured on Thursday, which was worse than Wednesday’s 309, as temperatures remained low. The AQI, calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), is the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Navi Mumbai reported the worst air of the 10 stations, with AQI of 329, which was closely followed by Borivli with AQI of 326. “As winter conditions persist, low dispersion of pollutant particles in the air is seen. This is why the air quality is in the very poor category. It is likely to remain poor over the next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR. While the city remained dry, some neighbouring areas such as Thane and Badlapur saw thunderstorms and mild showers. Maximum temperatures remained low for the second consecutive day. The Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded a maximum temperature of 30.7 degree Celsius, 2.5 degrees below normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature was 28 degree Celsius, a drop of 0.5 degrees from normal. The minimum temperature at Colaba was 21 degrees Celsius, and at Santacruz, it was 20 degree Celsius, 0.1 degree below normal. IMD has predicted light rain, thundershowers in Mumbai for the next two days. Thane district is likely to see thunderstorms and lightning owing to a trough along the coast of Maharashtra and Karnataka. “Under the influence of a trough in low-level easterlies from Karnataka coast to Maharashtra coast in lower tropospheric levels; isolated to scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places are very likely over Maharashtra in the next two days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/light-rain-and-thunder-likely-in-mumbai-aqi-remains-very-poor/story-6DeyAESgiESizYngQRTCkO.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Tents dismantled by local police in Mohali, allege farmers||Farmer union leaders have expressed anger over the alleged dismantling of tents by local police at a farmer support camp in the Phase 7 market of the city. Addressing mediapersons here today, leaders of the Punjab Kisan Union Kanwaljit Singh and Amandeep Singh alleged that tents at the camp had been dismantled by the police in a bid to stop a campaign by some youths in the district to educate people about the three farm laws passed by the government.They said when they informed the senior superintendent of police about the matter he said no such orders had been issued, after which the tents were set up again.The Kisan Union leaders said the government should clarify at whose behest the police were working to stop the farmers’ campaign. When questioned about a few persons in Mohali district claiming to be farmer leaders and saying the camp could not be run without their permission, Kanwaljit Singh and Amandeep Singh denied authorising anyone to act on their behalf.Such people were working to divide the farmers over the agricultural legislations, which would be counterproductive, they warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tents-dismantled-by-local-police-in-mohali-allege-farmers/story-wqW3uIsqS0vbrXhn4naqiL.html
07-01-2021||Noida||Man found dead, one held||A 35-year-old man was found dead with a bullet injury to his head on Wednesday evening in a forest under the Ecotech 1 police jurisdiction.The victim was identified by his first name as Hemchand, a native of Atai village.“His family said that he had left home following a phone call that evening. They suspected his business partner,” said a police official. Based on their complaint, a case of murder (section 302 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered at the Ecotech 1 police station.“His business partner, Dharmendra, was arrested. The suspect claimed that he had suffered a loss of nearly ₹3.5 lakh because of the victim,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3. According to officials, Dharmendra did not say he committed the crime.“We are questioning the suspect to understand the chain of events and to see if anyone else was involved in the murder. The weapon used in the cirme is yet to be recovered. A forensic team is reconstruction the murder scene as well and scientific probe is also being done.”The victim’s body was handed over to the family after an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-found-dead-one-held/story-ciFaKRn05NL6mXDJhNMB3H.html
07-01-2021||Noida||After three days of breather, Noida air slips to ‘poor’ category||Noida: After having “moderate” air quality three days, Noida on Thursday entered the “poor” category due to change in weather conditions in the past 24 hours. While Ghaziabad and Greater Noida are already under “poor”, pollution monitoring agencies expect the region to either remain under this category or slip further into the “very poor” category, with poor ventilation conditions. Noida had been seeing ‘moderate’ air quality since January 4 due to the rains that washed away the pollutants. “The wind direction has changed and so the speed has dropped, and so did the temperature. On Thursday, the wind speed was around eight kmph and the humidity was also high. Given such weather conditions, the wind speed should have been at least 15 kmph to stop the air quality from worsening. For two days the ventilation conditions will be almost the same as on Thursday. However, wind speeds will pick up to almost 25 kmph from January 9,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on a scale of 0 to 500, on Thursday was 236 or “poor” against 200 or “moderate” a day earlier. Greater Noida’s AQI was 288 against 239 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 294 against 234 a day earlier, both “poor”. The major pollutant PM2.5 levels also worsened to more than twice the standards. The PM2.5 levels in Noida worsened to 121.75 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3) against 102.02µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 129.51µg/m3 on Thursday against 110.97µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad was 137.08µg/m3 against 106.86 a day earlier. The safe standard for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI will remain within the “poor” category with moderate ventilation conditions. “Ventilation condition is moderate and AQI is expected to stay in the “poor” category for tomorrow (Friday). The AQI is likely to marginally improve on January 9 and 10. No sudden deterioration of AQI is expected in the next few days,” said the SAFAR statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-three-days-of-breather-noida-air-slips-to-poor-category/story-LA775E9aS4BgncyO0PPbIO.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Attendance thin as classes 5-8 resume in Mohali govt schools||About 30% to 45% attendance was reported on Thursday as classes 5 to 8 in government schools resumed for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year. “Duties were assigned and directions were issued to all school principles to ensure social distancing and to check that children wear masks while attending school. Attendance is purely on parents’ consent,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. As it was the first day the overall turnout was a bit low but in many primary and middle schools it reached 100%, he added. Classes 7 at Government High School (GHS) Ramgarh Rurki and Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Sahauran had 100% attendance, and at GMSS Kharar classes 5 to 12 had 100% attendance, said Dayalan. Schools that had zero attendance, however, were GHS Mianpur (class VI), GHS Jayanti Maji (classes 6 to 8), GSSS Mullanpur (classes 6 to 8), GSSS Hasanpur (classes 6 to 8).GSSS Sohana reported 7.9% and GSSS Sialba Majri reported 9% attendance. Attendance in high schools, which had opened October 19 last year had improved in the past three weeks by 60% to 70%, Dayalan added.The Punjab school education department had issued standard operating procedures for reopening of schools on January 6 and said that online education would continue as preferred mode of teaching as physical attendance was not mandatory. The education department has issued directions to schools to mark seats to ensure a minimum distance of six feet. Social distancing is also to be maintained in staff rooms, office areas, hostels and other places of public interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/attendance-thin-as-classes-5-8-resume-in-mohali-govt-schools/story-gO24WJoOOakR8ng66lJwOK.html
07-01-2021||Noida||Arthala Lake encroachment: NGT asks Ghaziabad court to start ‘execution proceedings’||Observing that its 2016 order to remove encroachments from Ghaziabad’s Arthala Lake was not fully complied with, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had told the Ghaziabad district judge to proceed with its execution.The Arthala lake is a major water body and located adjacent to river Hindon near the Grand Trunk Road.Activist Sushil Raghav had moved the original petition with the NGT in 2015 following which the tribunal had passed its 2016 order. “There were about 500-odd encroachment but only few of these were demolished by the corporation and the district administration. Since the NGT directions were not fully complied with, we moved for contempt proceedings,” said Raghav. “We are of the view that once order has been passed by this tribunal which has attained finality, the same ought to be executed by the district magistrate, Ghaziabad and pond should be restored. We have been dealing with the matter for three years. The issue is of individual encroachments which can be also dealt with by the civil court, having local jurisdiction in terms of section 25(2) of the NGT Act, 2010 (sic.),” the tribunal observed while disposing off the petition on January 5. The NGT while observing further that not much progress has been made for last more than three years, said, “Accordingly, we direct that a copy of order of this tribunal dated September 20, 2016 be forwarded to the District Judge, Ghaziabad for being entrusted to the concerned civil court so that the said civil court may proceed further with the execution proceedings in accordance with law (sic.).” District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to the NGT order sent to him for his response. MS Tanwar, the municipal-commissioner, said that the corporation will comply with the directions given by the NGT. “There have been encroachments at the Arthala Lake and we had also drawn up a plan but we face resistance from locals, especially women, whenever we carry out enforcement,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/arthala-lake-encroachment-ngt-asks-ghaziabad-court-to-start-execution-proceedings/story-T4bUAQsI9MEGjMCyWYc5tL.html
07-01-2021||Noida||Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Surajpur wetland partially off limits; Task force to keep eye out for bird flu||Noida: The divisional forest department, Gautam Budh Nagar, on Thursday restricted access to certain areas of the Okhla Bird Sanctuary and closed the Surajpur wetland for visitors as a preventive measure against bird flu.Forest department officials inspected the Okhla Bird Sanctuary on Thursday to check for any unusual death of avifauna, after which they issued precautionary warnings. Officials said that a surveillance team will also be deployed at Dhanauri wetland to keep an eye out for any unusual activity as, for now, restricting access to the Dhanauri wetland is beyond their jurisdiction.“We have closed access to the two watchtowers and the wooden bridge that connects land with the towers, in wake of the possibility of bird flu as cases have already been reported in Rajasthan and other states. Certain areas at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary have been temporarily shut due to their proximity with water bodies and water birds. However, the road between gate number one and two of Okhla Bird Sanctuary, which is over three kilometre long, will stay open,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer (DFO) of the district. The Okhla Bird Sanctuary spreads over 400 hectares and recorded 21,061 water-birds of 115 species in the annual census conducted by the forest department in February 2020 for the birding year of 2019-20. Srivastava added that access to Surajpur wetland will be barred till further orders.“The Surajur wetland is anyway a reserve forest, which means access to visitors was always subject to the department’s choice. We had kept it open so far for visitors, but in wake of the threat of bird flu, we have decided to restrict entry for some time. At Dhanauri, we will deploy a surveillance team to check for any symptoms of flu. Since the region is yet to be declared a reserve area, we don’t have power to restrict entry to it,” added the DFO.The Surajpur wetland recently saw a census on January 2 counting a total of 3,107 birds of 40 species, against 2,092 birds from a total of 39 species in January 2020.Task force formedWith migratory birds flocking to the city’s wetlands as the annual birding season peaks, and a number of poultry farms operating in the region, the administration has formed a district-level task force and a rapid response team to keep an eye out for any plausible case of bird flu.So far, no case of avian flu has been reported in the district or in Uttar Pradesh, but cases have come up in Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala. According to experts, symptoms such as salivation from beak and eyes, uncoordinated wings, diarrhea and paralysis in birds suggest bird flu. The forest department on Friday urged people to report such cases if they come across any.Officials said the teams, comprising officials from the divisional forest department and the district veterinary department, have been constituted to check any unusual death of wild or farm birds to check for bird flu and take preventive measures. “The district-level task force has been formed to trace and report any sign of bird flu in the city. So far there has been no case of bird flu in the city, but the task force has been formed as a preventive measure. It is better to be safe than sorry,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.“The three-member rapid-response team has been constituted with two members from the forest department and one from the veterinary department. The team will conduct inspections in two phases – first will cover all water bodies and second phase will include poultry farms. So far, we have not seen any unusual deaths among migratory or resident birds,” said Srivastava. The forester added that there could be some deaths among crows and pigeons in the city which is usual in this season, but they will still collect the carcasses to be sure.“In the winter season, there are always cases of a few deaths among birds like crow and pigeon due to lack of protein. What we are looking for are unusual deaths, but we will also keep an eye on usual deaths just to be sure. We also urge people to report at our helpline 91-9412492985,” Srivastava added. The forest department’s warning also cautions people from touching any dead bird and to wash their gear and shoes after returning from birding sites.No need to panic, say vets Meanwhile, the chief veterinary officer (CVO) urged the people not to panic.“Our teams are vigilant and staff of all 20 government veterinary hospitals across the district is on high alert. The teams will keep an eye on poultry farms as well. We urge people not to panic as the city has not seen any case or bird flu yet but if it happens, we are ready to deal with it,” said Dr Virendra Kumar Srivastava, CVO, GB Nagar. Meanwhile, the experts including the frontline staff who had dealt with the crisis earlier state that strong vigilance is the only way out to avoid the flu from spreading. “The epicenter of the flu has not been found but we are all vigilant, which is the best measure. Any carcass of dead bird must be inspected and disposed under certain protocols, which includes wrapping it in polybags and then either deep burying or incinerating it. So far, we have not seen any case at the Sambhar Lake,” said Dr Arvind Mathur, an expert and veterinary officer, Sambhar Lake, Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/okhla-bird-sanctuary-surajpur-wetland-partially-off-limits-task-force-to-keep-eye-out-for-bird-flu/story-AmGqsDqCgxqWmBu8naIOgJ.html
07-01-2021||Noida||People avoid Ukhlarsi cremation ground after incident; politicians meet victim families||Naresh Pandit, the priest at Ukhlarsi cremation ground in Muradnagar, is awaiting visitors on Thursday, to help them perform the last rites for their departed loved ones. On any other day, he would serve around two to four bodies and accept any money that people felt like giving him for his services that would be generally around ₹100 to ₹300.Since the roof of a shelter collapsed on sunday and killed 24 people though, he has had few visitors. “It is for the first time that I saw bodies being taken away from the cremation ground,” he said, recounting the January 3 incident. At the time, Pandit was in Delhi and his son was performing the rites inside the shelter. Just moments before the collapse, his son had gone out of the room.“He escaped with minor injuries. It seems people are afraid now. The day after the incident, seven persons who had died in it were cremated here. Since then, there has been only one other cremation,” said Pandit. “One more family had arrived but then changed their mind and went elsewhere.”Muradnagar town has several cremation grounds like the ones at Jalapur, Rawli Road and the one at Ordinance Factory and also at Dedha village. The Ukhlarsi cremation ground was commissioned in 1992. “This is the biggest of all. About 15 days ago, the contractor had removed the wooden poles from below the roof of the shelter. On the day of the incident, his labourers were applying white plaster on the walls when the roof collapsed in the rain. Nowadays, we have visitors who come to visit the incident site and also to know more about the incident,” said Pandit. The shelter has been sealed for now and samples of the debris were taken to be tested to ascertain the quality of material used. “Bodies can still be cremated at the cremation ground. More cremation platforms and the shelter will be constructed once the investigation is complete. Hopefully, things will be streamlined with time,” said Aditya Prajapati, sub divisional magistrate (SDM - Modinagar). CompensationMost of the families of the victims stay in Muradnagar and also received cheques for ₹10 lakh each from the government as compensation for their loss on Wednesday. “Some victim families are from outside districts and they will be given soon,” said the SDM. Initially, the UP government had offered ₹2 lakh. But on Monday the families placed the bodies over the Delhi Meerut Road and blocked the erstwhile national highway for about seven hours demanding justice. UP cabinet minister Suresh Khanna then announced ₹10 lakh to each family. On Thursday, leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) met the families and visited the incident site. “At least ₹50 lakh should be paid to each family. We want transparent investigation and guilty should be punished. We are here to help victims get justice and not to indulge in politics,” said Ashu Malik, SP leader and former MLC. The UP government on Wednesday also directed that the incident will be probed by special investigation team (SIT) of the Economic Offences Wing. “A lot of SITs had been formed for different incidents in UP but without results. We want a CBI inquiry and those involved in corruption should be booked for murder. The victim families have not been given any time frame for government jobs,” said AAP leader Sanjay Singh. “There is no timeframe given for the government job but it will be expedited as a process has to be followed for it,” SDM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/people-avoid-ukhlarsi-cremation-ground-after-incident-politicians-meet-victim-families/story-koKYozWwLBCSleur73RajI.html
07-01-2021||Noida||Muradnagar roof collapse: ‘Single window’ for clarity in payments; three firms of contractor blacklisted||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation will soon have an online system to track payment to contractors in civic work.The move is expected to ensure much-needed transparency in the working of the corporation. The move comes after Ajay Tyagi, the contractor arrested soon after the Muradnagar shelter roof collapse incident that claimed 24 lives on January 3, allegedly confessed to police that he had bribed corporation officials for the work. On Thursday, the corporation also blacklisted Tyagi’s firms -- Ajay Tyagi Constructions, Mahi Construction and Builders and Krishna Associates. The action follows an inquiry by corporation’s engineers.“Work pending with them will now be allotted to the other contenders who had participated previously in respective tenders. If they decline taking up the projects, we will issue another fresh tenders for the remaining work,” said M S Tanwar, municipal commissioner. Tyagi’s association with officials and politicians have come into focus since his arrest. Photos of him celebrating birthdays and playing cricket with officers and public representatives were splashed on social media. Apart from Tyagi, the police also arrested his alleged accomplice Sanjay Garg, Nagar Palika executive officer Niharika Singh, junior engineer CP Singh and supervisor Ashish Kumar.Tyagi allegedly confessed to police that he had paid ₹16 lakh in bribes. Civic agency officials said sometimes certain officials may hold back payment files on account of vague reasons and contractors often had to bribe them to release payments. “This often leads to other mal practices, such as poor quality materials,” said an official.“We cannot comment on it as it is the subject of a police investigation. From our end, we will try to reduce human interference in project allocation and payments through an online single window system that will track payments and also highlight where the payment files are held up. We will be able to implement it in next three months,” Tanwar said.The corporation officials, while blacklisting Tyagi’s three firms, said that the firm Ajay Tyagi Construction was assigned 13 works amounting to about ₹4.92 crore, while Mahi Constructions and Builders was awarded 14 works at a cost of ₹5.21 crore, besides which Krishna Enterprises was awarded six works at a cost of ₹0.64 croreA special investigation team under the economic offences wing will be investigating the case. “There are works taken up by the contractor with the authority,” said Krishna Karunesh, vice-chairperson of the Gaziabad Development Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/muradnagar-roof-collapse-single-window-for-clarity-in-payments-three-firms-of-contractor-blacklisted/story-hDZGQh68PHvqUQQoFQxGzK.html
07-01-2021||City||Haryana poultry farmers stares at losses amid bird flu threat||Poultry farmers in Haryana are staring at losses following the sudden drop in chicken and egg prices owing to reports of suspected bird flu after deaths of over four lakh poultry animals in state in the last one week.As per the poultry farmers, this week, wholesale prices of chicken have witnessed a drop of about 30% and reached around Rs 60 from around Rs 100 last month. Even the prices of eggs have dropped. As per the daily prices of the National Egg Co-Ordination Committee, the prices of eggs (100 units) have declined from Rs 558 to Rs 512 on December 2, causing huge losses to the poultry farmers in state.“The wholesale prices on which companies purchase chicken from the farmers have declined to around Rs 40 per kg from Rs 60-95 in the past one week,” said Mahinder Singh, a poultry farmer from Yamunanagar.People who run small chicken shops are also bearing the brunt as bird flu has reduced the sales and people are hesitating to consume chicken and eggs.“We have reduced prices to around Rs 30 per kg and now are selling raw chicken at Rs 150 per kg from Rs 180 of earlier this month,” said Bharat Singh, owner of a chicken shop in Karnal. “The daily sales of chicken have reduced from 20kg to 10kg in the past one week,” he added.State North India Poultry Farmers Association president Lucky Lather said, “The prices of eggs have declined from Rs 5.50 to Rs 4.30 on Thursday. Government should intervene immediately and protect the interests of poultry farmers. They should announce that there is nothing wrong in chicken and egg consumption and the reason behind death of the birds should be ascertained.”Haryana animal husbandry and dairy department issued an advisory on poultry and related products amid reports of suspected spread of avian influenza virus.As per officials of the Haryana animal husbandry and dairy department, about 15,000 more deaths of poultry birds were reported in Barwala of Panchkula district on Thursday, taking the total number to over 4 lakh in last 10 days.Officials said that samples have been sent to Bhopal and reports are awaited.The Covid-19 pandemic had caused huge losses to the poultry industry last year as broiler chicken prices in wholesale mandis had dropped to Rs 45- 50 per kg following the outbreak in March.Even the prices of eggs had declined to Rs 285 to Rs 290 (100 units) in the wholesale markets during this period, causing huge losses to the poultry farmers in state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-poultry-farmers-stares-at-losses-amid-bird-flu-threat/story-YgfTUvRZlUWHxdAfiWuGkK.html
07-01-2021||City||Covid vaccine dry run conducted under WHO watch||The Haryana health department on Thursday conducted a Covid-19 vaccine roll out dry run across 22 districts in which 3,300 beneficiaries were included as the exercise was also watched by the World Health Organisation (WHO).The dry run was closely monitored and at one of the sites in rural area in Gurugram, WHO country head (India) Dr Roderico H Ofrin was present. Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said that Dr Ofrin and health officials had visited one rural session site (PHC Bangrola), where they appreciated the efforts put in by health officers in preparedness and implementation of dry run.Dr Ofrin also appreciated the quality capacity building and trainings of health care workers for the dry run. Listing out steps taken by the department to ensure flawless dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine, Arora said that activities including identification of session sites with PIN code tagging, identification of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) management sites and verification of beneficiaries at session site, registering vaccination digitally on vaccinator module, session site management (with test beneficiaries were conducted on Thursday.The dry run is being conducted as part of preparations for successful roll out of the massive vaccination campaign and to identify any bottlenecks or glitches in operational and technical aspects of implementation. Similar dry runs were conducted at Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panipat as 25 health workers at each centre were given the jabs.As per officials from the Karnal district health department, 150 health workers participated in the exercise and three vaccination centres, comprising three rooms - a waiting room, an observation room and a vaccination room.After verification, the vaccine was administered and if people showed any adverse reaction, they were shifted to the observation room .Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that the dry run was conducted successfully at all six locations - three each from urban and rural areas. The DC said that around 10,700 health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase in district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-vaccine-dry-run-conducted-under-who-watch/story-WjnaYEQjxz0aePAdJx3s5I.html
07-01-2021||City||Visitors returning to commercial centres, HSVP to auction parking areas||Gurugram: Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) will auction management rights to 26 parking areas across the city from January 15. Officials said that the last auction was held in 2019 and given the slowdown caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the reserved rates are likely to be revised in order to make it viable for the contractors. The areas are auctioned for a year. HSVP officials said parking contractors have been badly hit due to the pandemic with the number of office-goers and those going to food and entertainment hot spots like sector 29 reducing considerably. In fact, a large number of contractors, who had successfully bid for parking contracts earlier had asked for a refund or extension of contract period, said officials, adding that the refund option was being considered. A majority of the parking areas that would be auctioned are located in sectors 29, 32, 38, 39, and 44. These are mostly in commercial sectors and officials said that with business gradually returning to normalcy after the lockdown, there has been an increase in the number of people visiting offices, restaurants and other establishments. “The commuters are returning and the number of visitors is on the rise. It is the right time to put these parking sites on auction. We will be revaluating the reserved price of these sites to ensure that these remain viable as a business. Covid-19 has caused a slowdown in all aspects of business,” said Vivek Kalia, estate officer, I, HSVP. Kalia said that there are 13 parking sites for e-auction in sector 29, four in sector 32, three in sector 44 A and few of these are scattered in sectors along Golf Course road. “The reserved prices will be determined on the basis of past trend and locations of these sites. The rates would be rationalised due to the prevailing business conditions. We want the HSVP assets to generate maximum revenue for us and also ensure income can be generated for contractors, who also create jobs,” he said. HSVP officials also said that open bids would be conducted through the e-auction to ensure free and transparent bidding of these sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/visitors-returning-to-commercial-centres-hsvp-to-auction-parking-areas/story-kCZrzMUDFQ1er0UP2lnbBO.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||PM inaugurates 306km section of western DFC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Thursday, inaugurated the 306km section of the western Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) from Rewari to Madar through video conferencing.The Western DFC covers 1,504km of double line electric track from Dadri (Uttar Pradesh) to Mumbai via Rewari-Ajmer-Ahmedabad-Vadodara, of which, about 177km length is passing through Haryana.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal, Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, Union ministers and Ambassador of Japan to India Satoshi Suzuki also joined the programme through video conference, an official spokesperson said.On this occasion, PM Modi also flagged off world’s first double-stack long haul (1.5km) goods trains from New Ateli station in Haryana and new Kishangarh station in Rajasthan.The Haryana CM said that the Western DFC will benefit the automobile, IT, textile, engineering, electronics, chemical and pharmaceutical industries of Gurugram and Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-inaugurates-306km-section-of-western-dfc/story-WNSHf5LSvMIUUd5C66c0kI.html
07-01-2021||City||Abhay Chautala kicks-off tractor march||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala kicked-off a tractor march on Thursday with scores of farmers from Sirsa to Tikri border to extend support to the agitators camping at Delhi borders against the Centre’s three farm laws.Chautala said that his tractor march will reach Hansi in Hisar this evening and will reach at Tikri border on Friday.“I kicked-off the march as a farmer not as an MLA. I will launch another tractor march from Ambala and Bhiwani, which will join farmers at Singhu and Rewari-Rajasthan borders, respectively,” he added.He said that government should repeal these laws at the earliest. He accused the government of cruelty against farmers.Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja reached the Masani barrage in Rewari and Kheda-Shahjahanpur border to support the farmers’ agitation. She accused the Union government of cheating the farmers in the name of dialogue.Hundreds of farmers from Sampla in Rohtak also started a tractor march for Tikri border. Former MLA and BJP leader Nripender Singh have quit the saffron party over the said farm laws.Addressing the farmers at Kitlana toll plaza in Dadri, Nripender said he had cornered himself from the party activities when the three farm laws were introduced and now he has decided to quit the party.Former Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP and Congress leader Shruti Choudhry also joined the stir at Kharkri village in Bhiwani’s Loharu constituency represented by Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal.She hit-out at Dalal for “spreading lies” on the SYL issue with an aim to divide the farmers of Haryana and Punjab, who are sitting at Delhi borders demanding that the three laws be repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abhay-chautala-kicks-off-tractor-march/story-CFXLm8Z3BSEkzRVgu7fteM.html
07-01-2021||City||Farmers take out tractor march against farm laws||In a show of strength, farmers took out a tractor march from Singhu, Tikri, Rewari borders and Ghazipur border against the Centre’s three farm laws here on Thursday.The farmers camping at Kundli-Singhu border took out the march towards Tikri on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway, while the farmers from Tikri border drove towards Singhu border. After meeting at Pipli, the farmers camping at both the borders went back to their protesting sites.Joginder Singh Ugrahan, of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), said that farmers took out the protest march in nearly 4,000 tractor-trolleys.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni led the tractor march from Singhu border to Tikri border.“We have sent a clear message to the government that we are preparing for the final parade on the occasion of Republic day. I urge all people associated with the farming community to join us on January 26,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-take-out-tractor-march-against-farm-laws/story-QWU9XDgq78pLnRwUC4mytK.html
07-01-2021||Noida||Noida entrepreneur robbed of car at gunpoint||Noida A 30-year-old man was allegedly held at gunpoint and robbed of his car on Wednesday night at the Noida-Greater Noida expressway.The man was identified as Mohsin Khan, a resident of Noida sector 75 and an entrepreneur. He said he was on his way home from Rajasthan when the incident happened.“It was around 9.45 pm. I had just taken the exit from Yamuna expressway and was on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway near sector 135 when I got a call. I parked my car on the side and attended it. Merely three to four minutes later, three masked men surrounded my vehicle. The one close to the driver seat pointed a gun at me and motioned me to get out,” said Khan.He alleged that he was manhandled and robbed of his cash.“They took out the SIM from my phone and returned the handset and laptop before fleeing with my car. I tried to get help from other passersby but no one stopped. I had an old SIM in my wallet and used it to call the police helpline after which a police team came to the spot,” he said.Based on his complaint, a case of robbery (section 392 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered at the Expressway police station against the three unidentified suspects.“A probe in the matter is underway. There are cameras on the stretch and we are going through the CCTV footage to identify and trace the suspects. The trio returned all traceable gadgets to the victim but we are working to nab them,” said Yogesh Malik, station house officer, Expressway police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-entrepreneur-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint/story-I0JxUV63bAG2NogNKVsP2H.html
07-01-2021||Noida||Noida authority offers vacant EWS apartments to private firms on rent||NOIDA: The Noida authority has decided to rent out apartments meant for the economically weaker sections (EWS) to private companies, to be used by their employees. According to officials, the flats have been lying vacant as no EWS category applicants turned up to apply for these. “Since these apartments are vacant, the authority has decided to rent them out to private companies who can accommodate their employees. The aim of this move is revenue generation,” said Praveen Mishra, additional chief executive officer of the Noida authority. There are 1,280 apartments – 496 two-room apartments while the rest are one-room apartments –located in Sector 122, in this category.For the two-room apartments, the rent charged will be Rs6,000 for ground floor, Rs5,500 for first floor, Rs5,200 for second floor and Rs5,000 for third floor. Rent for a one-room unit is Rs 3,500 per month, said officials. All units have one or two rooms, a bathroom and a kitchen.The authority had built these apartments in 2016 for EWS category persons living in JJ clusters of sectors 2, 3, 5 and 10; the objective was to shift slum dwellers into apartments and vacate prime land. However, the residents refused to shift into apartments, saying they were happy living in plotted shanties which were closed to where they work, said officials. Private companies eligible to apply will be those which pay employees provident funds, said officials. Interested firms can apply on the authority’s website – noidaauthorityonline.in – latest by 6pm on January 21, 2021, said officials.The authority will take three months’ rent in advance before offering the apartments to the company, added officials. City residents, meanwhile, welcomed the move, saying these apartments have been lying unused for the past four years. “The authority should have come up with such a scheme earlier as the structure is in bad condition now. If it is done now then it will help them maintain the building, constructed with public money,” said NP Singh president of Gautam Budh Nagar district development residents’ welfare association (DDRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-offers-vacant-ews-apartments-to-private-firms-on-rent/story-BxoS2DYvr184Sh2WyNx74H.html
07-01-2021||City||Won’t allow Khattar to hold kisan panchayat in Karnal village: BKU||Hours after the Karnal district administration made announcement about Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s proposed kisan panchayat programme at Kaimla village in district, members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) have threatened not to allow the CM to hold this event.As per information, BJP MLA Harvinder Kalyan and Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav visited the village to review preparations for the CM’s January 10 visit.In a video message, BKU state president Gurnam Singh Charuni urged farmers from Karnal and nearby districts to oppose the programme at any cost.“BJP has double standards. On one hand, Union ministers are calling meetings with farmers and on the other hand, the Haryana CM is holding meetings to talk about the benefits of these anti-farmer laws,” he said.“This is another attempt of the Haryana government to divide farmers by holding such meetings in favour of the anti-farmer laws,” said a Jagdip Singh Aulakh, a local leader of the BKU (Charuni).Aulakh added that on Friday they will meet Kalyan and ask him not to hold such meetings as the Union government is already holding talks with farmers who are demanding repealing of these laws.He said that Charuni has urged the farmers to reach Karnal toll plaza on Friday and farmers plan to gherao the MLA’s residence.“If the MLA will not accept our demand, we will not allow the CM to conduct this programme,” he added.Meanwhile, the MLA said that Kisan panchayat is being organised to make farmers aware of the three agriculture laws.On why the panchayat is proposed before the meeting of farmer organisations and Union ministers, which is due on January 8, he said, these laws are enacted by the Parliament and farmers should know about the benefits they will get from these reforms.“But we will accept whatever decision is taken in the meeting of Union ministers and farmer unions,” he added.On the proposed meeting creating law and order situation as farmers have threatened to oppose the CM’s visit and the kisan panchayat, the Gharaunda MLA said, “It’s the duty of the administration and police to maintain law and order.”DC Yadav said that all preparations have been made for the CM’s visit and forces will be deployed to maintain law and order situation.He added that the CM is to visit Karnal on January 9 and Kaimla village on December 10 and will launch developmental projects worth Rs 30 crore at Kaimla village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/won-t-allow-khattar-to-hold-kisan-panchayat-in-karnal-village-bku/story-4c3GxlTs41NkXjSth34miP.html
07-01-2021||Noida||NHAI shuts Eastern Peripheral Expressway as farmers take out tractor march||Ghaziabad: More than 800 tractors took to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) on Thursday when a group of farmers protesting the new farm laws carried out their eight-hour tractor march ahead of the talks with the government on Friday. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that they had to stop traffic for nearly seven hours on the 135km-long EPE in the wake of the farmers’ tractor rally. The tractor march in western UP was taken up by the farmers from the UP Gate who started with about 150 tractors at 9.30am and also joined by around 50 cars and other vehicles. They drove on the inner expressway lanes of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) for about one hour to reach the EPE’s Dasna interchange (about 23 km) while the regular commuter traffic was confined to the highway lanes of DME. The farmers had earlier planned that from the Dasna interchange they would move to EPE up to Palwal. However, they cut short the travel and went up to the Sirsa toll near Dankaur in Gautam Budh Nagar and returned to the UP Gate by 5.30pm. “The distance was curtailed as farmers from Palwal had also arrived in their tractors. So, we met near the Sirsa toll. Thereafter, they returned to their side and we returned to the UP Gate. It was not a ‘shakti pradarshan’ (show of strength) before the talks scheduled with the government on Friday. It was more to consolidate our collective fight and to meet other groups who are protesting at different sites,” said Gaurav Tikait, national president of youth wing of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). About 150 tractors which started from the UP Gate were joined by about 250 tractors (from villages in Ghaziabad, Hapur and other nearby districts) which were waiting at Dasna, while over 100 more also arrived from areas like Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat.The farmers were upbeat as they also deployed vehicles with music systems playing motivational songs while the volunteers also managed the flow of tractors at EPE. At DME, the tractors marched in a straight line but they occupied the entire one-side carriageway when they reached EPE.“In between, at every interchange more tractors joined our procession. All the drivers were given strict instructions to carry out the march in a peaceful manner and we did not obstruct any traffic. It is up to the officials if they had blocked the traffic on EPE. From the Sirsa toll, we returned to the UP Gate by 5.30pm. Our cavalcade comprised about 800-1,000 tractors. We have more programmes lined up this month, but a final decision will be taken up after talks with the government on Friday,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of BKU. The farmers have been protesting since November 28 at the UP Gate, demanding repeal of the Centre’s three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. The government has not accepted these demands during seven rounds of talks so far but proposed amendments to the new laws. The tractor march was organised as a “dress rehearsal” ahead of the “Dilli Chalo” call given for January 26, the farmers said. Meanwhile, farmers camped at the Chilla border (Noida-Delhi link road) also carried out a small tractor rally from the Mahamaya flyover to the border in support of the larger one being carried out at EPE. Seventeen tractors with nearly as many four wheelers of farmers affiliated with the BKU-Bhanu took part in the rally. “The idea of today’s rally was to show support to the larger one and to continue our protest against the new laws,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU-Bhanu. Singh said that at least 20 of their tractors were also a part of the rally at EPE, and claimed that several of their supporters were stopped at Jewar from coming to the rally.GB Nagar police claimed that the rally did not disrupt traffic in the city. “The rally went on in two lanes and the regular traffic followed it. No diversions were made except for the existing one via the DND for Noida to Delhi traffic,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The NHAI officials said that the distance from the Dasna interchange to the Sirsa toll is about 35 kilometres. They also said that the tractors are not allowed on EPE as per the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). “The regular commuter traffic faced disruptions at DME when tractors drove to Dasna from the UP Gate in the morning and also when they returned to the UP Gate. Further, we had to stop traffic on the entire EPE stretch till the time it was occupied by tractors. We had written to the district authorities on Wednesday about this, but our EPE traffic was still disrupted,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. EPE has an estimated traffic flow of about 50,000 passenger car units (PCU) per day while the UP Gate (NH-9) has a PCU of about 80,000 vehicles. “We have asked the farmers’ leaders to abide by the rules and regulations, and to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to public. We have prepared a traffic plan and diversion will be taken up wherever necessary during the time farmers go and come back,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told reporters on Thursday morning. However, Pandey was not reachable for comments on Thursday evening. Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), did not take calls either. In Gautam Budh Nagar, the rally ended in Dankaur area (Sirsa toll) from where tractors and other vehicles returned to the UP Gate border, said officials of the GB Nagar police. “The farmers returned in the afternoon and there were no law and order issues. Traffic on EPE was stopped and diverted, but was resumed around 3.30pm,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida. Senior officials of the GB Nagar police had inspected the route on Wednesday and issued advisories for road blockage and diversions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nhai-shuts-eastern-peripheral-expressway-as-farmers-take-out-tractor-march/story-szf1lawmWhQ7hZBWYqAIdO.html
07-01-2021||Gurugram||Cops stop Nuh farmers from reaching Palwal for tractor rally||Farmers from Nuh were allegedly prevented from joining the tractor rally at Palwal by the Nuh police on Thursday. Civil society members and social activists from Gurugram also couldn’t join the farmers’ rally and instead, marched with their tractors within the city.Ramzan Chaudhary, head of Jai Kisan Andolan’s Nuh unit, said that tractors from various blocks in Nuh were supposed to head towards Palwal as part of the farmers’ rally on Thursday. However, the police allegedly prevented farmers from proceeding ahead due to which many of them couldn’t participate in the rally. Chaudhary said that he was placed under house arrest by the police and taken into preventive custody later.“Our plan was to join the march with members from different blocks. Only two to three people could step out whereas the rest were placed under house arrest. I was the first one to be picked up at 8am. They did not allow us to gather. Those who managed to come out with their tractors were detained by the police and not allowed to move till 3pm,” said Chaudhary. He said that while the participation in the march was curtailed heavily due to the police, some people were able to join the farmers’ agitation at Palwal towards the evening.Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. The call for Thursday’s march was given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha— the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders.Farmer leaders said that the rally was a rehearsal for the Republic Day parade that they plan to take out on January 26 to protest against the three agriculture laws.Rashid Ahmed, an advocate, was detained by the Nuh police, along with several others at Punhana, said that the police had given no reason except that they had official directions. “We were taken into custody in the morning and made to sit at the police station. We were released only post afternoon,” said Ahmed, who said around 100-150 farmers were planning to join the march in the morning but were stopped by the police.“We told the police that we simply wanted to join the farmers’ march and were not doing anything unlawful. They said they had directions from their seniors,” said Ahmed, who joined the farmers’ rally at Palwal in the evening.RS Rathee, head of Gurgaon Citizen Council, said that residents protesting against the three laws were supposed to proceed towards Delhi with tractors but the police didn’t allow them to cross the border. “We were going to Delhi with our tractors but the police did not allow us to cross the Sirhaul toll. So, we decided to cover various parts of the city on our tractors. With 15 tractors from Jharsa and Daulatabad villages, we marched through Sohna Road, Sector 5, Sector 14 and old Gurugram,” said Rathee.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, station house officer, KMP Expressway, said that no significant movement of farmers was recorded near Pachgaon. “The traffic situation was not affected,” said Kumar. Deputy superintendent of police, Nuh, Punhana Vivek Chaudhary, said that the police had not detained anyone but only prevented them from moving ahead. “These allegations are baseless. We did not detain anyone. We simply didn’t allow them to cross and they were asked to go back,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-stop-nuh-farmers-from-reaching-palwal-for-tractor-rally/story-qNTah0CEUhfKXY6WsayWCI.html
07-01-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to initiate action against illegal constructions identified last year||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) is planning to initiate action against property owners who were served a notice in 2020 for construction violations, especially those flouting the building plans and carrying out illegal constructions in their houses after obtaining occupancy certificates.DTCP officials said that field officers of all zones have already started compiling a list of all such notices and orders issued last year, and shall be submitting reports after spot inspections of such houses and spots. Based on this list, the department will be carrying out at least 10 sealing and demolition drives to take action against violators, officials said. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that the show cause notices issued to property owners are being compiled area-wise by the field officials concerned. “The director, town and country planning, has issued directions that show cause notices issued to the owners should be taken to conclusion. Action would be taken against around 10 violators every month by way of sealing or demolitions if required,” he said. DTCP officials said that directions have also been issued to the assistant town planners and junior engineers concerned to conduct site visits within the next 15 days. “Action would be initiated against violators starting next month,” said Bhath. Besides this, the department has also directed officials to visit commercial areas and markets developed in private licensed colonies from January 15 to check encroachments and other violations. “There have been repeated complaints by shopowners and visitors to markets in private colonies regarding encroachments of common areas and excess coverage by owners. We will take action against these,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-to-initiate-action-against-illegal-constructions-identified-last-year/story-qbsxqZmwGRmyFIY0Ld69iO.html
07-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram puts in place teams, plans to tackle bird flu||The Gurugram animal husbandry department on Thursday said it was on high alert to check for and respond to suspected cases of avian influenza virus (AIV) that has already killed thousands of birds in many states. It has received an action plan for every district from its headquarters. According to the plan, 28 rapid response teams have been formed in Gurugram for clinical surveillance at poultry farms and bird markets that is likely to start on Friday. Each team will have three members-- a veterinary officer, a para-veterinarian and a livestock handler. Flock inspections to check for dead or sick poultry will be carried out in backyard hatcheries, industrial farms, live bird markets and wet markets in the district. A retraining workshop for veterinary officers has been organised earlier in the day, to train those who have not previously dealt with flu outbreaks. Sub-divisional officers (SDOs) and district lab staff also attended a state-level webinar on Thursday afternoon where protocols for diagnosing AIV were discussed. An SDO assigned to the animal husbandry department, who attended the meeting, said, “We were told to ensure that our local lab has the equipment and experienced staff needed to test for other diseases which affect poultry and share symptoms with bird flu, such as Newcastle disease or Marek’s disease. Without being able to do this differential diagnosis, it will be hard to say for sure whether we are dealing with AIV or something else.” While clinical inspections are going to be ramped up in coming days, there are presently no plans to conduct viral or serosurveillance for AIV, though this is mandated in the action plan received by the district (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times). “No suspicious deaths are being reported from poultry farms, and the state government has not yet notified an outbreak, so we don’t want to jump the gun. If we get orders, we will immediately dispatch a sample of 39 dead or sick birds for confirmatory testing,” said a veterinary officer, on condition of anonymity. Taking stockIn addition, the district animal husbandry department is also taking stock of various tools typically needed to contain bird flu outbreaks, including gunny sacks, fogging machines, disinfectants and medical implements. “We are well stocked and in touch with vendors. We have enough enough PPE, which we stocked up on immediately after the Covid lockdown. We are low on Oseltamivir, a prophylactic medicine taken by front line responders, but procuring more supplies is not an issue,” said the veterinary officer cited above. The wildlife department on Thursday also said they are scanning for bird carcasses around wetlands and parks. “I spoke with the animal husbandry department today and it has been decided to send any and all bird carcasses we find hereon for testing, be it a crow, pigeon, egret or some rarer migratory species. We have not found any such specimen today. There is no truth to rumours that an unusual number of crows or pigeons are dying in Tau Devi Lal biodiversity park,” said Rajesh Chahal, district wildlife inspector. Dr Punita Gahlot, deputy director of Gurugram’s animal husbandry department confirmed that an action plan had been received from the state government. “There has not been any order yet to halt the movement and sale of poultry,” she said. Poultry meatWhen asked if consuming poultry was safe, Gahlot drew attention to the FAQs section of AIV action plan, which states, “In areas experiencing outbreaks, poultry can be safely consumed provided these items are properly cooked... The avian influenza virus is sensitive to heat. Normal temperatures used for cooking (70 degrees Celsius in all parts of the food) will kill the virus. Consumers need to be sure that all parts of the poultry are fully cooked (no “pink” parts) and that eggs, too, are properly cooked (no “runny” yolks).”Gurugram currently has an estimated poultry population of 1,48,532, among the lowest in Haryana. Karnal has the highest, with an estimated poultry population of 94,69,646 (and a surveillance sample of 113 birds). The outbreak of avian influenza was confirmed in four states — Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala on Thursday. Karnataka, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have since sent bird samples for testing. In Haryana, the cause of recent deaths of lakhs of poultry chicken in Panchkula district has yet to be determined, according to state level officials who declined to speak on record. Lab reports from the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL) in Jalandhar are yet to come, they said. Dr Sukhdev Rathee, state deputy director of animal husbandry department, could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-puts-in-place-teams-plans-to-tackle-bird-flu/story-SbIyVVelhj4kTlwBfb1WvL.html
07-01-2021||Gurugram||Trio wanted for car thefts, assault held in Sector 29||The police arrested three men allegedly involved in more than 24 criminal cases, including those of carjacking, assault, house thefts and illegal possession of firearms in Gururgam and Rajasthan. The accused have been identified as Dinesh Kumar and Iqbal alias Lalla, both from Gurugram, and Ankit alias Kalia, of Uttar Pradesh. They were arrested on Wednesday night from Sector 29 while they were planning to rob a driver of his car in a parking area, said police. The police said they have several cases of carjacking registered against them in and around Delhi. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Dinesh was declared a proclaimed offender and a reward of Rs 5,000 was declared on his arrest. “They had formed a gang three years ago and used to target new cars from different areas. Most of the cars were robbed from parking lots in Sector 29 and Sohna Road,” he said. Sangwan said the crime investigation unit of DLF-4 on Wednesday night received a tip-off, following which a team was formed and a raid was conducted. “We have recovered two countrymade pistols and four live cartridges from their possession. They were earlier also booked for possession of illegal arms and had assaulted a few people in Shivaji Nagar area,” he said. The police said that on January 10 of 2020, they had assaulted a family and had stolen valuables from their house in Gandhi Nagar. They had a personal enmity with one of their friends who was out on bail in a burglary case and had visited his house to meet him, but the family did not allow them to enter following which they allegedly assaulted the family and killed the person’s sister with iron rods, said police. There are more members in the gang and police said they are questioning suspects to get their names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/trio-wanted-for-car-thefts-assault-held-in-sector-29/story-gEj75AaOTjWAMCvwfZNnRN.html
07-01-2021||Gurugram||IT, ITes firms largest occupiers of office space in 2020||Information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services companies emerged as the biggest occupiers of office real estate in the National Capital Region (NCR) in 2020, with a majority of the companies leasing space in Noida and select areas of Gurugram, such as Golf Course Extension Road, Sohna Road and Udyog Vihar, according to a report by Knight Frank India.The report said that in 2020, Gurugram witnessed leasing of 1.15 million square feet, as companies shifted locations within the city to sustain operations amid the losses due to Covid-19.The NCR, as a whole, recorded gross office leasing of 2.6 million sq ft in the second half of 2020, 24% higher than the first half of 2020. The period witnessed 104 deals with an average deal size of 24,765 sq ft.Locations such as Udyog Vihar, Golf Course Extension Road and Sohna Road have witnessed good traction for office space requirements in the past few months, the report released on Wednesday said.It also observed that the government-imposed lockdown to combat the spread of the pandemic led to temporary economic inactivity in the second quarter of 2020, as a result of which there was a sharp fall in leasing activities in NCR. However, with the gradual return to normalcy, gross leasing revived to 41% of 2019’s quarterly average in the third quarter and eventually rose to 79% in the fourth quarter, as compared to the same period in 2019. Gurugram and Noida continued to dominate the overall leasing in NCR with 45% and 43% shares, respectively, the report said.It also said that co-working operators took up spaces selectively across NCR in the second half of 2020. From a 3% share in the first half of 2020’s total leasing, it increased to 12% in the second half of 2020. Co-working operators established office footprints in Delhi, in locations such as Okhla and Defence Colony. In Gurugram, such spaces came up in Udyog Vihar, Qutub Plaza and Sector 45.The report further said that banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) sector constituted 13% of the total leasing in the second half of 2020. Apart from Delhi’s Central Business District (CBD) and Secondary Business District locations, such as Nehru Place, Aerocity and Jasola, occupiers also preferred Noida and Golf Course Extension Road in Gurugram.In comparison, Noida recorded gross office leasing of 0.10 million sq m, with new office spaces and competitive rents driving occupier demand in Noida. In fact, on an annual basis, office space consumption in Noida remained largely on a par with 2019 levels.Pankaj Singh, a real estate consultant based in the city, said that the pandemic affected commercial real estate business in 2020, but the situation is likely to improve. “Deals have started to take place and employers are likely to start hiring again and with vaccination likely to begin, we can see people returning to offices in the second quarter of 2021. However, the dynamics of office real estate will change and companies are likely to get better deals,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/it-ites-firms-largest-occupiers-of-office-space-in-2020/story-anybkx1mFt4IrSZ20Et03J.html
07-01-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination dry run goes smoothly in Gurugram||To gear up for the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, a dry run was held across six session sites in Gurugram on Thursday. From verification of the beneficiary to mock vaccination and feeding realtime data on the Co-WIN platform, the demonstration, according to the health officials, was held successfully.Health workers, deployed as vaccinators and vaccination officers, however, said that despite a successful run, crowd management and realtime data management would be crucial when the vaccination starts, as 100 beneficiaries will have to be covered in a day.Thursday’s dry run included 25 participants — comprising health workers, lab technicians or pharmacists — at each site. It covered both urban and rural areas to assess the management before the vaccination starts in the next few days.At five of the six sites — Daulatabad, Chauma, Tigra, Wazirabad and Basai Enclave — the demonstration was arranged at government primary schools. In Bhangrola, which is located almost 20 kilometres from urban Gurugram, the drive was held at a primary health centre.A queue of about five to 10 participants was seen outside the vaccination booths at Bhangrola and Wazirabad. Based on the designated time slots, participants arrived at the site and were allowed to enter the vaccination room, one at a time, after the verification at the registration desk and Co-WIN platform.Neelam Rai, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife-cum-vaccinator at Bhangrola, who has an experience of almost 20 years in immunisation, said, “As part of the demonstration, we have kept a tetanus vial. But as informed during our training session, for the Covid-19 vaccine, the beneficiary will get a 0.5 ml dose through intramuscular injection. It is no different from the vaccine jab for other diseases.”A major challenge that officials will face when vaccination starts is realtime data management. Unlike routine immunisation, only registered beneficiaries will be vaccinated for Covid-19, which would require constant data update on the dedicated portal.“In the normal immunisation drives, there is no challenge of doing everything online simultaneously. Data is fed into the system later, while for Covid-19 vaccine, everything is online. Any delay or technical glitch can delay the entire process, especially when the beneficiary count will increase,” said Neelam, a vaccinator and an ANM at the Wazirabad site.During Thursday’s dry run, the health team, however, did not face any technical glitch, according to senior health officials. Representatives from the World Health Organisation (WHO), Dr Roderico Ofrin, the regional emergencies director of World Health Organisation and his team, while inspecting the session sites, observed the functioning of Co-WIN.“Throughout the dry run, from 11am to 1pm, there were no technical glitches. Even WHO asked us to feed the realtime data of a beneficiary having adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI). The preliminary case investigation report has to be approved and fed on Co-WIN for the state to have its access. It was done at the spot today without any difficulty,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.In preparing the model session sites, AEFI rooms were also set up. However, the observation rooms, where beneficiaries will have to wait for 30 minutes after vaccination, had a seating capacity for only six people at the sites. Singh said that seating will be increased on the day of vaccination.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that crowd management at the entrance and in the waiting areas will be crucial.“There is a schedule every beneficiary will receive which is for crowd management from entry to exit at the vaccination site. All the operational guidelines are being followed in the dry run. It is a whole lot of work. Considering the preparedness, they are ready for the vaccination day,” said Ofrin, while inspecting the dry run at the Bhangrola site.Although all beneficiaries are supposed to receive text messages upon receiving a shot, not all health workers received messages during Thursday’s dry run. Officials said that the medical officers concerned received the messages during the dry run, but it will be transmitted to beneficiaries during the vaccination process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-goes-smoothly-in-gurugram/story-S3or1BSHO9z1GYWxNTKGGK.html
07-01-2021||City||Vigil up at Gharana wetland in Jammu after bird flu cases in Himachal’s Pong Dam||The Gharana Wetland along the international border in RS Pura sector of Jammu district that attracts migratory birds in large numbers, has been put under round-the-clock monitoring in the aftermath of the outbreak of avian influenza at Pong Dam in Himachal’s Kangra district.The ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease has confirmed the H5N1 virus as the cause of the fatalities among the migratory birds in Pong Dam. Jammu’s wildlife warden Anil Atri said, “Thousands of migratory birds from various countries flock to Gharana Wetland and following the birds’ deaths in Kangra, the teams of animal husbandry department collected 25 droppings samples that have been sent to Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar for testing.”“The reports are awaited but as such there are no symptoms of avian flu in the migratory birds at Gharana so far. There is no sluggishness among birds and we are monitoring them 24x7 via ocular surveillance,” he said. He said that the number of migratory birds at the wetland could be 2,000 to 2,500. “While field staff has been issued instructions to constantly monitor them and isolate those found to be sluggish or having symptoms of avian flu, people in the surrounding villages have also been asked not to touch any dead bird and immediately inform us,” he said. Atri said that an alert has been sounded. BIRDS FOUND DEAD IN RAJOURI Meanwhile, five to eight birds were found dead in the Panj Peer area of Rajouri on Wednesday. Rajouri district commissioner Nazir Sheikh said, “The department concerned has been directed to look into it. Their samples have been collected and are being tested.” Meanwhile, over 150 crows were found dead on Dhar Road near Kendriya Vidyalaya in the Udhampur district on Thursday morning creating panic among people. However, a senior official said that prima facie the birds appeared to have died of intense cold. “We have sent their samples for testing outside J&K and the exact cause will be known once we get their reports,” he said. Gharana Wetland Conservation Reserve in the R S Pura sector near the International Border was notified in 1981 and is home to more than 170 species of birds like bar-headed geese, gadwalls, common teals, purple swamp hens, Indian moorhens, black-winged stilts, cormorants, egrets, and greenshanks. During the winter, the wetland is visited by thousands of birds from Central Asia and some of the migratory bird species visiting this wetland are endangered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigil-up-at-gharana-wetland-in-jammu-after-bird-flu-cases-in-himachal-s-pong-dam/story-UiRnwwErMFaSrpI47aQd7K.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||HP to develop remote India-China border areas after youth exodus||Concerned about reports of young people migrating from the remote regions along the 260-km India-China border in Himachal Pradesh, the state government has decided to develop more facilities for tribal residents in 76 villages.Though the situation along the border stretching 140km along tribal Kinnaur district and 80km along Lahaul and Spiti district is peaceful now, large scale infrastructure expansion in China, especially new roads close to the sensitive Kaurik sector in Kinnaur, has left government officials worried.The Centre allocated Rs 17 crore this fiscal for development in such regions under the Border Area Development Programme (BADP) in Himachal, cutting down funding because of the economic implications of Covid-19. Last year Rs 27.4 crore had been allocated under BADP.More jobs, production oriented activitiesBADP is aimed at creating more jobs and production oriented activities and schemes which provide critical inputs to the social sectors.  Additional funds will also be given by the government for the development of 76 villages within zero km from the border, says Onkar Sharma, principal secretary, tribal development. The HP government had demanded more money and proposed to the Centre that a road be built between Brua in Kinnaur to Harshil in Uttarakhand via the 17,000 feet high Lam Khaga pass for better connectivity between the two states.``We are trying to give impetus to developmental activities along the border areas, there are many projects in the pipeline, project works are periodically reviewed,” says Sharma.“In the last three years there has been reduction in funds for development of the region. There’s a need to create more employment avenues to stop the exodus of youth from the region,” says Jagat Singh Negi, four time legislator and a senior Congress leader from Kinnaur. A police team sent by the HP government to report back on the migrations after India’s standoff with China in Ladakh last year, cited lack of facilities and economic activities as the main reasons for the exodus.HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the home portfolio, too, expressed concern over “depopulation’ of youth due to lack of economic activities. The 198 villages in the three border blocks of 12,634 km, of Kalpa and Pooh in Kinnaur district and Spiti in Lahaul and Spiti district, do not have roads, electricity and communication systems or education and medical facilities.Indo-China trade limits optionsThe government talks about tourism development but the border areas still lack basic infrastructure “ says Negi, suggesting that young people be provided land. “ Horticulture is more beneficial than tourism,” he adds.The centuries -old traditional trade between India and China and India too has been plagued with problems with youngsters not interested in taking it up. Bilateral trade through the Shipki La pass connecting Kinnaur district to the Tibetan Autonomous Region in China the reopened in 1993 after remaining closed since 1962 since the Indo-China war. Traders in the border areas have repeatedly approached the HP Himachal government for a revision of the list of tradable items as the items allowed are not lucrative. “There is a need to add more facilities at trading points,” says Sharat Chander Negi, who retired as general manager from the Industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-to-develop-remote-india-china-border-areas-after-youth-exodus/story-cOfabIiTeDbSFbwXpByiMM.html
07-01-2021||City||Ravi Malimath takes oath as Himachal high court judge||Chief justice L Narayana Swamy administered the oath of office to justice Ravi Malimath as the judge of the Himachal Pradesh high court in a ceremony held here on Monday.Prior to his appointment, Malimath was serving as the acting chief justice of the Uttarakhand high court.Born on May 25, 1962, Malimath enrolled as an advocate in 1987 in Bangalore and practised in constitutional, civil, criminal, labour and service matters, mainly at Karnataka high court in Bangalore.He was appointed additional judge of the Karnataka high court in 2008 and permanent judge in 2010. He was transferred to the high court of Uttarakhand in March 2020. Advocate general Ashok Sharma, chairman of Bar Council of Himachal Pradesh Ramakant Sharma, president of the HP High Court Bar Association NS Chandel, additional solicitor general of India Rajesh Sharma and Baldev Singh, registrar (vigilance) were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ravi-malimath-takes-oath-as-himachal-high-court-judge/story-Y8PY4oXv0lE8qi1kXyM6QK.html
07-01-2021||City||Villagers of Himachal’s Chakmoh gram panchayat boycott PRI elections||In a rare development, hundreds of inhabitants of Chakmoh gram panchayat of the Badsar revenue subdivision of the district have decided not to take part in the PRI elections to be held later this month.They have taken this step in view of the anti-people stance of the successive state governments towards them especially for not constructing a hospital campus in the area. The villagers had donated 15 kanals of land to then chief minister Shanta Kumar in 1980 and a rural ayurvedic dispensary was opened there. At that time Kumar had assured them that the construction work for the hospital would start soon but nothing has been done so far.However, even after getting the land free of cost from the villagers, no one came forward to take up the work of the construction of a 100-bed hospital here.Angry villagers on Thursday held a meeting at Chakmoh and showed their anger to the government and decided not to take part in the electioneering process this time as a result all the people who had filed their nomination papers for various posts withdrew from the contest and made the electoral battle empty.It’s worth mentioning here that the Chakmoh area is dominated by the Brahmin community and its residents are the baridars (partners) in the historical and ancient temple of Baba Balak Nath located at Deotsidh. Moreover, the priests of the temple are also from the Chakmoh village and their annoyance is going to invite wrath to the leaders and activists of all the parties especially the BJP and the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/villagers-of-himachal-s-chakmoh-gram-panchayat-boycott-pri-elections/story-okBtYjpkp3hi1e8BMALorN.html
07-01-2021||City||Bird flu death toll rises to 3,500 in Himachal’s Pong Dam, CM to review situation||With the number of birds dying at the Pong Dam wetland due to avian influenza in the district is on the rise, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has decided to visit Dharamshala on Friday to review the situation.As per the itinerary issued by the chief minister’s office, Thakur will chair two meetings to review the situation arising from the bird flu outbreak and Covid-19.Speaking to the media persons in Shimla, Thakur said he may also visit the Pong Lake area if the state election commission permits as the model code of conduct has come into force in the state ahead of Panchayati Raj Institutions elections. He said the teams working in the lake have been provided with necessary medicines and PPE kits.Meanwhile, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that as of now more than 3,500 migratory and local birds have died in the wetland area.Nearly 90% of birds are bar-headed geese while species like common teal, common pochards, and grey-legged geese have also died.“About 60-70 crows were found dead. No death of poultry birds has been reported. As a precautionary measure, samples of 119 poultry birds have been sent for testing, and reports are awaited,” said Prajapati. The jal shakti department has sent water samples for testing. Prajapati said he held a meeting with the sub-divisional magistrates of Indora, Fatehpur, Jawali and Dehra and necessary directions have been issued.The administration urged people to cooperate with the authorities. “However, if they don’t comply with the orders we would be left with no option but to penalise them,” he said.The animal husbandry department has also formed over a dozen rapid response teams to deal with the disposal of dead birds.Forest minister Rakesh Pathania said an alert has been sounded in the wildlife sanctuaries and water bodies where migratory birds are mostly found in winter.BIRD FLU SCARE IN BILASPUR, SOLANMeanwhile, the death of over 50 crows at Jamthal village in Bilaspur district triggered fears of an outbreak in the Gobind Sagar Lake area. Samples of dead crows have been sent for testing, said Dr Lal Gopal, deputy director of the animal husbandry department, Bilaspur.Panic gripped the Parwanoo area in Solan district after 500 dead chickens were found dumped on the roadside. Deputy director of animal husbandry, Solan, BB Gupta said that the samples have been sent for testing. He said five rapid response teams have been formed to meet any eventuality.The deaths of migratory birds were first reported in the Pong Wetland area on September 28, 2020, and the outbreak of H5N1 was confirmed on January 4. DEAD PIGEON FOUND AT KANGRA MP’S HOMEA dead pigeon was found at Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor’s house near Dharamshala on Thursday. The family informed the authorities about the dead bird after which a team of animal husbandry department reached the spot and took the bird for disposal as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bird-flu-death-toll-rises-to-3-500-in-himachal-s-pong-dam-cm-to-review-situation/story-efXc2JAbnDi5iS9UUdzRyO.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Man beaten to death on suspicion of theft, crematorium priest is prime suspect||A 23-year-old man was beaten to death, allegedly by a priest at a crematorium in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, after he was suspected of stealing from the priest’s home in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said. The police were waiting for the autopsy report before registering an FIR, but they eventually filed a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on Thursday evening, before the report came. Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said that investigation into the death is ongoing and the priest, Gaurav Mishra, was yet to be arrested. The victim, Sunil, worked as a helper of a mini truck and was a substance user, said the DCP. Sunil’s alleged attempt to steal from Mishra’s residence located on the crematorium premises was brought to the police’s notice around 6.30am on Wednesday. By the time the police reached the crematorium, the suspect had already fled. But around noon, the police received a phone call from Sunil’s brother that he had been killed. According to the DCP, it so happened that Sunil’s colleague was looking for him when he spotted his body in a forested area adjacent to the crematorium. There were bruises on Sunil’s body and face. The DCP said prima facie it emerged that Mishra had beaten up Sunil on catching him trying to steal from his home.“We also have a couple of eyewitnesses to support that allegation, but we are continuing the investigation. We have registered a case at the Mehrauli police station,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-beaten-to-death-on-suspicion-of-theft-crematorium-priest-is-prime-suspect/story-GJM5yJHLMO1NQ6aC2IuukK.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Never signed disclosure statement included in charge sheet, says Khalid; court seeks police reply||The Delhi Police, in its supplementary charge sheet filed in connection to the riots in the Khajuri Khas area in February last year, have relied upon an alleged disclosure statement of Umar Khalid, in which the former JNU Student Union leader had purportedly admitted his role in organising the north-east Delhi riots.However, Khalid on Thursday told a city court that he did not make any such admission before the investigators and had refused to sign the said disclosure statement. Khalid also cited the copy of the charge sheet, in which below his disclosure statement, it is written, “refused to sign”.“I have just got the charge sheet, which shows that below my disclosure statement, it is written “refused to sign”. Despite this, the charge sheet was leaked to the media. This isn’t the first time. It causes my deep anguish every time it happens,” Khalid told the court.In his application, Khalid urged the court to ensure leakage of such “unconfirmed and uncorroborated disclosure statements” must be stopped in the interest of a free and fair trial. Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar called for a reply from the police and posted the matter for further hearing to January 14. The court also extended Khalid’s judicial custody. In a supplementary charge sheet filed against Khalid on December 26, the city police’s crime branch has claimed that during his police remand, Khalid disclosed about his meeting with former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and United Against Hate member Khalid Saifi on January 8, 2020, at Shaheen Bagh, where they conspired to organise the riots in north-east Delhi.The police have also alleged that during the investigation, a public witness, Roshan Pathak, was examined regarding the financial transactions made by Hussain in January 2020 to allegedly fund the anti Citizenship Amendment Act protests and later the riots. Pathak, who was working as an accountant in one of Hussain’s companies, had told the police that he had allegedly taken cash from two persons (Amit Gupta and Manoj Thakur) and given that money to Hussain.“It has transpired that Hussain had transferred this money from his company account to the accounts of other companies...and had used Pathak to bring the money back to him. This cash was then used by Hussain to organise the riots,” the charge sheet has alleged.The police have also claimed that facts regarding the cheating and forgery committed by Hussain have emerged -- he had allegedly induced his partner Nitesh Gupta to transfer money to his shell company accounts and had provided fake bills of manpower supply to Gupta while in fact no such service was ever provided by Hussain to Gupta.“These fake bills were seized by the enforcement directorate... Photocopies of some fake bills were provided by Nitesh Gupta during the investigation of the present case... Hence, section 420/467 IPC have been added in the present case against accused Mohd. Tahir Hussain,” the charge sheet read.The police have also alleged that Khalid was an active participant in the criminal conspiracy to instigate communal riots in various parts of Delhi.The police, quoting Hussain’s driver Rahul Kasana’s witness statement, alleged that Khalid met with Saifi and Hussain in Shaheen Bagh and hatched the conspiracy for the riots. The charge sheet further claimed that during interrogation in police custody, Saifi had allegedly disclosed about his role in the conspiracy along with that of Hussain and Khalid.Earlier the police had filed a charge sheet against Saifi, Hussain and others charging them of unlawful assembly, rioting, arson, destruction of property and criminal conspiracy, among other sections, on which the court had taken cognisance on October 12. Khalid was arrested on October 1 in this case. Communal riots had broken out in the north-east Delhi in February last year claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/never-signed-disclosure-statement-included-in-charge-sheet-says-khalid-court-seeks-police-reply/story-eRWxNA6bSD41zIWby66I0N.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Former lab technician held for duping people by posing as high-ranking official, doctor||A 44-year-old man, reeling from a failed pathology lab business, posed at different times as assistant professor at AIIMS, Delhi, an advisor in Niti Aayog and a paediatrician to cheat people and seek favours at government facilities, the Delhi Police said on Thursday after arresting him. Identified as Devender Kumar Mishra, the arrested suspect had allegedly been using a host of fake identifies for nearly a decade until a tip-off from an army officer landed him in the Delhi Police’s net on Tuesday. Shibesh Singh, additional commissioner of police (crime branch), said Mishra would sometimes pose as a joint secretary with the health ministry and other times as an assistant professor at AIIMS. He would also allegedly pose as an advisor to the Niti Aayog and as a paediatrician with a hospital in Madhya Pradesh, the state to which he belongs. “Once he posed as a senior bureaucrat to recommend an arms licence for a man in Uttar Pradesh, in lieu of money. On another occasion, he opened a clinic in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh,” said the additional CP. Bhism Singh, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch), said at the clinic, Mishra put up a board saying he had degrees in paediatrics from AIIMS and joined hands with a nurse to provide medical services. “There were occasions when Mishra would pose as a joint secretary to stay at army messes and receive facilities meant for high-ranking officials,” said the DCP. Mishra would allegedly claim to be a visiting faculty to different medical colleges. “He used all these impersonations to promise people help with transfers and jumping the queues at hospitals for surgeries and other treatments. He would dupe people of money in this manner,” said the DCP. The multiple hats that Mishra donned was what finally did him in, the police said. “On December 28, we received an email from an army officer who found it suspicious that a man could hold so many different positions, ranging from an assistant professor to a joint secretary and a doctor to Niti Aayog advisor,” said DCP Singh. On Tuesday, the police arrested him from Panchkuian Road in Central Delhi. The police said the man is a trained lab technician. “He ran a lab in Rewa in Madhya Pradesh two decades ago. In Delhi, he opened a blood collection centre in east Delhi in 2008, but it soon wrapped up and he began perpetrating this fraud,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/former-lab-technician-held-for-duping-people-by-posing-as-high-ranking-official-doctor/story-Ead1STAAsIedFvPz0Qq9rM.html
07-01-2021||City||37-yr old booked for posting pics of estranged wife on her social media||PUNE: A 37-year-old man has been booked for posting illicit pictures of his estranged wife on her social media account on January 3.The man had pictures of the wife from their honeymoon, according to the complainant.The man had access to her social media account even though they were estranged.On January 3, he posted pictures of the woman on her account and captioned it as “open relationship”, according to her complaint.He then allegedly changed the password of the account in order to lock the complainant out of it.Police inspector (crime) Ajay Bhosale of Sangavi police station is investigating the case.A case under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(c), 66(e) ad 67 of Information Technology Act was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/37-yr-old-booked-for-posting-pics-of-estranged-wife-on-her-social-media/story-kgmeDXWHzqoUWW58rm000M.html
07-01-2021||Noida||Don’t fall for social media rumours, no bird flu case yet: Noida DM||Expert teams have been formed to inspect poultry farms and wetlands in Gautam Buddh Nagar, District Magistrate Suhas L Y said on Thursday, cautioning people not to fall for social media rumours regarding bird flu. The district magistrate had on Wednesday also held a meeting with senior administration, veterinary, forest and health officials to review the avian influenza situation.  Suhas said he has directed departments concerned to gear up to deal with any situation and follow the guidelines and alerts being issued by the Centre and the state government. “There is no case (of bird flu) here yet and these measures are being put in place as a precaution,” he told reporters. He said the administration has formed rapid response teams (RRTs) teams involving officials from veterinary, animal husbandry and forest departments which are trained to monitor the situation and take necessary action.  “The RRTs will also inspect sites like wetlands or poultry farms from time to time. Poultry farm owners have already been sensitised and they have taken precautions, therefore, there is no problem as of now,” he said. Since the avian influenza is a viral disease, the DM said, the Health Department has also been instructed to ensure adequate anti-viral drugs and bed availability in hospitals “People have been asked to only pay heed to advice from veterinary-related experts and not fall for social media rumours or create panic,” Suhas added. Routine samples from poultry farms have been sent for test and there is no positive report of bird flu as yet, he said, noting that there are two major and some other smaller poultry farms in the district. Bird flu outbreak has been reported from 12 epicentres in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, and advisories have been issued to contain further spread of the infection in poultry ducks, crows and migratory birds, the Centre said on Wednesday. The current bird flu outbreak has been reported barely a few months after India was declared free from the disease on September 30 last year. India had notified the first outbreak of avian influenza in 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/don-t-fall-for-social-media-rumours-no-bird-flu-case-yet-noida-dm/story-ouoEX5Tc5M86vmigr9IXeI.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami fails to appear before court in suicide abetment case||TV journalist Arnab Goswami, an accused in an abetment of suicide case, failed to appear before a court in Raigad district of Maharashtra on Thursday, prompting the prosecution to seek a warrant against him.The court, however, granted him and other two accused exemption from appearance for the day and adjourned the hearing.Alibaug Police had arrested Goswami and two others in the case related to interior designer Anvay Naik’s alleged suicide in November. They were later granted bail by the Supreme Court.On Thursday, as the case came up before Alibaug sessions court, Goswami and other two accused -- Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda -- did not appear. Their lawyers sought exemption for the day, which the court granted.Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat took a strong exception, saying the accused should have been present for the purpose of identification as this was the first hearing after the court took cognizance of the chargesheet.He also sought issuance of a warrant against Goswami and the other two. While keeping Gharat’s plea pending, the court noted that as restrictions (on movement and travel) on account of coronavirus are in place till January 31, no coercive action can be taken in such matters.The court posted the case for hearing on February 6. On that date, the accused will have to appear before the court, Gharat told PTI.“In normal circumstances, if an accused fails to respond to summons issued by a court and fails to appear before it on the given date, the court can issue a warrant.“If on the next date too the accused does not appear then a non-bailable warrant is issued,” the prosecutor said.It is the court’s discretion, he said. The trio are facing a case under IPC sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 109 (punishment for abetment).The charge sheet claims that Naik killed his mother, a partner in his business, and hanged himself at their Alibaug house in May 2018 as he was under stress due to non-payment of dues by the firms of the three accused.Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, alleged that the police reopened a case which had been closed in 2019 as the Maharashtra government wanted to harass him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-fails-to-appear-before-court-in-suicide-abetment-case/story-uFuMeGeTfq122FsOXnn6fK.html
07-01-2021||City||Winter rain keeps Pune wet and chill; forecast to continue till Jan 10||PUNE Pashan, Aundh, Shivajinagar, Vishrantwadi, and the Pune Station area witnessed rains on Thursday evening. Parts of the city also witnessed thunderstorms and lightning. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) the maximum temperature reported in Pune on Thursday was 30 degrees Celsius, whereas the minimum temperature was 18 degrees Celsius.“There is a possibility of light rains in isolated parts of Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Konkan and Goa along with lightning and thunderstorms till January 9. Whereas for Pune city, the sky shall remain cloudy and light rainfall is likely till January 10,” said IMD officials. “The maximum temperature will be around 28 degrees Celsius for the next few days. Whereas the minimum temperature will go as low as 11 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials.Across Maharashtra, Nashik also reported 6 millimetres rainfall on Thursday. The highest maximum temperature was 33.4 degrees Celsius in Ratnagiri. The lowest minimum temperature was 16.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar on Thursday.Pashan, Aundh, Shivajinagar, Vishrantwadi, and the Pune Station area witnessed rains on Thursday evening. Parts of the city also witnessed thunderstorms and lightning. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) the maximum temperature reported in Pune on Thursday was 30 degrees Celsius, whereas the minimum temperature was 18 degrees Celsius.“There is a possibility of light rains in isolated parts of Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Konkan and Goa along with lightning and thunderstorms till January 9. Whereas for Pune city, the sky shall remain cloudy and light rainfall is likely till January 10,” said IMD officials. “The maximum temperature will be around 28 degrees Celsius for the next few days. Whereas the minimum temperature will go as low as 11 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials.Across Maharashtra, Nashik also reported 6 millimetre rainfall on Thursday. The highest maximum temperature was 33.4 degrees Celsius in Ratnagiri. The lowest minimum temperature was 16.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/winter-rain-keeps-pune-wet-and-chill-forecast-to-continue-till-jan-10/story-o4ls5XFsqyHCHG3yTCTlvM.html
07-01-2021||Kolkata||Left parties, Bengal Congress discuss seat-sharing ahead of polls||West Bengal Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) conducted a meeting on Thursday to discuss seat-sharing ahead of the 2021 Assembly Elections in the state.Biman Bose, chairman of the Left Front along with Congress’ Abdul Mannan along with other Left leaders held a meeting after central leadership of both parties permitted the state units to discuss seat-sharing arrangements.“Seat sharing was discussed, but there has been no conclusion to that discussion as yet. Further talks will take place,” Bose was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Both CPI(M) and Congress have attacked Trinamool Congress over the state’s law and order situation and on December 31 demanded that the Mamata Banerjee-led government prove its majority in the assembly.CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said that he does not believe that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has the support of an adequate number of legislators. “Many ruling party MLAs have told me in private that the government is apparently scared to call an assembly session. They also claimed that governance was getting affected due to the prevailing confusion,” Chakraborty was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury earlier this week said he does not want to take the TMC along with other Left parties in its objective to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He cited a strong anti-incumbency sentiment prevailing against Mamata Banerjee government as a reason behind his decision. He also pointed out that TMC was a former ally of the BJP.“The anti-incumbency sentiment against the TMC government runs so deep and so large that any unity of all the anti-BJP forces will only help the BJP more. It will be counter productive. People have great anger against the TMC. Aligning with Trinamool will therefore only turn people against us and help the BJP,” Yechury was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Congress leaders have also intensified their attacks on Mamata Banerjee-led government amid TMC suffering from a series of defections. Abdul Mannan after hearing reports of discontent in TMC’s ranks had challenged chief minister Mamata Banerjee to prove her majority in the assembly. “If your claim is true, please appear for a floor test in assembly,” the Congress leader said.Trinamool Congress is likely to face a close contest in the legislative assembly elections which are scheduled to take place later this year. BJP leaders have travelled to Bengal multiple times with union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda leading the charge. BJP president Nadda will once again visit the state on Saturday to review the state BJP unit’s preparations for the elections. The state has also seen incidents of violence during rallies and skirmishes between party cadres which has raised concerns among ordinary citizens and lawmakers alike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/left-parties-bengal-congress-discuss-seat-sharing-ahead-of-polls/story-PuHa3omchUtNb9jEevNFKM.html
07-01-2021||City||53,000 applications for 5,647 Mhada houses in Pune division; lucky draw on Jan 22||PUNE Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), is reporting a good response in terms of registration for eligibility to be part of the draw for the allotment of 5,647 Mhada houses in the Pune division. Till date, Mhada has received 53,000 applications for the 5,647 houses.Nitin Mane, chief executive officer of Mhada, said, “This is the first time, we have received such a response in the Covid-19 scenario. There are four days to closing of online registration. We will cross 60,000 in number. ““We are providing houses at affordable prices. The price is 30 to 40 per cent less than the market rate. The response is showing that there is a need for houses in the market. The draw is on January 22, 2021,” he added.“Administration has not appointed any middleman. It is a transparent process to allot houses to people at affordable rates,” he said.According to officials, it is the fifth online lottery allotment of Mhada. Till date, two lakh people have visited the Mhada website, of which, 1,16,330 people registered.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had launched online application registration process for the Pune division - Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli and Solapur.The registration process began on December 10, 2020, at 2.30 pm. The lucky draw will be held on January 22 at the Nehru Memorial hall in Camp. Ajit Pawar will be present at the draw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/53-000-applications-for-5-647-mhada-houses-in-pune-division-lucky-draw-on-jan-22/story-SbwsEzOpr6I9wJQHpf4hBK.html
07-01-2021||City||SC puts Punjab on notice over delimitation of Mohali wards||The Supreme Court on Thursday put the Punjab government on notice over delimitation of wards in Mohali and sought a response within two weeks. The top court was acting on a petition by former SAD councillors Sukhdev Singh Patwari and Bachan Singh, who had contended that the delimitation of wards was not done as per rules and many wards were divided and merged arbitrarily by the municipal corporation (MC).The SC division bench of Chief Justice Sharad Arvind Bobde, justice AS Bopanna and justice V Ramasubramanian, while hearing the petition challenging the dismissal orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court, told the Punjab local bodies department to file its reply. The delimitation report was submitted to the Punjab government on October 29 last year, following which the government notified MC elections to be held for 50 wards in February 2020. The five-year term of the MC House had ended on April 26, 2020.The report invited resentment from the Bharatiya Janata Party and Shiromani Akali Dal councillors, who claimed the delimitation had been done to oust them from MC. The report was prepared by a committee comprising only Congress councillors, they alleged, who had recommended 70% of the SAD-BJP wards and only 10% of Congress wards for delimitation. Therefore, most of the wards held by SAD and BJP councillors had been displaced. Among the 50 wards, there are 42 general category seats, of which 22 are for women and 20 for men, besides five for scheduled castes (including two for women) and two for backward classes (men).Mohali got a municipal council in 1984, which was upgraded to a corporation through a notification in January 2011. However, the elections were held after four years in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-puts-punjab-on-notice-over-delimitation-of-mohali-wards/story-0n7hQjdYoBbXo3vkMkOBMN.html
07-01-2021||City||Punekars push for all public gardens to be opened... PMC considering proposal||PUNE Residents in Pune are demanding all gardens under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the city be reopened. The PMC commissioner had granted permission to reopen 81 of a total of 203 gardens in the city, from November 1, 2020. PMC has not taken any decision to reopen the remaining gardens. Many citizens and corporators are questioning this passive approach. “Many residents have approached me regarding the reopening of all the gardens. It will ease the load of existing opened gardens. I am writing a letter to the commissioner to open all the gardens. Everything else is opened. Why should it be a problem to open the gardens?” said Aditya Malve, corporator from Shivajinagar and a member of the Tree Authority.PMC has reopened 81 gardens with health and age criteria for the visitors and restrictions of activities in garden premises. Also, the gardens are open for fewer hours than before. Most gardens used to open from 6 am -11 am and 4pm-8pm. These hours were reduced to 6am - 8am and 5pm - 7pm. Citizens are raising this issue on social media platforms. Amit Paranjape questioned such time restrictions on Twitter. “Restaurants, malls, etc. are open for a while now. Why are gardens still running limited hours?” he tweeted. “There is no problem in reopening all the gardens. People have been demanding that. I feel that the old timings of gardens (6-11 am, 4-8.30 pm) were appropriate. They should be in place,” said Dipali Dhumal, corporator from the Warje area.Only personal exercises such as running and walking are permitted in the garden premises. Yoga groups and laughter clubs are still prohibited according to the order. “On one hand the administration emphasises immunity boost and on the other hand prohibits the activities which boost immunity. They should open all the gardens and put safety protocols in place. Many senior citizens are facing psychological problems because of this. They don’t have other places to socialise. Exercise and fitness should be promoted,” said Makrand Tillu, trustee Navchaitanya Hasyayog Pariwar (a laughter club in the city)PMC officials said that they have been considering this demand seriously and trying to open more gardens in the city. “We have considered this public demand to reopen more gardens. Pune municipal commissioner has taken a meeting with all the departments today. This issue was raised in that meeting and he has demanded a report on how many more gardens can be opened. We are preparing this report. More gardens could be opened by next week,” said Kunal Khemnar Additional Municipal Commissioner“There is no problem in opening the gardens I feel. If all the safety precautions are followed then there should not be any problem in opening the gardens,” said Jayashree Deshpande, a resident of Sinhgad road. “Gardens are essential for the city’s residents. I think all the gardens should be opened with safety measures,” said Anand Saraf, a resident of Sadashiv peth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punekars-push-for-all-public-gardens-to-be-opened-pmc-considering-proposal/story-OV8JxC5S3N75m8rwPlfrBP.html
07-01-2021||Fashion||Delhi’s lehenga hub gets back in business as sales pick up||It’s a busy and happy start to the New Year for the lehenga stores in Chandni Chowk, as they witness signs of revival after several months of sluggish business due to Covid-19 pandemic. Getting back to the old routine, shopkeepers are pleased to see sales returning to normal slowly but steadily, bustling bylanes packed with shoppers.“After being shut for a few months, we reopened in May. The months of June and July saw the shift to video appointments for local customers, previously only available for NRI clients. Business started picking up from August onwards as the wedding season was set to begin from October, and it takes approximately two to two-and-a-half months to put together a bridal outfit. So, we received a good number of queries and in-store appointments since then,” says Mohit Dalmia, designer, Aditya & Mohit, a unit of Dalmia Fashions who eventually stopped taking video appointments due to the low conversion rate. The store has also reduced the appointments from 30 a day to 18-20, to adhere to safety norms. Considering the current situation, do brides still believe, “Main shaadi karungi toh sirf Kareena wala designer lehenga pehan ke karungi...” or has the limited guest list also forced shoppers to cut down on expensive bridal wear? “From three functions, couples and families are opting for one celebration, that too with restricted members, toh log thoda sochte hai ₹50,000 and ₹1 lakh ka lehenga lene ke liye,” says Rajan Bansal, owner, Kala Shree Regalia, who adds the season was buzzing till Diwali. He hopes it will pick up after Lohri. Echoing the sentiment, Sanjay Vij, owner, Om Prakash Jawahar Lal says, “Shopping budgets have reduced as money has become a constraint for many. But luckily, sales have slowly started returning to normal. November and December were the peak, and with weddings lined up after January 13, this month and February look good as we have a lot of deliveries scheduled.” Vij further adds, “We often design a lehenga within 40 days, but in the lockdown it took three to three-and-a-half months for one piece as karkhanas were shut and there was a shortage of karigars.”During lockdown not only the retail stores being shut for more than six months duration but also the manufacturing setups being suspended for even longer. Ankit Keyal, founder, Asiana Couture, believes that one must realise as entrepreneurs, every hurdle towards the path of success is a window of opportunity that must be availed at the correct time. He says, “In this case, virtual appointments for brides opened up new avenues for us to grow digitally and help our brand reach new heights of customer service and experience. It created a pathway for more and more recognition of our label through digital and social media channels. Now, we can see that the business is beginning to pick up slowly and steadily. The market atmosphere is still uncertain as the pandemic is not over yet, but that being said, it has been a year of learning and growing and finding creative and rather unconventional methods of paving the path ahead for the brand.”Interact with author/sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/fashion-and-trends/delhi-s-lehenga-hub-gets-back-in-business-as-sales-pick-up/story-vvAlG30VjZ05ecOlZNoejM.html
07-01-2021||City||PCB’s “e- chhawani” portal busy with user transactions since launch on Jan 1||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has begun implementing an e- chhawani (portal) project and has received an encouraging response since the initiative began on January 1. It has received 22 applications for trade licences and earned Rs 18 lakh as fees. It has also received 32 complaints related to public grievances in a span of seven days on the portal.In what is phase one of the project, e-chhawani brings diverse services for residents of the Cantonment area through an online portal, like lodging public grievances, submitting applications for trade licences, making online payments through the “m-Collect” module, and submitting online applications for renewal- cum -extension of lease. The general public can access these services at https://pune.cantt.gov.in.PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “We have received 32 complaints related to street light and sanitation and 87 per cent of them have been addressed. Also we have earned fees for issuing certificates and online tax payments to the tune of Rs 18 lakh. The portal is highly interactive and a large number of cantonment residents are opting for the platform which is user friendly and makes the entire process transparent and accountable.” The Director General of Defence Estates started the e-Chhawani project under the directions of the Defence Secretary.The project is seen as a major step towards smart governance and to ensure online grievance management in all 62 cantonment boards across the country.Initially, five Cantonment boards, comprising Delhi, Secunderabad, Pune, Agra and Lucknow have been identified for the pilot project. “The main aim of the portal is to provide citizen centric services to the cantonment residents online where they don’t have to physically visit the cantonment board. Moreover, there is a detailed complaint log where the responsibility is fixed,” Kumar said.The PCB is planning to include services like building plans, water connections and other public services to the platform in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcb-s-e-chhawani-portal-busy-with-user-transactions-since-launch-on-jan-1/story-y9LTTT4nUcOiyVsL4LyYrM.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccination dry run in Mohali from Jan 8||Health authorities will conduct a dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination from Friday, January 8. Arrangements for the trials were reviewed on Thursday by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional deputy commissioner (development) at a meeting with the vaccination task force at the district administrative complex. Giving details, Sharma said the dry run will be conducted at three sites: the District Hospital and Indus hospital here and at the Community Health Centre in Banur. The rationale behind the selection of sites was that an urban and a rural government health facility and a private hospital would help authorities make a fair assessment of the vaccination rollout in different set-ups. The Dry run is aimed at testing the laid out mechanisms for the vaccination rollout in the district to check for gaps or bottlenecks, if any. The entire vaccination drill will be conducted barring the administration of vaccine, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-vaccination-dry-run-in-mohali-from-jan-8/story-mtQiIBRARm8A6XYpYMxGHN.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 486 fresh Covid-19 cases, positivity rate dips to 0.63 %||Delhi recorded 486 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 new fatalities on Thursday. These new cases resulted from the 77,522 tests conducted the previous day, including 43,347 RT-PCR tests and 34,175 rapid antigen tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The positivity rate dipped to 0.63 per cent and the total number of cases climbed to 6,28,838. The death toll mounted to 10,644.The active cases tally on Thursday dropped to 4,168 from 4,481 the previous day. Delhi had recorded 654 cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 0.88 per cent. The national capital had recorded 442 cases on Tuesday with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 pandemicFrom December 21-23, the daily cases count had been below the 1000-mark. On December 21, 803 cases were reported; 939 on December 22 and 871 on December 23. However, on December 24, 1,063 cases were recorded, dropping again to 758 on December 25 and 655 on December 26. On December 27, 757 cases were recorded while on December 28, the daily cases count was 564, the lowest in the last five months. On December 29 and 30, the city recorded 703 and 677 cases respectively. On December 31, 574 cases were recorded, 585 on January 1, 494 cases on January 2, 424 on January 3, 384 on January 4, and 442 cases on January 5.India recorded 20,346 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total infection tally to 10,395,278, according to the health ministry. Total recoveries in the country crossed the 10-million mark and the national recovery rate went up to 96.36%, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45%.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-486-fresh-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-dips-to-0-63/story-LaI7VG9q0yQWnKPsOAfcTJ.html
07-01-2021||Pune||Five steps to follow if you test positive for Covid-19||Step 1:Seek advice from your doctor for admission or home isolation. Based on the symptoms, if you are advised to seek home isolation then prepare a separate room with possibly separate bathroom facilities to ensure that your family members are not infected.Step 2:If you opt for home isolation, the hospital would be responsible to inform the local authorities. If you live in a society or apartment complex, do inform the nearby ward office or inform the PMC ward office. Each ward office has been provided with a war room for sanitisation of the premises.Step 3:Once the patient’s contact details are provided to the administration, PMC’s contact tracing team would call the person and family members will also be tested. PMC has prescribed home isolation for a minimum period of 17 days, even for asymptomatic patients.Step 4:For those who have returned to the city from the UK or the Middle East before December 22, they must produce a negative RT-PCR report and submit it to the PMC and stay in home isolation. If positive then report to the civic body and get admitted at Naidu hospital.Step 5:For any passengers who came to the city from the Middle East from now onward will be directly taken to a hotel and tested for Covid-19. If the result is positive then the sample would be sent for genome sequencing to check if it is new (UK) strain. Contact PMC: 020-25506800/01/02/03.“Once we get the contact details of the patients we get in touch with them and conduct contact tracing. We do provide separate waste collection options for the patient’s family but this is not for any indifference but strictly for medical reasons. Family members of the patient and those living nearby the patient’s house must provide mental and moral support to the family. We are fighting the virus not the patient,” says Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer.Helpline:To find a bed in government or private hospital 020- 2550 2110||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-steps-to-follow-if-you-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-ekZyIwhksnFh2njclhmE2I.html
07-01-2021||Business||Prioritise MSME labourers, give them vaccine for free: Industry body urges PM||Industry body Noida Entrepreneurs’ Association (NEA) on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to prioritise labourers working in the MSME sector for Covid-19 vaccine and provide them the jabs free of cost. In a letter to the prime minister, the city-based NEA, which has over 6,000 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) as members, cited media reports that claim that the vaccine may cost anything between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000. In the letter, NEA President Vipin Malhan said the MSME sector employs lakhs of labourers who are aged below 50 years and earn around Rs 15,000 a month. “These labourers make an important contribution for the country, work on daily wages and work day and night to manage a living for themselves and their families,” Malhan said. He added that an amount of Rs 1,000 for the vaccine will be a big sum for them to bear. “It is requested to you that people working in registered companies in the MSME sector and those dependent on them should be given a priority in vaccination,” he urged the prime minister. They could be given the vaccination by the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) or any other institution free of cost, Malhan added. The Drugs Controller General of India has approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech’s indigenously developed Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/prioritise-msme-labourers-give-them-vaccine-for-free-industry-body-urges-pm/story-1TmhHh78E3C25LIeGDw6fL.html
07-01-2021||Pune||Taste of life: We are what we eat, but where we eat matters too||In the first week of February, 1939, eminent Gandhian and social – reformer Acharya Dattatreya alias Kaka Kalelkar, addressed female students in a boarding school in Satara. “This school has Hindu, Muslim and Christian students studying together. But I have observed that students from different castes and religions do not sit together to eat their lunch and dinner. Why cannot they eat together? Who cooked the food, is something you should not be worried about as long as the cook maintained hygiene in the kitchen. All that matters is the taste. The food should be delicious, that’s all!” What to eat, with whom to eat, who cooks for whom… are factors usually shaped by religious beliefs and practices. The influence of caste and religion on our plate goes beyond the diversity of eating habits. Food is often used as a tool to assert religious and cultural hierarchy. People use religion to expand or limit the food they eat. No wonder, food is considered a metaphor for identity. This identity is sometimes thrust upon the person who is entrusted with the job of cooking food. In the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the residents of the peths in Pune strived hard to ward off any “external” influence and maintain the “purity” of the city. Pune was almost an island, with little connection whatsoever with the very “European” Poona Cantonment which was just a few kilometres away from the city. It was no surprise then that almost all of the non-vegetarian eateries were situated on the outskirts of the main city, that is, beyond Sadashiv peth to the west and beyond Guruwar peth to the east. Some of the very old non-vegetarian eateries like Aware Khanawal, near Lakdi bridge, still exist. When Sir Parshurambhau College (then known as New Poona College) was established in 1916, a few restaurants cropped up to serve the students. Two particular restaurants, established in 1938-39, demonstrated how religion affected the foodscape of Pune. ‘Lucky Restaurant’ was one of the iconic Irani Cafes in Pune. It was situated where the R-Deccan Mall stands today, opposite Café Goodluck. Its spacious walls were adorned by photographs of Bollywood stars who frequented the restaurant. It became popular with students of FTII and Fergusson College. The food was good and prices were pocket- friendly. Biryani, chicken and fish curry, omelet-pav were some of the dishes which were popular amongst its fans. There’s an interesting story associated with ‘Lucky’ which dates back to 1938. When plans were announced by AK Irani to open Lucky restaurant in front of SP College in 1938, all hell broke loose. Visiting an Irani restaurant meant social boycott from the conservative section of society. The orthodox population of Pune obviously did not want an Irani restaurant in the city. The restaurants were free to operate beyond Deccan Gymkhana or in the Cantonment area, but were not to be allowed in the peths, they said. Social and political leaders like SL Karandikar and SM Mate strongly voiced their opposition. In the former’s case, his antagonism might have stemmed from the misinformed belief that the owners of the restaurant were Muslim. Karandikar, an associate of VD Savarkar, owned ‘Trikal’, a newspaper known for its ultra-nationalist stance. He lodged a campaign against the restaurant (which was yet to open) in his newspaper. To counter this, a notice was published on November 1, 1938, in Jnanaprakash. “We are planning to open a restaurant on Tilak road in the new building built by Sardar Jagannath Maharaj. All the allegations levelled against us in ‘Trikal’ are false. “We are simple businessmen. We know how to run our business with utmost honesty and integrity. “Our ancestors came from Iran and our religion is Bahai. We speak Farsi. We are proud of our religion. Please understand that our businesses have served Hindus for many years”, it read. The notice was signed by AK Irani, HA Irani and AF Irani. This did little to assuage the situation. Pamphlets defaming the restaurant and appealing for a boycott were being distributed all over the city. A week later, the police raided a printing press located in Sadashiv peth, and confiscated several pamphlets. The propaganda continued till much after the restaurant opened to the public in January 1939. Now that it was established that the owners were Bahái, the opposition was centered around the tea and non-vegetarian dishes served there. In February 1939, AK Irani published another note in Jnanaprakash. He clarified that his restaurant did not serve meat at all. Only tea, some vegetarian dishes and eggs were on the menu. This did little to pacify the opponents. SM Mate strengthened his fight against ‘Lucky’. Finally, it shut its shop and relocated opposite Café Goodluck in June 1939. It already had a branch running there by then. All this while, ‘Lucky Restaurant’ had a neighbour - ‘Greens restaurant’, the first restaurant in Pune to serve “Punjabi” food. It was inaugurated by Dr VA Gadkari, MLA, on June 27, 1938, six months before ‘Lucky’ started functioning. Several dignitaries like (legendary cricketer) Prof DB Deodhar, Prof Shivnarayan, Rao Bahadur, Capt Kulkarni graced the occasion. According to the report published in Jnanaprakash, Dr Gadkari hoped that the restaurant would be a boon to the students, visitors and residents of Pune. The interesting part was that in this restaurant run by Sardar Darbarsingh, non-vegetarian dishes were served. It employed Kashmiri Pandit cooks who cooked vegetarian and non-vegetarian wazwan meals. Sardar Darbarsingh, during the inauguration, had said that the Punjabis were known for their strength which resulted from the good food they ate; and the residents of Pune could benefit from the Punjabi food served at ‘Greens’ restaurant. MG Sathe, one of the proprietors of Sathe Biscuit and Chocolate Co, lived near Tilak road during his teenage years. A few years ago, he recounted to me how he would spot famous actors like Raja Gosavi and Sharad Talwalkar at ‘Greens’ and how the basement of the restaurant helped several taste their first non-vegetarian meal without being noticed. Funnily enough, ‘Greens’, while serving meat, faced no opposition from the society, while ‘Lucky’, which served only eggs then, was not so lucky. ‘Greens’ faded into oblivion in the seventies of the last century. ‘Lucky’ shut its shop around 2004. Sometimes, who cooked the food matters the most!Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/taste-of-life-we-are-what-we-eat-but-where-we-eat-matters-too/story-stqgng7x0JIWNrkIykL7MI.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Hemant Nagrale appointed as Maharashtra’s director general of police||IPS officer Hemant Nagrale on Thursday took additional charge as Maharashtra’s director general of police following the appointment of incumbent Subodh Jaiswal as DG of the Central Industrial Security Force.Nagrale (58), a 1987-batch IPS officer, who is currently serving as the director general (technical & legal), took charge of the new post from Jaiswal at the DGP office in south Mumbai. The state Home department has given Nagrale the additional charge of Maharashtra DGP as Jaiswal has been appointed as DG of the CISF, an official said.The state government on Thursday relieved Jaiswal, the 1985-batch IPS officer, for his central deputation.Nagrale earlier served as the Navi Mumbai police commissioner from May 2016 to July 2018.He also worked as the joint commissioner of police (administration) in the Mumbai police force, special inspector general (admin) in the DG office and special inspector general at the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL).He had also served as DIG of the Central Bureau of Investigation and superintendent of police, CBI, during his central deputation.During the Mumbai terror attack in November 2008, he along with four other policemen entered Hotel Taj Mahal Palace at Colaba in south Mumbai and helped the injured and dead to be shifted to nearby hospitals, an official said.At that time, while on the lookout for suspicious objects, he spotted and inspected an RDX (explosive) bag. He personally removed it to a safer place and summoned the bomb disposal squad, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hemant-nagrale-appointed-as-maharashtra-s-director-general-of-police/story-91JDleLs4gkVBtg7flyJ2J.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Court allows Varavara Rao to stay in hospital till January 13||The Bombay high court on Thursday allowed ailing jailed Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, 82, to remain until January 13 in a Mumbai hospital, where he was late last year admitted to on the court’s directions for better treatment.The extension was granted even as Rao’s condition has improved after his wife, P Hemlatha, sought one-week to go through his medical reports. It also scheduled the hearing of his bail plea on health grounds on January 13.Rao is among over a dozen scholars and rights activists arrested for their alleged links with Maoists and for allegedly instigating violence at Bhima Koregaon near Pune in 2018. The violence was triggered during the 200th-anniversary celebration of a battle in which Dalits fought with British forces and defeated an upper-caste ruler. The activists are accused of making provocative speeches that allegedly triggered the violence.Also Read: On liberty, the lack of judicial consistencyRao’s lawyer, R Satyanarayan, earlier on Thursday told the court they were awaiting his medical reports from the hospitals his client has been treated at since May 28. He sought the extension of his hospital stay, saying they need some time to go through the reports.Satyanarayan informed the court that Rao’s health has recovered substantially but he was unaware whether his client could walk.In the absence of the state’s lawyers, the court accepted Satyanarayan’s request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-court-allows-varavara-rao-to-stay-in-hospital-till-january-13/story-abKq8vgdfX2VPtBfIfbUsJ.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||BJP should immediately dissolve Delhi’s municipal corporation, hold fresh polls: AAP||The AAP on Thursday demanded that the BJP immediately dissolve Delhi’s municipal corporation and hold fresh elections.Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed that the BJP has “miserably” failed to run the city’s municipal corporation.“AAP demands that the BJP should immediately dissolve the municipal corporation and a fresh election must take place,” said Bhardwaj.Bhardwaj alleged that during the 2017 municipal corporation election campaign, the then Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari had misled people by promising that there will be no scarcity of money in the municipal corporations because the BJP will directly bring in funds from the Central government.“Tiwari misled the people of Delhi by making false promises and did not bring a single penny from the Centre. He should resign from the post of MP,” said Bhardwaj.He further said despite getting the full amount of funding from the Kejriwal government and increasing the house tax and many other taxes as well, the BJP-ruled MCD claims that they do not have any money to pay the salaries of the employees. PTI UZM RDM RDM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-should-immediately-dissolve-delhi-s-municipal-corporation-hold-fresh-polls-aap/story-nSlTpBsHMDThCmhYKDNqlN.html
07-01-2021||Patna||Bihar man abducted at gunpoint and married forcefully in instance of ‘Pakadua Vivah’||21-year-old Shivam Kumar, who recently cleared the recruitment examination for General Duty (GD) service in the Indian Army, was allegedly kidnapped on gunpoint in Lakhisarai district of Bihar and forced to marry a girl at a nearby village on Thursday morning.Shivam Kumar’s father Manoj Kumar alleged that his son was abducted at gunpoint by some youths, who came in a SUV (sports utility vehicle). He told police that his son’s friends, who were out on a stroll with him in the morning, witnessed the incident and informed his family. According to the police complaint, Shivam had been selected for the GD post in army and was readying for movement to Hyderabad. The incident took place at around 6.30 am at Gangasarai village under Barahiya police station of Lakhisarai district.Irate residents of Gangasarai blocked the Lakhisarai-Patna main road, disrupting traffic for three hours, demanding recovery of the abducted youth and stern action against the culprits. The residents claimed that the Bihar police was only interested in seizing liquor, while general policing had gone for a toss.Sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Ranjan Kumar reached the spot with other policemen and tried to pacify the mob.Soon pictures of Shivam, in a nuptial knot with a woman, went viral on social media. Police swung into action and rescued the youth from Sikandra police station area in the Jamui district. Lakhisarai SP Sunil Kumar said that Shivam was rescued by the police within four hours of his abduction, however, no arrest had been made till the filing of this report.The police were conducting raids at possible hideouts of the accused.Shivam was picked up and taken to a Lord Shiva temple situated at Simaria in Jamui, where he was wedded forcefully, said police.‘Pakadua Vivah’ or forced marriage is a regular occurrence in the region, say cops. Such cases were reported mainly from Munger, Nawada, Khagaria and Begusarai districts, where prospective bride grooms are kidnapped for marriage.Earlier on December 14, one Vikash Kumar was allegedly abducted from Banarsi Chowk under Rajapakar police station of Vaishali district. His father Parmanand Rai lodged a complaint against three persons for abduction and forced marriage. A similar incident was reported from Jehanabad, where a minor was abducted from the town bus stand on December 14 and forced to marry a woman. A case has been registered with the town police station in this connection. Also Read: Talk of new chief for Bihar Congress after appointment of party in-charge Officials in the police headquarters revealed that more than 25 persons were abducted for marriages in the two months of November and December 2020.Forced wedding was a common practice in some areas of Bihar but it declined following government initiatives to curb the malice and police acting against people abducting eligible bachelors for marriages to avoid paying dowry.Statistics available with the state crime record bureau revealed that altogether 6,517 cases of forced marriages have been reported in the state in 2020. 4,498 cases were registered in 2019 and 4,301 cases were registered in 2018 compared to 3,678 in 2017 and 3,070 cases in 2016. In 2015, 3,000 cases were registered while 2,526 cases were registered in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-man-abducted-at-gunpoint-and-married-forcefully-in-instance-of-pakadua-vivah/story-tVdVyG0kyhBHCCJcTBfXwM.html
07-01-2021||City||Doing my duty, I convey problems brought to my notice: Anandiben Patel, governor UP||Governor Anandiben Patel has been visiting districts and presiding over meetings of officers about implementation of various development projects. Unlike many of her predecessors, Patel does not hold any Janata Darbars, but still she is often called a proactive governor. Umesh Raghuvanshi spoke to her about her proactive role, the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh and other issues. Excerpts.Do you hold Janata Darbar?We don’t need to hold Janata Darbar. If anyone comes to Raj Bhavan with a problem, we convey the same to the minister of the respective department. There should be no direct intervention from Raj Bhavan.Are you working as a proactive governor?I am doing my duty as a governor. I don’t like the governor spending time within the four walls of Raj Bhavan. This is why I go on tours, meet farmers, teachers and others and visit schools. I convey the problems that are brought to my notice.What about the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh?There has been a considerable improvement in the situation on the law and order front and there is a need for further improvement. I understand many incidents of crime take place because of the complicity of some officers. There are officers who remain alert. If officers remain alert and are not hand in glove with the criminals, they can bring about a lot of change. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is very alert about such incidents. The houses/buildings (of mafia/criminals) constructed illegally have been demolished recently.You have worked as chief minister of Gujarat. How do you find Uttar Pradesh?There is a difference in work culture. A desired level of activeness on the part of officers is missing. The officers should be a bit more active. There should be expeditious disposal of files. The officers should feel that files don’t remain pending with them for more than two to three days. But this keeps on happening (that) they don’t decide issues in three days. I feel bureaucracy is a bit lax in UP vis-a-vis those working in Gujarat. UP’s officers need to expedite decision-making. What about implementing the e-office?UP is a big state. They are implementing e-governance. This should show results. Works may take time. But there will be results.Your take on ordinances to make laws like the one brought to check ‘love jihad’?Yes, the state legislature has not been able to meet due to Covid-19. Under such circumstances, the governor gives nod to ordinances in the public interest.What about your visits to Varanasi?I am associated with a project on anganwadis in Varanasi. This may be a model project. The anganwadis are being repaired and painted. Toys and tricycles are being given there. I am involved as have been asked to. Now, people are coming forward to contribute. In Lucknow, 26 engineering colleges have come forward. Each of them is going to help five anganwadis.What changes have you brought about in Raj Bhavan?I have done many new things in Raj Bhavan too. The women from families of Raj Bhavan employees are being given training in chikankari. We carried out a large plantation drive. We have set up two ‘chandan vatikas’. We have set up a lotus pond and a zoo. The children (are) visiting Raj Bhavan. We are saving 25 per cent on power bills. We also took out old crockery and sent them to Kasturba Gandhi Vidyalaya. We have cleared old files that have been unnecessarily stored for years.What challenges do you face in the education sector?Yes, we do have a lot of challenges in reforming the education sector. Often, small issues cause problems for students and their parents. I have tried to set the things right in this sector. People want jobs and recruitment process should not have any flaws as this adversely affects the image of universities. We have asked for recording of all the interviews. We can call recordings to know about the candidate’s performance and the marks given. The governments in the past did not pay any attention to the issue of recruitment. A large number of cases are pending in courts and the government cannot make appointments on them.Why?This government is paying for the misdeeds of previous government. How will academic work be carried out if we don’t get teachers?How about impact of Covid-19?Yes, academic classes did not take place due to Covid-19. Those from rural background are facing problems. A way forward is being worked out. Now work on starting the classes has begun. An improvement has been noticed in the number of students attending the classes there.What about political vice chancellors?I have stopped political appointments. There is no political interference in appointments now. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his ministers don’t interfere with appointments and this has been left to me. This is done with the help of a search committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doing-my-duty-i-convey-problems-brought-to-my-notice-anandiben-patel-governor-up/story-a9r6SI8uPvxQc5eH14DjdP.html
07-01-2021||Pune||Round 2: Colleges declare cut-off list for FYJC admissions||The second special round of class 11 or the First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions is underway with the junior college allotment list for admissions on display including the cut-off list of colleges. In the second special round, of the total 38,766 available seats, there were 8,419 applicants and 5,555 students were allotted a college. The remaining 2,864 students who had applied for admission in this round couldn’t match the cut-off list of colleges with their given college preference and marks. Of the 5,555 allotted students, 3,142 students were given the college of their first preference, 908 students were given the college of their second preference and 521 students were given the college of their third preference. For this year’s class 11 admission process, a total of 72,820 students are eligible for the first round of admission in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area. Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for FYJC since September 9 and resumed back from November 26. Earlier in the three regular rounds and the first special round, the total intake of seats 1, 07,030 in Pune region, 98,871 students were allotted the seats of which 52,533 have completed the admission process and 37,396 seats are still vacant. From January 1, the special round two admission process has begun. Earlier, special round one was postponed after the Maratha community students were declared as socially and educationally backward class (SEBC) by the state government and were allowed to avail benefits of the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) on December 24. “Today the junior college allotment list for special round admissions was displayed online. Accordingly, the display of cut-off list for special admission round will be done and SMS will be sent to students. Until January 8 by 6pm, students need to confirm their admission to the allotted colleges. The admission confirmation, rejection or cancellation needs to be done by student login. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, junior colleges should collect their admission fee only through digital payment modes, like payment gateway, bank transfer (NEFT/RTGS/IMPS/UPI), any e-wallets approved by the Govt. of India or Reserve Bank of India to contain the spread of coronavirus.” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/round-2-colleges-declare-cut-off-list-for-fyjc-admissions/story-rtIjx8nosbMq3bQTilOhEL.html
07-01-2021||Pune||Despite the ban, nylon manja continues to exist in Pune markets||Despite a ban on nylon Manja, few sellers continue to sell it before the festival of Makar Sankranti. Traditional shop owners strictly avoid selling the banned kite-flying component, however, don’t deny its availability in the market. Kite shops at Raviwar peth are in full swing for business with the Sankranti festival fast approaching, most shops have put up the board which says “No Chinese Manja.” “At Raviwar peth in well-known shops you will not find the nylon Manja as it is banned but at small shops, sellers come from Ahmednagar, Aurangabad to sell the nylon Manja. You will not find them openly selling it,” said Sayyed Muzzafar, owner of Kazi Patang depot, Raviwar peth. In 2017, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned the production, storage, sale, and use of nylon or synthetic threads popularly known as “Chinese Manja” across India but excluded the cotton threads coated with glass popularly known as “Bareilly ka Manja.” “The cotton thread is loose so in order to tighten and sharpen it up, a glass material called “saras” is used. These strings are not banned,” added Muzzafar. The shop owners confirmed that before the ban, nylon Manja was openly available in the market. Arvind Salvi, bird rescue activist from Katraj snake park said, “Due to the nylon Manja, birds face severe injuries. Every year the civic body and police claim to take action on people who sell nylon Manja but it’s not to be seen and the sale of nylon Manja continues.” On a visit to Ravivar peth, HT reporter spotted buyers openly asking for the banned “nylon Manja.” “Every day five to 10 customers come to ask for nylon Manja, we have placed a board reading “nylon Manja not available” still, people ask for it and we don’t entertainment them much,” said Saadat Bagwan, who works at Bagwan Patang shop. Since the last three to four days, the rush of people buying kites has increased. “Kids love to fly kite so I am purchasing kites and strings like every year. There is no impact of Covid-19 on Makar Sankranti,” said Meena Rathi who runs a kite shop at Warje.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/despite-the-ban-nylon-manja-continues-to-exist-in-pune-markets/story-R4kpmRNER8YVLsw5LSGShJ.html
07-01-2021||Pune||Archaeological sites, monuments in Pune open doors for visitors after nine months||A day after the district administration gave a nod, various archaeological sites in Pune saw visitors for the first time in nine months. Pataleshwar caves, Aga Khan Palace and Shaniwarwada are among the many sites which operate under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in the city. These sites reopened on Wednesday almost after a shutdown of nine months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, museums in the city did not open on Wednesday. Shaniwarwada, which is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the city, was prepared to receive visitors by putting safety protocols in the place. “Yesterday, we sanitised the Shaniwarwada premises. The sanitiser stands are kept at the entrance,” said Ishwar Kawade, the officer in charge of Shaniwarwada from ASI. On the first day of reopening, the enthusiasm of the visitors was visible. Devidas Sapat, a resident of Rajgurunagar paid a visit to Shaniwarwada on Wednesday. “I had come to Pune for the post office exam. I got to know that Shaniwarwada has opened. So I came here. It’s good to be back here. I used to come here before,” Sapat said. Geetanjali Singh, a resident of Bhusavala was delighted to be inside the Shaniwarwada premises for the first time. “I have come to Pune for the first time. I always wanted to visit Shaniwarwada. I was very curious about this site. As it has reopened now, I am glad to explore its characteristics,” Singh said. According to the ASI official, the daily footfall at Shaniwarwada used to be around 2,500-3,000 and it used to go beyond 5,000 on holidays. “Since the site has opened this morning, we have seen a good response from people. The number of visitors may shoot up tomorrow. We had a digital payment option today. We may start a ticket counter from tomorrow,” said Kawade. There were visitors at the Pataleshwar caves as well. Tejal Purapatil, a resident of Pune visited the caves on the first day of reopening. “I have come here almost after a year. This place is peaceful and full of greenery,” she said. Another famous destination in the city is Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum but the museum did not open on Wednesday. “We still are waiting for the opening order copy. We are focusing on the physical cleaning of the entire premise. Also, the cleaning of artefacts and the museum’s collection is going on. It will take some time. The museum has been closed from March 17. Some technical things (like lights and all) have to be looked after. Some efforts have to be taken to bring the museum to its normal status,” said Sudhanva Hari Ranade, director of the museum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/archaeological-sites-monuments-in-pune-open-doors-for-visitors-after-nine-months/story-14hWRAnc7yexDNsGTQx3eP.html
07-01-2021||Patna||2 killed in broad daylight within 30 minutes in a case of old enmity in Purnia||Two persons were killed in a space of half an hour in a village in Purnia district of Bihar on Wednesday. Police say the murders were a result of old enmity and rivalry and that the second murder was a revenge for the first one.In the first incident 40-year-old Arun Kumar Yadav, who was returning home in his tempo, was stopped near Moujam patti village under Raghuvansh Nagar police station under Dhamdaha sub division of Purnia district and shot dead by unidentified assailants.Within half an hour of the first killing, 25-year-old Rukesh Kumar Yadav was shot dead in front of his wife, sister and 9-month old child. Rukesh was riding home on a bike with his wife and sister when he was shot dead.Arun Kumar Yadav, an auto driver, was on the way to Bihariganj, Madhepura when criminals stopped his auto and shot him dead in front of passengers. As the news of Arun’s killing spread, criminals reportedly aligned with Arun intercepted Rukesh Kumar Yadav, while he was returning home, and shot him dead.“I told my husband to stop as I had to feed milk to my 9-month-old baby between Moujam Patti and Kariapatti village, where the criminals shot my husband dead,” Rukesh’s wife said. “I begged their mercy but they didn’t listen to me and shot my husband” she added.Cops say both the murders were related to the February 2019 bomb attack on a vehicle carrying gangster-turned Congress politician Buchan Yadav. Yadav was seriously injured, while the mother of Arun Kumar Yadav was killed.Later, on a complaint by Arun Kumar Yadav, a case was lodged at Raghuvansh Nagar police station against Rukesh Kumar Yadav, nephew of gangster Buchan Yadav, and others. “Arun was being pressurised to turn hostile in the case and when he didn’t agree, he was shot dead,” police said, adding, “Rukesh was killed in retaliation.”Also Read: Bihar rural women entrepreneurs remove middlemen, change livesBuchan Yadav, who had joined Congress party had unleashed a reign of terror in Dhamdaha and was arrested several times by the police. While Buchan Yadav died recently, his family’s involvement in violence continues, said police.Purnia superintendent of police (SP) Daya Shankar has constituted a team to arrest the criminals behind the two incidents.“We have identified at least seven criminals involved in these two incidents and raids are being carried out to nab them,” said Sub divisional police officer of Dhamdaha, Ramesh Kumar.The killings have once again disturbed the peace in the area which has not seen gang wars after two notorious gangs- North Bihar Liberation Army (NBLF) and Faizan gang – were almost decimated.No FIR has been lodged yet from either side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/2-daylight-murders-within-30-minutes-in-bihar-2nd-one-was-act-of-revenge/story-5b17JhH1ZvJ1SqynEJ1H4I.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Schools reopen to thin attendance in Punjab amid Covid pandemic||Ten months since the Covid-19 outbreak, schools reopened to thin attendance in Punjab on Thursday amid confusion among school heads over the requirement of written consent from parents during the pandemic. Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla announced on Wednesday afternoon that all government government, semi-government and private schools affiliated to the Punjab School Education Board would be reopened for students from Classes 5 to 12. The decision was taken around 2pm but the authorities issued another notification around 9pm, saying only those students who bring along the written consent of their parents will be allowed to attend class. A majority of schools had only sent messages to parents to send their wards, but when the children arrived on Thursday, they were asked to submit the written consent from their parents. Government school authorities said the thin attendance at most schools was also due to the parent-teacher meeting scheduled for Thursday during which few students turn up in any case. 10% ATTENDANCE IN LUDHIANA SCHOOLS Barely 10% students attended the physical classes in Ludhiana with the authorities saying many parents were hesitant to send their wards, fearing they may contract the coronavirus infection. At the Government Primary School, Model Gram, in Ludhiana only seven of the 45 students of Class 5 came to school on Thursday. The students were accommodated by maintaining social distancing in classrooms. Jyoti Arora, an elementary training teacher at the school, said, “Parents have been informed to send their children with written consent. We expect more students to attend classes from Monday.” The situation was similar in almost all schools of the district. STRENGTH TO IMPROVE IN DAYS TO COME Twenty of the 130 students of Class 5 at Government Primary School, Haibowal Kalan, attended classes on Thursday. School head Shivani Sood said, “We asked the parents to send their wards with the written consent but most of them are not willing yet. Today’s parent-teacher meeting was aimed at motivating them. We are hopeful they will give their consent in the days to come.” Ludhiana district education officer, elementary-cum-secondary, Rajinder Kaur said, “We got an overwhelming response from parents at the PTMs. The attendance in primary and middle schools will improve in the next few days. Parents are willing to send their children as only two months are left for the final exams.” PTMs IN BATHINDA, PATIALA SCHOOLSStudents of Classes 5-8 accompanied their parents to the parent-teacher meeting (PTM), scheduled in government schools on January 7 and 8, in Bathinda, Mansa and Patiala districts. The parents were briefed by the school staff about the government’s decision to resume classes and the need for submitting a consent letter amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The principal of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Model Town, Bathinda, Saveen Kiran, said students of Classes 9 to 12 are already attending school daily for three hours to take preparatory tests or meeting teachers to clear doubts. “Since the PTM for Classes 5 to 8 is already planned on Thursday and Friday, there won’t be teaching work for two days. The government clarification came late on Wednesday that attending classes is not compulsory, so we started contacting parents to give consent letters if they wished to send their wards to attend classes,” she said. The media in-charge of the education department in Mansa, Hardeep Sidhu, also confirmed that PTMs are being held for two days. “Schools are being readied to follow the standard operation procedure (SOP) of Covid-19,” he said. Another head of a government school said they are working on how to accommodate more students willing to attend class. “Schools can cater to only 50% strength, keeping in mind the SOP. Each class can be divided into two sections and students may be called on alternate days,” the principal said. Private institutions in Bathinda are yet to decide on resuming school for students of Classes 5-8. In Patiala, government schools opened for Classes 5 to 8 and on Thursday with 50% attendance. A teacher of a government school in a village said, “Parents came in large numbers and brought their children along. Students of Class 6 were excited to meet their new teachers and friends after having completed primary school. In Amritsar, schools reported poor attendance on the opening day. District education officer (secondary) Satinder Singh said the strength will increase from Monday. (With inputs from Bathinda, Patiala and Amritsar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schools-reopen-to-thin-attendance-in-punjab-amid-covid-pandemic/story-zw91rvkRkTXKBX3ZWK2fFN.html
07-01-2021||Bhopal||ED raids several locations in MP, Andhra and Karnataka over e-tendering racket case||The ED has conducted searches at multiple locations in Bhopal, Hyderabad and Bengaluru as part of its money laundering probe in the over Rs 3,000-crore alleged e-tender rigging racket of Madhya Pradesh, official sources said on Thursday.They said the agency launched the searches to collect evidence early this week at locations of various suspects involved in the case, and the action is being conducted under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).At least 15-16 locations in Bhopal, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru have been searched, including that of the former chief secretary of Madhya Pradesh. Searches were underway at some places on Thursday, the sources said.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had filed a criminal case last year to probe the instance where it was alleged that the e-tender portal of the state government was hacked to manipulate tenders and grab contracts, and it was allegedly done when the BJP was in power.A case was first filed by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Madhya Pradesh Police when the previous Congress government under chief minister Kamal Nath was in power in the state. The ED studied this FIR to file the case under the PMLA.The EOW has filed cases against directors and marketing representatives of seven companies, unknown officials of five state government departments and certain politicians.They were charged under IPC section 420 (cheating), the Information Technology Act, and the Prevention of Corruption Act.The seven construction companies involved in the alleged racket were identified as GVPR Limited and Ms Max Maintaina (both based in Hyderabad), The Hume Pipe Limited and JMC Limited (both based in Mumbai), Sorathia Velji Limited and Ms Madhav Infra Projects (both based in Vadodara) and Ram Kumar Narwani Limited (based in Bhopal), the EOW had said in a statement.Some officials of Bhopal-based OSMO IT Solution, which issued ‘signature certificate’ for e-tenders, too were charged.Government departments, including Jal Nigam, Lok Nirman Vibhag (Public Works Department and its Project Implementation unit), MP Road Development Corporation and Water Resources Development, had floated nine tenders which were allegedly tampered with.Some officials of two software firms which developed the e-tendering portal of the MP Electronic Development Corporation are also under the scanner for leaking information which allowed hacking of the portal, EOW officials had said.The companies allegedly hacked the MP e-tendering portal to quote lowest rates and bag projects worth Rs 3,000 crore between January and March, 2018.These tenders were later cancelled. PTI NES IJT IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ed-raids-several-locations-in-mp-andhra-and-karnataka-over-e-tendering-racket-case/story-B1GSlWYRZT55lZVq6ek9PK.html
07-01-2021||Lucknow||BJP may win 10 UP legislative council seats out of the 12 going to polls||On the basis of its strength in the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in a position to win 10 seats in the legislative council elections to be held on January 8.In the 100-member legislative council, the SP has 55 members, BJP 32, BSP 8 and Congress 2. The strength of the BJP is likely to increase in the council after the biennial election. A meeting of the BJP state election committee was held in the party office on Monday. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was also present in the meeting. The BJP state committee authorised the party’s state unit president to send the list of candidates to the central election committee for approval. The party is set to re-nominate deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh and senior leader Laxman Acharya, said party insiders.Other probable candidates include Govind Narayan Shukla, JPS Rathore, Priyanka Rawat, Anup Gupta, Ashwini Tyagi, Rajnikant Maheswari, Manvendra Singh, Mahesh Srivastava and Anjana Mahaur, as per the party insider. Also Read: Akhilesh Yadav sets up 3-member panel to ‘probe’ Badaun gang-rape and murderThe MLCs who are retiring include Dinesh Sharma, Swatantra Dev Singh, Laxman Prasad Acharya, Congress leader Naseemuddin Siddiqui (who has already been disqualified), BSP leaders Dharam Veer Singh Ashok and Pradeep Kumar Jatav, Samajwadi Party leaders Ahmad Hasan, Ashu Malik, Ramesh Yadav, Ram Jatan Rajbhar, Sahab Singh Saini and Virendra Singh. The biennial election to the 12 legislative council seats falling vacant on January 30 will be held on January 28. The election commission announced the schedule for the election on Wednesday. Chief electoral officer, Uttar Pradesh, Ajay Kumar Shukla said the notification for the biennial election would be issued on January 11. The last date for filing of nominations was January 18 and scrutiny of the nomination papers would be done on January 19. The last date for withdrawal of candidature was January 21, he said, adding that polling would be held on January 28 from 9 am to 4 pm and counting of votes would commence at 5 pm on January 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-may-win-10-up-legislative-council-seats-out-of-the-12-going-to-polls/story-DwXgfAuuYRI6JKmA5cJcRL.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt extends tenure of DGP Manoj Yadava till further orders||The Haryana government on Thursday extended the tenure of director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava till further orders.Yadava was appointed as head of police force on February 18, 2019, for a period of two years though he has more than four years to retire.As per the directions of the Supreme Court, the DGP should have a minimum tenure of at least two years irrespective of his date of superannuation. The apex court direction does not bar the state government from extending the DGP’s tenure beyond two years if the incumbent is in service, officials said. Yadava, who remained posted as additional director in the Intelligence Bureau (IB) for several years, was among three IPS officers recommended by a committee of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for appointment as the state police chief.The officers had returned to his parent cadre after a 15-year stint with the IB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-extends-tenure-of-dgp-manoj-yadava-till-further-orders/story-pfRSZo8tlzoe5xfy3DkiFL.html
07-01-2021||Environment||4 blackbucks attacked by dogs inside Katraj zoo, die of cardiac shock||Four blackbucks at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park at Katraj, Pune died in an attack by a pack of feral dogs on Wednesday.“We found four blackbucks injured badly inside their enclosure, where a pack of feral dogs had attacked them. The blackbucks got injured with the dogs chasing them. Four blackbucks died due to cardiac shock,” said Dr Rajkumar Jadhav, director of the zoo.There were 34 blackbucks in the enclosure. According to the director, the dogs jumped over the rear wall of the enclosure to get inside. “We will be increasing the height of the rear parapet wall, surrounding the enclosure, to ensure no such incident takes place again,” added Jadhav.Also Read: Wildlife Board nod to rail tracks through protected Western GhatsThe zoo currently has 448 animals and about 100 staffers to guard and take care of the animals.The zoo has remained closed to the public since March 14, 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. On any normal weekday, the zoo would see 5,000-10,000 visitors, while on weekends the number would rise to 12,000-18,000 visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/4-blackbucks-attacked-by-dogs-inside-katraj-zoo-die-of-cardiac-shock/story-V1nBPYGHZJb3t0Sl3Ap5ZP.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fog disrupts early morning flights, officials say impact not much||Fog disrupted flight operations at the Delhi airport early Thursday as a number of departures were delayed and one incoming flight from Kolkata had to be diverted to Jaipur. However, officials maintained there wasn’t much impact as all the three runways continued operations throughout. CAT III low visibility procedures were implemented around 1.45am and the visibility dropped to 175 metres at the airport, affecting some departing flights and leaving several passengers stranded. Even though arrivals continued smoothly, one SpiceJet flight from Kolkata could not land at the Delhi airport due to dense fog as the flight captain was not equipped to land in CAT III. The flight was diverted to Jaipur.Also Read: Delhi: Dense fog, calm winds lead to further deterioration of air quality, AQI in ‘poor’ zoneOther than this, the fog also affected the following departures that were scheduled. Officials, however, said since the frequency of flights is low during the night and the airport is also not performing flight operations to its full capacity as it used to before the Covid-19 lockdown, the impact of fog was not much.“The delay in departures is expected to normalise by the afternoon as visibility improved in the morning. Adequate arrangements for passengers, be it sufficient seating or availability of food and beverages, and deployment of marshals to manage traffic outside the terminals, have already been put in place,” said an official from the Delhi airport who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-fog-disrupts-early-morning-flights-officials-say-impact-not-much/story-6yvhusy7Hox92JFINBZ82O.html
07-01-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav sets up 3-member panel to ‘probe’ Badaun gang-rape and murder||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has decided to set up a three-member committee of party members to get to the bottom of the gang rape and murder of the 50-year old women of Badaun district. SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said the committee headed by former party MP Dharmendra Yadav would visit the spot on January 7 and “probe” the incident. The committee would also meet the family of the victim and console them. The woman was gang-raped and killed allegedly by a priest and his two accomplices on Sunday when she had gone to a temple. Police said that apart from injuries in her private parts, the victim’s legs and ribcage bones were found fractured.While the priest is on the run, his two accomplices were arrested on Tuesday night after post-mortem confirmed rape, police had said on Wednesday.The National Commission for Women (NCW) has written to state director general of police (DGP) Hitesh C Awasthy, seeking his intervention in the case.NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said that a member of the commission will go to the spot to investigate the matter.“We have taken cognizance of the matter. We have written a letter to DGP. One NCW member is going to the spot to investigate the matter to meet the family and the police and take stock of the situation. NCW will be following this case closely and we will make sure that justice will be delivered,” she said.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath govt paying for misdeeds of previous government: PatelThe Congress party has sought a judicial probe by a sitting high court judge into the incident.It also demanded that the victim’s family be given a compensation of Rs 50 lakh.Party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government over the gang-rape and murder, alleging that there was something wrong in the intentions of the Uttar Pradesh administration on the issue of women’s security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/akhilesh-yadav-sets-up-3-member-panel-to-probe-badaun-gang-rape-and-murder/story-lpnwIsjZXI6ISDLxLP90nL.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Saamana editorial praises Rahul Gandhi; calls him a ‘warrior’ for standing up against Centre||Days after attacking Rahul Gandhi over his leadership, Shiv Sena on Thursday heaped praise on the Congress leader and said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is afraid of him. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana called Gandhi a “warrior” who has stood up against the Centre.“Those in power in Delhi fear Rahul Gandhi. Otherwise, government campaigns to discredit the Gandhi family would not have been carried out. A dictator is afraid even if one man is against him, and if this lone warrior is honest, the fear increases hundredfold. Rahul Gandhi’s fear is that hundredfold,” the editorial in Saamana said.Sena MP and executive editor of Saamana Sanjay Raut had, two weeks ago, criticised Gandhi and his leadership and also expressed the need to galvanise United Progressive Alliance as a combative Opposition. He had also hinted that Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar could be the consensus candidate to head UPA.The editorial added that despite being targeted by the BJP, Gandhi stood against them. It said, “Despite propagating that Rahul Gandhi is a weak leader, he is still standing and attacking the government at any opportunity he gets... the Opposition will, at some point, rise from the ashes like the Phoenix. This is what the history of the country says.”The Sena took on the Centre for the alleged use of Central agencies such as Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department, Central Bureau of Investigation, etc against its political opponents. “There may be differences among political opponents, but the policy of strangling the Opposition and hanging their heads at Delhi’s Vijay Chowk is shocking... Agencies like Income Tax Department, ED etc. are extremely honest. There can be no doubt about their political allegiance. They will not go to anyone’s house and knock on the door unless the political boss gives a signal. So there is no point in blaming them [the agencies],” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/saamana-editorial-praises-rahul-gandhi-calls-him-a-warrior-for-standing-up-against-centre/story-ylv1CkAo4Fg445sVTThl7J.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps customs authorities for acting contrary to court orders||The Bombay high court on Wednesday lambasted the Commissioner of Customs (Appeals), Mumbai Zone-1, for acting contrary to an earlier court order to forthwith release a large consignment of yellow peas imported from China.“Prima facie the above directions of respondent No.2 (the customs commissioner) are totally in contravention to the order of this court,” said the bench comprising justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Abhay Abuja, while staying the order.Acting on separate petitions filed by two importers, Harihar Collection and Raj Grow Impex LLP, the bench had on October 15, 2020 held that withholding of their imported consignments by customs was not justified and had ordered the customs authorities to forthwith release the goods.Also Read: Bombay HC interim relief for Arnab Goswami and other employees of Republic TV to continue till January 15Two months later, Raj Grow Impex LLP again moved the high court challenging December 24, 2020 order passed by the customs commissioner. Its counsel, Dr Sujay Kantawala, pointed out that the on December 24, 2020, the customs commissioner had ordered absolute confiscation of part of the consignment, and the order was completely contrary to the earlier high court order.The high court accepted Dr Kantawala’s contention and observed that the view taken by respondent No.2 (customs commissioner) that the decision of the high court to the order releasing the goods was “prima facie not correct.”“When the high court had directed release of the goods forthwith, it is beyond comprehension as to how a lower appellate authority can nullify such direction by ordering absolute confiscation of such goods,” said the bench. “It is not only unacceptable but contemptuous as well.”The high court has now directed the customs authorities to comply with the earlier orders and sought a compliance report by January 27, 2021.In a separate proceeding, also initiated by Raj Grow Impex LLP, the bench on Wednesday issued notices to customs commissioner Manoj Kedia, deputy commissioner Ram Nath Purohit and assistant commissioner KK Sharma, asking them to show cause as to why a proceeding for contempt should not be initiated against them. They have been given time till January 21, 2021 to respond to the notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-customs-authorities-for-acting-contrary-to-court-orders/story-STI2uHFNAy3WmV4e9O7TFL.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC alleges actor Sonu Sood turned residential building into hotel, files complaint||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has filed a complaint against Bollywood actor Sonu Sood with the Mumbai Police alleging he converted a residential building in Juhu into a hotel, confirmed officials of BMC on Thursday.BMC filed the complaint on January 4, under the Maharashtra Region and Town Planning (MRTP) Act. BMC has alleged alterations, change of user and unauthorised additions in Shakti Sagar, a residential building on Juhu’s AB Nair Road, by Sood.Also Read: Sonu Sood shares his ‘biggest achievement’ as his hometown Moga gets a road named after his late motherVishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC’s K west ward of BMC said, “We have filed a complaint against Sonu Sood for converting a residential building into a hotel on January 4. We are coordinating with the Mumbai Police for the investigation.”BMC had reportedly issued a notice to Sood regarding the matter earlier. Sood, in October, had moved the city civil court against the notice. “A First Information Report, however, has not been registered yet. The BMC engineer concerned should personally approach us and point out structural changes or any violations in his for the FIR,”said assistant commissioner of police Suhas Raikar. Sood’s spokesperson said that an official statement will be issued in the matter soon. Sood was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-alleges-actor-sonu-sood-turned-residential-building-into-hotel-files-complaint/story-mFmnqY0fRAiN6kCzl9XfhK.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Assistant labour commissioner, clerk arrested while taking bribe||Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) officials have arrested an assistant labour commissioner and a clerk here in Mumbai while allegedly accepting bribe from a commercial artist who had applied for registration of an artist’s association. The two had demanded a bribe of Rs25,000 each to process his application.The accused have been identified as Anand Dhanaji Bhosale, 40, and Tanaji Gyanoba Salunkhe, 48. Bhosale is an assistant labour commissioner and deputy registrar of Konkan region at the office of Labour Commissioner, Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), while Salunkhe is a senior clerk in the same office.The complainant is a commercial sculptor and had applied for the registration of sculptors’ association, ‘Shri Ganesh Murtikar Kamgar Sanghatna (Maharashtra State)’.According to ACB officials, Bhosale and Salunkhe had allegedly demanded Rs25,000 each from the complainant to process his application. The sculptor then approached ACB and lodged a complaint.After due verification on Wednesday, ACB laid a trap and arrested Bhosale and Salunkhe while accepting Rs15,000 and Rs 5,000 bribe respectively.Both have been charged under relevant sections of Prevention of Corruption Act. The ACB investigators will now scrutinise the bank accounts of the accused and will also search their premises to check if they have amassed properties from bribes in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-assistant-labour-commissioner-clerk-arrested-while-taking-bribe/story-QeakazaF8ztK541oU0dNhJ.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Lahaul-Spiti restricts entry of vehicles till Jan 24 due to heavy snowfall||In view of inclement weather in the high-altitude Lahaul-Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh, the administration has decided to allow tourist vehicles to enter the valley through Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass only from 10am to 11am and from 12 noon to 3pm. Vehicles that enter during this period are to leave the valley by 4pm. “Tourists with advance bookings in hotels and homestays at Keylong, Udaipur or any other location in Lahaul will be allowed to reach their destination subject to road worthiness and weather conditions,” Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai said on Thursday. These orders will be applicable till January 24. The tunnel will remain closed for maintenance between 11am and 12 noon. Also read: After four days, flight operations resume at Srinagar airportLocal residents familiar with the road conditions and habitual of driving in the valley have also been advised to reach their destinations by 5pm except in case of any emergency. They have been advised to prefer 4x4 vehicles with chains. RESTRICTIONS IN PUBLIC INTEREST : DCRai said that the movement of vehicles, particularly of tourists, is on the rise in the valley ever since the Atal Tunnel was inaugurated in October last year. Due to the snowfall and low temperatures in the Lahaul valley, the roads get slippery during early morning and evening, making driving risky. “The restrictions have been imposed in public interest and safety. It is necessary to avoid accidents,” he said. Due to the snowfall and bad road conditions due to icing, the Lahaul-Spiti police authorities are consulting their Border Roads Organisation (BRO) counterparts and coordinating with Kullu district police for allowing the movement of vehicles beyond Solang Nala towards North Portal of Atal Tunnel. INTENSE COLD WAVE CONDITIONS Himachal Pradesh is experiencing intense cold wave conditions with the minimum temperatures in the state falling four degrees since Wednesday as snowfall and rainfall continue in scattered places across the state. Kalpa received 6cm snow, while Dalhousie recorded 12mm of rain, Dharamshala 11.8mm, Manali 9mm, Chamba 8mm, Una 3mm and Shimla 0.8mm on Wednesday. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that the weather is likely to remain clear in the state on Thursday. The minimum temperature in Shimla on Thursday morning was 3.9°C, while Kufri, 14km from Shimla, recorded 0°C. Hill stations of Manali in Kullu district, Dharamshala in Kangra district and Dalhousie in Chamba district recorded a minimum temperature of -1.2°C, 4.6°C and 2.9°C. Una recorded a low of 6.6°C, Solan 2.2°C, Bilaspur 9°C, Hamirpur 8.8°C, Mandi 4.1°C and Nahan 10.9°C, respectively. Kalpa in Kinnaur district registered a low of -5°C and Keylong, the headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state at -11.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-lahaul-spiti-restricts-entry-of-vehicles-till-jan-24-due-to-heavy-snowfall/story-dxvztIsVj3xuaKsgt9eCIN.html
07-01-2021||Patna||Bihar rural women entrepreneurs remove middlemen, change lives||In 2008, when Kosi floods wreaked unprecedented havoc, Kiran Devi had to leave her in-law’s house in Madhepura to stay at her father’s home at Dhokwa village, 40 km from Purnia town in Bihar.Married to a labourer in 1990, Kiran Devi didn’t have any seed money to start over her flood-ravaged life but displayed entrepreneurial spirit to bring together nine other women to launch a cooperative firm a year later in 2009 that has changed the agricultural landscape in the area. Today, the Aranayak Agri Producers Company Limited (AAPCL) has 5,753 members including 122 producers’ groups (PGs) made up of women farmers.Even during the stringent lockdown following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, these women entrepreneurs procured 2004 metric tonnes (MTs) of maize from 533 women farmers spread in five blocks of Purnia and Katihar districts.“We are running it with the cooperation and coordination among over 5,000 women shareholders in five blocks of Dhamdaha, Bhawanipur, Barahara Kothi and Banmankhi—all in Purnia and Kodha in Katihar,” says 45-year old Kiran Devi.During these years, Bihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society run programme ‘Jeevika’ helped these women by becoming their facilitators by providing training and managing funds. The venture turned a corner in 2015 -16, when it procured 1014 MT (metric tonne) of maize worth about Rs 1.50 crore from 299 PGs. Since then, it has been an upward curve.“During the pandemic, we held an online meeting with over 5,000 shareholders and decided to procure maize by following proper guidelines,” Kiran Devi said.The AAPCL has put a check on middlemen in the areas. “Our company has saved women farmers from falling into the hands of middlemen,” says Sabita Devi. “We give profit to farmers without middlemen and mandis,” she adds.“All these women are illiterate, but they are teaching the rural people the economics of well-being,” says Rajeev Ranjan, manager (communications) at Jeevika in Purnia.Also Read: Talk of new chief for Bihar Congress after appointment of party in-chargeKiran Devi said her company has started procuring bananas and fox nuts/ lotus seeds (makhana) from this year. She thanked Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar for recognising their efforts.“Besides Nitish Kumar, I have been felicitated by the Prime Minister and the Union finance minister,” she says, giving all credit to women farmers.“There is proper auditing of our company. We also have a storage facility. We sell maize to glucose manufacturing companies and other companies directly and earn a good profit and dividends are distributed among the shareholders,” she adds proudly.Kiran Devi was busy preparing her presentation for Nitish Kumar, who is scheduled to visit them on Thursday.“I am both elated and nervous,” she says before dropping a hint of what lies behind her success, which has come without any formal education in farm or business management. “We are managers by default. If we can run a house without doing any course, we can run a company too,” she said with confidence in her eyes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-rural-women-entrepreneurs-remove-middlemen-change-lives/story-138TPddINa0V9GAlJPIlBN.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Municipal corporation employees go on indefinite strike over non-payment of salaries||Several employees of the three municipalities — north, east and south — of Delhi went on an indefinite strike from Thursday against non-payment of their pending salaries and pensions. The strike has been called under the aegis of the Confederation of MCD Employees Union — an umbrella body of civic employees unions. The agitated employees also staged a protest at the Civil Lines zonal office of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and demanded the release of their pending salaries. Also Read: Delhi: Minor glitches reported during second vaccination dry run at 66 sitesAP Khan, convenor, Confedration of MCD Employees Union, said that employees in different departments of the north civic body have not been paid salaries for the last four or five months, while the salaries of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) employees have been pending for the last three months. In South Delhi Municipal Corporation, employees’ pensions are not being cleared.“Employees have been working without salary for four or five months and now they are unable to take care of their families. We have raised the issue with the authorities several times but to no avail. We are compelled to go on strike until our demands are met. We want all our pending salaries and pensions to be cleared and a permanent solution to this problem,” Khan said.Employees who are participating in the strike include teachers, engineers, staff of the horticulture department, clerical staff, Domestic Breeding Checkers (DBC) workers, and fourth-class employees such as beldars and labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-municipal-corporation-employees-go-on-indefinite-strike-over-non-payment-of-salaries/story-qJB6FAQGTQFaRm3pQFhLuI.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Ten districts in Maharashtra have more than 3% case fatality rate||Even as there has been a steady drop in the Covid-19 cases in the state, Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR), or the proportion of people who have died of the disease among those diagnosed with it, is the second-highest in the country at 2.55. Ten districts including Mumbai have a CFR of over 3%.The CFR dropped to 2.55% on January 6 compared to 2.64% on October 6. The positivity rate during this period dipped to 14.88 from 20.24%. The recovery rate improved to 94.79 from 80.48%.The national CFR has dropped to 1.45% from 1.55% three months ago. It has come down to 1.74% from 2.44% in Gujarat.Mumbai has the highest CFR in Maharashtra at 3.8% followed by Parbhani (3.7%), Sangli (3.5%), and Ratnagiri (3.4%), according to the state health department.“Unlike a few other states we do not hide cases...the Covid-19 cases are not put in other categories of deaths,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope while explaining the state’s higher CFR.Barring Mumbai, the districts with high CFR either have poor health infrastructure or low testing per million because of the poor contact tracing. “Mumbai is an exception to all these and the high CFR in Mumbai is mostly because of the critical cases referred to Mumbai hospital from surrounding cities and areas,” said an official.State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate said the state has been concentrating on the districts with high CFR. “The districts are monitored through weekly reports and projections. The district administrations are told to take corrective measures to bring the mortality down. By bringing the mortality in these districts down, the overall state CFR can be reduced. Our weekly CFR now has drastically come down and hovers at around 1.7% currently. The daily positivity rate has dropped to 6.5%. The CFR was 5.2 in August, which has dropped now to 2.5%... the overall CFR will drop below 2%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-ten-districts-in-maharashtra-have-more-than-3-case-fatality-rate/story-CTePKJh7qxDhnWnyQoLGKO.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Two alleged robbers assaulted, stripped and paraded in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police have booked 15 people from Kachpada area in Kandivali (West) for assaulting, stripping, and parading two alleged robbers after shaving their heads.The alleged robbers broke into a house and stole a mobile phone and Rs30,000 in cash late on Wednesday night. Residents caught the two, kept them in a room where they were assaulted and stripped. The robbers were forced to confess to their alleged crime while the assault was being recorded.The police were questioning the men seen in the video of the assault and also trying to identify those who shot it. “We will arrest the men who committed the offence,” said a police officer from the Kandivali police station. He added the residents should have informed the police and handed the alleged robbers over to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-alleged-robbers-assaulted-stripped-and-paraded-in-mumbai/story-ibul4bEhIHaPfB2JD8a4xH.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Most commuters not allowed on suburban trains, ticketless travel on the rise||With a limited section of commuters allowed on suburban local trains, the number of ticketless, unauthorised passengers has gone up significantly. The Railways has increased surveillance to book and has found a sharp rise in ticketless commuters compared to pre-Covid times.Central Railways has booked 77,500 unauthorised commuters attempting to travel by local trains between July 2020 and January 5, 2021. The daily number of ticketless commuters booked was 1,000 against around 4.5 million commuters before the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020. It has increased to 1,500 unauthorised commuters booked daily when the number of commuters is restricted to 800,000 daily. Also Read: Maharashtra realty boost: Construction premiums are slashed by 50%A fine of Rs1.67 crore has been recovered from ticketless travellers between July 2020 and January 5, 2021.Suspended in the third week of March after the lockdown was announced, train services resumed from July 15 for those working in essential services, the specially abled and cancer patients. Women commuters and lawyers were also allowed to commute during a stipulated time. However, the number of unauthorised commuters is still huge and according to the Railways authorities ,it ranges between 30-40% of the total commuters now. The zonal railways has increased checking of passengers and is conducting surprise ticket inspections in different locations at railway stations and in local train compartments. In January, the Central Railways has booked 1,500 cases of ticketless commute every day. On Tuesday, 2,039 cases were registered. “There has been an increase in unauthorised commuting from November. People, after being denied tickets at the booking office as they are not permitted by the state government to travel by local trains, were found boarding trains and travelling without tickets. Inspections have increased throughout all suburban railway stations.” said a senior Central Railways official. The Central Railways currently operates 1,580 local trains daily on its main, harbour and trans-harbour lines. The Western Railways operates 1,201 local trains. During normal operations, Central Railways runs 1,774 services, while Western Railways operates 1,367.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-most-commuters-not-allowed-on-suburban-trains-ticketless-travel-on-the-rise/story-sI4y1XYSjxPY41nLf1LsDO.html
07-01-2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat polls: BJP begins 10-day rural connect to find new, young faces||On the eve of the launch of a 10-day rural-connect programme ahead of the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh, the state unit of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has asked its key functionaries to desist from seeking tickets for themselves or relatives since the party wants to give its cadres the opportunity to contest in the rural polls.The 10-day campaign was also aimed at browsing the state’s countryside for local faces with strong ground connect, BJP leaders said after a meeting on Wednesday. “The rural connect initiative would continue till January 17,” said Himanshu Dubey of the BJP. He said senior BJP functionaries, including party chief Swatantra Dev and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, would visit various parts of the state to galvanise the cadre for the polls. While the state BJP chief will be in Siddharthnagar on Friday, general secretary (organisation) will be in Kanpur (dehat) and Kanpur on Thursday. The party general secretaries will also tour different parts of the state. “It has been broadly decided that we would field maximum cadres in these elections. Those functionaries directly associated with panchayat poll responsibilities will not be allowed to contest these polls,” said a party leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: CM Adityanath orders another dry run for Covid vaccination BJP state unit joint general secretary (organisation), Bhawani Singh, and regional chief of Gorakhpur region, Dharmendra Singh, will be in Sant Kabir Nagar, general secretary Amarpal Maurya will be in Lucknow and Awadh region chief, Shesh Narayan Mishra, will be in Bahraich on Thursday. This will be followed by another round of campaign on Friday, when another co-general secretary (organisation) Karmvir and general secretary JPS Rathore will visit Meerut. Amarpal Maurya will be in Hardoi, Ashwini Tyagi will be in Agra, Awadh region chief Shesh Narayan Mishra will be in Shravasti, Kanpur region chief Manvendra Pratap Singh will be in Auraiya and Kashi region chief Mahesh Chandra Srivastava will be in Sonbhadra, party leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-panchayat-polls-bjp-begins-10-day-rural-connect-to-find-new-young-faces/story-rMR1SH62PDWlBfKgiMgjHP.html
07-01-2021||Patna||Talk of new chief for Bihar Congress after appointment of party in-charge||Speculations of a change of guard in Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) is rife after the All India Congress Committee named former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das as the new in-charge of the state.Current BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha is reported to have had offered to relinquish the post along with former AICC in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil and his secretaries, Virendra Rathore and Ajay Kapoor, after the party’s poor performance in the recently concluded Assembly elections, which saw its tally reduce to 19 seats, eight less than the number of seats won in the previous Assembly polls.Former Union minister Subodh Kant Sahay, who campaigned intensively in Bihar during the elections, said a new team was needed to rejuvenate the organisation in the politically significant state.A section of senior party leaders pleaded that an urgent strengthening of the organisation was required through a revamp from the grassroots level.“The state unit continued to run in an ad-hoc manner after Jha was made the president in September 2018. AICC refused to clear the panel of functionaries of BPCC during Jha’s tenure. However, five working presidents were appointed to assist the president in routine official matters,” said a senior leader.“The change in BPCC is imminent also because Jha has completed almost three years as its president, an ideal tenure for any leader. Extension is generally granted on this post if achievements are extraordinary,” said another senior leader.Also Read: Congress appoints senior observers for poll-bound statesSenior leaders of the party, most of whom are aspiring for the BPCC chief’s post, have already intensified lobbying with leaders in the AICC. “The change is almost on the cards. The process is believed to have been so confidential that none is able to get any hint,” said a party legislator, adding that BPCC campaign committee chief and Rajya Sabha member, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, is among the top contenders for the post of the state chief.Kadwa MLA Shakil Ahmad Khan, BPCC working president Samir Kumar Singh, MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, former MLA and state Mahila Congress chief Amita Bhushan, senior leader Kishore Kumar Jha and former BPCC vice president Pravin Kushwaha are also said to be in the race. Some leaders, however, believed that the new president may be named after the visit of Das, which is likely next week.Also Read: Jitan Ram Manjhi pushes for cabinet, legislative council seat in BiharFormer BPCC chief Anil Sharma on Wednesday urged chief minister Nitish Kumar to recommend names of freedom fighter late Veer Kunwar Singh, former chief minister Shrikrishna Singh, socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan, former deputy Prime Minister Jagjivan Ram and former CM Karpoori Thakur for award of Bharat Ratna in recognition of their ‘outstanding’ contributions during pre and post Independence era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/talk-of-new-chief-for-bihar-congress-after-appointment-of-party-in-charge/story-5XjXteBdyD7Z9tLtaL1N5I.html
07-01-2021||Kolkata||IIT Kharagpur researchers develop air-borne mobile telecom tower for emergencies||A team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) at Kharagpur in West Bengal has developed a drone fleet which can provide portable and air-borne 5G communication network. Researchers said that the UAVs could serve as air-borne mobile telecom towers during emergencies such as natural disasters when land-based communication networks are damaged by earthquake and floods. “The system includes an Android-based application fitted to a fleet of drones which are programmed to create emergency communication networks by extending cellular network coverage from the closest available mobile towers,” said Debarati Sen, a professor at GS School of Telecommunication at IIT Kharagpur, who led the team. The team has submitted a report to the union ministry of electronics and information technology which funded the project. Also Read: BJP national chief JP Nadda to visit poll-bound Bengal a month after convoy attackUAVs pose a major challenge as the battery life of the device is just about 45 minutes. This makes them it difficult to maintain consistency in the service. Scientists said that during an emergency situation, it is crucial to protect critical data within a micro span of time. “Through intelligent programming, we can deploy the 5G-connected drone fleet in a particular location as soon as the first emergency signal is flagged. Endangered data in the telecommunication backbone network could be retrieved within the first three minutes of the occurrence of a disaster. The drones will relay the data to the rescue server which is located thousands of miles away while restoring the network connection through the nearest mobile tower,” said Sen In the case of network disruptions, the drones can intelligently avoid them by changing their locations and bypassing the jam. In addition to data protection, the fleet could also be used to locate survivors and provide emergency aid while decreasing the time for first responders. Rescuers and officials travelling to an affected region devoid of any cellular network can be auto-connected to such drone services nearby as they search for the mobile network. “We have already studied the performance of the UAV network in situations of emergency response in disaster management and maintenance of the quality of service by deploying a fleet of four unmanned aerial vehicles. We have used network coverage data of various mobile service providers in the northeastern states to verify the functionality,” Sen said. The team is now trying to bring down the cost of such a UAV system through reprogramming to make the system affordable for various public bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/iit-kharagpur-researchers-develop-air-borne-mobile-telecom-tower-for-emergencies/story-SXQ5ObREBJxIDZmahqhBfI.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Tractor rally today likely to disrupt traffic on Delhi outskirts||Traffic is likely to be disrupted on the outskirts of Delhi on the 43rd day of farmers’ agitation as the protesters plan to carry out a tractor march on Thursday, converging on the eastern and western peripheral expressways that form a ring around the national Capital. This is likely to affect commuters on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and the National Highway-9.The tractor march comes a day ahead of another round of talks with the government over farmers’ demand for repeal of the three farm laws passed by Centre in September. Last week, agitating farmers had announced that Thursday’s tractor march would be a ‘rehearsal’ of their march on Rajpath on January 26, Republic Day.Shalini Singh, joint commissioner of police (western range), said that since the march is not scheduled to enter Delhi, the police arrangement would remain as before but traffic on the outskirts is likely to be affected.Also read | Farmers make their protest waterproof at Singhu borderPolice in Gautam Buddh Nagar said they will enforce diversions on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal or Eastern Peripheral Expressway. “In view of this, vehicles will not be allowed to get on the eastern peripheral expressway from Beel Akbarpur and Sirsa cut towards Palwal from 12pm to 3pm. Similarly, vehicles won’t be allowed on the expressway from Sirsa cut and Beel Akbarpur towards Sonipat from 2pm to 5pm and will be diverted,” police said in a statement.National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials also said the tractor march will affect traffic on both eastern and western peripheral expressways. “Tractors are not allowed on eastern periphery expressway and there will be traffic disruption if they carry out a march. We will speak to the district officials about the issue,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.Meanwhile, Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continue to remain closed at several points on Thursday due to the ongoing agitation. The Capital’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur have remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad while the opposite carriageway remains open.For those coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, the traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected.For borders between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, Saboli, and Mangesh continue to remain closed.Jhatikara border is open for light vehicles and pedestrians while only a single carriageway of the Jharoda border is open for traffic.The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists who need to travel between Delhi and Haryana can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-tractor-rally-today-likely-to-disrupt-traffic-on-delhi-outskirts/story-cUCeZQf5xxkggPzII27nNN.html
07-01-2021||Lucknow||PAC deployment, restricted entry at main Covid vaccine reserves in UP||To avert any security breach and damage to Covid-19 vaccine stores, the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) will be deployed at state, regional and district-level reserve centres for vaccines, said senior police officers here on Wednesday.Additional Director General (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar said a detailed security plan has been planned for the key reserves of vaccines. He said entry to the reserves will be restricted and fire tenders and fire fighters will also be deputed at the main reserves of the state, regions and districts.Also Read: 15 more test +ve for new UK Covid strain, total 73He added proper route charts are being prepared for the transportation of vaccines from storage places to designated vaccination centres. For this, the police is roping in civil defence personnel as well, he added.Lucknow’s Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP) Naveen Arora said the police and PAC will be deployed round the clock at the main vaccine reserves.He said other than the state, regional and district reserves in Lucknow, as many as 24 small distribution centres have been made here. Arora said at least 64 vaccination centres with 185 vaccination counters have been set up. He said there will be the maximum number of vaccination counters--34-- on the premises of King George Medical University, following which extra police force will be deployed there to assist people.He said each counter will have one head constable or constable and one home guard at the exit. He said each centre will be under supervision of one sub-inspector who will be assisted by one head constable and two constables. Twelve assistant commissioners of police will be made nodal officers of their region in Lucknow. For transportation, a set of three police personnel are likely to be deployed, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pac-deployment-restricted-entry-at-main-covid-vaccine-reserves-in-up/story-mqYhuzZgwQDg6IFoagdoSO.html
07-01-2021||Patna||Covid-19 vaccination: Bihar prepares for state-wide dry run on January 8||All 38 districts of Bihar will have a dry run on January 8 for smooth roll-out of the coronavirus vaccination programme. It will be conducted at three types of sites in every district including medical college/ district hospital, private facility, urban/rural outreach centre under the overall leadership of district magistrates with close supervision by the state health officials. Earlier, a limited dry run in identified districts of the country was held on January 2 to assess the preparedness, including testing of the CoWIN IT system. Three session sites each in the district headquarters of Patna, Bettiah and Jamui were selected for the dry run then. Handling the CoWIN portal has so far been the biggest challenge for Bihar’s health personnel who are to be engaged in the vaccination drive. They feel the application is ‘heavily technologically driven’ and even a small error in handling the programme could hold up the drive. As per an internal assessment done by the state health department, many auxiliary nursing midwives (ANMs), engaged in the vaccination programme, are not technologically savvy and have not handled android devices like smartphones or tablets, which are likely to host the CoWIN application, which is integrated with the vaccination drive. Vaccinators are required to verify each beneficiary’s identity, approve the vaccination before completing the vaccination process using the CoWIN mobile app, which is updated on a real-time basis.A series of training sessions have been held in Bihar for vaccinators since December end. “We completed Wednesday, a two-day hands-on training programme for our district immunization officers and district monitoring and evaluation officers, who are the key resource persons in the IT process. They will now train the people under them. Prior to this training, we also had online sessions for our vaccinators,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director State Health Society and also the nodal officer for the vaccination programme in Bihar. “We do not expect any shortage of personnel for the Covid-19 vaccination programme. We have 14,000 vaccinators engaged in our routine immunization programme. Besides, we have also identified another 45,000 potential vaccinators, who are doctors, nurses, medicos, nursing students and paramedics in public and private health facilities,” he said. Also Read: Amid vaccine dry runs, states say connectivity biggest hurdleHe added that the January 8 exercise, to be conducted at three sites in all the 38 districts of the state, will help in better assessment of any shortcoming. He added that Bihar does not have any storage constraint with the capacity to store 51 lakh vials at the state level vaccine store in Patna and at regional vaccine stores. The average storage capacity of walk-in coolers is 15 lakh vials and the average capacity of walk-in freezers is 5 lakh vials. Vaccines are supplied to 10 regional vaccine stores in the state through refrigerated vans and cold boxes. For field-level vaccination, it has around 2,000 ice-lined refrigerators. Bihar has enrolled around 10 lakh beneficiaries for the first two phases of vaccination for healthcare and frontline workers from among the priority group of 1.5 crore to 2 crore people which also includes those above 50 years of age and people with co-morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-vaccination-bihar-prepares-for-state-wide-dry-run-on-january-8/story-nW39Mk1hXOuHcJI3roau9I.html
07-01-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: CM Adityanath orders another dry run for Covid vaccination||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed the state government on Wednesday to conduct another dry run for Covid-19 vaccination on January 11. He also gave orders an intensive review of all preparations for vaccination. He said that all the guidelines of the central government should be strictly followed during the vaccination.Presiding over a meeting to review the unlock situation at his official residence, Adityanath said all the work for the vaccination should be done within the timeline. Also Read: 15 more test +ve for new UK Covid strain, total 73He said medicines, medical equipment and oxygen backup should remain available in sufficient quantity in Covid-19 hospitals. He said contact tracing and surveillance should be carried out with full vigour. Adityanath said people should continuously be made aware about the prevention of Covid-19 and for this, various publicity mediums, including public address systems, should be used comprehensively. He said the Mukhya Mantri Arogya Mela would be organised again from January 10 at rural and urban primary health centres and people should be specially made aware about measures for protection against Covid-19 at these melas. He said eligible persons should also be given cards of the Ayushman Bharat scheme at these melas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-cm-adityanath-orders-another-dry-run-for-covid-vaccination/story-ue8Lu2Xb8VLh2FrPuPF1zL.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||India reports under 300 new Covid-19 deaths for nearly 2 weeks||India has been reporting less than 300 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the past 13 consecutive days, even as the total of number of people having succumbed to the viral infection in the country has crossed 150,000.The country on Wednesday reported 223 new deaths, and with that the total number of deaths has reached 150,390.The first death due to Covid-19 in the country was reported on March 12, 2020.Also Read: Kalyan-Dombivli sees no Covid-19 death for a week: Maharashtra govt data“There is a steady decline in the number of daily deaths recorded in the country... The effective strategy of containment including prompt tracing and tracking, aggressive and widespread testing, combined with standardised clinical management protocols have ensured the low mortality levels. The effective implementation by the State/UT governments has resulted in early identification, prompt isolation and timely clinical management of the hospitalized cases,” the Union health ministry said in a statement.According to the health ministry data, only one new death per million population has been reported in India in the past seven days, and the ministry attributes this to the central government’s effective Covid-19 management and response policy.Fewer people are dying of Covid-19 in India than in other countries, including several developed nations. The United Kingdom has seen 64 deaths per million population, Italy and US have 55, France has 35, Russia 25, and Brazil has reported 23 deaths per million population during the past seven days, as per global data.“Covid-19-related mortality in India has been one of the lowest in the world, and the number has further reduced if we compare with the number of deaths that were taking place in the country during the beginning of the outbreak,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology and sleep medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.“The number of deaths has reduced further because of standardisation of Covid-19 treatment across India. We now know a lot better about the disease and therapies that are more effective than what we knew in the beginning, and that has made a lot of difference in saving lives,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/india-reports-under-300-new-covid-19-deaths-for-nearly-2-weeks/story-IaOoNQ11dahvHWLkhHwWDN.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Dense fog, calm winds lead to further deterioration of air quality, AQI in ‘poor’ zone||Dense fog and low wind speed led to the continued deterioration of Delhi’s air quality on Thursday. The hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 273, in the “poor” zone Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Wednesday was 226, also in the “poor” zone. On Tuesday, the AQI was 140, categorised as “moderate”. VK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department’s environment monitoring and research centre, said that the AQI is expected to deteriorate further on Thursday as there is a forecast of dense fog and calm winds. “On Wednesday too, we saw foggy conditions throughout the day, which led to an accumulation of pollution. Air quality is expected to worsen till January 9, when another western disturbance will cross Delhi and lead to light rain in certain parts. Wind speeds will improve and pollution particles will start dispersing,” said Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-dense-fog-calm-winds-lead-to-further-deterioration-of-air-quality-aqi-in-poor-zone/story-08Qq7atprCVap7Iz4lNUWK.html
07-01-2021||Lucknow||UP don Mukhtar Ansari’s alleged associate shot dead in a shootout||Uttar Pradesh gangster-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari’s alleged henchman Ajit Singh was shot dead and his associate Mohar Singh was critically injured along with a passer-by, when three unidentified motorcycle borne assailants opened indiscriminate fire on a sports utility vehicle (SUV) near Kathauta crossing under Vibhuti Khand police station limits in Lucknow’s Gomtinagar on Wednesday night, police officials said.Lucknow commissioner of police DK Thakur, who rushed to the spot with a huge force in view of panic in the area after the murder, said Ajit Singh was the husband of a former block pramukh of Gahona in Mau district’s Mahmudabad.Thakur said Ajit Singh was a key witness in the murder of former MLA Simpu Singh and was believed to be a close aide of Mukhtar Ansari.He said Singh had an old enmity with two musclemen of Azamgarh, Akhand Singh and Kuntoo Singh. Moreover, he himself was named in nearly 19 criminal cases, including five murder cases. He was asked to leave Mau district by the district magistrate last month, the police said.Thakur further said Singh and his associate were having snacks nearly 50 metres from Kathauta crossing when the assailants opened fire on him.He added that eyewitnesses claimed Singh and his aide opened retaliatory fire and it was suspected that the assailants could have been injured in the shoot-out.Singh is the fourth Mukhtar Ansari aide to be killed in the past four years.Also Read: House panel discusses anti-romeo squad in UPAnsari’s close aide Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi’s brother-in-law, Pushpjeet Singh, was murdered along with his friend Sanjay Mishra, in a sensational shootout in Vikas Nagar here on March 5, 2016. Pushpajeet used to look after the financial affairs of the Bajrangi group and acted as Bajrangi’s legal advisor for pending criminal cases.Bajrangi’s another close aide Mohd Tariq was shot dead on a flyover near Dayal Paradise crossing in Gomtinagar on December 2, 2017. Tariq, a Varanasi- based contractor, was looking after the gang’s finances after Pushpjeet’s murder.Bajrangi himself was murdered inside Baghpat jail, allegedly by west UP gangster Sunil Rathi, on July 9, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-don-mukhtar-ansari-s-alleged-associate-shot-dead-in-a-shootout/story-Lov3tVaEvJXqYsT9zQ8OIJ.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An architecture in self-isolation||A word like ‘freedom’ acquires its true meaning only to those denied it. And so do words like “quarantine’ and ‘self-isolation’, gradually getting more real to us as we experience either or both of them to some degree, due to the coronavirus.Armed with new understandings, it is a revealing experience to enter places in the city, that one might have explored in the BC (Before Corona) era. Some of these landmarks reveal themselves to be the architectural equivalent of self-isolation. Such as the Hijron ka Khanqah, in south Delhi’s Mehrauli. The first word in the name refers to transgender people who live in closely-knit communities. The second word implies a retreat in Persian.Believed to be a Lodhi-era graveyard, the Hijron ka Khanqah lies like a secret in the heart of a congested bazaar. Its entrance, between store fronts, is barely perceptible to the eye. On entering, however, the world changes abruptly. Gone is the chaos of the bazaar. The airy courtyard opens out like a placid sea, with wavelets rippling along its surface. The waves are, in fact, the dozens of graves spread across the courtyard. On counting, they turn out to be exactly 50.This sunny afternoon the clear sky over the Khanqah is like a blue ceiling. The place is empty except for its caretaker. He informs that the Khanqah is especially sacred to transgender people, who tend to be its only visitors, apart from rare sightseers interested in Delhi’s forgotten monuments. The only daily intrusion to the Khanqah’s solitude is the sunlight that travels through the courtyard from morning to evening, turning the whole place into a kind of sundial with its play of shifting light and shadow.The pigeons, too, gather in large numbers. Some probably drop dead from the sky. Two birds are discovered lying lifeless.Pointing to the courtyard’s only grave privileged enough to have a roof of its own, the caretaker explains that it is the burial spot of the sister of a man known as Sheikh Baba. Pilgrims usually come in “tolis” (groups) on Thursday afternoons, and offer flowers at the revered grave, perched under the shade of a giant neem tree. “They sit here in the courtyard, offer prayers and sometimes cook food.”A partially broken staircase goes up to a terrace from which one can see the entire Khanqah in a single sweep of the eye. From here, the place loses its confidentiality, as you see the neighbourhood crammed all around it. This so-called retreat now appears very much part of the world, to the point of being absorbed by it and disappearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-an-architecture-in-self-isolation/story-7CO86SeDk0GEPLGEatrWkI.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||AAP attacks Punjab CM over minister’s ‘remarks’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday demanded that Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh resign for allegedly implementing the three controversial farm laws in the state despite the protesting against it. Addressing a press conference, AAP national spokesperson and its Punjab unit’s co-incharge Raghav Chadha alleged that Punjab minister of food and civil supplies Bharat Bhushan Ashu told the media that the state had opened its doors for farmers from neighbouring regions to sell their produce. “In a press conference, the Punjab minister clearly said the three farm laws have been implemented in the state. He also mentioned how all produce is being bought and sold as per the new laws. There cannot be a bigger fraud, a bigger betrayal than this,” Chadha said.However, in an interview to news agency ANI, Capt Singh labelled as “false” reports that Punjab has implemented the farm laws. “The minister’s statement had been mischievously twisted by one newspaper, which others picked up without verifying the facts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-attacks-punjab-cm-over-minister-s-remarks/story-E9Wx1oY3ehiytfPFvgyk3L.html
07-01-2021||City||Ludhiana dyeing industry bears the brunt of rise in raw material rates||After impacting different sectors, including the bicycle and auto parts’ makers among others, the rising prices of raw material amid the Covid-19 pandemic have also taken a toll on the dyeing industry, which has now been forced to increase the rates of dyeing fabrics. Citing 20% to 25% hike in prices of raw material, the Ludhiana dyeing industry has increased the rates of fabrics. The price of dyeing polyester fabric has been increased by ₹3/kg, while that of dyeing cotton fabric has been hiked by ₹5/kg. The industrialists have also pointed out that the prices might further increase after the two common effluent treatment plants (CETP) being set up to treat the waste of dyeing industry on Tajpur Road become operational.The decision was made during the meeting of local dyers’ body on Tuesday evening. The new rates will be applicable from January 15. President of Ludhiana Dyers’ Association, Ashok Makkar said, “The prices of raw material being used by the dyeing industry, including chemicals, has increased up to 25% since the pandemic hit the country. The supply of raw material is also low as it was mostly imported from China. There are around 300 dyeing units in Ludhiana and the industry was forced to increase the rates as it was becoming difficult for us to survive. Despite that, we have made a nominal hike in rates.”Hike to impact hosiery sectorThe hike in dyeing rates has added to the woes of the hosiery industry as well, which is already struggling due to the increase in the price of yarn.President of Knitwear Club, Darshan Dawar, said, “The rates of yarn have increased by more than 25% during the pandemic and now, the dyeing industry has also upped the price. The recent increase in rates will have a nominal effect, but the cost of end products will go up, which will push the customers away. The hosiery sector is going through a tough phase.”Gas supply soughtAfter the dyeing industry was accused of causing air pollution, it has asked the government to arrange natural gas or CNG for the units.A dyeing unit owner, Rahul Verma, said that gas is being supplied in Doraha and the government had also allotted a project to install a gas pipeline in Ludhiana city, which has not been commenced yet. In December, MLA Sanjay Talwar had accused the industry of polluting the air and also gave a list of 28 dyeing units, blaming them for air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dyeing-industry-bears-the-brunt-of-rise-in-raw-material-rates/story-gIqk4lHDtfOxkWZj9bDbOK.html
07-01-2021||City||Salem Tabri suicide: Kin protest against police ‘inaction’||The family members and relatives of a 36-year-old arhtiya, who had committed suicide last month, staged a dharna outside Salem Tabri police station on Wednesday, blaming the cops for not arresting the accused named in the suicide note left by him. The arhtiya, a resident of Laxmi Puri in Salem Tabri, had ended his life on December 24 and accused two of his colleagues of driving him to take the extreme step.Following his death, the two persons named in the note — Vikram and Kushal Kumar — were booked for abetting his suicide. The arhtiya’s wife said it has been more than 10 days since the incident, but none of the accused was arrested.She claimed that she, along with her minor son and daughter, was ‘forced’ to make multiple rounds of the police station. The victim’s brother-in-law alleged that the police were neither arresting the accused mentioned in the FIR nor naming other persons, who were “harassing” the arhtiya in the case. Meanwhile, Salem Tabri station house officer (SHO) Gopal Krishan said regular raids were being carried out to arrest the accused, who are currently absconding. Later in the day, police officials managed to pacify the agitating relatives of the arhtiya and assured that the accused will soon be arrested, following which the dharna was lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/salem-tabri-suicide-kin-protest-against-police-inaction/story-sGWytidR4mTigbQgPB3j3I.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC interim relief for Arnab Goswami and other employees of Republic TV to continue till January 15||The state government on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it is not willing to extend its statement of not taking any coercive action against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd in the television rating points (TRP) manipulation case. However, in light of time sought by Goswami’s advocate the state agreed to abide by the no coercive action statement till the next hearing on January 15. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik while hearing the petitions filed by Goswami and ARG seeking quashing of the FIR and the charge sheet filed against them by the Police was informed by advocate Niranjan Mundargi that senior counsel Ashok Mundargi, who represented the channel had a medical emergency in the family and hence could not be present for the hearing. In light of this Mundargi submitted that the senior advocate sought time for ten days. He also prayed that if the court granted the extension, the state should also continue its statement that it would not take any coercive action till the next hearing. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal for the state government submitted that it has found ‘serious evidence’ in the investigation and hence were not willing to continue the statement of not taking any coercive action. Sibal, however, added that as it was agreeable to continue the assurance only because the channels lawyer sought adjournment due to his family medical emergency. Sibal then informed the court that the state was not willing to continue the statement in the next hearing. “I cannot oppose this. We (state) have found some serious evidence in our investigation with the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). I do not wish to continue my earlier statement but because of this extreme emergency, I have agreed. I will not extend it beyond the next hearing,” said Sibal. He added that the assurance would not hinder the state government from continuing its investigation. The court accepted the assurance and also permitted parties to the case to approach the court by giving notice to the other side, in case of any urgency and posted hearing for January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-interim-relief-for-arnab-goswami-and-other-employees-of-republic-tv-to-continue-till-january-15/story-Ad9CSX45ZQFSQ451myJyBO.html
07-01-2021||City||Fluctuating temperature, unusual cloud cover a concern for crop growth: Experts||At the time when the Indian Meteorological Department has declared 2020 as the eighth warmest year in the past 121 years, experts have suggested that the night temperature in the region has risen by 1°C, while the earth is receiving an hour less sun energy.The data of the past four decades shows that the region was receiving 8.30 hours of sun energy, which has been reduced to 7.30 hours.Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head, department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, while discussing the global scenario, said, “This is due to the formation of cloud cover in the region. Interestingly, this cloud cover is predominantly witnessed during the kharif season, not rains. We are currently studying the pattern and looking into the reason behind this phenomenon.”“The formation of cloud cover for an extended period is putting an adverse effect on the growth and photosynthesis of the crop,” Dr Sidhu said on the final day of a three-day training programme on “Climate Change, Impact, Assessment and Mitigation in Agriculture” at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). The programme was jointly organised by PAU, Ludhiana, and Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), New Delhi.Over 1,251 participants from different agricultural universities across the country, ICAR institutes, forest department, irrigation department, NGOs and overseas (Germany and the USA) had registered for the training, out of which, 580 attended the programme.“Besides the reduction in sunshine, rainy days have also reduced and consistency of rain has dropped as well. Due to climate change, sharp and heavy rainfall is witnessed. The water received from such rain does not lead to recharging of water table,” Dr Sidhu pointed out.Dr Sidhu said 2020 had been a year of cyclones of severe degree. Five super cyclones, including Amphan which killed nearly 90 people in May, Nisarga in June, Gati in November and Burevi in December, had struck the coastal areas of the country, which further triggered climatic changes, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fluctuating-temperature-unusual-cloud-cover-a-concern-for-crop-growth-experts/story-ip2gV4O0yI1ODNZo5yh5wJ.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cyber police 6 arrest for creating 123 fake sites to dupe citizens; 10.5K people defrauded of ₹10 crore||City cyber police have busted an online fraud racket and arrested its six members from Bihar and West Bengal, including a software engineer for duping people on the internet using fake websites. The gang would advertisements on social media sites to direct people to these fake websites and steal their money under the guise of processing fees. HT had first reported about the gang in its January 2 edition.Police said that the mastermind of the gang is a commerce graduate from Bihar who had been committing frauds for the last two years. “He is a millionaire and was in the process of buying a piece of land in West Bengal for ₹5 crore with the ill-gotten money. However, before he could buy the property, the police nabbed him,” said a cyber police officer, requesting anonymity. Milind Bharambhe, joint commissioner of police (crime), on Wednesday, said that the mastermind of the racket was operating the gang in a very systematic and professional manner.“He would regularly do a recce on the internet to know the latest trends and services that are being commonly used by people. The racket would create duplicate websites of service providers such as petrol pumps, LPG dealership agencies, private loans, shopping sites, etc. Among the fake websites that the gang had created include many government websites.The gang would then advertise the fake sites through messaging apps, popular social media sites and via phone calls. Customers were offered services at lucrative rates and asked to use the link to take them to the fake websites,” said Bharambhe.The fake websites are so accurately made that a layperson cannot differentiate between them and the original website. The gang members would take money from their victims under the guise of processing fees, and cheat them, the senior officer said.The six accused were arrested on various dates in the past week. Using technical investigative methods, police nabbed five of them from Bihar and West Bengal. One of the accused from Bihar managed to escape the police and fled to Maharashtra. He was arrested from Ratnagiri. The police have seized five mobile phones, a laptop and ₹1 lakh from the arrested accused.Interrogation of the accused revealed that the gang has been operational since July 2018, and it had so far created 123 websites. Of these websites, scanning the details of two websites revealed that 10,531 people have been cheated to the tune of over ₹10 crore. Scanning of the remaining 121 websites is underway, and the number of fraud victims and fraud amount is expected to increase by many folds in the coming days, crime branch chief said.“The gang would outsource the con jobs such as making phone calls to potential victims through call centres, websites designers, etc. We urge victims to come forward and lodge complaints. We cannot reveal the names of the arrested accused as more accused are wanted in the case,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-cyber-police-6-arrest-for-creating-123-fake-sites-to-dupe-citizens-10-5k-people-defrauded-of-10-crore/story-nJ9S1Xb7tK8XxyLwmJCmHN.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||House panel discusses anti-romeo squad in UP||The parliamentary panel on home affairs on Wednesday grilled Uttar Pradesh officials over the approach to women’s safety in the state and efficacy of its anti-Romeo squad. People familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times that issued was raised by union minister and senior UP BJP leader Satya Pal Singh. Singh is a former IPS officer. “The MP wanted to know how UP was tackling situations related to women’s safety,” a person familiar with the matter said. “He asked the officials about the anti-Romeo squad and said that no FIRs had been registered by them.”According to the person, Singh added that most of the complaints at the local level were also not registered by the police. The anti-Romeo squad, a dedicated police wing set up to prevent harassment of women, was started in 2017, shortly after Yogi Adityanath took over as chief minister. The squad faced severe criticism from all corners for needlessly targeting couples. HT reached out Satya Pal Singh but he declined to comment on the matter.The panel, led by Congress leader Anand Sharma, met on Wednesday to hear the views of representatives of State Governments of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh on the subject Atrocities and Crimes against Women Children. Among other concerns flagged by the panel was Congress leader P Bhattacharya’s concern that the meetings weren’t be attended by senior officials from the state such as the chief secretary and director-general of police, people familiar with the matter said. The BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Rakesh Sinha raised the issue of atrocities against children in Rajasthan. “Sinha pointed out to Rajasthan officials that crimes against children had jumped 87% in Jaipur and 66% across Rajasthan in just one year,” the person mentioned above said. The person added that the Parliamentarian had also pushed for operation Nirbheek, which was launched by the Delhi Police in 2015 to promote the safety of school and college going girls, to go national. Under the operation, the Station House Officers (SHOs) had to appoint a Nirbheek Woman Police Officer (NWPO) who would regularly visit schools and colleges to explain different sexual crimes to women. BJP MP Bhupendra Yadav pointed out mistakes in the document presented before the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/house-panel-discusses-anti-romeo-squad-in-up/story-LpKRdajbAzZwnYRjsMhdFL.html
07-01-2021||City||Ludhiana MC begins work to install static waste compactors||Four years on, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has finally commenced the civil work to install static waste compactors in the city. To deal with the uncovered garbage dump that emanates foul smell in nearby areas, the civic body will be installing compactors at 22 locations in the city under the Smart City mission. MLA (Ludhiana central) Surinder Dawar inaugurated the construction work at the site near Cheema chowk, where the first compactor is being set up. The MC officials said that the civil work has been commenced at the site and the machinery will be installed in the coming few months.Residents have been raising a hue and cry over the open dumping of garbage at the secondary dumping sites by garbage collectors. There are around 45 secondary dumping sites in the city from where the garbage is then shifted to the main dump site at Tajpur road.Initially, the civic body had set up a static compactor near Dugri Sidhwan Canal bridge in 2016, since then it was planning to install the compactors at different parts of the city. The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) is also working to install compactors at eight different sites in the Ludhiana west constituency, of which two compactors in Rishi Nagar and Sarabha Nagar have been made operational.MLA Surinder Dawar said that static compactors are being set up at a cost of over Rs 13 crores. Of the total 22 sites, five sites fall under the Ludhiana central constituency.A senior MC official said that the civil work to set up compactors at other sites will begin in the coming weeks, however, It will take a few months to install the compactors.The project might be halted as the civic body had planned to hand over maintenance of the compactors to the A2Z company, which is currently managing the solid waste in the city. But the company had earlier served self-termination notice stating that it will not work in the city after February 4. The company has also sought a payment of Rs 47 crores for the investment done in form of refuse derived fuel (RDF) plant and static compactor installed near Dugri Sidhwan Canal bridge. Delay in payment is one of the main reasons cited by the company for termination of the contract. The MC has not yet taken a final decision over the future action plan.Despite attempts, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-begins-work-to-install-static-waste-compactors/story-LtYxuwt9OdWAn0hS1GxF3L.html
07-01-2021||City||TMC sets up menstrual room in Thane community toilet||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has set up a menstrual room within the women’s community toilet at Lokmanya Nagar. This decision was taken soon after a survey by Thane-based youth organisation Muse Foundation revealed that more than 67% of women do not have access to toilets in their houses in Thane’s slums. Manish Joshi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “The survey revealed the heavy dependency of women in slums on the community toilet, and the problems they faced to manage menstruation due to lack of water, unsafe changing rooms and absence of proper sanitary disposal. The menstrual room that we have set up provides water supply via a jet spray and dustbin with foot pedal to lift the lid to avoid touching the soiled sanitary napkins. Additionally, there are soap dispensers, hooks to hang clothes and a toilet for convenience.” The corporation claimed that this is a pilot project, and depending on the response, it will be replicated in other community toilets. Muse Foundation’s survey highlighted that around 56% of girl school students had to come back home to change their menstrual hygiene products as they had unclean toilets at the institutions. Around 18% of women who work did not have any provision to change their hygiene products at their workplace. The foundation prepared a list of recommendations and submitted them to the TMC in October. Nishant Bangera, founder, MUSE Foundation, said, “We will be conducting a sensitisation programme in the community, to educate women about the room and safe menstrual hygiene practices. The wall of the community toilet has been colourfully painted to invoke joy in people, thus promoting sanitation. The wall also promotes sustainable menstruation with essential points listed on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-sets-up-menstrual-room-in-thane-community-toilet/story-NwZrzy3Il6eldogRrdp4UJ.html
07-01-2021||City||Ludhiana police chief forms SIT to probe Mundian rape case||Three days after head constable Rakesh Kumar, 45, was booked in connection with the rape case of a 24-year-old woman at the Mundian police post, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Wednesday formed a special investigation team (SIT) to further probe the matter.Agrawal said, “We have formed an SIT, which will be headed by Zone-4 ADCP Rupinder Kaur, to investigate the Mundian Kalan rape case. The team comprises ACP Simranjeet Singh, Jamalpur SHO Kulwant Singh, and a woman officer, Kulwant Kaur.” The Jamalpur Police, meanwhile, nabbed one of the women accused in the case, who has been identified as Mamta. On Tuesday, the police had also arrested head constable Rakesh Kumar. Raids are on to catch the remaining three accused, two women and a man, with whom the victim was reportedly having a dispute. The victim was assaulted and molested, her clothes were torn and the entire act was filmed. She was later picked up by Rakesh Kumar, who allegedly raped her at the Mundian police station on the intervening night of December 6 and 7. Victim undergoes medical examinationJamalpur station house officer (SHO) Kulwant Singh said medical examination of the woman was conducted on Wednesday at the civil hospital. He said the victim’s statement, however, was not recorded in the court.‘Ensure police stations have woman cops in night’Police chief Rakesh Agrawal has also issued directions to ensure that all police stations in the city have woman cops on night duty.The police have initiated a probe into the bribe allegations levelled by the victim as well. She claimed that the accused head constable had accepted money from Mamta, Pammi and their accomplices for raping her. The police have also begun maintaining an action-taken report that would be submitted to Punjab State Women Commission (PSWC) chairperson Manisha Gulati. She had asked why there was a need to keep the victim at the police post overnight and sought details of the conditions surrounding her detainment. The caseOn the intervening night of December 6 and 7, the 24-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a head constable at the Mundian police post. The victim claimed that she did not lodge any complaint as the cop had threatened to implicate her husband in a false case.However, she later approached the police commissioner on December 17. Following a preliminary probe, an FIR was registered on January 3, while head constable Rakesh Kumar was arrested on Tuesday. Mundian police post in-charge ASI Sukhwinder Singh has also been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-chief-forms-sit-to-probe-mundian-rape-case/story-Qepc6MS0vK1FRRf92SWUhI.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends interim relief for senior advocates of Lawyers Collective||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday continued the interim relief granted to senior advocate Anand Grover and the NGO Lawyers Collective, whereby the Enforcement Directorate (ED) will not be able to summon them till January 15. While the petition filed by the Lawyers Collective, which sought quashing of the enforcement case information report (ECIR) and subsequent summons and probe, was to be heard by the division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik on Wednesday, due to paucity of time the bench extended the interim relief. The petition had also challenged the summons issued by ED under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The petition was filed after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case for alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) against Lawyers Collective, which is run by senior lawyers Indira Jaising and Grover. The case, which mentioned Grover as an accused, was registered on a complaint from the ministry of home affairs, which had in 2016 cancelled the FCRA license of the NGO for allegedly using foreign contributions for political purposes. In the previous hearing on November 25, the bench had said that due to the pandemic situation and considering the age of the senior lawyer, ED could defer the summons and postpone its investigation. The court had then asked ED to file an affidavit in reply to the petition and directed that ED should not insist on the presence of petitioners till then. The court will hear the pleas next on January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-interim-relief-for-senior-advocates-of-lawyers-collective/story-rZOdiMPDZaXHsk5m2RCVAI.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra realty boost: Construction premiums are slashed by 50%||In a major decision that will give a fillip to the real estate sector, the Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday passed a proposal to slash construction premiums by 50% under the new DCPR rule 2034 for all ongoing and new projects till December 31, 2021. The decision will also benefit homebuyers, as developers who avail the concession will have to pay the stamp duty on behalf of the consumers. Owing to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and liquidity crunch, the construction activity saw a slump in the state with very few new projects coming up. Subsequently, the state appointed a committee led by HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh, which recommended slashing the construction premiums. The municipalities charge this premium on floor space index or FSI, a tool that defines the extent of construction that is permissible on a plot. It is the ratio of the total built-up area to the total plot area. Premiums and taxes constitute a huge portion of the project costs. This severely reduces the ability of the builder to reduce the costs which ultimately impact the homebuyer. A senior urban development department (UDD) official said, “According to the revised scheme, developers will have to pay premiums based on the ready reckoner (RR) rates of 2019 or 2020, whichever is higher. All real estate premiums and charges are calculated on the basis of RR rates. Developers who opt for the 50% reduction in premiums will also have to pay the entire stamp duty when they sell flats to buyers.” Builders will have to give an undertaking to the local bodies that they will pay the entire stamp duty and not charge any stamp duty from homebuyers, the official added. The state has been taking steps to give an impetus to the realty sector that was sluggish. In September, the government lowered stamp duty from the existing 5% to 2% till December 31, 2020, and pegged it at 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. After the reduction in stamp duty charges, there was a jump in property sales in Mumbai and other major cities. The proposal was discussed in the previous cabinet, but was pushed back after cabinet ministers from the Congress raised some issues with the proposal calling it too builder-friendly. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis too criticised the decision and said it was drafted for the benefit of a few big builders and will lead to the windfall gain to some of the players from the industry. BJP leader and Bandra legislator Ashish Shelar questioned the government and asked if the decision would make homes affordable for people. “The government gave concession worth crores of rupees to developers to give a push to the construction activity, but will this benefit common man? Will homes for them become affordable,” asked Shelar in a statement. Shelar further added the decision to make the developer pay the stamp duty for the homes is an eyewash. “Beware, if you dole out premium concession to builders and bring in a condition to make builders pay the stamp duty to fool the people. We will question you if you make builders pay stamp duty after raising the cost of flats,” Shelar said. The sector welcomed the decision as they believe that it would give a boost to the construction activity. Niranjan Hiranandani, president, National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), said, “This move will go a long way in expediting the project completion and the industry will witness new launches in the market. This reduction in premiums will also help in quick turnaround of projects and uplifting the industry sentiment.” Deepak Goradia, president, Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI) and managing director, Dosti Realty Private Limited, said the decision served as a big boost to the realty sector. “We welcome this historic decision and are confident that this move will expedite the economic recovery of Maharashtra with more than 250 allied industries, which will generate jobs,” said Goradia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-realty-boost-construction-premiums-are-slashed-by-50/story-ueiCkqjiFWw5neODY2kKYK.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays appointment of Sonepat magistrate as Hockey Haryana administrator||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed an order with which city magistrate, Sonepat, was notified as Hockey Haryana, administrator.The order was passed by high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal on the plea of Hockey Haryana, filed through its president, Jaideep Malik. Hockey Haryana is the unified body of the state which has sole mandate to govern and conduct all activities for both men and women hockey in the state and is recognised by Haryana Olympic Association. The decision to appoint Sonepat city magistrate as Hockey Haryana administrator was taken by district registrar, firms and societies, Sonepat. Lawyer Ravinder Malik said that elections for the governing body was notified on October 20, 2020, and the results were declared on December 6. The notification is contrary to the provisions the Haryana Registration and Regulation of Societies Act, 2012, which say once, a regularly elected governing body is in place, the district registrar has no authority to undo their election, he added. The high court while staying the decision has sought response from the government and others by April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-appointment-of-sonepat-magistrate-as-hockey-haryana-administrator/story-2d3mDvK0LvyBZpXHI6bb4L.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Look into assets of cops named in extortion racket: Cong MLA||Congress MLA from NIT Faridabad, Neeraj Sharma, on Wednesday said the assets of Gurugram police personnel allegedly involved in an extortion racket, which was busted by the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) last week, should be scrutinised. The SVB had registered a case of extortion, wrongful confinement and restraint under provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act against Gurugram police officials, including the station house officer of Kherki Daula and a head constable. The head constable was also arrested in the case. The owner of a call centre had complained that the SHO and head constable were allegedly extorting money from them. Addressing a press conference, Sharma said that it was surprising that the case was registered by Faridabad SVB unit despite the fact the crime allegedly took place in Gurugram. “This only indicated that there was an apprehension that police officials posted in Gurugram could influence the investigations and interfere with the administration of justice. It is a very serious matter that a citizen was kept in illegal detention, assaulted and asked to cough up huge sum by the police. There was no FIR registered against the detained person,’’ the MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/look-into-assets-of-cops-named-in-extortion-racket-cong-mla/story-2hn3sTzBqHNfbWLk4yHg3M.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s air quality very poor, may improve over next 2 days||Air quality in Mumbai dropped to its worst so far this year, with the air quality index (AQI) — a pollutant measuring indicator — at 309 on Wednesday. The air quality measured on Wednesday was in the very poor category and was higher than the AQI measured on January 1 (307). The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. “The AQI in Mumbai is on the borderline of very poor. This is because of low dispersion of pollutant particles [owing to drop in minimum temperature]. Air quality is likely to improve over the next two days but will remain in the poor category,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR. Of the 10 stations at which the air quality was measured, Borivli had the poorest air with AQI of 344. This was followed by Navi Mumbai, where the AQI was measured at 329. While Mazagaon recorded AQI of 327, both Andheri and Malad, recorded AQI of 321. Meanwhile, minimum temperatures dropped marginally. The Santacruz station, representative of Mumbai suburbs, recorded a minimum temperature of 19.8 degree Celsius, 0.7 degrees lower than Tuesday’s minimum temperature, but 2.7 degrees above normal. The Colaba station recorded a minimum temperature of 21 degree Celsius, 0.5 degrees below Tuesday’s minimum temperature, but 1.4 degrees above normal. Santacruz recorded a maximum temperature of 30.3 degree Celsius, 1.2 degrees below normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature was 27.5 degree Celsius, a drop of 3 degrees below normal. “The marginal dip in temperatures is because of the active western disturbance spreading from central Pakistan to the Arabian Sea. Cloudy weather is likely to continue for the next couple of days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-air-quality-very-poor-may-improve-over-next-2-days/story-Dlks8WnfplwWxMtnLe2ukN.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||All villagers around Panipat refinery to undergo health check-up by June 30||Following the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), health check-up of all residents of six villages located around the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery will be conducted in the next six months to find out the impact on their health due to the pollution caused by the facility as alleged by the locals in their complaint to the agency.The decision was taken at a meeting of officials from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and district administration on Wednesday. The villages in question are: Singhpura, Sithana, Dadlana, Bohli, Bal-Jattan and Kutana.The villagers had filed a complaint with the NGT in 2018, alleging that the emission and liquid discharge from the refinery was polluting the air and ground water in the area, which was affecting their health. The complaint was filed by Singhpura sarpanch Satpal Singh Sarpanch.Taking note of the complaint, the NGT in 2018 formed a joint committee comprising the officials from the CPCB, HSPCB and district administration to find out the impact on human health and environment.In its report, the inspection team highlighted that the issues being raised by the people were true to some extent. It cited a kutcha drain as a source of pollution, along with refinery that it found was discharging effluents in the forest.In May 2019, on the recommendations of the first assessment report of the joint committee, the NGT directed the oil company to deposit ₹17.31 crore as an interim compensation to the CPCB for the restoration of environment and later in July last year, the tribunal again directed IOCL officials to deposit a sum of ₹25 crore as interim compensation for restoration of environment, subject to further orders. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma, who attended Wednesday’s meeting, said the directions have been issued for the health check-up of the villagers. “We will submit a report about the infrastructure and manpower required for the check-ups,” he said.Officials from the state pollution control board said all the basic tests related to respiratory problems will be conducted by June 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-villagers-around-panipat-refinery-to-undergo-health-check-up-by-june-30/story-0CMlCzFoUYdVZgjhiT9uHJ.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra waives entertainment duty of ₹3.40 crore for 1996 Michael Jackson concert||The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to waive off entertainment duty worth ₹3.40 crore and release the amount to the organisers Wizcraft Entertainment, against a concert of late pop artist Micheal Jackson organised in Mumbai around 24 years ago. This is the second time the state government is making the decision, as its previous move was struck down by the Bombay high court (HC) in 2011, and the waiver amount had to be deposited in the court’s treasury. The court had further asked the state government to reconsider its decision in eight weeks. On November 1, 1996, Raj Thackeray-led Shiv Udyog Sena (SUS), the Shiv Sena wing created for the generation of jobs, had organised a Michael Jackson concert in Mumbai. The state government-led Shiv Sena had waived the entertainment duty worth ₹3.40 crore for the organisers, on the grounds that the profits would be used for charity.“Following the Bombay high court (HC) order on April 13, 2011, the state government revisited its decision taken under section 6(3) of the Maharashtra Entertainment Duty Act, 1923. The Act empowers the state government with discretionary powers to grant a waiver. Using them, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to waive off the entertainment duty, and interest amount levied on the pop concert in 1996,” a statement by the chief minister’s (CM) office stated.The proposal came for discussion before the cabinet headed by CM and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, 24 years after the state decision. His estranged cousin Raj Thackeray had formed his own political outfit — Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) in 2006. In April 2011, a division bench of the HC had slammed the state for “non-application of mind” and set aside its order for exemption from the entertainment duty. “We have taken an opinion from the law and judiciary department, which states that the waiver was granted according to the law. The organisers too have requested the state government to release the amount,” said an official from the revenue department.The Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP) that had challenged the waiver in the HC has objected to the decision, terming it as untenable. They may consider challenging it again in the court of law, said advocate Shirish Deshpande, chairman MGP. “As soon as we came to know a proposal for the same is coming for discussion before the state cabinet, we have shot an urgent letter to the CM, requesting him not to take the decision. We have asked him to use the amount through the CM Relief Fund for those affected by Covid-19,” said Deshpande.“Our main objection is that Wizcraft is an event management firm, and the beneficiary was supposed to be Shiv Udyog Sena, which no longer exists. How can Wizcraft claim the waiver on behalf of them? This is untenable. Surprisingly, the decision came even after us submitting an elaborative presentation to the revenue secretary in 2018, during a hearing in the matter,” Deshpande added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-waives-entertainment-duty-of-3-40-crore-for-1996-michael-jackson-concert/story-zjLOkK4il8oGcYD5F4amcK.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Four more birds dead at Sukhna, Chandigarh admn steps up surveillance||The UT administration has intensified surveillance in Sukhna’s wetland area after four more birds were found dead in the lake on Wednesday amid the bird flu scare. “A pigeon, a crow, an egret and a cormorant were found dead in the lake waters. Samples of the dead birds have been sent for testing to ascertain the cause of death,” said chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai. On Tuesday, the carcass of a common coot was also found in the lake. Results of its sample are still awaited.ALSO READ: Amid uncertainty over bird flu, Centre rushes rapid response team to Haryana’s Barwala‘No reason to panic at this moment’On the closing of the Sukhna wildlife sanctuary, Dalai said, “There is no need to close the sanctuary or other areas for public as yet. There is no reason to panic at this moment.” “All bird watchers and volunteers at Sukhna Lake and other water bodies have been kept on high alert to note any unnatural symptoms in birds, such as diarrhoea, head tilt, paralysis and sluggish behaviour,” he added.Meanwhile, the animal husbandry and fisheries department has been taking samples from poultry farms over the past couple of days.“We have collected more than 200 samples from poultry farms, live markets, water, etc. These have been sent for testing,” said SS Gill, secretary, animal husbandry and fisheries, UT. The results are expected in four to five days. On imposing ban on poultry products coming from Barwala region of Panchkula, Gill said, “We have not received any official confirmation of the status of avian influenza in that area. We will take a call as the situation develops. In Chandigarh, there is no cause of concern and there is no ban on poultry products.” Only egg sales impactedAshish Kumar, president, Meat Market, Sector 21, said, “There is a fall of around 15% in the demand for eggs, the only product sourced from the Barwala belt. There is no major impact on the prices of other poultry products.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-more-birds-dead-at-sukhna-chandigarh-admn-steps-up-surveillance/story-pSDrPwZ44stzJ995tyoSNM.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government approves amendment to Electronics Policy to boost manufacturing activity||The state cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to the amendment of the Electronics Policy, 2016 to boost the manufacture of electronic goods and as generate employment in the state. State industries minister Subhash Desai said the amendment will help boost the sector. “Firms will invest ₹20,000 crore in this sector, which will yield an annual production of electronic items worth ₹1 lakh crore. If we calculate GST (goods and services tax) of 12%, we can garner at least ₹12,000 crore in taxes,” he added.Desai said that through the amendment, 60,000 more jobs can be generated in the state. “After petroleum products, electronics occupy the second rank in imports, thus draining away our precious income in procuring these goods. There was hardly any manufacturing activity in the state, and all that was done was assembling the parts imported from various countries. If we manufacture them here, we will save money and also add to our economy and generate new jobs,” he added.The Electronics Policy was first approved in 2016 by the then Bharatiya Janata Party-led Devendra Fadnavis government. It promised to remove all red-tapism and attract industries to set up shop in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-approves-amendment-to-electronics-policy-to-boost-manufacturing-activity/story-JKHzFJPxJ8iXC4p5e44DYM.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP rebellion stemmed ahead of Chandigarh MC polls||Going by appearances, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seems to have contained the rebellion in the party ahead of the January 8 mayor elections.On Wednesday, 19 party councillors presented a united front at the BJP city headquarters, Kamalam, in Sector 33. The 19 councillors in attendance, out of a total 20, included both Chandervati Shukla and Bharat Kumar, who had openly rebelled against the party on January 4, on the last date of filing of nomination papers.While Shukla had filed nomination papers for mayor’s post, Kumar had walked out of the party in protest over being ignored for any of the three posts of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor.BJP councillor Heera Negi didn’t attend the Wednesday meeting because of poor health. After the meeting, Gopal Shukla, Chandervati’ husband, said, “We are with the party. The anger was momentary. After detailed discussions with senior party leaders including state BJP chief Arun Sood, our grievances have been resolved. Our vote and support is with the party.”Despite repeated calls, Kumar failed to respond.The turnaround among belligerent councillors, it has been learnt, came after Sood met Shukla and Kumar, and pursued them to come back to the party’s fold. “Sood met them at their houses. Organisation secretary Dinesh Kumar and state party in-charge Dushyant Gautam also talked to them. In the case of Shukla, her options had narrowed down after her nomination papers were rejected on Tuesday on technical grounds,” said a senior party leader, requesting anonymity.Scores yet to be settled“The choice of candidates for the mayoral elections has left a bitter taste among the councillors, even though only two openly expressed it. With the MC elections due this year in November-December and their tickets at stake, most councillors have decided against openly venting their anger,” said a councillor, who didn’t wish to be named.There are also personal rivalries that have been accentuated. “Some in the party want to embarrass Sood and can cross vote, others can aim to dent the chances of election of party candidates,” added the councillor.Meanwhile, the Congress on Wednesday wrote to the UT administrator demanding to not permit phones, cameras, pens, smart watches, etc inside the voting room to avoid clicking/recording of the ballot /vote.In earlier elections, parties have used pictures of votes casted to ensure no cross voting take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-rebellion-stemmed-ahead-of-chandigarh-mc-polls/story-yMGn5bQrmyzpxNxdA0RRPN.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees over 4,000 fresh Covid cases after 20 days||With Maharashtra all set to roll out its Covid-19 vaccination drive, the state cabinet discussed the road map for it on Wednesday, even as the state recorded a slight rise in daily infections with 4,382 new cases recorded, pushing the count to 1,954,553.The state has crossed the 4,000 mark for fresh cases after 20 days, amid authorities’ fears of a spike in the first week of January in view of the crowding during new year and Christmas celebrations. The toll reached 49,825 after 66 new casualties were reported. Of them, 36 occurred in the past 48 hours, 11 in the last week and the rest 19 were from the period before last week, the health officials said.On the vaccination drive, with a dry run scheduled on January 8, ministers were informed by the health department that the state was awaiting the Centre’s policy on the drive. “Health officials informed the state cabinet that the priority list has been decided by the Centre itself, following which healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities even below the age of 50 will be given vaccine shots in the first three phases. The quantity of the vaccine to be distributed in districts will depend upon the stock made available by the Centre. We have completed our preparations, developed the required infrastructure, trained our staff and waiting for the Centre’s plan to start the vaccination programme,” said a senior minister, wishing not to be named.The cabinet was further informed that Centre will provide Covishield and Covaxin for the immunisation drive in the beginning.The state is also pushing for free vaccination for the poor and a demand for the same is going to be made with the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday. With second round of dry run to be undertaken in all 36 districts on January 8, the state health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday took a meeting of health officers of all districts to review preparations for the state-wide exercise. He directed them to identify the issues and prepare accordingly so that the drill can be completed without any hitch, said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.It was also decided that all the guardian ministers will remain present in their respective districts on the day of the dry run to monitor the drill.With preparations for dry run going on full-fledgedly in Maharashtra, there are a few districts where mobile connectivity and internet connectivity could pose a challenge, especially those having tribal areas. In many tribal areas, there is no connectivity and thus operating Co-WIN, a specially designed app by the health ministry, in tribal belts has emerged as a problem before the district administrations.Many districts such as Palghar, Thane, Nandurbar, Dhule, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal and Chandrapur have tribal population.The central government has introduced a new Co-WIN app to roll out the vaccination drive across the country. Each and every individual has to be registered on the app and their vaccination status will also be updated after administering the shot, apart from other details. The same process is applicable even for the dry run to be held on January 8.Dr Dayanand Suryavanshi, district health officer, Palghar district said that they won’t be facing any difficulty for conducting dry run, but during the actual vaccination programme, the problem will arise. “Palghar has tribal areas where network connectivity has been an issue. The dry run is going to be conducted only at three places so we won’t be facing any difficulty, but while starting the first phase of vaccination programme, we have to identify those sites where connectivity is not an issue and thus also have to provide transportation to those who have to travel long distance to reach vaccination centres,” Suryavanshi said.In that scenario, the second phase would be more challenging as the number of beneficiaries will increase and so would the number of vaccination centres, he said.Around 16,000 healthcare workers from the district will be vaccinated in the first phase of the drive.On Tuesday Tope said the people below poverty line cannot afford the vaccine even if two doses of it are priced at Rs500. “People below the poverty line, persons with comorbidities and above 60 years should be given the vaccine for free. We are going to raise this demand during our conference with the MoHFW on Thursday. Though there is no clarity on it as yet, we believe that it has been made free for health workers, frontline workers. The poor, too, should get it for free,” he said.Meanwhile, two patients who have returned from the United Kingdom (UK) and detected positive with the new strain of coronavirus were discharged after two RT-PCR reports found negative. Of the two, one is from Mumbai and another is from Pune. All the rest are asymptomatic, said state surveillance office Dr Pradip Awate.On Monday, eight UK returnees tested positive for the new variant and till date there is no rise in their number.“Till date 4,854 UK returnees who had landed between November 15 and December 23 have been traced till date. RT-PCR tests have been conducted on 3,438 of them 72 samples were found positive. Of them, 71 samples have been referred to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune to ascertain if they are infected with the new variant,” he said.Mumbai has clocked 795 cases on Wednesday, taking the case count to 296,320. Of them, active cases are 7,484. There were eight deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 11,155.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-over-4-000-fresh-covid-cases-after-20-days/story-E4loPVWOBEDVXCxgxqLhGL.html
07-01-2021||City||Amid uncertainty over bird flu, Centre rushes rapid response team to Haryana’s Barwala||Springing into action following the death of over 4.3 lakh poultry birds at Panchkula’s Barwala-Raipur Rani belt in the past 25 days, the central government has despatched a rapid response team, which will reach Panchkula district on Thursday.Considered Asia’s second largest poultry belt with over 15,000 workers, Barwala and Raipur Rani have around 110 poultry farms, housing over 77 lakh poultry birds and producing 1 crore eggs daily. ALSO READ: Four more birds dead at Sukhna, Chandigarh admn steps up surveillanceMeanwhile, the Panchkula health department also sent teams to the poultry farms for surveillance. “We have received directions from the central government to start active surveillance and declare an alert in the areas for symptoms of avian influenza,” said civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur.“Four teams visited 69 farms and no influenza-like symptoms were reported in the workforce. A special team from Delhi will be arriving on Thursday,” she added.Meanwhile, the poultry industry says they are taking precautions and that there has been no impact on their functioning and sales. “The casualties also include routine deaths of birds. There has been no impact on the business. The industry is fine,” said Darshan Kumar, president, Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association.Team from Jalandhar collects 57 samplesSpeaking on the delay in results, Dr Mohinder Pal Singh, director, Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory, Jalandhar, said, “There was a delay in reporting the matter to us. Secondly, the four samples sent to us on January 3 were not of requisite quality, hence the reports were inconclusive.”On January 5, Dr Singh sent a four-member team to Panchkula to collect fresh samples. “The team returned on Wednesday after collecting 57 samples of dead birds from 15 poultry farms. The report will be out by Friday,” he said.What nextThe director said if avian influenza was detected, bird culling will be conducted in the 1-km area around where it was found, and surveillance will be stepped up in the 10-km area.Centre’s flip-flopWhile avian influenza has been confirmed in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, apart from Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Kerala, mystery still surrounds the cause behind the mass bird deaths in Barwala belt.Even as the reports are awaited, earlier in the day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued a press note confirming presence of bird flu in samples from dead birds in Panchkula, only to retract it later.“There was some confusion. We are still awaiting reports from the Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory in Jalandhar and avian Influenza has not been confirmed yet,” said Dr Sukhdev Rathi, deputy director, Haryana animal husbandry and dairying department.‘Cooked meat safe to eat’Issuing an advisory, Haryana animal husbandry department said, “Poultry products can be cooked and consumed as usual with no fear of acquiring avian influenza virus, as it is sensitive to heat.”It advised people not to touch bird’s excreta or dead birds with bare hands, adding that poultry farm workers should wear masks.ALSO READ: Bird flu outbreak: Here’s all you need to knowThere are many strains of the bird flu virus and most of them are mild and may only cause low egg production or other mild symptoms among birds. However, some are severe and cause deaths of large number of birds.Generally, people coming in close contact with infected alive or dead birds contract the flu, and it does not usually spread from person to person, according to the World Health Organization, which also said that there is no evidence that the disease can be spread to people through properly prepared and cooked poultry food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-uncertainty-over-bird-flu-centre-rushes-rapid-response-team-to-haryana-s-barwala/story-tK2HjuJdQc2tElNUGqBi9M.html
07-01-2021||City||Light rain comes as relief to wheat cultivators in Ambala||Even as a large number of farmers from the region continue to protest at the Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) and Shambhu (Haryana-Punjab) borders, light showers in Ambala has come as a relief to wheat cultivators here. As per the Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) website, Ambala recorded 8.5 mm of rain in the last 24 hours till 8.30am on Wednesday. The weatherman said the minimum temperature is expected to drop to as low as 6°C on January 12 with fog, as compared to 12°C on Wednesday. Officials said that wheat is cultivated on nearly 80,000 hectares of land in all six blocks of the district. Agri experts said the crop was sowed in the first two weeks of November, followed by the first round of irrigation. Now, it is time for the second round. Gurvinder, a farmer from Mohra village, who just returned from the protest site near Delhi, said that he has grown the crop on nearly five acres of land. “My crop has already grown considerably, so the rain won’t have any impact. But, the extremely cold conditions expected around Lohri will be highly beneficial,” he said. Guru Prem, soil and water management scientist at Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Ambala’s Saha, said the showers will act as the second irrigation mechanism for crops that are currently at the tillering stage. “Nowadays, the farmers start irrigating the field after getting useful information from social media or M-Kisan/DD Kisan. So, most of them were yet to initiate the process. Now, they can straightway start using fertilisers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/light-rain-comes-as-relief-to-wheat-cultivators-in-ambala/story-HhFOWt6VGsnykfXBRQXRYP.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Alleging irregularities in Maharashtra legislative Council elections, BJP announces plans to move court||Alleging enrolment of fake voters from the graduate constituencies for the recently held legislative Council elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has announced its plan to move the court and file a complaint to the Election Commission of India against various irregularities in the elections. The party has also galvanised its organisation set up with an eye on winning maximum 14, 234 gram panchayat elections happening on January 15. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil alleged that many irregularities were witnessed in the Council elections held a few weeks ago, and it resulted in the ruling parties winning maximum seats. “Thousands of voters who have just passed Class 6 and 7 were enrolled as voters for the graduate constituencies. More than 5,000 voter slips were blank in the Aurangabad constituencies, while in Pune constituency, 137 to 157 votes were cast in just 60 minutes when one vote takes three minutes to be cast. Many voting centres were cancelled at the last minute in Pune, with specific intention. We are moving the high court (HC) and submitting a petition to the election commission,” he added. In the elections held for six seats in the last week of November, four seats were won by the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), one each by the BJP and an independent. The BJP had to face a humiliating defeat in Nagpur and Pune graduate constituencies, held by it for years. Responding to the defeat, the party’s central leadership had taken state leadership to task. The party held brainstorming sessions in the presence of the state in-charge CT Ravi in Mumbai. “Yes, we held an introspection session over our defeat in the Council elections, and have chalked out a strategy to win a maximum number of gram panchayats. BJP’s 28 senior leaders will visit 34 districts between January 8 and 10, and take stock of the ground situation. BJP will maximum village panchayats,” Patil said. The party has also announced to outreach program till village level to collect donations for the Ram Mandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/alleging-irregularities-in-maharashtra-legislative-council-elections-bjp-announces-plans-to-move-court/story-VKAl3PE3xDL5N1cvbuVzMO.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala keeping a watch on its poultry farms||After the death of over 4 lakh poultry birds in Barwala-Raipur Rani belt of Panchkula, the animal husbandry department of Ambala has constituted 26 teams for surveillance at the farms in Ambala. The department officials said these teams include doctors, paramedic staff and other officials, who will keep an eye on nearly 46 lakh poultry birds at different farms in the district. “So far, there haven’t been deaths at such an unusual scale as seen in Panchkula. But our teams are inspecting all areas,” sub-divisional officer RS Suprah said. Officials are also visiting wetlands in the district. “Three teams are inspecting the wetland areas in Naraingarh belt and other areas where birds arrived last year. But on our visit on Wednesday, no such birds were found. Our teams are ready in case of any casualty,” assistant poultry development officer Dr Devender Dhull said. Egg sales have been hit in Ambala as well, where a grocery store owner in Sector 7, not wishing to be named, said, “The retail price has decreased from Rs 180 per tray to Rs 150 in the wake of fewer customers turning up to buy eggs for the past few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-keeping-a-watch-on-its-poultry-farms/story-fnqGUhlW94BpwWQYtC6jYO.html
07-01-2021||City||Kalyan-Dombivli sees no Covid-19 death for a week: Maharashtra govt data||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has reported zero deaths due to Covid-19 for a week, as per the state government’s data.According to the KDMC, no deaths were recorded in the city since December 30, 2020, to January 5, 2021. In July, the city had recorded 11 deaths in a day. Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “We had set an aim to achieve zero deaths in KDMC, which has now turned into a reality. This is very motivating for health workers, who are working round-the-clock to achieve it. The death rate has always been below 2%.” Even though Kalyan-Dombivli continues to record a maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, it has managed to keep the number of cases below 100 for the past few days. “The highest number of cases in the MMR are being recorded here (Kalyan-Dombivli), however, the number of active cases and the death rate is comparatively low,” said Panpatil.Civic chief Vijay Suryavanshi, earlier in December, had asked its officials to focus on zero deaths in KDMC.For the past one week less than 100 cases were recorded, as per the state figures. On Wednesday too the twin cities reported zero deaths.On December 28, the civic body recorded 48 new cases. In September, the civic body had reported the highest number of new cases with 600 cases daily. Presently, the number of progressive cases in KDMC is 62,028 and deaths is 990. The civic body has the highest progressive cases as compared to neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai, which are yet to cross the 60,000 mark. As per the KDMC, the active cases in Kalyan-Dombivli are 903. The KDMC has so far conducted 286,753 tests in its vicinity, with 1,200 tests being conducted daily on an average. The doubling rate in KDMC is now 356 days and the recovery rate is 95.53%. Meanwhile, Thane currently has 999 active cases, while Navi Mumbai has 936 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-sees-no-covid-19-death-for-a-week-maharashtra-govt-data/story-EbJ56VBpITW3slmHLEhJdL.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown may have pushed communities back to traditional cooking fuels: Study||A study has raised concerns that the Covid-19 lockdown may have impacted the transition towards clean cooking fuels in the country, suggesting that there was an immediate need to frame policies to address long-term changes, such as switching back to traditional cooking fuels in the current era of fuel transition. The study that appeared in the Environment International journal, published by Elsevier on December 28, last year, was conducted jointly by scientists from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Panjab University, Indian Council of Medical Research and Gangarosa Department of Environmental Health, Emory University, Atlanta.Policy actions for clean fuel transition “Focus and target policies to the poor and other marginalised populations to ensure sustained uptake and transition to clean fuels and intensified efforts to involve direct engagement of private entrepreneurship for continued clean cooking fuel provision is required,” the study recommended.The researchers have also recommended for Covid-specific packages to be introduced for the severely affected communities to deal with the economic impact of the lockdown, beyond what has already been implemented.The researchers have also stressed on development of reward mechanisms to ensure sustained use of LPG. For example, if the household commits to using only LPG, the cost of the second cylinder of fuel could be waived.“The nationwide lockdown is likely to affect key factors such as energy access, income, transportation, that play a key role in decisions influencing household fuel use. The rural population already bears the burden of poverty and may not be able to afford and access clean cooking fuels during the lockdown. They are, thus, vulnerable to reversion to their traditional cooking methods using solid biomass fuels,” said Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, one of the authors from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER.The household air pollution caused due to the use of polluting fuels increases their susceptibility to non-communicable diseases, and thus may intensify the risk and severity of Covid-19 infection. Hence, there was an urgent need to expand sustainable energy solutions worldwide, the study said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-may-have-pushed-communities-back-to-traditional-cooking-fuels-study/story-O0vXCDV0u3mdfmk2ySv7TK.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Three get life imprisonment for Kalka teen’s murder, robbery||Over four years after the 19-year-old son of a jeweller was bludgeoned to death during a Rs 50-lakh gold robbery at their shop in Kalka in 2016, a local court has awarded three of the five convicts life imprisonment.The victim, Shubhanshu Verma, used to sleep on the shop premises.Apart from Iqbal Ahmad, 32, Mohd Aabid, 53, and Jagdish Ram, 49, who will serve life terms, two other convicts, Naseem Begum, 45, and Ram Gopal Verma, 46, have been jailed for two years.While Ahmad and Aabid have been fined Rs 5 lakh each, the third lifer will pay Rs 2.5 lakh, while the court slapped a penalty of Rs 10,000 each on Begum and Verma.Of the Rs 12.5 lakh fine imposed on the three lifers, Rs 11 lakh will be paid to the victim’s mother as compensation, the court ruled. ‘Case not fit for death penalty’Earlier, the public prosecutor prayed for death penalty for Ahmad and Aabid, contending that they had committed a heinous offence, and brutally and mercilessly murdered Shubhanshu, while Ram had egged them on.However, the court observed that the case was not fit for awarding death penalty and sent Ahmad, Aabid and Ram to jail for life. Ahmad and Mohd were convicted under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death), 460 (house trespass) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, while Ram was found guilty under Section 302 - read with Sections 109/111 (abetment), 394/397 of the IPC.Begum and Verma were convicted under Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the IPC.Midnight heistThe youngest son of jeweller Jagdish Verma, whose shop is located near Kali Mata Mandir in Kalka, Shubhanshu used to sleep on the shop premises. After breaking into the shop around 2am on the intervening night of July 4 and 5, 2016, the three lifers had bludgeoned the teen to death with an iron rod, before looting gold and silver jewellery worth around Rs 50 lakh. The crime was captured in the shop’s three CCTV cameras, which led to their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-get-life-imprisonment-for-kalka-teen-s-murder-robbery/story-Dxox91vHJPwx6TWPXeXxXK.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Cannot set aside convictions based on compromise between parties: Bombay HC||A three-judge bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has clarified that it is not permissible to ordinarily set aside the conviction for non-compoundable offences at an appellate or revisional stage, only on the ground of compromise between the parties.The bench comprising justices AS Chandurkar, Vinay Joshi and NB Suryavanshi said HC should exercise powers under section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to set aside such convictions “only in rarest of rare cases,” when found necessary to prevent the abuse of the process of the court or to secure the ends of justice.The bench said any compromise entered into post-conviction for a non-compoundable offence cannot, by itself, result in acquittal of the accused. “Similarly, the court has no power to compound an offence which is not permitted to be compounded under section 320 of the CrPC,” the bench added.The compromise entered into, therefore, is just a mitigating factor, the bench observed, adding that such compromise can be taken into account by the appeal or revisional court to impose an appropriate sentence.The three-judge bench was hearing a reference - whether the power under section 482 CrPC ought to be exercised for setting aside the conviction altogether upon a settlement between the convict and the victim.The issue was referred for consideration of the larger bench after a two-member bench at Nagpur refused to accept the view taken by a division bench at Aurangabad, striking down a conviction on the ground of settlement between the parties, observing that maintaining cordial relations between individuals - between the convict and victim in that case - was in the larger interest of the society and therefore inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code were required to be invoked to set aside the conviction.The three-judge bench has cautioned against a casual approach in setting aside convictions on the ground of settlement. It said if a conviction cannot be set aside in an appeal or revision (on merits), such a result cannot be achieved using section 482 of CrPC only on the ground that the parties have entered into a compromise.The three-judge bench has therefore held that a post-conviction compromise can be raised only before the appellate or revisional court and ordinarily it should be considered as a mitigating factor for sentencing.It would be a sound exercise of discretion under section 482 of the code and under the law of the land to refuse to quash criminal proceedings post-conviction for a non-compoundable offence only on the ground of compromise between the parties, the larger bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cannot-set-aside-convictions-based-on-compromise-between-parties-bombay-hc/story-IzaEWh3WlnWlYfIqiZS5gM.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Six arrested for creating ruckus in election office in Bhiwandi ahead of gram panchayat polls||Ahead of the gram panchayat elections in Bhiwandi, six people including a Shiv Sena candidate were arrested for creating a ruckus in the election office and causing obstacles in election work at Nimbavli gram panchayat on Tuesday. According to the complaint lodged by assistant commissioner of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) SN Bhalerao, Shantinagar police had booked Shiv Sena candidate Pravin Gulvi and five others under sections 353, 141, 143, 147, 149, 171(c)(1) and 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and then arrested them on Tuesday night. The gram panchayat elections are set to be held on January 15. The incident took place on Tuesday afternoon at Bhadwad Sampada Naik hall where Bhalerao is appointed as the returning officer. As per the complaint, Gulvi along with his associates went to the election office and hit Ganesh Gulvi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) candidate. The accused also allegedly caused obstacles in election work and damaged property. “A complaint was lodged with us by the officer. Based on that, we have arrested six accused in the case. The scuffle broke out after Ganesh had come to the election office to complain about illegal banners put up by Pravin. They also damaged some chairs,” said SV Raut, senior inspector, Shantinagar police station. Bhalerao said, “Ganesh had complained about an illegal banner put up by Pravin, based on which, I had served notice to the Sena candidate. When both of them were called to the office, they started arguing. Pravin and his aides picked up chairs and started throwing those on others. So, I called the police and lodged a complaint.” This was the fourth incident of violence related to the upcoming gram panchayat elections in Bhiwandi. Earlier, two contestants were beaten up. In a separate incident, two unknown bikers opened fire on Shiv Sena shakha chief Deepak Mhatre in Kalher, Bhiwandi in the wee hours of Sunday. Mhatre, who is contesting the gram panchayat elections from Kalher, escaped the firing. Meanwhile in Gundavali village, a contestant and his two brothers were beaten up by 20 youngsters. In another incident, the car of a woman candidate from Kharbao, Kavita Bhoir, was torched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-arrested-for-creating-ruckus-in-election-office-in-bhiwandi-ahead-of-gram-panchayat-polls/story-Yr01sasx7MkLKxlWG21UnJ.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: MMRDA looks to acquire RIL-led Versova-Ghatkopar Metro||In a significant development, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is likely to take over the operations of the Reliance Infrastructure Limited (RIL)-led Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar Metro-1 corridor. The authority is looking at appointing a consultant for “strategic acquisition” of Mumbai’s first Metro corridor.In August 2020, HT had reported that MMOPL, which has been facing losses since its inception, has written to the Maharashtra government proposing transfer of its shareholding to MMRDA. According to the tender document accessed by HT, Reliance is ready to consider a fair offer from MMRDA for transferring its stakes.The document states that the consultant will have to carry out a valuation exercise and also look at the commercial and legal aspects involved in acquisition. “In the event MMRDA decides to proceed with the transaction, (it) would require assistance in negotiation with RIL, as well as execution and delivery of the transaction documents.”A senior official from MMRDA said, “Reliance has expressed its interest in selling its stakes and we are giving it a due consideration.” While the MMRDA was earlier looking at appointing a consultant for undertaking a performance review of Metro-1, it had not stated that it was planning to take over Metro-1. MMRDA did not receive any response for the first tender. MMOPL is a special purpose vehicle (SPV) that was constituted to develop and run the 11.5-km Metro-1 on a public-private-partnership model. RIL owns 69% stake in MMOPL, MMRDA owns 26% and Transdev (formerly Veolia Transport) owns 5%. According to MMRDA, the total cost of the project is ₹2,356 crore, which includes ₹650 crore granted by the authority as a viability gap funding (VGF), of which ₹471 crore was released by the government of India between 2009 and 2014.The corridor has been operational since 2014, with a daily ridership of around 4.5 lakh, before it was shut owing to the pandemic. MMRDA is executing a 337-km Metro network in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The state government has also formed the Maha Mumbai Metro Operation Corporation Limited (M3OCL) for the operation and maintenance of all upcoming metro corridors in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane.In March 2019, HT had reported that MMOPL was in talks with lenders for a resolution plan for its mounting debt of ₹1,928 crore. MMRDA had then given a go-ahead for its proposal provided the authority’s equity does not get diluted. Anil Ambani led-RIL has been in the news for its mounting losses. Sources said that the pandemic-ensued lockdown wherein services were shut for seven months made it worse for the company.The company’s plans to increase fares to meet its cost overruns have also been facing roadblocks. In 2019, the second fare fixation committee appointed by the Central government rejected MMOPL’s claims on increasing fares and asked the company to re-look at innovative non-fare revenue methods to sustain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-mmrda-looks-to-acquire-ril-led-versova-ghatkopar-metro/story-Er7MnYr5CzJYmkIY9Z9oKO.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud: ED summons Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife again||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday issued fresh summons to Shiv Sena member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha Raut for questioning in the alleged money laundering in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case.According to ED officers, Varsha Raut may visit the ED office on January 11 for the second round of questioning. She was questioned, for nearly three hours, on Monday (January 4) by the agency,however, the ED officers were not satisfied with her responses. ED officers are to question her in connection with “suspicious” transactions that cropped up while the officials were scanning Pravin Raut’s transactions. Pravin Raut is Sajany Raut’s friend and former director of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, a subsidiary of the Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), which is accused of defrauding PMC Bank of over ₹6,670 crore by fraudulently obtaining nearly 70% of the bank’s overall loans.During an investigation into PMC Bank case and the involvement of HDIL, ED discovered that ₹95 crore had been siphoned off through HDIL by Pravin Raut in “active conspiracy and connivance” with various persons. The sources of the funds were illegally availed loans or advances etc. by HDIL from PMC Bank. There was no document or agreement in support of these payments made to Pravin Raut. Further, as per the HDIL’s ledger, the funds were given to Pravin Raut for acquiring land in Palghar, the ED said.Pravin Raut paid an amount of ₹1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri from the proceeds of crime. Madhuri then transferred₹55 lakh in 2010 and 2011 as an interest-free loan to Varsha Raut. The amount was utilised to purchase a flat in Dadar East, the ED said.The investigation further revealed that Varsha Raut and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha Raut received ₹12 lakh from this entity as overdrawn capital converted into a loan on a contribution of mere ₹5,625. The loan amount of ₹12 lakh is still outstanding. ED officials wish to question Varsha Raut regarding these transactions.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has already provisionally attached Pravin Raut’s properties worth ₹72 crore under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the PMC Bank fraud case.Pravin Raut was also arrested by the Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) in February in connection with the ₹1,034 crore redevelopment fraud case, in which Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) is the complainant.ED’s money laundering probe in the PMC Bank case is based on the Mumbai EOW’s September 2019 FIR registered against HDIL, its promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan, the bank’s former chairman Waryam Singh and managing director Joy Thomas and some other accused of allegedly causing losses worth thousands of crores to the bank to reap gains for themselves.Previously, Sanjay Raut had termed ED’s action as a witch hunt. He said his wife works as a teacher and had taken a loan of ₹50 lakh from her friend 10 years ago. “For the past one-and-a-half months, ED has been following up with us. We’ve given all the documents they demanded and showed our IT (income tax) returns and my Rajya Sabha affidavit. As the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) failed in their intention, they are now targeting our family members,” Sanjay Raut alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-ed-summons-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-s-wife-again/story-WKmO0mK8gAKslIPiyIYiFM.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man held for threatening ex-deputy CM of Jharkhand Sudesh Mahato||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Wednesday arrested 27-year-old Nilesh Pandey, a native of Uttar Pradesh, from Shivaji Nagar area of Mumbai for allegedly threatening former deputy chief minister (CM) of Jharkhand Sudesh Mahato and demanding ₹15 lakh from him. According to police, Pandey is a native of Raniganj area of Pratapgarh district and has completed Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Lucknow. However, as he started creating troubles for locals in a bid to gain hold in Pratapgarh, his parents sent him to Mumbai in a bid to refrain him from getting involved in criminal activities, said a police officer from the crime branch.The accused has a past case of attempt to murder in Uttar Pradesh and a case of kidnapping and rape in Jharkhand. He was arrested in both the cases and was out on bail. “During his custody, he allegedly came in contact with few criminals and got the phone number of Mahato. He called him on August 14, threatened him and demanded ₹15 lakh,” said inspector Deepak Chavan of unit 6. He threatened Mahato that he would go to his house and kill him if he failed to hand over the amount, Chavan said.Initially, a case was registered in Gonda police station in Ranchi, Jharkhand, against an unknown person. The Jharkhand Police conducted an inquiry and traced the mobile‘s location in Mumbai. They also identified the person and shared his photograph along with his location with the Mumbai Police. Officers of unit 6 searched the entire area and finally managed to nab Pandey from Shivaji Nagar area in Govandi. Pandey will be handed over to Jharkhand Police on transit remand, added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-held-for-threatening-ex-deputy-cm-of-jharkhand-sudesh-mahato/story-O0DlE5WHdvPZo4HZiHZnaM.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Man threatens to kill Mumbai mayor, detained in Gujarat||The Azad Maidan police on Wednesday detained a man from Gujarat for allegedly giving death threats to Mumbai mayor and Shiv Sena leader Kishori Pednekar. It is yet to be ascertained why the man threatened the mayor.According to police, Pednekar had received a call on her mobile phone on December 21. The unknown caller abused and allegedly threatened to kill her. The phone call was answered by her assistant. On December 22 she filed the police complaint, the police said. The police had registered a case of criminal intimidation against the caller.On checking the call data record of the number, the police traced the alleged accused to Jamnagar, Gujarat.A team was then sent to Jamnagar on Monday. The officers have caught the accused and are bringing him to Mumbai.He would be placed under arrest on Thursday and would be produced in court,” said an officer from Azad Maidan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-threatens-to-kill-mumbai-mayor-detained-in-gujarat/story-G687CL9FWdjrdjTDks6q9O.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lookout notice against UK couple for cheating people, aide arrested||The Mumbai Police has initiated a lookout notice against a couple from the United Kingdom (UK) for allegedly duping people of crores through six websites by luring them into investing in rare coins and promising them high returns citing that the value of these coins would rise. Khar police arrested the couple’s Mumbai-based associate identified as Amir Yakub Shaikh, 30, on Wednesday. The case came to notice after a woman approached Khar police after she allegedly lost ₹72 lakh to the couple’s ponzi scheme. Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (zone 9), said the accused, identified as Ahmed Khan, had opened a company named EA Rarcoa Collectibles Pvt Ltd in Mumbai and Bengaluru, and launched six websites to lure people into investing in rare coins. “In the beginning, Khan gave returns to his investors but later he duped them,” said Trimukhe. When the investors demanded answers, Khan allegedly asked Shaikh to buy coins from Chor Bazaar in Mumbai and gave it to the clients claiming that he had given them rare and precious coins. He had, however, warned them not to open the box. After the woman lodged a complaint, Khar police tracked Khan and his wife but they fled to the UK. The police then arrested Shaikh from Mumbai Central on Wednesday. While investigating the case, the police found out that Shaikh had collected ₹1 crore in his company account called Iliana Marketing. “We have issued lookout notices for Khan and his wife and are investigating the came to find out how many more people the trio cheated,” said Trimukhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-lookout-notice-against-uk-couple-for-cheating-people-aide-arrested/story-yaH0XgXzwbZY6mDssC5N4K.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||MVA government forms third panel to look for Mumbai Metro car shed plot||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Wednesday formed a nine-member committee under state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar for looking at alternate plots for building the car shed for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar to Vikhroli). The committee will specifically look at the plots in Aarey and Kanjurmarg. According to a government resolution issued on Wednesday, the committee is expected to submit its report in a month. This will be the third committee to look at alternate plots for the Metro-3 car shed since 2015. On December 26, HT had reported that the state is likely to form a committee to resolve the unending dispute. Thackeray has been squarely criticised by the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the shifting of the shed saying it will delay the project by three years and lead to the escalation of the cost at least by ₹4,000 crore. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis attacked Thackeray saying the decision of shifting the shed location was to satisfy his ego. As per the terms of reference, the committee will have to see if the proposed car shed in a 25-hectare plot in Aarey would suffice or would the project require more land and tree-cutting to be undertaken at the plot. Thackeray, in his address to the state in December, had stated that the project would require more land in Aarey, which would end up destroying the green lung. The committee has to look at the feasibility of integrating lines 3 and 6 and also look at the estimated cost and timeline in doing so. The committee has to also see if Kanjurmarg will be a better option than Aarey and if the 102-acre plot in Kanjurmarg would suffice future requirements for line 3,6 and 4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarwadavali). “The committee has to look at all available options and recommend the right plot looking at the future of the project,” the resolution states. While MVA shifted the car shed from the controversial Aarey to Kanjurmarg, the Bombay High Court (HC) stayed the transfer after the Central government and private parties claimed ownership of the plot. The state government had planned to build an integrated car shed for lines 3,4 and 6 at Kanjurmarg, which would also serve as an integration with the proposed line 14 (Kanjurmarg to Badlapur). In 2015, the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government had formed a committee under former metropolitan commissioner UPS Madan to find an alternative site for the depot. The MVA government, too, in December 2019, had formed a committee under additional chief secretary (finance) Manoj Saunik to study the alternatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-government-forms-third-panel-to-look-for-mumbai-metro-car-shed-plot/story-WQvhIAuqxjMOh08rZGSowK.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Process to find new Maharashtra Congress chief begins, in-charge meets senior leaders||The process of change in the guards in the state unit of the Congress has begun. The state in-charge of the party, HK Patil, on Wednesday, met party legislators and senior leaders to discuss names of the leaders, for the new responsibility. The party is expected to declare the new chief to Maharashtra Congress, in the next few weeks. During his interaction with party legislators from both the houses on Wednesday, the central leadership reportedly received mix opinions about the incumbent leadership and the potential names. A few party members of Legislative Assembly (MLA) and members of Legislative Council (MLC) opined to continue Thorat in the post, while others wanted a change in leadership and also suggested names. Rajya Sabha member of Parliament (MP) and party’s Gujarat in-charge Rajiv Satav, Maharashtra Assembly speaker Nana Patole, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar and women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur are believed to be frontrunners for the post. All of them are non-Maratha leaders and being considered, after the party’s central leadership reportedly decided to handpick state unit chief from other backward classes. The party is reportedly serious about picking a leader from Vidarbha, which has been assumed to be a stronghold of the party. Thorat, who currently holds three positions – state revenue minister, Congress legislative party chief, besides state unit chief- has reportedly told the central leadership that he was ready to quit if a party wishes so. After meeting KC Venugopal, general secretary, All India Congress Committee, in Delhi two days ago, he said that he will cooperate the new leader. He is reportedly pushing for Satav’s candidature. A few other senior leaders have opposed Satav saying he has hardly worked in Maharashtra and had even opted out of the fray during 2019 Lok Sabha election. Senior party leader and public works minister Ashok Chavan has been batting for Wadettiwar, while Prithviraj Chavan reportedly said that there was no need of the change in leadership at this juncture. “Party has probably decided to go for one leader one position policy. Indeed, many leaders like Nitin Raut, Nana Patole in Maharashtra and Kamal Nath in Madhya Pradesh and other states hold multiple posts. In the wake of the major upcoming district councils, municipal corporations and other civic body polls, the changes are likely to happen at the earliest,” a senior party leader said. Meanwhile, reiterating that they want to go solo in Brihnamumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections to be held in 2022, Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap on Wednesday demanded completed waiver of property tax to the flat measuring less than 500 sq ft in Mumbai. He has demanded a 60% discount in property tax to the flats measuring between 501 and 700 sqft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/process-to-find-new-maharashtra-congress-chief-begins-in-charge-meets-senior-leaders/story-ELXGDBLA7BxkYq5LhrPG0J.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai waits for local trains to resume before starting classes||The University of Mumbai (MU) is unlikely to start offline classes before local trains resume, even as colleges under the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) gear up for reopening from January 11.“Students will be able to reach their college campuses only when local trains resume regular operations. We will wait till then before instructing colleges to reopen,” said Ravindra Kulkarni, pro-vice-chancellor, MU.Colleges have switched to online mode of instruction since March last year following the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. In view of this, classes for subjects that are practical-oriented had been deferred to subsequent semesters in the interest of students’ safety.However, with the lockdown continuing, colleges are yet to chart a plan for these subjects. While some colleges await directions from the university, others are planning to call students in staggered batches for practical classes.“For our Bachelor of Commerce Information Technology course, we are planning to start calling the students in batches for practical classes starting February,” said Kishore Peshori, principal, MMK College, Bandra.SPPU, on the other hand, has asked its 800-odd affiliated colleges to begin physical classes for both theory and practical from January 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-waits-for-local-trains-to-resume-before-starting-classes/story-KuH4Q3mXv8RSupDQ3n5q4I.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray reminds Centre to rename Aurangabad airport after Chhatrapati Sambhaji||Amid the sparring between Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance partners over renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday wrote to Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri asking him to issue a notification about renaming Aurangabad airport as Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj Airport at the earliest.In a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), Thackeray reminded the Union minister about the pending proposal to rename the airport. He said the Maharashtra cabinet has taken a decision to rename Aurangabad airport after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj and a resolution on the same was also passed unanimously in both the houses of the state legislature. Thackeray said that the chief secretary’s office has also been communicating with the Union ministry on it. “So, a notification to rename Aurangabad Airport as Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj Airport should be issued at the earliest,” he added.Meanwhile, ruling Shiv Sena and Congress are at loggerheads over renaming of Aurangabad city as Sambhaji Nagar. The Sena has raked up its decades-old proposal to rename the city, which is expected to have civic polls in the next few months, while the Congress has opposed the renaming.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is cornering Thackeray-led Shiv Sena on the issue of renaming Aurangabad city after its alliance partner Congress opposed it, the Sena has questioned as to why the BJP-led Central government was not clearing the airport renaming proposal sent by the state. Earlier on Monday, Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut had said that BJP leaders from Maharashtra must go to Delhi and ask why the Centre has not cleared the proposal.Interestingly on Wednesday, CMO’s official Twitter handle referred to Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar while putting out a tweet on a cabinet decision. However, the statement from the CMO on the cabinet decision to increase of 165 beds and create 360 posts in government medical college and cancer hospital in Aurangabad did not refer to the city as Sambhaji Nagar. Incidentally, the CMO Twitter handle tagged medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, who is from the Congress, which has opposed renaming of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-reminds-centre-to-rename-aurangabad-airport-after-chhatrapati-sambhaji/story-4BdUyeiLEu2WWzT0siHAYK.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Portion of deemed forest in Delhi Cantt cleared of bushes to make way for park||A portion of the three hectare deemed forest land in Delhi Cantonment area has been cleared of undergrowth and bushes and converted into a recreational spot, complete with art installations drilled onto trees, decorative fountains and stone pathways, in violation of the Forest Conservation Act (1980). The army, in response to HT’s queries, clarified that no tree has been cut nor any machine used, and the area has been developed as a “recreational spot”.The Delhi forest department, last October, had sent a notice to the army, noting that a portion of the green area between Mandir Marg and Cassels Road in Cantonment was being developed as a recreational spot named “Taurus Plaza”. The notice said teams from the office of deputy conservator forests (western range) conducted inspections in the area and found that bushes and undergrowth had been cleared away with excavators, which was not only a violation of the Forest Conservation Act, but also in contrivance of a 1997 Supreme Court judgment, which prohibits such “non-forest” activity. “During field visits by officials of this division, it has been observed that the user agency has cleared away bushes and grass and has levelled the area using JCB machines (excavators). Also, there is work of landscaping going on in the area,” the notice from the forest department read. The notice added, “You are hereby directed not to carry out any non-forest activity within the deemed forest land of 3 hectares.” The original list of marked deemed forest areas, which was submitted as an affidavit before the Supreme Court in 1997, includes the three-hectare green space between Mandir Marg and Cassels Road in Delhi Cantonment. When Hindustan Times visited the area that is now known as ”Taurus Plaza”, where benches and pathways have also been laid out for the public, we saw that while developing the space as a recreational spot, trees have been drilled and decorative items and art installations such as bird houses, cycles and mannequins have been speared onto them. The residents of the cantonment said till a few months ago, this area was a green space with a walking path and a few benches placed near the roadside, where people could sit and watch the peacocks. Now that the thick bushes and undergrowth have been hacked away, and with more people visiting the plaza, peacock sightings have become rare. Responding to HT’s queries on the development of this space, which has been marked as ”deemed forest land”, an army spokesperson said that army is involved in tree plantation drives at all its stations. “Delhi Cantonment is considered the lungs of Delhi by contributing to the clean air. Within the cantonment, we also maintain recreational and environmental parks, which provide open spaces to communities and also educate our future generations about the relevance and importance of nature,” the office of additional directorate general, public information, said. It further said, “We have replied to the agency concerned that there has been no cutting of trees or the use of any plant machine in the said area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/portion-of-deemed-forest-in-delhi-cantt-cleared-of-bushes-to-make-way-for-park/story-Kv9XTHpjbdXtAwTmSanFmL.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Temperature to dip from Thursday, dense fog in store: IMD||Residents of the Capital on Wednesday woke up to a hailstorm, followed by a brief but intense spell of rainfall. The increased moisture in the air, along with slow winds, which also changed direction, also caused a rise in the city’s pollution. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the four-day spell of intense rain in Delhi and the National Capital Region, as the result of a western disturbance, ended in a hailstorm in some parts of the Capital around 7.30am on Wednesday. IMD data shows that Delhi has over the last four days received 56.6mm rainfall, the highest in January since 1999, when the city received 59.7mm. In 2019, the city had received 54.1 mm rain in the month. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the western disturbance crossed Delhi on Wednesday afternoon. “The impact of the western disturbance was leading to higher maximum and minimum temperatures in Delhi and NCR towns. Temperatures will start dipping from Thursday,. There is also a forecast of dense fog over Delhi in the coming two days,” Srivastava said. The minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker of the city, on Wednesday was 13°C, six notches above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 21.3°C, two above normal. The met department’s forecast said that by January 8, the minimum temperature will fall to around 8°C.Scientists said that low wind speeds and dense fog on Wednesday pushed Delhi’s air quality into the ‘poor’ category. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Wednesday was 226, in the ‘poor’ zone. On Tuesday, the AQI was 140, categorised as ‘moderate’. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said the AQI is expected to deteriorate further on Thursday as there is a forecast of dense fog and calm winds. “On Wednesday too, we saw foggy conditions throughout the day, which led to an accumulation of pollution. Air quality is expected to worsen till January 9, when another western disturbance will cross Delhi and lead to light rain in certain parts. Wind speeds will improve and pollution particles will start dispersing,” said Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/temperature-to-dip-from-thursday-dense-fog-in-store-imd/story-QQK80EVLVvE4sa60oMJrWM.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Ahead of talks with govt, protesting farmers to carry out tractor march today||Thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders demanding repeal of three contentious farm laws will carry out a tractor march on Thursday, converging on the eastern and western peripheral expressways that form a ring around Delhi. However, they will not enter Delhi, farm leaders said on Wednesday. “This will be a dress rehearsal for the tractor parade by farmers on Republic Day in the national capital,” said Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India who is among the coordinators of the protest.Farmers, primarily from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding repeal of the laws, and a legal guarantee on minimum support prices for their crops, among other issues.The farmers announced last week that if their demands were not met, they will march in their tractors at Rajpath on Republic Day, where India’s annual military parade and cultural programme is held on January 26.Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, said hundreds of tractors will march on Thursday from Singhu and Tikri borders to the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal or Western Expressway. “Hundreds of tractors from both the protest points will leave around 11am and drive towards KMP Expressway. From there, we will return to our camps,” said Sandhu.Joginder Singh Nain, a farm leader from Haryana, said:“Women drivers will lead a part of the rally representing the Haryana contingent.” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson, Rakesh Tikait said the tractor march will not enter Delhi, and culminate at the respective borders after travelling up to Dasna and Palwal. “It will be a peaceful tractor march. The farmers protesting at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border will march towards Bulandshahr via Dasna on their tractors. The other groups of farmers coming from the different borders of Delhi will meet near Bulandshahr, where we will have ‘langar’. From there, the other group would move towards Palwal while we will return to UP Gate border by evening,” said Tikait.Unlike the other BKU groups, the farmers associated with BKU’s Bhanu group that has been protesting at the Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border will carry out a tractor march from Mahamaya flyover up to Chilla border.“Our tractor march will be of nearly two kilometres. We will stop at the Chilla border,” said BC Pradhan, spokesperson for BKU’s Bhanu group.Shalini Singh, joint commissioner of police (western range), said that since the march is not scheduled to enter Delhi, the police arrangement would remain like before. But traffic on the outskirts is likely to be affected.Police in Gautam Buddh Nagar said they will enforce diversions on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal or Eastern Peripheral Expressway. “In view of this, vehicles will not be allowed to get on the eastern peripheral expressway from Beel Akbarpur and Sirsa cut towards Palwal from 12pm to 3pm. Similarly, vehicles won’t be allowed on the expressway from Sirsa cut and Beel Akbarpur towards Sonipat from 2pm to 5pm and will be diverted,” police said in a statement.GB Nagar’s police commissioner Alok Singh on Wednesday inspected the situation along the expressway. Singh, along with additional CP (law and order) Love Kumar and DCP, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh, visited the Beel Akbarpur toll, Sirsa toll and Palwal border area.National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials also said the tractor march will affect traffic on both eastern and western peripheral expressways. “Tractors are not allowed on EPE and there will be traffic disruption if they carry out a march. We will speak to the district officials about the issue. Already, the farmers have made two major tolls at Palwal and Sonipat free and it is affecting our revenue. It is estimated that the tolls fetch us about Rs 90 lakh per day, but we are collecting only about Rs 25 lakh per day since December 25,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said farmers from several Rajasthan districts will march on their tractors up to the Shahjahanpur protest site on Thursday. “A group of farmers from Maharashtra joined our agitation today. Tractors from other protest sites on the Delhi border will start their march in the morning, and we will have a huge cavalcade of farmers on the KMP stretch tomorrow,” said Madhav. Deepak Lamba, member of Jai Kisan Andalon which is a part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said that the march would start at 11am on Thursday and continue through the day. “One batch of tractors will start from Singhu border and one from Tikri border. They will converge at KMP before returning back to their respective protest sites. Other segments of tractors from Palwal, Ghazipur and Mewat will also come together on the KMP stretch,” said Lamba. Rampal Jat, president of the Kisan Mahapanchayat, which is protesting at the Haryana-Rajasthan border, said that around 100 tractors from Palwal will join the rally. “Tractors from different regions will join the march tomorrow. Due to rain, our tents at the border have been uprooted or flooded, but we will participate in the rally as much as possible. Around 100 tractors from here will join the march from Palwal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-to-march-on-highway-ring-around-delhi-in-tractors-to-press-their-demands/story-Qa3GF1mZVm6wGUD7Cq1q8L.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Govt Asha, anganwadi workers, teachers to help bust myths, dispel Covid vaccine hesitancy||With the national capital is set to roll out the Covid-19 immunisation drive, the key stakeholders -- including- Accredited Social Health Activists (Ashas), Anganwadi workers (AWWs), and government teachers -- have been given the crucial responsibility of building confidence among people and to address issues related to “vaccine hesitancy”.According to the Ashas, AWWs, and teachers, who have attended training sessions for the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Delhi, they have been asked to inform people, during the ongoing door-to-door survey, about the importance of the vaccine and also work on busting myths and misinformation about the vaccination, including the fear of side effects, that is prevalent among the general public. The Delhi government had last week identified 5.1 million people who will be the first to get the vaccine shots under the Central government’s “priority category”. The beneficiaries will receive messages via SMS and will be asked to report to the vaccination centres on a particular day and time.The survey work is still on in some districts with Ashas, AWWs, and teachers participating in it, along with other government officials. Usha Thakur, general secretary of Delhi Asha Workers’ Association (DAWA) who attended a Covid-19 vaccine training session in the south-west district on Monday, said Ashas have been asked to create awareness about the vaccination process in the community. “There are so many rumours about the vaccine on social media. We have to work on busting myths during our survey work. We have to make people understand the importance of vaccination...Besides, we have also been told to go door-to-door in our localities once we get vaccinated and share our first-hand experience with residents.”Thakur said Ashas were also asked to share the difficulties they have been witnessing during the survey work. “I was on field duty last week to update the age of residents in Indra Park in order to identify beneficiaries. A group of women, in their 50s, refused to disclose their age and said they do not want to be vaccinated. They even expressed apprehensions that they might die of the side effects from the vaccine dose. It took us an hour or so to dispel their fears and update their correct age in the records.”Recalling similar fears among the public about the polio vaccine, Chameli Devi, 48, an Asha, said there was so much resistance back then -- in the early 80s -- as well. “People used to say that their children would die if they took polio shots. They would shut doors on volunteers saying \they didn’t have children at home. We are hoping that people don’t behave like that this time around. Although people are responding to the survey, there is a lot of hesitation among them. We have been informing people to only rely on authentic information released by the government and to not trust any forwarded messages on social media or WhatsApp,” she said.Workers have also been asked to encourage people to get vaccinated. Kavita Kumari, an anganwadi worker in east Delhi, said, “We have been assigned to identify people (above 50 years of age) who are showing resistance or hesitancy to get vaccinated and to clear their doubts. We have to convince them that it’s like any other vaccine, say, the smallpox vaccine.”Officials said the Ashas, AWWs, and teachers have been selected for the “myth-busting” work because they have close ties in the community. Arun Mishra, district magistrate (east Delhi), said, “This is the best way to counter vaccine hesitancy among people. They regularly meet residents in their localities and people also listen to what they say. That’s why they were found most suitable for such an outreach programme.” Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said, “Vaccine hesitancy is well known. Many studies have proved that. It was not there till September. But after that, with the emergence of a new strain of the virus, vaccine hesitancy has increased among people. So, it’s important to bust the myths and misconceptions. Asha workers and anganwadi workers can be good to reach out to people. But, there will be a requirement of a broader communication strategy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-asha-anganwadi-workers-teachers-to-help-bust-myths-dispel-covid-vaccine-hesitancy/story-ekPZg1826GNUjqFMzqlRjJ.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Court dismisses Delhi lawyer Pracha’s plea seeking video footage of office raid||A Delhi court has dismissed a plea by advocate Mehmood Pracha seeking copy of the video footage of the search conducted at his office on December 24, 2020, in connection with an alleged cheating and forgery case arising of the north-east Delhi riots, while stating that the plea is legally not maintainable.Pracha represents several people accused of perpetrating violence or conspiring to cause the riots that ravaged north-east Delhi in February. His clients include Bhim Sena chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Gulfisha Fatima.Additional sessions judge Dharmendra Rana rejected the plea by Pracha, who had challenged an earlier order of the duty magistrate who had refused to give the copy of the video footage but had instead preserved it. “Perusal of the section 165 (5) CrPC would reveal that IO is required to send the record forthwith to nearest magistrate and on application, the applicant is also entitled for a copy of the same. However the word “forthwith” classifies only the record sent to the magistrate and it is not the requirement of law that the record is also required to be ‘forthwith’ furnished to the applicant,” Rana said.Pracha, in his revision plea, had said the search of his office premises was a matter of grave concern for the legal fraternity, as the police had compromised the confidential and privileged information and data of hundreds of his clients.He had also alleged that the police had committed several illegal and criminal acts during the search, all of which will be clear when the video footage is perused. He said he fears the police will make every attempt to manipulate and tamper with the video footage so as to prevent their illegal and criminal acts from being exposed and which will also exonerate him.“Perusal of the impugned order of December 27, 2020, would reveal that the prayer of the revisionist for supply of video footage has neither been denied nor has been conclusively determined,” the court said in its order of January 5.On August 22, police registered an FIR against Pracha after one of the riot victims told a court that the lawyer has asked him to fake a deposition and frame three people in riot cases. Police had then told the court that they had filed a case against Pracha for giving false information to the court, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. The Karkardooma court had passed a direction asking the police to look into the allegation.At the time itself, Pracha denied the police’s allegations and said that the case was meant to intimidate him. Pracha was also a prominent face of the protests against the citizenship amendment law .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-dismisses-delhi-lawyer-pracha-s-plea-seeking-video-footage-of-office-raid/story-AkKxWAODSWbsqQLDLJzDaP.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Lok Nayak hospital OPDs reopened, rapid tests must for all patients||The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital has reopened its outpatient clinics for non-Covid patients after nine months, with all those coming in being tested for the coronavirus disease using a rapid antigen kit before being allowed inside. The 2,000-bed hospital had been converted into a dedicated hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in March last year. The hospital, which used to see around 9,000 patients a day in its outpatient clinic before the onset of the pandemic, was asked to re-start non-Covid services on half its beds at the beginning of the year. With the number of Covid-19 cases on the decline for over a month, the government had decided to de-escalate the number of beds earmarked for the treatment of those with the viral infection across 115 hospitals on December 31. The number of beds could go down by around 14,000 across hospitals, from over 18,700 beds the government had reserved when the city saw its third and worst wave of cases in November. With even the OPD building housing some of the non-ICU beds, the hospital took a few days to put in place protocols to ensure the Covid-19 and non-Covid patients remain in separate areas before the clinics were reopened on Monday. To maintain social distancing, the hospital has started with clinics of a select few departments, with attendance in each being restricted to 50 persons, as per doctors from the hospital. “However, we probably got around 20 patients on the first day. The number will go up in a week or two as more people come to know that the OPDs have opened. However, we are currently focussing only on the more stable patients, not those who are very sick,” said a senior doctor from the hospital on condition of anonymity. Admissions of non-Covid patients haven’t started yet, the doctor said. The hospital currently has a special ward for those who are suspected to have the mutant variant of the virus that was first discovered in the United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lok-nayak-hospital-opds-reopened-rapid-tests-must-for-all-patients/story-ubYKjA5NFLcTopaB3mRlZK.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||DTC board approves funds to procure and maintain 1,000 low-floor AC buses||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on Wednesday approved funds for the procurement of 1,000 low-floor air-conditioned CNG buses, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said. The buses are likely to start arriving over the next six months, senior transport officials said. The proposal was tabled and approved in the board meeting of the DTC, chaired by Gahlot, on Wednesday. The board also approved an increase in the ceiling of gratuity for DTC employees from the current Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh, the transport corporation conveyed in a statement.“We have approved funds for the procurement of 1,000 low-floor CNG buses and also for the comprehensive annual maintenance of these buses for their entire lifespan. This will help in reducing the downtime of buses and increase the overall user experience,” Gahlot said.The new low-floor CNG buses would be equipped with facilities such as real-time passenger information system, CCTV cameras, panic buttons, GPS and other features besides being differently abled friendly.Funds for the annual maintenance of buses up to 7.5 lakh kilometres per bus and covering 12 years’ comprehensive maintenance insurance, were also approved, the statement further said. The DTC had last inducted buses into its fleet in 2011, a year after the 2010 Commonwealth Games. Currently, it has a fleet of 3,762 buses. Apart from these, there are the cluster buses – operated by concessionaires – with a fleet size of 2,839. The cluster bus fleet has witnessed an increase over the past few years while the DTC fleet had remained stagnant, government records showed.In November 2019, the Supreme Court had observed that at least 11,000 buses are needed to cater to Delhi’s population of over 20 million.Last year, the DTC had floated a tender for the 1,000 buses which first failed and was put up again. Senior transport officials said after Wednesday’s approval of funds, the DTC will now issue a letter of interest (LOI) to the bus manufacturer which will then start the process of readying the new buses. Last month, the DTC also issued a tender to create a real-time passenger information system, which will enable commuters to access information on bus routes, estimated time of arrival, fare, location of nearest buses which a passenger wishes to board, availability of seats and best options for interchange -- all on their mobile phones.The tender document titled “engagement of vendor to design, develop, implement, operate and maintain real-time passenger information system for DTC buses” is broadly divided into three categories focusing on a mobile application for commuters, a separate mobile app for DTC staff, and an interface to help crunch passenger usage statistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dtc-board-approves-funds-to-procure-and-maintain-1-000-low-floor-ac-buses/story-soXoiZnqyJdyiyJKN3g6EJ.html
07-01-2021||City||DCPCR disposes of 890 cases in the last quarter||New Delhi: The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has disposed of 890 cases during the last quarter, between October and December 2020, ---800% the earlier average disposal rate and the highest since it has been constituted, the commission said on Wednesday. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the commission said that in the earlier quarter, between July and September 2020, it had disposed of 432 cases. “In the last quarter, out of a total of 890 cases, a substantial number of 533 complaints related to missing children where Commission is the monitoring authority, 195 complaints related to the right to education and 125 complaints related to health & nutrition of children were resolved. Through grievance resolution, the DCPCR has been making crucial interventions such as in a case, a child who was being denied admission in Class XI on the basis of certain discriminatory admission rules and had suffered mental agony running from pillar to post, was able to obtain admission with the assistance of DCPCR, despite the rules being contrary,” the statement stated.“In a critical case, where a child was found COVID positive in Udayan Care Child Care Institution and all other children, who were needed to be tested could not be taken outside due to risk of exposure, DCPCR intervened to arrange COVID testing of all 24 children within the Children’s Home,” the statement added.DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said, “It is not the existence of grievances with the government that separates a good democracy from a poor one but how the government chooses to respond to it. The Commission will continue to promote the cause of the children, be their relentless advocate, and amplify their voices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dcpcr-disposes-of-890-cases-in-the-last-quarter/story-qt41nAefSWDQ7KoneIoDBL.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||HC notice to Delhi govt, IHBAS over extension of director’s tenure||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Delhi government and the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) on a plea challenging the extension of tenure granted to IHBAS director NG Desai after he attained the age of 65 years.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued a notice to the Delhi government and IHBAS, seeking their stand on the petition by a former employee of the institute.“It is unfortunate that individual or small vested interest gets masqueraded as public interest which is evident from the petitioner’s allegations. With full respect to the judicial process and the integrity of the administrative system, I would not like to say much except the fact that the claims in the plea are distorted and conveniently interpreted. All respondents, Including myself will clearly reply to the court as sought,” Nimesh G Desai, Director, IHBAS said.The petitioner, Tej Bahadur Singh, has said the present director of the institute was appointed to the post in 2016 for five years, or up to the age of 65 years, whichever came first. According to Singh, Desai turned 65 in October 2020 and, thus, he cannot continue as director without the lieutenant governor approving the extension of tenure.Singh claimed that when he had attained the age of 62 in 2012, and had sought an extension from IHBAS, he was told that no person can be permitted to remain in service beyond the superannuation age as fixed under the rules.Therefore, a different yardstick cannot be applied in case of the present director, he contended. The plea has sought the quashing of all decisions, including the appointment of joint director (administration), taken by Desai after he turned 65.The plea also sought an interim direction prohibiting Desai from taking any administrative decisions during pendency of the petition. However, the bench refused to pass any such order.It has further sought directions to the Delhi government to hand over post of director of IHBAS to the head of a government hospital till a new director is appointed.Appearing for IHBAS, advocate Tushar Sannu told the court that the petitioner was a former employee and, therefore, had a personal interest in the matter.The matter would be now heard on January 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-notice-to-delhi-govt-ihbas-over-extension-of-director-s-tenure/story-cdmqqB74sXDLeENHFvFZoM.html
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Dense fog likely in Chandigarh from Thursday onwards||Dense fog is expected in the city from Thursday onwards due to a Western Disturbance, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to an IMD official, visibility can reduce to 100 metres in the morning and evenings at isolated pockets in the city. Besides, though rain is unlikely, the day and night temperatures may drop.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature went up to 23°C from Tuesday’s 20.7°C and was three notches above normal. However, the night temperature decreased slightly from 14°C to 13.6°C, which was eight degrees above normal.In the coming days, the highs and lows are expected to remain around 22°C and 12°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dense-fog-likely-in-chandigarh-from-thursday-onwards/story-nBzHTOUmgX5AWahRoLPGiL.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||CSMT bridge in Mumbai likely to be ready by 2022-end||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is working on a plan to begin the reconstruction of the Himalaya Bridge near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) by April 2021, with the aim to make it ready for pedestrians by the end of 2022, said civic officials. The BMC plans to finalise the contractor by March-end for the ₹6-crore project. Thereafter, the contractor will be given 15 months, excluding monsoon, to complete the construction.According to civic officials, BMC has floated bids to appoint a contractor for the reconstruction of the Himalaya foot overbridge (FoB) that had collapsed in March 2019, killing seven. “We are going to finalise the contractor and issue a work order by March-end. The work will start from April 2021 but will be impacted for eight months during the monsoon of 2021 and 2022. Due to this, the bridge will only be ready by 2022-end,” said an official from the bridges department.“We have made changes in the design based on suggestions and recommendations from the heritage department. Traffic during the construction period will not be majorly affected for pedestrians or vehicles,” the official added. According to BMC officials, the busy Dr Dadabhai Naoroji (DN) Road, on which the Himalaya Bridge will be reconstructed, will not remain shut for traffic or vehicular movement. “There might be minor diversions but no closure of the road,” the official said.However, during the launch of the bridge, DN Road may be shut for a week. The bridge construction is expected to be done using stainless steel that will be supported by pier. As per BMC’s draft design, there will be three entry and exit points for the bridge, of which two will be on DN Road and one on the service road that leads to St Xavier’s College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/csmt-bridge-in-mumbai-likely-to-be-ready-by-2022-end/story-vFjpsswxrfVAeai2gmAmWL.html
07-01-2021||Mumbai||No FYJC seat yet for 10K Mumbai Metropolitan Region students||More than 10,000 students in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) did not get a seat even in the second special merit list for first year junior college (FYJC) admissions declared on Tuesday evening. A total of 32,368 students had applied in the round, of which 21,835 students secured a seat. Of the students who got a seat, only half (10,058) got their first preference. This is even as more than 1.38 lakh seats in the MMR (including general and quota seats) were vacant after admissions in the first special round concluded on December 31. Several prominent colleges in the city did not declare the second special list as all seats were full after the first four admission rounds. For instance, in the arts stream, prominent colleges such as St Xavier’s College in Dhobi Talao, Ruparel and Ruia College in Matunga and Mithibai college in Vile Parle had no list. For science, some prominent colleges like Mithibai, Ruparel and St Xavier’s saw a marginal increase in the cut-offs compared to the first special round. Principals said while a large number of students have managed to secure a seat by now, many who are still uncertain might still be left out. “There might be some with lower percentages who might want to try till the end and have thus not secured a seat. Sometimes, students also opt for colleges whose cut-offs are way higher than their score. Also, with the results for the Class 10 supplementary exams being declared recently, some students who passed the exam might have also applied,” said a principal of a suburban college. Students who have been allotted seats under the second special round can secure their admission by January 8. This year, there will be no first-come, first-served (FCFS) rounds for admissions this year. FCFS rounds usually follow regular admission rounds wherein students can claim seats against vacancies across colleges in a particular city or district and are allotted seats on the basis of who claims them first. These rounds were introduced in the academic year 2018-19, but were criticised by many parents and experts as they allowed students with lower scores to get into top colleges against vacant seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-fyjc-seat-yet-for-10k-mumbai-metropolitan-region-students/story-a402QRAUARY1WYiqmaeMjN.html
