08-01-2021||Other||Chandni Chowk revamp nearing end, facade of buildings along stretch may get restored||With the Chandni Chowk revamp project nearing completion, the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) is preparing a plan to restore the façade of buildings along the 1.5km-stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Mosque.Garima Gupta, SRDC managing director, said, “We are in the process of planning details and preparing the estimates for the restoration.”The project was to be undertaken once work on redeveloping the area is complete.“There is a need to restore the buildings as per their original architecture and carry out repairs wherever necessary,” an SRDC official said.Sanjay Bhargava, president of the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, a traders’ body, said, “While the situation on the ground has improved after the redevelopment, the façade of the buildings has to improve. There are 18-20 heritage buildings on the stretch that have to be restored as per heritage rules. But for the rest of the buildings, SRDC can provide a standard template, based on which restoration work can be done.”Meanwhile, there are discussions going on to make SRDC an autonomous local body. The SRDC was constituted under the Companies Act (1956), by the Delhi government. It’s main objective is to “promote conservation of built and natural heritage in the National Capital Territory of Delhi.”Gupta said, “It is in the discussion stages. No proposal has been made in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandni-chowk-revamp-nearing-end-facade-of-buildings-along-stretch-may-get-restored-101610130197846.html
08-01-2021||Other||Dead crows in dozens at Mayur Vihar park spark panic, some more found in Dwarka and Hastal||Carcasses of dozens of crows have been found in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar and in Dwarka as well as Hastsal in west Delhi over the past few days, triggering fears of a bird flu outbreak in the national capital similar to the one that has affected at least four other states in the country. While officials of the municipal corporation and residents of Mayur Vihar Phase 3 said about 150 crows had died in the past three or four days, the Delhi government said the number of birds found dead at the three places was below 50. On Friday morning, after receiving reports of crow carcasses being found in Mayur Vihar Phase 3, a team of doctors from Delhi government’s animal husbandry department reached A-2 Central Park and collected samples to check if the deaths were caused by the cold or due to avian flu. The test report is expected on Monday. The Delhi government in a statement said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia sent officials immediately to the spot in Mayur Vihar and the team found 17 dead crows in the park. Four samples were collected for testing from among these carcasses. But a senior official of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), which manages the park, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Nearly 150 crows have died over the past three days in the Central Park. As this is a matter pertaining to the Delhi government’s animal husbandry department, we informed the authorities concerned. A team of doctors from the animal husbandry department inspected the park and collected samples of dead birds,” the EDMC official said. HT visited the Central Park on Friday evening and found carcasses of at least four to five crows there. According to residents, the other carcasses were removed on Friday morning but those found in the evening could be from fresh deaths. As news about the bird deaths spread, there was panic among residents and shopkeepers. “Crows are dying and falling off trees for the past four days but the authorities are not paying heed. We had raised the issue with the civic body employees deployed at the park two days ago but action was taken only today (Friday). We fear that it may be an outbreak of bird flu, which has already been reported in other states,” Devendra Kumar, a resident of A-2 block in Mayur Vihar-3, said. Another resident of the area, Dinesh Pratap Singh, said the death of such a huge numbers of crows was frightening. “This mysterious death of crows indicates the presence of bird flu in the city. At least 150 crows have died in the past four-five days. We have stopped going for walks in the park,” Singh said.Traders in the market said in the previous years, there were sporadic cases of birds dying due to the cold. “But crows dying in such large numbers is new. The government officials should check if crows are dying due to bird flu. We don’t know how this disease spreads, and so there is panic among the residents. We are not ready to face another virus or pandemic,” Viru Gupta, who runs a garment shop in the market, said. The Delhi government in a statement on Friday said as part of the exercise to prevent the ingress of avian influenza to the capital, multiple samples have been collected and sent for tests. The collected samples have been submitted to the laboratory in Palam and these will send to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, ICAR, Bhopal, on January 9. “All remaining carcasses were disposed of by deep burial following bio security measures and the area was sanitised. Instructions were also given to attendants of the park to report further mortality of birds, if any. Two crows were found dead at a DDA Park in Dwarka and one sample was collected from there for tests,” a government spokesperson said, adding that at DDA park in Hastsal village reported 16 dead birds. Of this, four samples have been sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, for tests. Dr Rakesh Singh, animal husbandry department, said until Friday, a total of 104 samples were sent from Delhi to Jalandhar. Five more samples have been collected by the department which will be sent to the laboratory in Bhopal on Saturday. “Of the 104 samples that have been sent already, 100 are faecal and blood samples and four are dead crows. Of the five samples that will be sent on Saturday to Bhopal, one will be an oral swab and the remaining four are dead birds,” he said. Dr Singh said the first set of results will come by Monday. “Actions like restricting the number of trucks and regulating shops will be taken only if a bird flu outbreak is confirmed. The results of the samples will start coming from Monday. As of now, Delhi has no case of bird flu,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dead-crows-in-dozens-at-mayur-vihar-park-spark-panic-some-more-found-in-dwarka-and-hastal-101610130197292.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to receive 21,000 doses of Covid vaccine in first phase||Chandigarh is expected to receive 21,000 vials of Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase, which will be administered to front-line workers, the Centre has informed local health authorities.Even though the date for the rollout to begin has not been communicated yet, authorities said they are ready to start the drive within two days of receiving the vaccine, which will be administered at nine sites in the city. Confirming the same, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director, UT health department, said that a list of around 8,350 health workers has been prepared and updated on the central government’s portal, who will receive the vaccine in the first phase. This will also include front-line workers of the municipal corporation and police department. The health department conducted dry runs for the Covid-19 vaccination at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and civil hospital in Sector 45 on Friday. “We have received communication from the Centre that we will get around 21,000 vials in the first phase. However, the date for the rollout will begin has not been communicated yet. During the two dry runs that were conducted on Friday, the online system for updating and verification were working smoothly,” Dr Kang said.Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research also conducted a dry run at the health and wellness centre in Sector 49 which is one of the designated sites for Covid vaccination in Chandigarh.UT has also received the first lot of around 1.5 lakh syringes from the central government to carry out the drive. They have been stored at the district vaccine store in Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. The vaccine, when available, will be procured by the district vaccine store from Government Medical Store Depot, Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-receive-21-000-doses-of-covid-vaccine-in-first-phase/story-6UGUS81YSU02JR0Upf1pLO.html
08-01-2021||Other||Municipal strike enters Day 2, nurses, paramedic staff of Kasturba Hospital may join from Monday||The indefinite strike of municipal corporation employees against non-payment of pending salaries for the last 4-5 months entered into its second day on FridayMore municipal employees — including nurses and paramedic staff at Kasturba Hospital along with contractual workers from other departments — are likely to join the strike from Monday. Representatives of Confederation of MCD Employees Union, an umbrella organisation of civic employees unions, said that during the strike, employees came to office but did not do any work.AP Khan, convener of the confederation, said that on Friday, the strike was not only observed at Civic Centre — the headquarters of the north and south civic bodies — but also at zonal offices, as employees abstained from discharging their duties. “Work related to the issuance of birth and death certificates, online teaching classes, an inspection of project sites, maintenance of parks and gardens, ministerial work, among others, remained suspended on Friday. The strike will intensify from Monday as more people are likely to join in,” he said. Medical services at Hindu Rao Hospital and Rajan Babu TB Hospital were also hit due to the strike of nurses and paramedic staff at these hospitals. “We will join the strike from Monday as our salaries are also pending for the last three months,” said BL Sharma, president Nurses Union at Kasturba Hospital. Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary of the confederation, said that salaries of teachers and engineers are pending for five months in north corporation, while adding that the situation was similar with employees of other departments as well. “For how long shall we work without salaries? We had no option than to go on strike. Our strike will continue until our demands to clear our pending salaries are met,” he said. MCD QUOTE HERE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/municipal-strike-enters-day-2-nurses-paramedic-staff-of-kasturba-hospital-may-join-from-monday-101610129958120.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Non-fulfilment of demands: Chandigarh admn employees to hold strike on Feb 10||: A convention for employees of the Chandigarh administration was held at the Rose Club in Sector 16 on Friday. It was held on the call of the coordination committee of Government and MC Employees and Workers, Chandigarh. “During the convention, It was decided to hold a one-day pen down/tool down strike on February 10 against the unfair behaviour of Chandigarh Administration towards the legitimate demands of the employees,” said Rakesh Kumar, general secretary of the coordination committee.“The administration has completely failed to settle the long-pending demands of the employees. It has not taken any action against unfair treatment by contractors of Government eMarketplace (GeM) portal. Outsourced workers are exploited by contractors who demand money to let them keep their jobs,” he added.The committee demand that the administration stop engaging manpower through GeM Portal, regularise daily wage employees against vacant posts and release pensionary benefits to retired employees without delay.The committee strongly condemned the administration’s move to freeze the DC rates of outsourced workers and demanded its revision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/non-fulfilment-of-demands-chandigarh-admn-employees-to-hold-strike-on-feb-10/story-ArCVqKBCAcQHaFPoXIe0VJ.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Four wards in Mumbai are free of Covid-19 containment zones||Once considered as the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, Mumbai is gradually seeing improvement in the situation.As on Thursday, four wards have been declared free of containment zones by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). These are B (Dongri), G-South (Elphinstone and Worli), H-West (Bandra West), and R-Central (Borivli) wards.According to the Union health ministry, a containment zone refers to a specific geographical area where positive cases of coronavirus are found. Strict movement restrictions are put in place at such areas to prevent any further spread of the virus.The total number of containment zones in the 24 wards has dropped to 211 on January 7 from around 2,600 during the early months of the pandemic. BMC has released 2,405 containment zones across the city.Officials have attributed the decline in the containment zones to the drop in the daily cases. In the past one month, daily Covid-19 cases have remained constant between 400 and 600.Of the four containment-free zones, the situation in R-Central and G-South wards had posed concerns for ward officers owing to the large presence of slum dwellers. To control the cases, the ward officers followed two main strategies — mass isolation from slums and sealing buildings in non-slum areas.Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner of G-South ward said after the pandemic broke out in March and the virus gradually spread from high-rise buildings to the slums in Worli Koliwada, his main strategy was to seal the slums completely.“As soon as we sealed the slum pockets, we started screening all the symptomatic residents and their relatives. We systematically traced their closed contacts and isolated them in our Covid care centres (CCC). This helped us to break the chain of infection in the slums, which was our first win,” said Ughade.Till January 7 this year, the ward has recorded 10,400 Covid-19 cases with 0.12% weekly growth rate.During this time, civic officials with the help of social workers and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) arranged for food and daily groceries for the residents. However, in July, after the lockdown rules were relaxed, more number of residents from the high-rise buildings started contracting the infection. This turned into the biggest challenge for the ward officers due to the lack of cooperation among the non-slum population.“Due to the fear of contracting the virus, slum dwellers had become extremely cautious. But handling the residents from the high-rise buildings had turned into a nightmare for us. There was so much resistance and opposition from them. They wouldn’t even follow proper safety rules,” said Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer, R-Central ward. Till January 7, the ward has reported 21,328 Covid-19 cases. The weekly growth rate of the wards stands at 0.18%.Later, civic officials arranged meetings with secretaries of the buildings. To restrict movement of residents, the ward officers started sealing buildings with any case of Covid-19.“If we found any society with repeated new cases of coronavirus, we would hold the secretaries responsible for it. This helped in streamlining the regulations and residents became more responsible,” said Kapse.Among the other wards, E (Byculla) and A (Fort) wards have only one containment zone each.The three wards with the highest number of containment zones are S (Bhandup), K-West (Andheri West) and N (Ghatkopar) wards with 25, 21 and 20 zones, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-wards-in-mumbai-are-free-of-covid-19-containment-zones/story-LaGa7tLIK8m9xc30zcdYLO.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Snatchers target two men in Chandigarh||Two snatchings were reported from the city on Friday. Manoj Kumar, 36, a native of Bihar who works as a vegetable vendor, said his carry bag which contained Rs 5,000 was snatched on Friday morning. Kumar said he was going to the vegetable market in Sector 26 at around 6.30am when a man stopped him to ask for directions. Then, three people in an autorickshaw came from behind, and snatched his carry bag that contained Rs 5,000 and PAN and Aadhar cards. He could not note down the registration number of the vehicle. A case has been registered at the Sector-19 police station. Pushpinder Pal of Phase-1, Mohali, who is a roadside vendor, said that on Thursday, two people on a black motorcycle snatched his mobile phone near the Dadumajra dumping ground where he sells peanuts. The accused had asked him about the rate for the peanuts, and when he was packing it, they snatched his phone. A case has been registered at Maloya police station.Man held with pistol, cartridgesA man was arrested with a pistol and five live cartridges in Baltana on Friday while two of his accomplices managed to escape. The arrested accused has been identified as Narinder Kumar. Investigating officer Kulwant Singh said they received a tip-off that three people were coming to a dhaba in Baltana to change the fake number plates on their vehicles . As the accused reached the dhaba, police cordoned off the area and arrested Kumar with the pistol and cartridges. His two accomplices are at large. A case has been registered at Zirakpur police station. Three POs arrested  Three proclaimed offenders (POs) have been arrested in two days.They are Manoj Kumar of Maloya, Ranjit Singh of Ram Darbar and Vikash Kumar alias Sethi of Sector 56, Chandigarh. Manoj was declared PO in December 2013 in a case of causing grievous hurt, Ranjit in August 2019 for snatching and Vikash for theft in January 2013. Two thefts reported from city Two thefts have been reported from Chandigarh. Amanjit Singh of Sector 20 said his LED television and its remote were stolen from his locked house on December 27. A case has been registered at Sector 19 police station. Harwinder Singh Khanna said 40 to 50 kg of brass circle was stolen from a factory in Industrial Area, Phase 2. He said that the thieves had entered the premises by breaking the roof grill on the intervening night of December 26 and 27. A case has been registered at Sector 31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snatchers-target-two-men-in-chandigarh/story-2IlwTQAGhdY3VfWQnX75pK.html
08-01-2021||Patna||Bihar ready to vaccinate over 4 lakh healthcare workers against Covid-19||Bihar is prepared to vaccinate its 4.42 lakh healthcare workers, who have enrolled on the CoWIN portal for vaccination against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), even as training for vaccinators was stepped up so that there was no technical glitch.The dry-run on Friday, to assess the state’s preparedness, was successfully carried out across 114 locations, including 30 government district hospitals, nine medical colleges, 16 private health facilities, 23 outreach session sites and 36 other locations across the state, said Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey.He said Bihar was prepared to roll out the vaccine as soon as the Centre makes it available.Meanwhile, the health department will continue to train vaccinators as well as potential vaccinators identified for the campaign.The health department will depute three master trainers at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) on Saturday to assist in the ongoing training session, said its superintendent Dr Bimal Karak.The PMCH, which has between 3,500 and 4,000 healthcare workers, is among the biggest session sites in the state.“We are training our staff, including security guards, nurses, ward attendants and paramedics, who will comprise the six-member vaccination team. The State Health Society will support us in training by deputing a few more master trainers tomorrow. We will have 10 teams. Each team will vaccinate 100 people in a day,” said Dr Karak.An average 45-minute, including the 30-minutes in the observation room to assess Covid appropriate behaviour after vaccination, was required to vaccinate a person during the dry run at the PMCH, the superintendent added.“Training of personnel for vaccination is an ongoing process. We have identified over 3,000 potential vaccinators apart from the regular vaccinators engaged in the routine immunization process,” said Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh.Around 44,000 healthcare workers have enrolled in Patna alone, said Dr Singh. She, however, could not specify how many among them were doctors.The vaccination officers carried out the thermal screening and checked the identity proof of the beneficiaries. The beneficiaries were then verified on the CoWIN portal. Twenty-five beneficiaries per session site participated during the dry-run.Four locations were selected in Patna for the dry-run. These included the PMCH, Nalanda Medical College Hospital, Paras Hospital and Research Centre and Girls Middle School in Khagaul.Three session sites, including a medical college or a district hospital, private health facility and urban or rural outreach centre were selected for the dry-run across 38 districts of the state.Many district magistrates (DMs) visited session sites during the dry-run.Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM visited the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH) and took stock of the arrangements, including the observation room.The DM also talked to the vaccination officers and gathered information about verification of select beneficiaries. He also directed the civil surgeon to prepare a list of potential beneficiaries while asking DMCH principal to provide a list of remaining health workers.In Purnia, three centres were selected - Red Cross society, Kasba primary health centre - besides district hospital for the dry-run. A total of 13,894 beneficiaries have registered on the CoWin application.“Dry-run exercise went off without any hitch,” Purnia district magistrate Rahul Kumar said while expressing happiness over the successful dry-run.In Kishanganj, the dry-run was undertaken at MGM Medical College and Hospital, district hospital and community health centre, Bahadurganj.In Araria, besides the district hospital, the dry-run went off at Forbesganj and Jokihat sub-divisional hospitals.In Katihar, the dry-run was undertaken at Sadar hospital, Tajganj Fasiya primary health centre in town areas and Katihar Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-ready-to-vaccinate-over-4-lakh-healthcare-workers-against-covid-19/story-zY5fgavcKgYMmnN2CM0AAN.html
08-01-2021||City||2017 Ludhiana fire tragedy: Desperate struggle for job ends, wife of firefighter finally gets work||After a wretched wait of over three years, wife of firefighter Sukhdev Singh, who died in the plastic factory tragedy in November 2017, has finally received a job, announced by the state government as part of compensation. Sukhdev’s wife Kamlesh has been hired as a Class-4 employee in the municipal corporation (MC) and the offer letter was handed over by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Friday. Kamlesh, who has been living with her parents since her husband died tragically while fighting the flames, said her three daughters and she had been dependent on her parents all this while. Though ecstatic over getting a government job, she said it came too late.“Even though my parents took care of us, it was a burden on their shoulders. Now that I have got a job, I can confidently raise my daughters myself,” said Kamlesh. As many as 16 people, including nine firefighters, were killed in the plastic factory tragedy that took place near Suffiyan Chowk in November 2017. While jobs were given to the families of six firefighters, the families of three contractual firemen – Manpreet, Vishal and Sukhdev – continued to run from pillar to post for compensation. The jobs were announced by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh as part of the compensation for the families of the nine firefighters killed in the incident. But, the cases of the three firefighters got delayed after objections over providing permanent jobs to the family members of contractual employees.Wait continues for two families The long wait for government jobs still continues for families of firefighters Manpreet and Vishal, as MC has not received approval from the Punjab local bodies department. While Manpreet’s family has been seeking a job for his sister, Vishal’s family wants work for his brother. The families rued that the authorities had been delaying the files by pointing out different objections, but no one was committed to providing relief to the families, who had suffered the tragic loss of their loved ones. Mayor Sandhu said MC was regularly pursuing the cases and the family members of the firefighters will soon get offer letters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2017-ludhiana-fire-tragedy-desperate-struggle-for-job-ends-wife-of-firefighter-finally-gets-work/story-i2r3q3cTmX5txFM4JqiALO.html
08-01-2021||Lucknow||‘No decision on film city location’: Uttar Pradesh govt tells HC||A public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the film city project of Uttar Pradesh government was quashed by the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court after the petitioner withdrew the PIL when the government informed the court that no decision had been taken as yet on the project’s location. The double-judge bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Saurabh Lavania on Thursday quashed the petition and allowed the petitioner to file the petition again, if required. The Kalakaar Association in Lucknow had filed the PIL seeking a stay on the proposed film city project in Noida. Lawyer CB Pandey appeared on behalf of the petitioner and lawyer Anand Dwivedi on behalf of the Union government as Noida is part of the National Capital Region (NCR). Appearing on behalf of the state government, lawyer Siddharth Dhawan and other lawyers apprised the court that as of now there was only a proposal for building the film city in Noida. Reports have been sought regarding availability of land and other facilities which are being examined, therefore, the writ petition at this stage is premature, said Dhawan.Pandey stated that at this stage, he would not press for the petition and sought liberty to file a fresh plea as and when, if at all, an occasion arose. “As we have not entered into merits of the controversy in view of the statements made on behalf of the state and the opposite party, all pleas are open for being raised at the appropriate stage, if a cause exists,” said the court.“In view of the statement made by CB Pandey, the petition is dismissed as withdrawn with liberty as aforesaid,” added the court.The film city project is planned to be one of the most prestigious projects of the Yogi Adityanath government with an aim to develop Uttar Pradesh as an alternative to Bollywood based in Mumbai, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-decision-on-film-city-location-uttar-pradesh-govt-tells-hc/story-mUBPg1MxrPAjjcYCQU7quK.html
08-01-2021||City||Sale of poultry products takes a dive in Ludhiana amid caution over bird flu||Residents’ caution in the wake of bird flu cases across the country has started reflecting in sale of poultry products in the city.While no unusual bird deaths have been reported in the state so far, over 4.37 lakh poultry birds have died in the Barwala belt of neighbouring Haryana – home to Asia’s second largest poultry belt. Avian influenza was confirmed in five samples collected from the belt on Friday, and culling of birds at five poultry farms that house over 1.66 lakh birds will follow.Even though as per the World Health Organization (WHO), there is no evidence that the disease can be spread to people through properly prepared and cooked poultry food, in Ludhiana, poultry traders say clearly fewer customers were turning up to buy raw chicken and eggs, severely impacting their business.“The poultry sector suffered majorly during the lockdown, but things had started returning back to track, as weddings and other late night events started taking place after lifting of restrictions. However, now the bird flu scare has hit the industry again,” said Bhupinder Singh, president of Punjab Poultry Wholesale association.ALSO READ: Bird flu outbreak: Here’s all you need to knowPrices drop With lower demand for poultry products, raw chicken, which was being sold for Rs 95 per kg a few days back, is now being sold at Rs 55, say traders, while the rate of 100 eggs has also reduced from Rs 572 to Rs 470 in the past few days.“Every time there is news regarding bird flu, the demand decreases, which reflects in lower prices. Even after the government has announced that there is no case of bird flu in the state, people are refraining from purchasing chicken and sales at the meat shops have reduced by around 50% in the last few days,” said Sanjeev Kumar of the Ludhiana Non-Veg Shopkeepers Association.‘Cooked food safe to eat’There are many strains of the bird flu virus and most of them are mild and may only cause low egg production or other mild symptoms among birds. However, some are severe and cause deaths of large number of birds.Generally, people coming in close contact with infected alive or dead birds contract the flu, and it does not usually spread from person to person, according to the World Health Organization, which also says that as the virus is sensitive to heat, consumers can safely have properly cooked poultry food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sale-of-poultry-products-takes-a-dive-in-ludhiana-amid-caution-over-bird-flu/story-ABDUyv4NOadVUrI6vT4u0J.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Asked police to give intelligence updates on farmers’ protests: Punjab CM Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said he had “naturally asked” police to give him regular intelligence updates related to the farmers’ protest in the national capital. He said this while rejecting the Opposition claim that he deputed police officers to “negotiate” with farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws at Delhi’s borders. Dubbing the accusations as “completely baseless and malicious”, the CM in a statement said there was no question of deputing police officers to negotiate with farmers. The CM said he had made it categorically clear that the ball was in the Centre’s court, with the Punjab government having no role to play in the negotiations. With farmer protests going on in his state since long before the agitation started at the Delhi border, he had “naturally asked” police officers to give him regular intelligence reports and updates on the situation not just from the national capital but also across Punjab, said Amarinder Singh. He trashed the “twisted and senseless” interpretation being given to the presence of a few Punjab Police personnel at the farmers’ protest site. It is the job of the state police to keep tabs on the evolving situation and it is his job as both chief minister and home minister to remain updated about all developments, he added. “Anyone who believes that a couple of police officers can negotiate with farmers or persuade the kisan leaders to accept the Centre’s suggestions on amendments to the farm laws is really naive,” the CM said. The Aam Aadmi Party while citing some media reports on Thursday had alleged that the CM had assigned two Punjab IPS officers at the Singhu border to engage with the farmer leaders to persuade them to accept the Centre’s offer. The CM said both SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, as well as their party colleagues, were resorting to “lies and deceit in their desperation to cover up their own failures” in the entire crisis triggered by the farm laws. Pointing to Sukhbir’s claim that the resolutions passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha against the three farm bills had not been sent to the governor, he said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president had clearly lost it. “Or perhaps he is suffering from serious amnesia since his party colleagues, including his own brother-in-law Bikram Majithia, had accompanied me to the governor’s house for submitting the resolution and the three state amendment Bills,” said the chief minister, advising Badal to seek medical help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asked-police-to-give-intelligence-updates-on-farmers-protests-punjab-cm-amarinder/story-troXNRv9z3XxQm9OzyXPHN.html
08-01-2021||Kolkata||JP Nadda to launch BJP’s poll campaign for Bengal farmers on Saturday||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda will launch the party’s first campaign aimed at farmers in poll-bound West Bengal when he visits East Burdwan district, which is considered as the state’s rice bowl, on Saturday. With the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government planning to hold a special session of the legislative assembly to introduce a resolution against the Centre’s recent farm laws that led to unrest in Punjab, the BJP’s focus on Bengal’s farmers prior to the crucial assembly polls is a significant move, BJP leaders feel. The BJP central office in Delhi announced in a statement on Friday that Nadda will visit Jagadanandapur village in Katwa at 11.50 am where he will address a ‘Krishok Surokkha’ (farmers’ protection) meeting. This will mark the beginning of 40,000 such meetings to be held across Bengal before the elections, the party announced. Nadda will also kick-start a door-to-door rice collection programme which has been named ‘Ek Mutthi Chawal Sangrah’ (collecting a fistful of rice) campaign in Jagadananadapur village after offering prayers at a popular temple. He will also have lunch at the home of a local farmer. “The ‘Ek Mutthi Chawal Sangrah’ campaign is to reassert the party and its government’s commitment and conviction towards the growth, progress and prosperity of farmers. Before the 2021 Vidhan Sabha elections in West Bengal, the BJP will reach out to the homes of all the 73 lakh villagers across the state,” the BJP central office said in the statement. The TMC reacted by calling the campaign “ridiculous and meaningless.”“This is ridiculous. At a time when thousands of farmers are agitating outside the gates of Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws, going for a symbolic procurement of rice at a village in Katwa is meaningless. There is no problem with procurement in Bengal. Nadda should rather stay in Delhi and talk to the farmers whose problems are yet to be resolved,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. At the receiving end of attacks by the BJP since 2014 for not implementing the Centre’s social welfare projects for farmers, chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to the Centre on September 9 that she was open to the implementation of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers as well as the Ayushman Bharat Yojana healthcare scheme if the funds were transferred directly to her government for disbursement. This has been opposed by the Centre and the BJP. Nadda will also offer prayers at the historic Sarbamangala temple in Burdwan town and lead a roadshow from Burdwan Clock Tower to the Curzon Gate. Later, he will address the media and the party’s core committee members before returning to Delhi. Nadda’s plane will land at Andal airport in West Burdwan district in the morning and leave late in the evening. He is scheduled to fly from Andal to Katwa in East Burdwan in a chopper. This is Nadda’s first visit to Bengal since his convoy was stoned at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district on December 10. Security arrangements for Nadda has been tightened manifold in view of the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/jp-nadda-to-launch-bjp-s-poll-campaign-for-bengal-farmers-on-saturday/story-W8fUFB7ghkQuKk0dgOyMJN.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu: 40 samples collected in Ambala||The Ambala animal husbandry department on Friday collected 40 samples from poultry and wild birds to test them for avian influenza. Two of the three samples sent from poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt to High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal tested positive on Friday. More than four lakh poultry birds have died in Panchkula’s Barwala and Raipur Rani belts, that are just 30 kilometres away from the Naraingarh subdivision in Ambala. This has prompted the administration to constitute 26 teams comprising doctors, paramedic staff and other officials, who will keep an eye on nearly 46 lakh poultry birds at different farms in the district.However, no unusual death of domesticated or wild birds has been reported anywhere in the district, said Dr Devender Dhull, assistant poultry development officer. “As a precautionary measure, we have collected 40 samples from different poultry farms and wild ponds where migratory birds are found, mostly in Jalbera area of Ambala City. The samples will be sent to the Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory on Saturday morning to test them for bird flu,” Dhull added. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said instructions have been issued to the department to keep a close eye on poultries. Special teams are also inspecting the wetland areas in Naraingarh belt and other areas where migratory birds had arrived last year, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bird-flu-ambala-on-high-alert/story-qODgBMPlcGe2sTJaTamd8O.html
08-01-2021||City||Inter-state gang of vehicle lifters busted in Ludhiana, six stolen cars recovered||The CIA Staff-2 claim to have busted an inter-state gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of its kingpin and a member on Thursday.As many as six vehicles, stolen from Delhi, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, have been recovered from them. These include two Toyota Innovas, two Maruti Suzuki Brezzas, a Maruti Suzuki Baleno and a Mahindra Scorpio.The gang’s kingpin has been identified as Loveraj Singh, alias Raju, 40, of Karamwala village of Ferozepur Cantt, and his aide as Ankush Kumar, alias Sonu Bathla, 31, of Mahuana Bodla village, Fazilka.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, Investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said the CIA Staff-2 police arrested the accused near Tibba turn following a tip-off. They were travelling in a stolen Mahindra Scorpio bearing fake number plates.“On being questioned, the accused confessed to have stolen the vehicle from Bhopal and wanting to sell it in the city using forged documents,” the DCP said.Modus operandi“The duo would travel by air to collect the stolen vehicles and drive them down to Ludhiana. As they are already in the trade of used cars, they managed to sell the stolen vehicles without suspicion,” the police official said“They used the registration, chassis and engine numbers of genuine vehicles to prepare forged documents of stolen vehicles. The involvement of employees of the transport departments of various cities cannot be ruled out,” he added.The accused were produced in court that sent them to three-day police remand. They will be interrogated to establish the number of vehicles stolen and sold by them, and their other gang members, the DCP said.A case under Sections 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged 1[document or electronic record]) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at the Tibba police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inter-state-gang-of-vehicle-lifters-busted-in-ludhiana-six-stolen-cars-recovered/story-8lCgHIRdSFpkLzjRAocmHL.html
08-01-2021||City||Ludhiana: Final exams for non-board classes to commence on March 8||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) declared the date sheet for non-board classes (6 to 9 and 11) on Friday. The examination will begin on March 8.The date sheet has been released so that students can start preparing for the final exams and teachers can conduct regular tests to improve their performance. The decision regarding the mode of the examination will be taken later. The teachers have been directed to inform students about the date sheet and the revised syllabus that has been updated on the Educare app.According to the date sheet, students of classes 9 and 11 will appear for the English exam on March 8, while those of classes 6 and 7 will appear for the math and science exam, respectively. SCERT director Jagtar Kulria, said, “We have declared the date sheet so that students can start preparing for the final exams. The final decision regarding whether to conduct the exams offline or not will be taken at the end of February keeping in view the Covid situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-final-exams-for-non-board-classes-to-commence-on-march-8/story-eBmTWTWCDEkqyMsYwJg4KJ.html
08-01-2021||City||Exclude electroplating units from power-intensive category: FICO to PSPCL||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) should roll back its recent order that regularised power intensive unit load on electrolytes processing industries, demanded Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) on Thursday.A delegation led by FICO chairman K K Seth and president Gurmeet Singh Kular met PSPCL chief engineer (central zone) Bhupinder Khosla in this regard.Calling the move “unjustified” for small electroplating processing units, Kular said it will put direct burden on the industry.“We request you to immediately roll back the decision, otherwise industrialists will protest in opposition. The industry in Punjab is already being supplied electricity at rates dearer than the neighbouring states. This move will add to the woes of struggling units,” he said.It was also alleged that PSPCL has been taking a U-turn on waiver of fixed charges for two months. The power corporation’s latest decision that fixed charges will be levied on the industry, though they can provide these in instalments, will increase the problems of the industry already struggling for revival, said the FICO delegates.“How can the industry pay the fixed charges when the factories were locked? We had not locked our industries on our own. It was the government’s decision. It is requested to completely waive off the fixed charges for the period of lockdown and beyond. Moreover, the PSPCL had notified that who so ever paid bills on time during the lockdown, would enjoy 1% discount. But that amount too has been processed till date. You are requested to look into the matter and do the needful,” Kular said.The FICO also demanded that night tariff be introduced at a rate Rs 2.50 per unit to the industry, as Punjab is surplus state in terms of power and due to winter, power demand at night is not high, so the benefit of surplus power should be provided to the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/exclude-electroplating-units-from-power-intensive-category-fico-to-pspcl/story-gLWnwKF5Aw0kSEKvSTxDcM.html
08-01-2021||City||‘Corona ambulance’ discontinued as virus cases drop in Ludhiana||As Covid-19 cases are on the decline in the city, services of the ‘Corona Ambulance’— a bus-turned sampling and testing mobile laboratory — have been discontinued.Apart from this, out of the six mobile teams of health workers, four have been withdrawn following the orders of the health department.Confirming the same, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said the mobile testing bus has been withdrawn as the number of virus cases have started to drop. “If an increase in cases is witnessed in the near future, the vans and Corona Ambulance would be deployed again,” added Dr Ramesh.Block extension educator Rajinder Kumar said two mobile teams and a mobile medical unit are carrying out testing in urban and rural areas of the district.The ambulance was equipped with testing cabins for collecting samples and a doctor and trained technician for conducting the tests.The ambulance and vans had played a pivotal role in speeding up the sampling process, especially at places where people were reluctant to visit the hospital for tests and the industrial area where factory workers were tested frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-ambulance-discontinued-as-virus-cases-drop-in-ludhiana/story-ysA0xDsDctgVxlIFBS4TSI.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department extends deadline to confirm FYJC admissions under special round||After getting several requests from parents and students, the state education department has decided to extend the deadline to confirm the admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) until 6pm, January 9. The earlier deadline was January 8. The education department had also allowed students to apply for bifocal courses as per their wish, and consult their respective colleges for the admission process. While Friday was the last day to secure admissions under the second special list, several students who were not able to confirm their seats had requested for an extension. As of Friday, 11,664 of the 21,835 students who were allotted seats under the second special round confirmed their admissions. This has taken the total list of vacant seats to over 1.25 lakh. Meanwhile, the department will release the schedule for the first-come, first-served (FCFS) admission round soon. While the department had earlier declared that there would be no FCFS rounds and only special rounds this year, it later revoked its decision as several students were left without a seat even after four admission rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-extends-deadline-to-confirm-fyjc-admissions-under-special-round/story-ICWMSu2DkWwPDh74xG6xnO.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Metro car shed project revives debate over salt pan ownership in Mumbai||A row over the transfer of the Mumbai Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed, from Aarey Milk Colony to Kanjurmarg has revived a four-decade-old tug of war between the Centre and the state government over the ownership of the salt pan lands spread across some 5,500 acres in Mumbai.The Uddhav Thackeray government allotted 102 acres of salt pan land to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for building an integrated car shed in Kanjurmarg, in east-central Mumbai, last year in a decision opposed by the Centre, which claimed ownership. .Since the 1980s, both governments have been citing various laws and court orders to stake their claims to the lands spread across the eastern suburbs of Mankhurd, Chembur, Ghatkopar, Bhandup, Nahur and Mulund and some western suburbs including Dahisar and Malvani. Through the decades, both governments have also made various plans for utilising these lands, which have remained on paper.Salt manufactureIt is said that the story of salt manufacturing can be traced to the first human settlements in the seven islands of Mumbai. According to the Thane gazetteers department, the Agris, Kolis and Native Christians were engaged in salt manufacturing and were known as “mithagris” or “salt workers”. “The Agris were found in Bassein, Ghodbander, Panvel and Uran; the Kolis in Trombay and the Christians in Ghodbander and at Kurla near Bombay,” according to the records available on the website of the department.In 1816, the British government realised the potential of salt and decided to raise revenue from it. Kaevan Umrigar, a heritage evangelist from the Mumbai-based Khakhi foundation, said: “Originally, the salt workers would give a toka or a share of the produce to the rulers. However, the British realised the potential of salt tax as regular source of revenue.”Salt manufacturing no longer has a significant active role in the city’s economy, salt pans do act as a natural barrier during flooding. A 2016 report by the MMRDA states: “Salt pans are not only important from a livelihood, economy and salt production perspective but are critically important from the point of view of flood-protection as they are shallow depressed areas holding sea water. The salt pans today face a serious threat from the construction lobby of the region leading to a mild decline in the overall area and production.”The tug of warAccording to the Union ministry of commerce, Mumbai has 5,378 acres of salt pan lands allotted to 31 salt works (six on lease and 24 licensed) in 13 revenue villages. The government had also stated that the lease of these six salt works expired in October 2016. According to a 2010 report by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), 1,206 hectares (please convert to acres for sake of consistency) comes under the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) and 204 hectares of these lands in the eastern suburbs can be developed.The 102-acre Kanjurmarg shed falls along the Eastern Express Highway and was also considered by the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Shiv Sena government as an option for the location of the car shed. When the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government shifted the plot from Aarey to Kanjurmarg, the Centre filed a petition against the transfer and the Bombay high court (HC) stayed the transfer. The court, in fact, called the collector’s action of passing the transfer order as bordering on “committing a fraud on power.”In 1985, a Central government committee had come to the conclusion that these lands had become unsuitable for salt manufacture and should be transferred to the ministry of urban development. A reply by the ministry of urban development to the then member of Parliament from Mumbai North-East Kirit Somaiya stated: “Accordingly, the Ministry of Industry, Department of Industrial Development issued orders dated 9th January,1986, 30.12.1987 and 22.2.1990, transferring 5,378 acres (approximately) of lands in Greater Bombay, on `as is where is` basis with all the assets and liabilities, to the Ministry of Urban Development, for use as considered appropriate.”After that, for a brief period, the Union government and the state government of Maharashtra were also looking at jointly developing these lands to meet the ever-growing needs of Mumbai. “Both the governments had reached a consensus to use the land for affordable housing and public amenities,” said Somaiya. A group of ministers had also visited Mumbai to take a decision on utilising the salt pan lands.In 2014, the Mumbai suburban collector issued an order in respect of 2,978 acres of salt pans in Mumbai as belonging to the state government. The Centre’s Salt commissionerate appealed against this order before the Konkan divisional commissioner. In 2018, the then BJP revenue minister Chandrakanth Patil, while reviewing this petition, vested the 2,978 acres to the state government. A senior official said: “The order was issued under the revenue minister’s quasi-judicial capacity, which the Salt commissioner did not challenge.”Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant had earlier also said that the salt commissioner had not provided any documents in the last three years to substantiate its claim, but opposed it only when the land was allotted for the car shed.What now?In December, chief minister Thackeray appealed to the Centre and the BJP in Maharashtra for a dialogue to resolve the issue. He also criticised the centre for creating “hurdles” in the project. People familiar with the situation say that Thackeray is keen on going ahead with the plan to build the car shed in Kanjurmarg.The MVA government on Wednesday formed a nine-member committee under Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar to look at alternate plots for the car shed. The committee has to submit its report in a month’s time. According to the government resolution, the committee has to mainly look at two plots — Aarey and Kanjurmarg.A senior state official said that the 25 hectares in Aarey will prove to be insufficient for future traffic requirements. “The Kanjurmarg plot will be utilised as a common car shed for line 3, 4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) and 6 (Swami Samath Nagar-Vikhroli). In fact, it will also be integrated with Line 14 (Kanjurmarg-Badlapur). This means the state will save on both land and cost by constructing a car depot here (in Kanjurmarg).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/metro-car-shed-project-revives-debate-over-salt-pan-ownership-in-mumbai/story-FVF4qpspKAGpaLwDtY3HSN.html
08-01-2021||City||Habalas e-commerce fraud: CBI conducts searches at multiple locations in J&K||Crime Branch sleuths on Friday conducted searches at multiple locations in Poonch and Jammu districts for the arrest of accused persons in the Habalas e-commerce multi-crore fraud. The case pertains to the Mendhar subdivision of Poonch. The accused worked as a prime agent of Hablas e-Commerce Pvt. Ltd. and remained associated with the illegal collection of public money and swindled the same. The raids were conducted after arrest warrants were issued for the arrest of accused Ali Mohammad of Chak Banota and Mohammad Sayeed Khan of Dhakki Behra. “Both the accused were involved in swindling money worth crores of rupees from the residents by acting as prime agents of the said infamous e-commerce company on the pretext of doubling their money in a short period of time,” said a spokesman. Crime Branch teams conducted raids and arrested accused Ali Mohammad from Bakshi Nagar on Thursday after developing specific inputs regarding his presence in the area. The accused was since long evading his arrest by changing his locations and he had also fled to Saudi Arabia after his name surfaced in the multi-crore fraud that took place in 2019. Another raid was also conducted to arrest co-accused Mohammad Sayeed Khan in Mendhar. “The accused is a notorious fraudster and is involved in many criminal activities. His name also surfaced for his involvement in the multi-crore fraud during the investigation. The accused has also illegally and forcibly encroached upon the house of Mohammad Aziz in Chhugan village of Mendhar,” the spokesman added. “The notorious criminal with the help of accomplices attacked the crime branch team. In this regard an FIR under relevant sections of law has been registered against them at Mendhar police station,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/habalas-e-commerce-fraud-cbi-conducts-searches-at-multiple-locations-in-j-k/story-JROGYeusXnTaO9sGK2sRQM.html
08-01-2021||City||J&K bans import of poultry till Jan 14 after 161 birds found dead in two districts||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has imposed a ban on the import of poultry in the wake of growing cases of bird flu in the Union Territory. The ban was announced on Thursday and comes into effect from Friday and it will remain in force till January 14. Principal secretary of animal, sheep husbandry and fisheries department Navin K Choudhary said, “The J&K government has imposed a complete ban on import of live birds including poultry and unprocessed poultry meat for any purpose into the Union territory of J&K with immediate effect till January 14. The decision will be reviewed based on the evolving situation.”Answering a query, he said, “The field staff has been visiting poultry markets across the UT to conduct checks and they are also lifting samples from the markets as well as wetlands. There is no ban on the sale of poultry because there are no reports of contamination so far. If such a situation emerges then we will act accordingly.”Jammu’s wildlife warden Anil Atri said, “On Thursday our teams lifted samples from various enclosures of birds at Manda Wildlife Sanctuary in Jammu. Their samples have also been sent to Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar for testing.” Atri said that wildlife sanctuaries and zoos were still open to visitors in the UT but enclosures of birds have been closed. It may be stated here that 161 birds that include 153 crows have died so far in Jammu’s Udhampur and Rajouri districts. At least 153 crows were found dead on Wednesday in Udhampur district and eight birds were found dead on Tuesday in Rajouri district. “The samples of dead crows have been sent to the laboratory in Jalandhar. Droppings of 25 bar-headed geese from Gharana wetland along the international border in RS Pura of Jammu district have also been sent to Jalandhar. The reports are awaited,” said Ranjeet Katoch from the animal and sheep husbandry department. Gharana Wetland Conservation Reserve in the R S Pura sector near the international border was notified in 1981 and is home to more than 170 species of birds like bar-headed geese, gadwalls, common teals, purple swamp hens, Indian moorhens, black-winged stilts, cormorants, egrets and greenshanks. During the winter, the wetland is visited by thousands of birds from Central Asia and some of the migratory bird species visiting this wetland are endangered.Katoch, however, said that considering the mass mortality of crows in Udhampur, the possibility of avian influenza could not be ruled out. A bird flu alert has been sounded in states, including Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat, which are already fighting the battle against the Coronavirus pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-bans-import-of-poultry-till-jan-14-after-161-birds-found-dead-in-two-districts/story-lpj2KB8mYIy4PKv0LsjggI.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Waterlogging and traffic jams across Pune as city witnesses historic January rainfall||After the sudden burst of heavy rain on Friday evening, the city was plagued with sporadic waterlogging and traffic jams. The rainfall began at 1pm in the afternoon and went on until late evening yesterday with heavy spells reported between 5pm to 7pm. Rohan Nalawade who owns a shop near the Hatti Ganpati temple in Sadashiv peth reported water entering his shop premises in the evening. “I was inside the shop when it began raining, initially I thought it was normal rain but after some time suddenly the water started seeping inside the shop. When I saw outside on the road, it had turned into a river and water was even gushing out of the drainages. A similar situation was reported in Sadashiv peth,” said Nalwade. Around two feet of waterlogging was reported on many roads across the city and pedestrians faced the wrath of wading through the marshy territory. Many avoided the risk of walking in the rain and took shelter in shops, buildings and parking areas. While it was raining heavily in the evening, the traffic movement went to a snail’s pace on the city’s key roads like Tilak road, Bajirao road and Shivaji road. Vehicles were moving slowly on Tilak road and there was a traffic jam for some time. “It took me around half an hour to reach Swargate from Alka Talkies chowk through Tilak road due to the rain. While going on the road I saw a couple of bikers falling from the road and even some of the vehicles stuck in the rain,” said Abhishek Khole, a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/waterlogging-and-traffic-jams-across-pune-as-city-witnesses-historic-january-rainfall/story-9BTv2wnIws12R0PzFEvWLP.html
08-01-2021||City||Covid vaccine dry run conducted in Dharamshala||A dry run for coronavirus vaccine distribution was conducted at Zonal Hospital Dharamshala on Friday in the presence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. It was part of the nationwide second dry run before the vaccine rolls out. The mock drill was conducted at three sites, where 75 beneficiaries went through a mock immunisation process.Chief medical officer, Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said that the Covid-19 vaccination was also rehearsed at Dalek Hospital Dharamshala, Government Senior Secondary School, Dadi and two other sites.He said that the Covid-19 vaccination will be rehearsed in all health blocks of the district from January 11, for which the department has made all arrangements.As many as 630 beneficiaries will undergo mock immunisation in 126 sites of all health blocks of Kangra district.If there are adverse effects of vaccination, a medical kit will be available beforehand and there is also a provision of an ambulance in such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-vaccine-dry-run-conducted-in-dharamshala/story-fM0JsxpyYWCfG5ICDM1A5J.html
08-01-2021||Pune||MVA government reduces development charges, PMC faces revenue cut||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s decision to reduce development charges and premium charges by 50 per cent throughout the year is directly hampering the revenue collection of all civic bodies including the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The civic body is set to lose Rs 350 crore revenue in 2021. The PMC is already facing a financial crunch due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and now the civic body faces heat after the MVA decision. In an attempt to boost the real estate sector, the state government took a decision to reduce development and premium charges. On average, the PMC gives more than 2,500 building permissions a year. Usually, PMC gets around Rs 700 to 750 crore from development and premium charges every year. In 2020-21 annual budgets, the PMC set a target of Rs 800 crore. Until date, the corporation has collected Rs 250 crore. According to officials of the building development and construction department, the PMC will get another Rs 4 to Rs 5 crore up to 31st March 2021. Prashant Waghmare, PMC city engineer said, “We cannot predict the impact on the civic body’s revenue on the background of the state government’s decision to reduce development and premium charges.” One of the senior officials of the PMC said, “The PMC is already facing a financial crunch and now the state government has reduced a 50 per cent development charge. It will impact the annual budget of 2021-22.” Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee said, “I don’t think it will affect the corporation revenue collection. The PMC is exploring different avenues to generate income.” ====================================== Development charges Development charges are packing of a Property or Mortgage, including the negotiation and approval of plans and any assistance in obtaining zoning and necessary variances and financing for a specific Property, either initially or at a later date. Under Section 124A of the Act shall be deposited with the Planning Authority before issuing of development permission/ commencement certificate. What is a premium? Premium typically refers to the multiple charges that are levied by the state with respect to approvals for initiating, progressing, and completing the area or additional area in a project. These could include the fungible premium, premium paid for FSI (floor space index), open space deficiency premium, premium paid for more ground covered for construction, lobbies, lift wells, and staircase premium among others. These premiums, cess, or levies (for staircases, lift well, lobbies) are paid to the municipal corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mva-government-reduces-development-charges-pmc-faces-revenue-cut/story-Jz9j3ekbD9Nhn5jU3ft21I.html
08-01-2021||City||Bird flu: Govt fully prepared for any eventuality, says Jai Ram||Stating that the government is fully geared up to tackle the bird flu in the state, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday presided over the meeting with the district administration, animal husbandry and wildlife department to review the situation here on Friday.More than 3,500 birds, mostly migratory waterfowls, have died in the Pong Lake area due to the H5N1 outbreak. Some local birds including crows and parrots were also found dead.Thakur said that monitoring of Pong Dam and adjoining areas was being done and quick response teams have also been deployed.“As many as 3,410 migratory birds have died due to the virus in the Pong Lake area besides some local birds,” he said, adding 65 teams of animal husbandry and wildlife were regularly monitoring the Pong Dam and adjoining areas. He said that keeping in view the intensity of bird flu, samples of poultry have been sent to Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, by the animal husbandry department.CM said that it was important to spread awareness among people regarding measures to be adopted and directed the concerned officers to take necessary steps in this direction.Thakur also reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the Kangra district and said that there were about 1,200 active cases in the state, of which 300 are in Kangra district. He said that a decline in Covid-19 cases has been witnessed since December 15, yet it is important to be careful.“It is also important to follow the guidelines issued by the health department. He said that arrangements for the Covid-19 vaccination campaign have been completed. CM also took stock of the Covid-19 dry run at Zonal Hospital Dharamshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bird-flu-govt-fully-prepared-for-any-eventuality-says-jai-ram/story-5RonRbmbwVDDv8YLBLeBAL.html
08-01-2021||Pune||IMD: Highest January rainfall in Pune since 1948, more forecast||Pune reported 24-millimetre rainfall on Friday which is the highest reported rainfall in 24 hours in the month of January since 1948. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has also announced that light rain will continue on January 9 with mist in the city. On Friday, Pune city reported a day temperature of 26.6 degrees Celsius and a night temperature of 19.1 degrees Celsius. The day temperature was 2.4 degrees cooler than normal whereas the night temperature was 8.5 degrees warmer than normal. “The light rainfall in the state is due to a trough line from Gujarat to the Karnataka coast. There is some moisture in Konkan and Goa, so light rain will continue for the next four days. There is a possibility of intense rain spells in this time,” said Anupam Kashyapi, IMD chief. He added that rainfall is predicted in Central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa until January 10. “Rains will reduce after January 10 and the temperature will drop thereafter. For Pune city, light rain will continue along with mist in the morning,” said Kashyapi. The temperature drop is likely from January 12, according to Kashyapi. On Friday, the highest maximum temperature was reported at 33.3 degrees Celsius at Solapur and the lowest minimum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 16.3 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar. In Marathwada and Vidarbha, very light rain is likely until January 10, and thereafter the weather in the state shall remain dry. BOX- Rainfall in the month of January *Year==Rainfall in 24 hours (in mm) *2021==24 *1948 == 22.3 *2010==0.7 *2014==0.1 *Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/imd-highest-january-rainfall-in-pune-since-1948-more-forecast/story-LU53SyUlR5xOhcztGgWkXJ.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Benches, signboards, garbage buckets, jute bags: PMC admin stops 41 proposals by corporators||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to stop unnecessary spending by elected members through the ward development funds. Some civic activists have slammed the elected members for overspending on benches, signboards, garbage buckets and jute bags. Vijay Kumbhar, a civic activist in the city is planning to file a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on the issue. After facing criticism, the municipal administration stopped 41 such proposals submitted by the elected members. Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner held a meeting along with regional ward officers and instructed them to keep these proposals on hold. Many elected members put up boards of their offices, their own names on benches and distribute the garbage buckets in their wards from their ward development funds. One of the senior officials said on anonymity, “The administration has decided to stop all such proposals and will not give approval for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/benches-signboards-garbage-buckets-jute-bags-pmc-admin-stops-41-proposals-by-corporators/story-LU1hiRn04Nbj85ehRaGKrN.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Only two forest guards protect 5,000 acres of reserved forest land in Pune||The Pune forest department has only two forest guards to protect its official 5,000 acres of reserved forest land located under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area. The forest department has appealed to the citizens to participate wholeheartedly and in large numbers in the Joint Forest Management (JFM) programmes to protect and conserve the forest as it unable to protect the rich biodiversity which is under attack by multiple forces like rapid urbanisation and land sharks during the past few decades. Vast tracts of urban reserved forest land in around Pune metropolitan region are lying unattended and unprotected for decades together with complaints of encroachment, vandalism, illegal log cutting, obscenity, trespassing and dumping of garbage and cement concrete waste. The hill ecology of Katraj forest area is under threat from rising construction menace. The rich forest biodiversity houses rare flora and fauna and the forest hills of Pune are regarded as an offshoot or extensions of the protected Western Ghats eco-sensitive zone. The 85-acre reserve forest land in Tilekarnagar in Kondhwa Budruk has become home to anti-social elements and vandalism with no forest guards in sight. A visit to the spot revealed that the fence has been broken at sides and mushrooming slums along the approach road made it difficult for morning walkers to reach the forest. Similarly, no effort has been made by the forest department to protect the biodiversity and instead, it has turned a blind eye to the rich resource which is fast depleting, according to citizens. Similarly, green activists and neighbourhood citizen groups have demanded protection of 200 acres of NIBM reserve forest by the construction of a protection wall. Besides, the vast 300 geographical spread of protected forest area of Wanowrie-Hadapsar-Mohammwadi also need urgent protection from the vandalism and trespassing. Praveen Kumar Anand, a green activist said, “We want to develop several urban forests and connect all of them through bridges. We want a regular supply of water tankers and financial assistance from the government and corporates to ensure that this rich forest heritage is protected for the entire humanity.” According to Satish Gujar, acting in charge and chief conservator of forests (Pune), around 5,000 acres of forest land falls under the PMC area and for 1,500 to 1,000 acres of land, there is only one forest guard. “We cannot keep new persons as there is a freeze on recruitment. We have initiated urban Joint Forest Management (JFM) committees and it is their responsibility to protect the forests. Fortunately, we have constructed 35 kilometres of protection walls around the reserved forest. If people are ready to contribute, a minimum of Rs 1 then JFM can do good work. There are challenges before us and we are working towards protecting the biodiversity with citizens’ participation. We are having only two guards to protect the entire forest land which falls under the PMC area. Similarly, it is also the duty of the citizens to protect the forests located in their respective areas,” Gujar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/only-two-forest-guards-protect-5-000-acres-of-reserved-forest-land-in-pune/story-BFwLB0rRuE3mTJu2Aa7ScL.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Swargate chowk, a nightmare for commuters and pedestrians||Commuters and pedestrians at the Jedhe Chowk, popularly called “Swargate” have been facing difficulties from the last few days with illegally parked auto-rickshaws, ST buses and passengers plying in and out, bottleneck traffic movement, no zebra crossing markings and overspeeding vehicles. Due to the ongoing Pune Metro work the infrastructure, vehicular movement and overall operations of the MSRTC and PMPML buses from this chowk have gone for a toss. More congestion is expected at the spot if the Swargate - Katraj BRTS resumes service The HT team visited Swargate on Friday and found glaring issues for commuters and pedestrians. On one side of the chowk is the Swargate ST stand, while on the opposite side is the PMPML main bus stop. Due to the ongoing Pune Metro work, barricading has been done from the side of the ST stand cutting down the road width into half. In addition to the reduced width, illegally parked auto-rickshaws at the entrance gate of ST stand have further significantly reduced the size of the roadPassengers stepping out of the ST stand from the Satara road entrance have to risk their lives to cross the road, as there are no proper zebra crossing markings. Also, auto-rickshaws, ridesharing and private vehicles that drop or pick-up passengers from the ST stand add to the traffic congestion. A similar scene was witnessed on the opposite side of the road where the PMPML bus stop is located. Half of the road is barricaded to make a dedicated lane for buses when the PMPML buses arrive from Satara road towards the chowk, there is a long queue of buses creating a hurdle for other vehicles. In all this mismanagement, pedestrians have to risk their lives while walking through the road. “I daily travel through this road to go to my office, since the Metro work barricading has been placed, the traffic at the chowk has increased during peak hours. The ST buses randomly drive from anywhere in the chowk and create more problem to the vehicular movement. Also, the illegal hawkers and auto-rickshaws standing all over the chowk should be removed permanently,” said Bipin Gandhi, a citizen. According to advocate Kishore Rahile of Pune Safer Roads organisation, before beginning the Metro work at Swargate, it was necessary to partially shift the PMPML and ST bus operations to another side of the chowk. “Auto rickshaws are parked all over the chowk in a quest for passengers. There is a need to review and revamp the entire chowk’s infrastructure on a temporary basis until the Metro work is complete. The entry and exit of ST buses from the ST stand is one of the crucial issues which needs to be resolved, for which all parties need to take a joint meeting and find a solution. Also, pedestrians need to be taken into consideration as there is a heavy vehicular movement around the chowk and daily thousands of people pass through here,” Rahile said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/swargate-chowk-a-nightmare-for-commuters-and-pedestrians/story-ZP14GSMNOZPDxdGZKPl26N.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu: Punjab declared as ‘controlled area’, import of birds banned||The Congress-led government in Punjab declared the state as a ‘controlled area’ in view of the bird flu outbreak reported in neighbouring states and imposed a complete ban on the import of live birds, which include poultry and unprocessed poultry meat, for any purpose with immediate effect till January 15. Punjab hasn’t reported any case of bird flu till now, news agency ANI reported on Friday.The state government had earlier sounded an alert in the state with chief secretary Vini Mahajan ordering to step up sampling, testing and surveillance of the suspected bird flu cases. She had earlier reviewed the situation in Punjab and neighbouring areas particularly Himachal Pradesh which has reported more than 380 bird deaths. Mahajan had said on Thursday that the state government was fully prepared to tackle any situation arising out of the outbreak in the country adding that all efforts were being made to keep Punjab safe.Also Read| Centre confirms bird flu in 6 states; unusual avian deaths in Delhi being checkedShe also instructed the animal husbandry department to withdraw coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing from the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar and use the facilities available for testing bird samples. “Results of suspected bird flu tests should be made available without any delay,” the chief secretary said.All concerned departments in the state have been asked by Mahajan to work together to combat any grave situation if it arises. “If any mass mortality of poultry or other birds is found, it should be immediately reported to the deputy director of animal husbandry department in the concerned district,” she said.Also Read| Jammu & Kashmir bans poultry import amid bird flu outbreakThe central government said on Friday that bird flu has been confirmed in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Rajasthan and ordered the state authorities to control the spread of the disease. The government has deployed teams to Kerala, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh for monitoring the situation. According to an official statement, the states which are still unaffected by the Avian Influenza have been ordered to keep a check on any unusual deaths among birds and report immediately so that necessary action is taken as soon as possible.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bird-flu-punjab-declared-as-controlled-area-import-of-birds-banned/story-Rdm0M1fziRw0DwW3EfVinK.html
08-01-2021||City||Pune airport prepared to transport vaccine||PUNE The Pune airport is gearing up to transport “Covishield” vaccine produced by city-based Serum Institute of India (SII). The vaccine has been approved by Indian regulators for restricted emergency use.The airport currently has a cargo capacity of transporting at least 500 tonnes daily with the current number of flights operating which can be optimized to over 1,714 tonnes if the airport functions to maximum capacity, said officials.Kuldeep Singh Rishi, director, Pune airport, said, “We are prepared to transport up to 500 tonnes of cargo daily with the current number of flights operating. We have the equipment, manpower, aircraft and everything is ready.”“We are only awaiting the consignment to reach the airport. Till now no vaccine cargo has moved from the airport. Currently, we are moving 150 tonnes of cargo from Pune airport every day to various locations,” he said.In an earlier interview to Hindustan Times, Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, had said, “They (Indian government) have to still sign a purchase order with us and tell us where to send the vaccine, and seven to ten days after that, we can deliver the vaccine.”“We have already offered to them in writing a special price of ₹200, only for the government, for the first 100 million doses and then the price will be higher or different,” he said.An SII official on the condition of anonymity said that the talks are still going on and that no vaccine has been dispatched off yet.The airport director also said that additional cargo responsibilities would not affect the regular flight operations as the flight movements have gone down drastically.He said, “We have only 35 flights operating currently which can carry up to 500 tonnes. The number of passenger flights operating now has come down, in March-February we had about 180 take-off and landing flights with close to 27,000 passengers which have now come down to only 10,000 passengers.”“The air force has allocated us slots for about 10 flights every hour and with the runway available for 12 hours, 8 am to 8 pm, we can operate 120 flights daily take-off and landing. However, with the social distancing norms in place we have additional restrictions which need not be followed for cargo,” he said.With the current ongoing re-carpeting work going on, the airport runway is only available from 8 am to 8 pm for the next few months.Singh also added that “Once someone approaches us for cargo, we just need to check for suspicious material and if everything is cleared it will take about 30-40 minutes for the cargo loading process.”During Wednesday’s meeting, SII assessed the preparedness of the airport and the officials were asked to keep its manpower and equipment ready which will be put to use when required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-airport-prepared-to-transport-vaccine/story-pzTsogWaJEDNxa2b6a18KO.html
08-01-2021||City||Pune dist reports 607 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||PUNE The district reported 607 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours. No cases of the new variant were reported, said officials of the state health department.Till Friday, a total of 11 samples have tested positive from Maharashtra for the new variant of the virus.“All 11 people who had come back from the UK are asymptomatic. Two of these patients have been discharged, one each from Pune and Mumbai, after completing 14 days isolation and two consecutive samples tested negative by RT-PCR,” said officials.In the Pune district, there are a total of 3,77,265 lakh Covid cases and out of this, 3,55,692 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 7,818 deaths and 13,718 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 1,93,486 Covid cases and 4,434 deaths, while PCMC has reported 94,549 cases and 1,287 deaths. Pune rural has reported 89,230 total cases and 2,097 deaths.As per the state health department, 2,890 patients were discharged on Friday in the state taking the total to 18,58,999. The recovery rate in the state is 94.75 per cent.Across the state, 3,693 new cases were diagnosed and 73 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.55 per cent.The state health department stated that out of 1,32,67,917 laboratory samples, 19,61,975 have tested positive which account for 14.79%.At present, 2,40,585 people across Maharashtra are in home quarantine and 3,015 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-dist-reports-607-new-covid-19-cases-13-deaths/story-VBDMhNCxHCUaZSEZTvmvJN.html
08-01-2021||City||Ajit Pawar asks officials to remain alert amid worries over new Covid-19 strain||PUNE Deputy chief minister of Maharashtra and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar instructed the administration to take extra precautions and stay alert amid the cases of new UK strain being reported in the city and the state.Pawar on Friday took a review meeting of Covid-19 situation in the city. Elected members and all the top bureaucrats were present for the meeting.Pawar said, “It is good that the pandemic situation is in control in Pune city and overall district, but we should be alert as cases of the new strain are being reported.”The elected member and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Girish Bapat said that though the situation is under control, the administration must prepare for the worst.“From the last few weeks, the administration has stopped updating to the media and common public about Covid-19,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ajit-pawar-asks-officials-to-remain-alert-amid-worries-over-new-covid-19-strain/story-xtQP1MVbtlx3YqqW7bWT7O.html
08-01-2021||City||Power bills worth Rs 1,072.55cr of 13.80L consumers pending: MSEDCL||PUNE As per the data of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) as many as 1,380,300 consumers from Pune district have pending power bills worth Rs 1,072.55 crore.The consumers are from domestic, commercial and industrial sectors and have not paid bills between March and December 2020, said, officials.“Due to the current situation, MSEDCL is facing a financial crisis. The consumers should cooperate by paying the dues and current electricity bills,” said Ankush Nale, Pune regional director, MSEDCL.Out of 1,380,300 consumers, 5.80 lakh consumers have not paid even a single bill between April-November 2020 which include dues worth Rs 576.91 crore.“There were complaints from people regarding irregularity in the bills and MSEDCL has corrected all the bills still dues are pending. We request all the consumers to clear the current and overdue bills,” said a release by MSEDCL.“People not only from the rural area but within the city are yet to pay the bills from the past three months. We have not taken any actions against them till now, but if it continues then we have to take action especially against people living in the city,” said an official from MSEDCL on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-bills-worth-rs-1-072-55cr-of-13-80l-consumers-pending-msedcl/story-RTZ8qjenaZpuq9N8YhlvEN.html
08-01-2021||Jaipur||Bird flu: Samples from 5 more districts found positive in Rajasthan, over 2100 birds dead||Avian influenza (bird flu) has spread to a total of 11 districts in Rajasthan with the samples of dead birds from Banswara, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Pali and Jaisalmer districts also found positive on Friday. The samples from districts such as Jhalawar, Kota, Baran, Sawai Madhopur, Jaipur and Chittorgarh have already been confirmed with bird flu. The test report identifies avian influenza subtype H5N8 in the birds, which according to experts is less infectious. The death of birds continues to be reported in Rajasthan but no case of bird flu has been found in the chickens yet. The bird fatality is spreading at an alarming rate across the state. As per official figures, the death of birds reached 2,166, with 329 fatalities reported on Friday. A senior official of the animal husbandry department said that since December 26, 2,166 birds have died. Most of the fatalities were reported in crows (1706), followed by peacocks (136), pigeons (93), poultry (50) and 181 others. While bird flu report is found positive in 11 districts, in Jodhpur, it has come out negative. He added that a total of 211 samples have been sent to Bhopal for testing. The official added that the random samples of migratory birds and chickens are also been taken as precautions. “No confirmation of bird flu disease is found in chickens. And no case of bird deaths has been reported from Udaipur, Rajsamand, Dholpur, and Barmer,” he said. Also read: Customs officials set to grill Kerala Speaker in gold smuggling caseMicrobiologist, Dr AK Kataria said the laboratory findings are for confirmation of the diseases and the results should be correlated with clinical science, post mortem lesion, mortality pattern, species affected, and age. Mere isolation of the virus doesn’t confirm the occurrence of the disease in the body. He said the lab reports are also showing negative results in samples, which shows that the birds aren’t dying of flu but of cold shock or other reasons. The interpretation of the lab reports is required for the declaration of the disease. The first-ever incident of bird flu in Rajasthan is a serious concern of the government, especially at a time when people are already struggling with Covid-19. Bird flu (avian influenza) caused by the virus is contagious and fatal. In March 2020, the death of dozens of crows due to bird flu was reported from various parts of Bihar, which sparked fear among the residents amid the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. In 2006, death of chickens due to this flu was reported from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bird-flu-samples-from-5-more-districts-found-positive-in-rajasthan-over-2100-birds-dead/story-mXX9B1fDqWiPgHzgkgcMNK.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 test, 7-day institutional quarantine mandatory for UK passengers, tweets Delhi airport||Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) has announced new rules for all passengers arriving from the United Kingdom, including mandatory RT-PCR Covid-19 testing and seven-day institutional quarantine. The announcement came amidst the resumption of flight services between India and the UK on Friday.Several passengers arriving at the Delhi airport seemed unhappy about the mandatory institutional quarantine which they were unaware of while departing, news agency PTI reported. While India’s national carrier Air India had said that the passengers were informed before departure, Vistara’s former chief strategy and commercial officer Sanjiv Kapoor called the move as “ridiculous.” Air India also said that 20 passengers cancelled their flights after being informed about the advisory, according to the PTI news report . In a tweet, DIAL asked all passengers arriving from the UK to strictly adhere to the new rules. “Flight operations from the UK have resumed from 0:01 hrs. 8th January 2021. All arriving passengers from the UK to Delhi Airport must adhere to the following,” DIAL tweeted, listing the rules to be followed. Kind attention to all flyers arriving from the UK. pic.twitter.com/LfeZFTYN44According to DIAL’s latest passenger advisory, RT-PCR Covid-19 test has been made mandatory for all passengers in both the UK and India. Passengers can use the Air Suvidha portal of the airport’s official website to upload or self-report their Covid-19 negative test results before departure from the UK. The test should have been taken 72 hours before the commencement of the journey, the announcement said.Passengers should also bear the expense of the RT-PCR test and access to lounge facilities, which costs Rs 3,400 per person. They should also expect a waiting time of up to 10 hours for the test results. On arrival of the test results, all passengers are expected to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine followed by a week-long home quarantine.Click here to read our complete coverage of Covid-19The measures have been taken in the light of a new announcement from the Delhi government after flight services from the UK were resumed. “To protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK, Del govt takes imp decisions. All those arriving from UK, who test positive will be isolated in an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for 7 days followed by 7 days home quarantine,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced earlier in the day. To protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK, Del govt takes imp decisions. All those arriving from UK, who test positive will be isolated in an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for 7 days followed by 7 days home quarantine pic.twitter.com/hYDsaOn8q1Flight operations between India and the UK were suspended on December 21, 2020, following the rapid spread of a new mutation of the novel coronavirus was detected in the UK. India opened its airspace on January 8, 2021, for inbound flights from the UK.India has reported 82 patients infected with the new strain of Covid-19 detected first in the United Kingdom, according to the Union ministry of health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-test-7-day-institutional-quarantine-mandatory-for-uk-passengers-tweets-delhi-airport/story-83f0AihwsLDGre31ta7VHK.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court dismisses woman’s bail plea in case related to murder of head constable||A Delhi court on Friday dismissed the bail plea of a woman accused in connection with a case related to the murder of head constable Rattan Lal during northeast Delhi riots last year.Additional Session Judge Vinod Yadav rejected the bail plea of Tabassum, a resident of Chand Bagh Area of Delhi, observing that the Call Detail Records (CDRs) of the mobile phone of her revealed that she was in constant touch with several co­-accused persons.The judge further said that the charges against the applicant were serious in nature.“Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality vis­-à­-vis gravity of offence, I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant. The bail application is accordingly dismissed,” the judge said.The judge noted that “it is clearly evident that the protestors and organizers had motivated persons in the mob and certain unscrupulous elements had surrounded the scene of crime and they appeared to be fully equipped with rioting material like stones, sticks, sharp ­edged weapons and other sort of raw weapons.” “Even burqa­ clad women are clearly seen attacking the police party with sticks and other material in their hands and they clearly appeared to be charged up.  “It has also come on record that some of the persons of the mob had taken possession of the rooftops of high­ rise buildings at or around 25 feet road, having firearms and other rioting material with them,” the judge noted.He said that “all this prima facie indicates that everything was being done under a well­ hatched conspiracy, the common object whereof was to cause blockade of the main Wazirabad Road and if resisted by the police, then to go to any extent to liquidate them by use of force.” The police had opposed the bail plea saying Tabassum used to share stage with other protestors and instigate the gathering against the Government which ultimately led to violence on February 24, 2020 thereby resulting in death of more than 50 people in North­ East District of Delhi, including head constable Rattan Lal.According to the prosecution, during the incident, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Shahdara, Amit Sharma, Anuj Kumar, ACP Gokalpuri and 51 other policemen had also suffered severe injuries at the hands of rioters.In her application, the accused had admitted having participated in the protest, however, she reiterated that protesting against some legislation was her “legal and fundamental right” and that it could not be snatched away from her as it was her “legitimate belief and perception that Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA) and National Register for Citizens (NRC) were against a particular religion.” She further submitted that the investigating agency had not been able to establish the contents of her speech and whether they were inflammatory or instigating.Regarding the allegation of criminal conspiracy, the accused said that “participating in the protest against a particular law/enactment does not amount to conspiracy of incitement of violence where head constable Rattan Lal had died.” Her counsel also argued that the applicant was a lady, aged about 38 years and permanent resident of Chand Bagh, Delhi.  “The applicant is having two minor school going children, whose future/career is at stake as they have been deprived of the care and custody of their mother.  “She has been falsely implicated in the present matter by the investigating agency; she was not present at the scene of crime on the date and time of incident and as such she has nothing to do with alleged incident,” the application said.At least 53 people lost their lives and hundreds of others were injured in the violence, which erupted between groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in the norteast area of the national capital in February last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-woman-s-bail-plea-in-case-related-to-murder-of-head-constable/story-3kiHjQGnwTd35ihO3SUZRN.html
08-01-2021||City||21 cases of theft solved after arrest of 3 in Hadapsar||PUNE The Hadapsar Police have solved 21 cases of theft after the arrest of three accused on Friday. Gold, cash and valuables estimated to be worth Rs 38 lakh have been seized from their possession. Besides, the police recovered four cars, five two-wheelers and 33 mobile phones. The accused have been identified as Kanvarsingh Kalusingh Tak ( 20), Ajay Singh Arjun Singh Dudhani (20) and Jaisingh Kalusingh Juni (27). According to police, the trio were found moving on a stolen two-wheeler. After receiving a tip off, a team of Hadapsar police officials caught them red-handed with stolen goods. During their interrogation, the accused confessed to their involvement in 21 cases of theft. Police inspector Balkrishna Jadhav said, “They have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC.” 200 grammes of gold stolen from Sharda Ganesh Temple in MandaiUnidentified thieves decamped with 200 grammes of gold from a prominent Sharda Ganesh Temple in Mandai. A case has been registered at Vishrambaug police station.The thieves are believed to have entered the temple at midnight and stolen the jewellery. Police and crime branch sleuths have started an investigation based on CCTV footage obtained from the scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-cases-of-theft-solved-after-arrest-of-3-in-hadapsar/story-mx6sJQ1DUVlNTBKV0POEpL.html
08-01-2021||Bhopal||First case of infection of UK-strain of coronavirus found in Madhya Pradesh||In the first such case in Madhya Pradesh, a 39-year-old man who returned to Indore from the UK last month has tested positive for the new coronavirus strain, senior officials said on Friday.The patient, who is asymptomatic, has been placed in home isolation, district collector Manish Singh said.It was the first case of infection of the UK variant of the virus in the state, said Dr Veena Sinha, additional director, MP Health Department. After returning from the UK, the man had come in contact with 39 persons, 34 of them from outside Indore district, a local health official said.These 34 persons were contacted and informed about his status. The remaining five, including two of the patient’s family members, are from Indore and have undergone Covid-19 tests and are in good health, the official added. The man returned from the UK on December 23 and tested positive for coronavirus.His samples were then sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi and its report confirmed that he was carrying the new variant of the virus, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/first-case-of-infection-of-uk-strain-of-coronavirus-found-in-madhya-pradesh/story-HeThsjyUzTmK2sZW5U27aI.html
08-01-2021||City||Reduction of syllabus by 30 per cent and slashing of exam fees up for decision at SPPU senate meeting||PUNE The senate meeting of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is scheduled on January 9 and 10. Senate members have taken up several important issues for discussion at the meeting. Reduction of syllabus by 30 per cent and slashing exam fees for the next academic year are some of the points to be discussed at the meeting. Dr Motiram Deshmukh, a senate member, has proposed reduction of the syllabus by 30 per cent for various courses of the SPPU. Also, SPPU is to take all the college principals into consultation about further examinations to be held. Another SPPU senate member Ravaji Deshmukh said, “The SPPU should increase funds sanctioned for students through various policies and programmes. Rural students should be considered as they face several issues while attending online classes and it is important to help them for online education.” Dadabhau Sinalkar, also an SPPU senate member, said, “Concessions in fees should be given to students who are from farmer families and whose parents have suffered a financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, scholarships should be given to students so studies are not affected due to fee-related issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reduction-of-syllabus-by-30-per-cent-and-slashing-of-exam-fees-up-for-decision-at-sppu-senate-meeting/story-oMbS3ql7uAcJE2oM3KfDHK.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||HC seeks BMC reply on PIL alleging rigging of tenders for medicines||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Mumbai civic body to respond to a PIL filed by a BJP MLA alleging compromise on standards in the procurement of medicines at hospitals amid the Covid-19 pandemic.MLA Ashish Shelar also alleged in the public interest litigation that conditions in the tender for supply of medicines and disinfectants was changed for the benefit of certain manufacturers.A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni, however, noted that judicial review of a tender process was not advisable. “The government is the master in such a tender process as it is aware of the situation and requirements. They know what conditions to impose in the tender,” Justice Kulkarni said.“Who are you (Shelar) to complain if the bidders are alright and have no problem with the conditions imposed,” said Chief Justice Datta. The court posted the plea for further hearing next week and asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file its affidavit in response to the petition.Shelar’s plea said that during the pandemic, medicines and disinfectants procured by civic-run hospitals should be of the highest standards.There was “infringement of the norms of accountability, rationality and manifestation of arbitrariness and perversity in the tendering process”, it alleged.The BMC keeps changing the eligibility criteria, Shelar claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-seeks-bmc-reply-on-pil-alleging-rigging-of-tenders-for-medicines/story-bC24S5PYj5Iw5bM6Y7NTmN.html
08-01-2021||City||NCP flays BJP request for aid from state to build retaining walls in city||PUNE Before asking the state government for help to erect retaining walls damaged due to floods in Pune, the BJP should first answer what they, as the ruling party in the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), have done do far?The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) went on the attack against the BJP in Pune on this point.NCP state member Pradip Deshmukh said, “BJP was ruling in state and PMC when floods arrived. There was time to get help from the state government. When the BJP was ruling in the state, it did nothing, but now it is asking for help from the state government.”“The BJP is still ruling in the PMC. Why did they not carry this work out on their own? The PMC floated tenders worth Rs70 crore before the monsoon, but no works took place on the ground,” Deshmukh added.Recently, BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil met the municipal commissioner and to submit a pro-posal for getting aid from the state government to erect retaining walls in private properties and societies.Patil said, “To erect retaining walls along the nallahs which got damaged due to floods, it would require around Rs300 crore. The state government must help. I will meet guardian minister Ajit Pawar and ask for help in getting the funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-flays-bjp-request-for-aid-from-state-to-build-retaining-walls-in-city/story-0SLSn4bvar4p3simKn7oaP.html
08-01-2021||City||Brooms as the paintbrush to sweep away gloom of 2020||PUNE Aditya Shirke, an artist from the city, has done paintings on large, 16ft canvasses, with unconventional tools such as household mops and brooms. Through this paintings he has illustrated his vision for 2021. These experimental paintings were created and exhibited at Karkhana, an art-co-lab, designed and owned by Studio Mars. Shirke has created five different paintings portraying various themes. When asked what inspired him, Shirke said, “The last year, 2020, has been a dark year for us. The idea in these paintings is hope that this year will turn into a dark horse. A dark horse in a race is the one nobody bets on, but still wins. We hope the coming year will be like this.” To create these paintings Shirke used mops and household brooms of all sizes, instead of brushes. He didn’t put the canvas on a stand. He laid it down on the floor and used these instruments to paint out his ideas. “I started working on this idea in the last week of December. It took me two-and-a-half days to complete these,” Shirke said. One of the paintings is called “Airborne”. It captures the moment when a horse gains momentum and its torso gets lifted off the ground. The horse’s body in this painting is uplifted. This horse is a race horse and has a blinders which helps it focus. Through this painting Shirke has highlighted the importance of the ability to focus this year. Another painting is named “Cherry Blossom”. The idea of this painting is drawn from Japanese and Chinese cherry blossom brush paintings . This indicates calmness. Emphasising the importance of calmness in mind. These paintings are acrylic on canvas.Shirke emphasises the need for such experimentations. “Initial impulse of humans is to make a mark. Through experimentations we can be instinctive and intuitive. A broom is such an unusual tool to paint with. While using it, all layers of civility go away. We can act instinctively,” said Shirke. Shobhna Hadap, founder and creative director of Studio Mars, underlined the need of such spaces for experimental art. “A lot of artists do not have such avenues where they can experiment with their art. We encourage all kinds of creative explorations and promote ingenious artists. In Europe such co-work spaces are common. Artists should have such avenues,” Hadap said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brooms-as-the-paintbrush-to-sweep-away-gloom-of-2020/story-wOMhcT7qvKVqCbN1Dv3YfJ.html
08-01-2021||Pune||‘A major boost for the real estate sector, relief for buyers’||The Maharashtra government, on Wednesday, slashed premiums and levies charged on construction by 50 per cent till December 31 2021, an initiative expected to boost the real estate sector in the state and city. Real estate developers feel that the state government’s decision will boost the real estate industry which has been affected by months of lockdown and subsequent decline during the last one year. Omprakash Deshmukh, Inspector General of Stamps and Registration, stated that it would give a strong impetus to the sector. Deshmukh said, “This decision by the state government will give a major boost to the real estate sector. It is a relief to customers as one of the GR clause states that builder will have to pay the entire stamp duty. This will positively impact the market and buyers will increase.” Suhas Merchant, president, Credai Pune termed the decision as a welcome step. Merchant said, “It can provide great relief to cash-stressed real estate projects. In the past two years not many projects were launched due to shortage of funds. Though we need to study the decision in detail, I definitely feel that more projects will be launched now.” Rohit Gera Managing, director, Gera Developments said, “The move to reduce the premiums is extremely welcome. It will provide respite to cost burdens for developers, thereby spurring on more supply at lower prices. It is, however, important to realise that the charges paid for approvals include development charges and other charges under other heads. Effectively this means the total benefits will be much less than 50%.” Nitin Gupta, senior vice-president, sales, marketing and CRM, Mantra Properties, said, “With reduced stamp duty charges and now this rationale by the government brings in great relief to the developers wherein ever increasing costs of construction can be offset to an extent. The environment today with low interest rates and reduced stamp duty was pushing the demand for homes and with the reduction in premium charges, we’ve got a catalyst to help the sector grow.” Vineet Goyal, joint managing director, Kohinoor Group, said, “We all are seeing the positive impact of stamp duty reduction. Similarly, we feel that this step will also prove to be beneficial for both, the real estate developer and the home buyer. It will provide considerable relief to the ailing real estate sector, where cash flows are affected due to lockdown and will provide a direct cost benefit to the home buyer. The state government is concerned about the real estate sector which directly indirectly helps many other business segments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/a-major-boost-for-the-real-estate-sector-relief-for-buyers/story-BpIqBNPFO61u8qUW7GM9PL.html
08-01-2021||City||Burglars target shop in Ludhiana’s Kesarganj Mandi||Thieves struck at a shop in Kesarganj Mandi on early Friday morning and decamped with cash. Five of the burglars were captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the shop.Shop owner, Gajinder Singh, 35, told the police that he dealt in polythene and gift packing material. On Thursday, he locked the shop around 9.30pm and returned home. The next morning, he received a call from a shopkeeper about the broken locks of his shop. On rushing to the shop, Gajinder found it ransacked and cash missing.According to investigators, the thieves entered the shop around 5.30am after lifting the shutter using an iron rod. The complainant has not yet given an estimate of the cash stolen. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Central) Waryam Singh said they had lodged an FIR and initiated investigation to identify and nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglars-target-shop-in-ludhiana-s-kesarganj-mandi/story-qQeLkGBxbSCBgWDxb4GPLI.html
08-01-2021||City||5-year-old boy kidnapped in Himachal’s Nalagarh rescued from Ludhiana bus stand||A five-year-old boy kidnapped from Nalagarh in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday morning was rescued from the Ludhiana bus stand later at night with the arrest of his father’s employee.The accused, Shankar Kumar, 19, Bihar, kidnapped the boy as his father, Joginder Singh, owed him Rs 60,000 in payments, police said.“As the boy, Rohan, was kidnapped, his father, a resident of Panjera village, Nalagarh, sounded the police. The local police traced his location to Ludhiana bus stand and informed us, following which we nabbed Kumar and rescued the child,” said ASI Gurcharanjit Singh, in-charge, bus stand police post.The child was handed over to his parents, while the accused was taken away by the Himachal Pradesh Police, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-year-old-boy-kidnapped-in-himachal-s-nalagarh-rescued-from-ludhiana-bus-stand/story-gvIhh60mR6cFAuD3MRd6CP.html
08-01-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee allows 100% occupancy in cinema halls||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee allowed 100% occupancy in cinema halls during the week-long Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF), which was inaugurated on Friday. “At present, because of the pandemic, only 50% occupancy in cinema halls is allowed. I would ask the state’s chief secretary to come up with a notification today so that 100% seats can be occupied,” Banerjee said while addressing the inauguration of the 26th edition of the KIFF. On January 4, the Tamil Nadu government had issued a similar order to increase the occupancy in cinemas, theatres and multiplexes to 100% capacity. The centre, however, has asked the Tamil Nadu government to revoke its order saying it diluted the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). “I would urge cinema hall owners to ensure that people wear face masks and use hand sanitizers. Sanitization should be done after every show. Every audience should carry his own sanitizer or a tissue paper. Now-a-days you also get machines with which you can sanitize the entire hall in just five minutes,” she added. Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan was virtually present for the inauguration. This year, 81 full-length feature films and 50 short films and documentaries from around 45 countries would be screened in eight venues over the next one week. Also Read: TMC supporter killed in north Bengal; party blames BJPThe KIFF is usually held in the month of November every year but had to be postponed because of the pandemic in 2020. While the state had more than 36,000 active cases in November, the number has come down to less than 9,000 now. Even though citizens can book the tickets online, three helpdesks have also been set up at Nandan, Tollygunge and Salt Lake for those who find difficulty in booking tickets online. “Not everyone can purchase e-tickets. Many people think that if they have the card of the festival they would be allowed. I think the authorities should allow every card holder,” Banerjee said. She also urged the authorities to put up LED screens outside the cinema halls so that more people can see without entering any closed spaces such as cinema halls and theatres, where chances of infection are more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-allows-100-occupancy-in-cinema-halls/story-AjQcPlLfww6mflXxZsmvVP.html
08-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC supporter killed in north Bengal; party blames BJP||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has alleged that a party supporter was hacked to death in the Cooch Behar district of north Bengal on Thursday night by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers. One person has been arrested by the police. Nadiram Mandal (63), a resident of Madhya Marichbari village in the Pundibari police station area of Cooch Behar North assembly constituency went missing on Thursday after he went to the market. Hours later, his body was found in a pool of blood by the roadside, about half a kilometre from his home. There were stab injuries on the face and back, police officials said. Police have arrested Kamaleshwar Roy, a local resident, on the basis of a complaint lodged by Mandal’s family. Mandal’s son Nikhil claimed Roy was a BJP activist and had an old feud with his father. Also Read: Owaisi’s politics won’t work in Bengal: Muslim clerics react to AIMIM’s poll debutRabindranath Ghosh, minister in charge of the north Bengal development department, said, “Mandal was an active TMC member. He was killed by BJP supporters. Four TMC supporters have been killed by the BJP in Cooch Behar district in the last three months.” Malati Rava Roy, the BJP’s Cooch Behar district committee president dismissed the charges. She said, “The man arrested in this case is also a TMC supporter. The crime is the fallout of a family feud. The TMC is politicising this because it is fast losing its base. In the last six months, seven BJP supporters were killed by TMC men.” K Kannan, superintendent of police, said, “One man has been arrested and investigation is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-supporter-killed-in-north-bengal-party-blames-bjp/story-cntt9YLIzZnJdrc6omasqO.html
08-01-2021||Pune||State government gives nod to conduct 64th Maharashtra Kesari||Pune: Even though the Maharashtra government is yet to give permission to conduct sports tournaments in the state there is something to cheer for wrestling followers as the 64th edition of Maharashtra Kesari will be happening soon. “We have got the permission to hold the 64th edition of the tournament. The Covid-19 safety norms will be strictly followed while conducting the event,” said Balasaheb Landge, secretary, Maharashtra State Wrestling Association. The popular event that takes place during November-December was postponed because of the pandemic restrictions. It is expected to happen in the last week of February or March, according to the event organisers. With Maharashtra Kesari being one of the traditional tournaments in the state, the Maharashtra State Wrestling Association had submitted a request letter to Sunil Kedar, state sports and youth affairs minister, seeking permission to the hold the event. “Sharad Pawar has played a big role in allowing the Maharashtra Kesari tournament. He was in touch with wrestlers and coaches even during the lockdown period. The go-ahead to hold the event will boost the confidence of wrestlers,” said Kaka Pawar, an Arjuna Awardee wrestler and head coach of Kaka Pawar Talim. With Senior National Wrestling Championship (freestyle) scheduled to be held at Greater Noida on January 23 and 24, the state wrestlers have begun practice at his talim following Covid safety norms. “How long we will keep wrestlers away from the sports? At least they need to keep themselves fit. A national event will happen in a few days followed by the National Wrestling Championship for Greco-Roman style scheduled in Jalandhar in February and the Maharashtra Kesari contest. I hope the government allows other wrestling tournaments as well,” Pawar said. The 63rd edition of Maharashtra Kesari was hosted at Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex in Balewadi where Harshwardhan Sadgir had defeated Shailesh Shelke to take the mace on January 8, 2020. Both of them are trained by Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-government-gives-nod-to-conduct-64th-maharashtra-kesari/story-oIxgEAFPbsg2FzmYPytAjK.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi registers 444 new Covid-19 cases, 10 more deaths; positivity rate dips to 0.59%||Delhi on Friday registered 444 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 10 related fatalities, which pushed the tally and death toll to 629,282 and 10,654 respectively. Nearly 615,000 people have recovered or discharged so far and the active cases of Covid-19 have dropped to 3,779, according to Delhi health department’s bulletin.Since last week of December 2019, the daily coronavirus infection tally in the national capital remained below the 1,000-mark after 803 cases were reported on December 21. In the first week of January, the national capital reported less than 500 Covid-19 cases daily except on January 6 when 654 cases were added.The positivity also dipped to 0.59 per cent from 0.63 per cent on Thursday. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said earlier that the positivity rate had been below 1 per cent from the past several days adding that it was an indication that the Covid-19 situation was improving. Delhi reports 444 #COVID19 cases, 823 recoveries and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 6,29,282Total recoveries 6,14,849Death toll 10,654Active cases 3779 pic.twitter.com/1OPr7poJjAA total of 75,724 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Friday which included 38,839 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and the remaining 36,885 rapid antigen tests. More than 9.2 million tests have been conducted in Delhi so far and the tests per million stood 486,025, the bulletin showed. The containment zones are at 2,965 and 1,807 people have been placed under home isolation.Officials said on Thursday that all medical colleges operated by the Delhi government had been ordered to reopen but pointed out that physical classes would resume in a phased manner for different academic batches. The institutions, which include Maulana Azad Medical College and the University College of Medical Sciences, had been closed since March last year in view of the pandemic.Also Read| ‘To protect Delhiites’: Delhi govt announces rules for UK returneesMeanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday that all travellers arriving from the United Kingdom (UK) will be required to undergo a week-long institutional quarantine and a week-long home quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19. “To protect Delhiites from exposure to the virus from the UK, the Delhi government has taken important decisions. Travellers coming from the UK will have to mandatorily undergo a self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport,” Kejriwal said amid the spread of the new Covid-19 strain detected in the UK.Earlier, the chief minister had appealed to the Centre to extend the suspension of flights to and from the UK in view of the new strain which has infected 13 people in Delhi till now. The Centre has allowed passengers flights from the UK to resume in limited numbers from today onwards after they had been suspended for 16 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-registers-444-new-covid-19-cases-10-more-deaths-positivity-rate-dips-to-0-59/story-tV53AGhlFvpqtWWWRWVfdJ.html
08-01-2021||City||40-year-old Ludhiana man booked for raping sister’s friend||A resident of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, New Shimlapuri, has been booked for raping his sister’s friend after promising to marry her.The accused, aged 40, has been booked nearly27 months after the 37-year-old victim filed a complaint with the police commissioner on October 27, 2018.A resident of Preet Nagar, Shimlapuri, the woman, who is divorced, was introduced to the accused by his sister, who claimed that he was also separated and a suitable match for her. In 2018, the accused’s father was hospitalised and being taken care of his mother and sister. As the complainant was familiar with the family, she took care of their meals by visiting their house. There, the accused, who was alone at home, established physical relations with her after promising to marry her and also took her pictures.Later, he refused to marry her and circulated her pictures to tarnish her image. When she threatened him of police action, his family scheduled their marriage for October 10, 2018. However, the family locked their house and disappeared on October 6, 2018, following which the victim filed a police complaint.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Veena Rani said a case under Sections 376 (rape) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged and they were on the accused’s trail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-ludhiana-man-booked-for-raping-sister-s-friend/story-qSLjnLTskb53bk4hobuDVI.html
08-01-2021||Pune||HT weekend fix: Pune events calendar January 8-14, 2021||January 7-10Yoga retreatAnanda Sangha that follows the teachings of Paramhansa Yogananda holds online event “Recharge Health Retreat”. The global health retreat is an attempt to empower people with awareness, practical tools and techniques, and the easily achievable vision of physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual wellness. Experts from naturopathy, traditional Chinese medicine, yoga and other disciplines will be part of the event. Event Website: www.rechargehealth.globalEmail: support@rechargehealth.globalCall: +91 8308401111January 8Ramnadi festivalKirloskar Vasundhara will organise its first “Ramnadi Festival” (online). It will document Pune’s neglected river giving information about its historical, mythological, geological status, biodiversity, health - hygiene, encroachment, pollution and other aspects through episodes online.Registration: Free through Facebook.January 9-10Blood donation campLok Biradari Mitramandal Trust Pune organises blood donation camp and Covid-19 antibody check-up camp. Raktache Naate Charitable Trust, Acharya Anandrishiji Blood Bank has provided support for the camp. The facility of coronavirus antibody testing at a discounted rate has been made available by Janakalyan Blood Bank.Where: Ketronics India, near Karisma Society, Devagiri Industrial Estate, KothrudRegistration: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/16uzB0kf1WxbbMCEMzI4Bas5ZjJzWNgvjdfDJGd0u_Tw/edit?usp=drivesdk. Time: 9 am to 2 pmContact: Aishwarya Chapalgaonkar (7875571679), Nitin Pawar (9822218641)January 9-10Art for a causeAn art exhibition of 60 abstract and fine art paintings is hosted at High Spirits by young artists Juhi Sachdev and Apurv. The money raised would be given to an NGO that will help people who have lost their jobs because of Covid-19. A few pieces on display will also be of art work from the Yerawada slum community.Where: High Spirits, MundhwaTime: 12 pm to 8 pmJanuary 9-10Two treksPlus Valley Adventure to hold trek to Andharban in Sahyadri. The 4-hour trek is covered with dense forest and one can see the Kundalika valley. The trek will be descending from Pune (Ghatmatha) to Gatka. Details: https://www.plusvalleyadventure.com/services/sahyadri-treks/andharban-trek/When: January 10 Fees per person: Rs 1,333.00 plus 5 per cent GSTKatraj to Sinhagad or “K2S” is night trek for professional trekkers, amateurs, and newbies. The route starts from the Katraj Tunnel Top (New), travels through a series of mountains and hills (more than 15) and approximately (16 km) which leads to the destination the midpoint of the tar road to fort Sinhagad. The trek ends at the midpoint of tar road to Sinhagad fort.Details: https://www.plusvalleyadventure.com/services/sahyadri-treks/katraj-to-sinhagad-night-trek/When: January 9-10 Fees per person: Rs 666.00 plus 5 per cent GSTContact: Shripad Sapkal (8380054988) Prajakta Ghode (8380054989)January 9Bachata lessons Latin Dance Institute in India to teach Daniel Desiree style and Korkey Y Judith (gounder of sensual Bachata) and Ataca Alemania style Bachata is bringing Abhikizombero for Salsa, Bachata and Kizomba workshop. Time: 2 pm to 4 pm; 4 pm to 6 pm; 6 pm to 8 pm and 8 pm to 10 pmPlace: VLS, Deron Heights 4th Floor, Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ht-weekend-fix-pune-events-calendar-january-8-14-2021/story-IWwenMbgLobfoitGoC4QSK.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Civil engineer booked for alleged sexual assault of minor daughter||A 39-year-old civil engineer was booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for alleged sexual assault of his 13-year-old daughter on multiple occasions in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar.The girl told her mother, who is a school-teacher, about the sexual assault which started when she was in Class 1 and in-turn the mother approached an NGO which brought them to the police station, according to the complaint.“Volunteers of a NGO had brought the girl and the mother to us. From what they have told us, we have registered a case. However, we need to hear his (the accused) side of the story too. The child’s parents are separated - father lives in Ahmednagar while mother lives in Pune. The girl was sent for a medical test to a government facility on Thursday,” said senior police inspector Milind Waghmare of Pimpri police station.The police have sent a team to bring the accused to Pimpri police station.During the winter break from school, the girl had gone to Ahmednagar to visit her relatives in December last year when the man repeated the act after which she told her mother.The girl told her mother that the accused insisted to sleep with him on the same bed and touched her inappropriately. The man had forced the child into unnatural and forced natural intercourse with him, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 376(2)(n) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/civil-engineer-booked-for-alleged-sexual-assault-of-minor-daughter/story-NrMh7jA9fwVMd5KH8q7RDM.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Police freeze multiple bank accounts of Challani||The Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of Pune police crime branch has initiated process to freeze seven to eight bank accounts of Pankaj Chhallani, a businessman who has allegedly duped at least 35 people for multiple crores.He has been remanded to custody of Pune police till January 12 by a local court after a case under Sections 406 and 420 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Depositors Interest (MPID) Act was registered at Swargate police station.An elderly complainant who had invested money from her savings in the scheme lodged a complaint after the cheque Challani had provided bounced in 2018.“He has purchased around 28 properties - some are lands and others are spaces in commercial complexes located in prime locations in the city. All the properties are bought by him using the money he got from the depositors. From 2007 until 2018, he provided returns on payments of people by leasing out the properties he had purchased. The initial investors did earn a lot form what we see,” said police inspector Swati Desai, Economic Offence Wing , who is investigating the case.Desai has urged other victims related to the case to come forward and meet the police at the EOW at Pune police commissioner’s office.On Wednesday, the police raided his house but have not found even a single title deed in Challani’s name, according to an officer of EOW.This is one of the few cases where an individual has been booked under Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act and not a financial organisation or institution, according to a senior officer of the crime branch.Most of the people invested on goodwill based on mutual recommendations.“His father is a chartered accountant and while he claims to have appeared for the exam as well, he did not pursue the career. He started this business. Even the house they live in has been sold. There is barely any money in any of the accounts that we have sent applications for freezing,” said Desai.The properties are all on lease to commercial establishments like shops, gyms, and offices.A member of the group of complainants said that they were struggling to get the FIR registered for the past year and a half.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-freeze-multiple-bank-accounts-of-challani/story-lZ1BNlPfF5ZEFEjIfx6AZI.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||DU’s Stephanians lend a helping hand to non-teaching college staff amid pandemic||Since the Covid-19 pandemic struck, many households have faced a financial crisis. When a similar situation was faced by the non-teaching staff of Delhi University’s St. Stephen’s College, a group of students rose to the occasion to lend them a helping hand. “They’ve helped and supported us, and we felt if it was in our power to do anything for them, we should,” says Neha Jacob, a second year student of BSc (Hons) Mathematics. Describing how the initiative came into being, Jacob adds, “We were aware of the financial difficulties faced by the non-teaching staff on campus. The pandemic, and the lockdown that ensued, ate into their savings. Hence we spoke to the partners of our staff members, and floated the idea of raising funds for them by selling hand stitched masks made by them.” Students of second and third year from the college are involved in this initiative, to help facilitate an additional source of income for the family members of their college’s non-teaching staff. Currently, three women are stitching these masks, and one individual is appointed to deliver them across Delhi, after orders are placed online. Providing income and even dignity of labour, to those involved in making masks, this project has shone a ray of hope to quite a few. Laxmi Devi, one of the women who is stitching the masks, says, “My husband is employed as a washerman in the college campus. During the initial months of the pandemic, we managed. But of late, it’s been hard to make ends meet. Ek din college ke bachchon ka phone aya aur unhone pucha ki kya apko madad ki zarurat hai. Jaise hi unhe pata chala ki hume sach me paison ki pareshani ho rahi hai, they arranged for cloth and asked me to start stitching masks. Before my marriage, I used to teach people how to stitch clothes, so I did have some experience in stitching. Best is that the students are helping us in selling these masks online, and this in turn is has helped us feed our two kids.”This team of youngsters has also donated around 166 masks till now, to those in need. Shubham Belwal, a final year student of BSc (Hons) Mathematics, says, “There are two aspects to this project. Firstly, the team sells masks on the basis of an order placed beforehand, and we are providing delivery in not only Delhi but across India now. Secondly, we are also engaging in pledge donations, wherein people can donate money for masks that are then distributed to members of the non-teaching staff and their families on campus, as well as others who need them. Each mask costs ₹35 on order, and if the purchase is intended for donation, then we charge ₹30 per mask.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-s-stephanians-lend-a-helping-hand-to-non-teaching-college-staff-amid-pandemic/story-G9oUpqBz7gRBSOqqdhUeDI.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Slam Dunk: Going from good to best to elite||The sport of basketball is generally considered one of the top 5 sports in the world, by participation numbers. Breaking down the numbers, the FIBA organization (the governing body of worldwide basketball), estimates that approximately 450 million people worldwide play the sport. Currently, NBA teams are allowed 15 players on a team roster, which means that there are a total of 450 NBA players. Globally, there are estimated to be approximately 75,000 professional basketball players. Obviously, this is a miniscule percentage which speaks to how competitive and difficult it is to play at the elite professional level. Harbouring dreams of playing basketball at a level that is as competitive as the NBA and other professional leagues requires a clear understanding of the skills needed to get recognised as an elite player in the world. In part one of this series, I will cover the most important intangible skills a young player needs to possess to make it to a competitive level of basketball. 1. Mental Focus - Growth Mindset The ability to learn from failure and adversity is what separates many of the elite basketball players from those who do not make it to an elite level. A “growth mindset,” as defined by Carol Dweck, thrives on challenges and sees failure not as evidence of unintelligence, but as an exciting springboard for growth and for stretching our existing abilities. This mindset allows players to see and maximise every opportunity they get as a chance to improve their basketball skills, no matter the competition . 2. Practice Habits - Deliberate Practice The phenomenon of “deliberate practice” is defined as “practice that focuses on tasks beyond your current level of competence and comfort”. Most basketball players will remain engaged when practicing skills that they are good at or comfortable with. The most elite players, such as Stephen Curry, consistently practice skills they need to improve at. An example would be a player continuously shooting free throws in an empty gym, without running or any activity between. The player may score 90% or more of their free throws in this scenario, which means they are staying within their comfort zone of practice in order to have a consistently successful outcome. At this point, the player has to ask if practicing in this manner is deliberate practice or not, since converting 90% of free throws in this scenario would appear to be well within their current level of competence and comfort. Deliberate practice may involve shooting two free throws at a time, while running in between attempts, similar to what would happen in an actual game. In this way, the addition of other variables creates a task that is beyond the player’s current level of comfort. 3. Character Trait - Self-Awareness Self-awareness is a crucial intangible for players to master, since this will usually lead a player to close examination of their strengths and weaknesses. In looking throughout basketball history, the best players, who are consistently great, evaluate their strengths and weaknesses honestly because of their self-awareness. Once they have done this, they are able to understand their weaknesses and work on them to improve them, thus making them better players. 4. Character Trait - Coachability After recognising strengths and weaknesses, the next step is for a player to surround themselves with coaches or people who can help them to work on their weaknesses. While criticism from a coach can be difficult to accept, it is one of the key ingredients that leads to improvement of basketball skill. The most elite NBA players continuously accept coaching observations which greatly assists their improved performances in games throughout a season. Focusing on these intangible skills will help any player in the sport of basketball understand their strengths and weaknesses in order to maximise their potential in the sport. Next week, I will focus on the most essential tangible basketball sport skills necessary for success in the sport.Adi Vase is the first Indian to work in the physical coaching and sport science departments of NBA teams. Born in Pune, Vase charts the course and the basketball realities that took him from Pul gate, Pune to the San Antonio Spurs, Los Angeles Lakers and now, the Golden State Warriors. Email: adi.vase@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/slam-dunk-going-from-good-to-best-to-elite-part-1/story-YqUFt19A9MRnjh3dCFviDL.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Pune’s CFR rate dropped in December 2020 to 2.61 %||From a Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) of 4.62 per cent in May, the highest for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the CFR rate now has come down to 2.61 per cent as of December 2020. The CFR tracks the number of deaths from those patients confirmed as having Covid-19. To add to this, the positivity rate has also reduced in PMC limits, giving some relief to the strained healthcare infrastructure. Speaking about the reduced fatality Rate, Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief with the health department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that CFR at present is 2.58 per cent in the city limits. “Due to early detection and more awareness about Covid, the fatality rate has reduced since May. Many patients approach hospitals soon and seek treatment sooner, leading to better recovery,” said Wavare. He further added that now that the fatality rate is low, residents should not be complacent about precautionary measures. “Earlier there was less awareness about wearing masks, hand sanitisation and social distancing. Now we can see that many people are following this. Even if the rates go down, citizens should continue following precautionary measures,” said Wavare. Of 4,677 hospital beds in the city, as of December 31, 2020, 1,314 were occupied by Covid patients with 3,363 vacant. The PMC has closed 27 Covid Care Centre (CCC) till December 31, with 20 hospitals and 2,432 beds released and converted from Covid to non-Covid use, by the PMC. Along with the CFR, the PMC stated that doubling rate for the infection has now increased to 463 days. The positivity ratio in the PMC limits has also reduced to 8.60 percent on December 30 from 10.15 percent on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-cfr-rate-dropped-in-december-2020-to-2-61/story-76MZeDHLMfF2T2zx4piUkJ.html
08-01-2021||Pune||4 blackbuck die after being attacked by dogs inside Katraj zoo in Pune||Four blackbuck died after being chased by a pack of feral dogs inside their enclosure at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park, Katraj, on Wednesday.Two were male and two others were female, while one female blackbuck was injured, said officials.Blackbuck are protected animals under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, which prohibits their hunting and poaching.Dr Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park, said, “Four blackbuck were injured inside their enclosure after a pack of dogs chased them. They died due to cardiac shock.”There were 34 blackbuck in the enclosure. According to the director, the dogs jumped from the rear wall of the enclosure. “We will be increasing the height of the rear parapet wall surrounding the enclosure to ensure such an incident does not take place again,” added Jadhav.According to Jadhav, there have been 15 to 20 incidents earlier wherein feral animals tried to enter the zoo enclosures, where they have been successfully dragged out before they could do any harm to the animals.The dogs could have entered the enclosure from a broken wall near the nullah, where the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) ward office was working on laying a new pipeline for drainage, claim officials.According to Dr Suchitra Suryavanshi Patil, veterinary doctor at the zoo, “The blackbuck were chased by the dogs and died due to cardiac shock.”“The blackbuck and Chinkaras belong to the deer family who have fragile hearts and have a tendency to have heart attacks when under heavy stress and panic situations,” she said.The zoo currently has 448 animals and about 100 staffers who keep the zoo guarded and take care of animals.The zoo has remained closed to the public since March 14, 2020, due to Covid-related restrictions.On any normal weekday, the zoo would see 5,000-10,000 visitors while on weekends, the number would rise to 12,000-18,000 visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/4-blackbuck-die-after-being-attacked-by-dogs-inside-katraj-zoo-in-pune/story-3KVRWTWFEjpvYEIV7g6wsK.html
08-01-2021||Pune||3 from Pimpri-Chinchwad test positive for new variant of Covid-19||Three more people tested positive for new variant and all were from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), according to the state health department officials.“The three people from PCMC who tested positive for the new variant have returned from the UK. We have traced their contacts. However, no other person who came in contact with them has tested positive so far,” said health officials.The district on Thursday reported 738 new cases of Covid-19 and 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. In the Pune district has so far reported 3,76,658 lakh Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 3,55,192 patients have recovered, 7,805 have been reported death and 13,624 are active cases.Pune city, meanwhile, reported 394 new cases and ten deaths due to Covid, while PCMC reported 141 new cases and six deaths. Pune rural reported 203 new cases and two deaths.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 1,93,190 Covid-19 cases and 4,427 deaths till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 94,399 cases so far and a total of 1,286 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 89,069 total cases so far and 2,092 deaths due to Covid. As per the state health department, 3,350 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 18,56,109 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.4 per cent.Across Maharashtra, 3,729 new cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed and 72 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.55 per cent.The state health department stated that out of 1,31,99,201 laboratory samples, 19,58,282 have been tested positive which account for 15.16 per cent.At present, 2,70,217 people across Maharashtra are in home quarantine and 2,824 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/3-from-pimpri-chinchwad-test-positive-for-new-variant-of-covid-19/story-7uYOQr0LSBdtbkvLTyppOM.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Keep a watch on speed limit while commuting on Pune-Mumbai e-way: Sanjay Jadhav||The traffic movement on the Pune-Mumbai expressway was less in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. According to the Maharashtra Highway State Police (HSP), Pune division in 2020 (January to December), a total of 42 accidents were reported and 26 people lost their lives, while in 2019 (January to December) a total of 87 accidents were reported and 37 people lost their lives.According to Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of Police, Highway State Police (HSP), Pune, during the unlock phase last year the police officials focused on creating road safety awareness among masses and will continue to take strict action against violators. He speaks to Dheeraj Bengrut about the plan ahead.1. What would you say about overall expressway operations in 2020 and the decline in the number of accidents and fatalities?For at least four months due to complete lockdown, there was a fewer number of vehicles on the expressway. When the unlock process started, we focused mainly on creating awareness among people about safe driving. Through interceptor vehicles we are taking action on speeding vehicles, our camera action near the Kamshet tunnel and heavy vehicles action on the left lane on the expressway are some of the key measures which we had taken in 2020.Now, we have also started announcements at the tolla nakas for the public, through which we create awareness about travelling safely and following rules like using a seat belt, lane discipline, not using a mobile phone while driving among other things. Along with this road the infrastructure has also improved, rumbler strips were installed and unauthorised punctures were cut down.2. How do you plan to improve operations?We will be continuing our regular actions against speeding, lane cutting and other safety-related awareness amongst drivers on the expressway. We will also monitor the vehicular movement coming on the expressway from the nearby villages and conduct an audit of roads. Accordingly speed breakers will be installed on these roads.Another focus area for us will be to keep a track on heavy vehicles. We want to keep the left lane only for the use of heavy vehicles. Most of the times these heavy trucks move from the middle or first lane and other small vehicles while overtaking them go in a zig-zag formation, which is risky or leads to accidents.3. What is you appeal to commuters using the expressway?Commuters should keep a watch on the speed limit while driving on the expressway. Rather then we taking action against them they should be responsible and follow norms. Everyone should realise that back home our family wants us to be safe so we should take our own responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/keep-a-watch-on-speed-limit-while-commuting-on-pune-mumbai-e-way-sanjay-jadhav/story-NVlBgq0cNUt1Vi8p2J2MtK.html
08-01-2021||Pune||Pune-Mumbai expressway: Dip in number of accidents, fatalities in 2020 as compared to 2019||The number of road accidents on the Pune-Mumbai expressway has come down in 2020 as compared to 2019, according to the data shared by the Maharashtra Highway State Police (HSP), Pune division.As per the data for Pune division in 2020 (January to December), a total of 42 accidents were reported and 26 people lost their lives, while in 2019 (January to December) a total of 87 accidents were reported and 37 people lost their lives.According to highway police officials, they have undertaken several road safety awareness drives and undertaking infrastructure work because of which the accidents have reduced.The officials also pointed out that due to Covid-related lockdown restrictions the expressway was open only for essential services vehicles.“Our team is constantly working to curb the accidents and monitor the vehicular movement on the expressway. Continuous action is been taken against people speeding vehicles and flouting norms” said, Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of police, HSP, Pune.“During the lockdown period, meanwhile, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) carried out several infrastructure works,” he said.“Also, the response time of our team has improved during this period, so the accident victims got aid on time,” he said.“It was expected that there would be less number of fatal accidents on the e-way in last year. But certainly, the behavioural change was noticed amongst the drivers, when they found the e-way not crowded drivers go in high speed leading to accidents,” said Tanmay Pendse, road safety activist.“As there was a lockdown for almost four months and only emergency vehicles were allowed to travel, still the accidents didn’t reduce to that extent,” he said.Kiran Pisal, a regular traveller on the expressway, said, “Since the unlock process has started, I regularly travel to Mumbai via the expressway. Till now I have gone to Mumbai more than 15 times in the last six months and I found it safer than earlier.”“The presence of police on the highway has increased and even the Amrutanjan bridge has been demolished. I even noticed some infrastructure development on the highway,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-mumbai-expressway-dip-in-number-of-accidents-fatalities-in-2020-as-compared-to-2019/story-vOzsV9VRcjD8MWj1pOtacJ.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Captain acting as BJP’s CM, attempting to weaken farmers’ protest: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday alleged that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has been working as the “BJP’s CM” since the Congress formed the government in the state in 2017. “Since the beginning, the way Captain acted and ran his government clearly indicates that he was dancing to the Centre’s tunes. He has the best relationship with the BJP-led Union government since ever since he formed the government in Punjab,” Sukhbir said in reply to a query. The SAD broke ties with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), a week after party MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Cabinet in protest against the new agriculture laws in September. Sukhbir said that following instructions from Union home minister Amit Shah, Capt Singh was attempting to weaken the farmers’ protest. “Why have IGs and SSPs of Punjab Police been participating in meetings between the Centre and farmers? The CM is trying out all options to weaken the farmers’ protest and has now started registering cases against singers and farmers just for dumping cow dung outside the BJP leaders’ house,” Sukhbir said, alleging that it all has been done by the chief minister as he is under the BJP’s pressure due to his ED investigations and visa (indicating to his Pakistan friend). “The resolutions passed against three farm bills in the Vidhan Sabha have not been sent to the governor for the final nod which shows intentions of the CM that he is against the farmers,” Sukhbir added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/captain-acting-as-bjp-s-cm-attempting-to-weaken-farmers-protest-sukhbir/story-Kx75lQaW9PiZ2vuU9oJjpL.html
08-01-2021||Bhopal||MP police nabs men for robbery; their phone reveals a teenager’s gang rape||A mobile phone of an accused, arrested for an incident of loot, revealed evidence of a gang rape of a teenager, who didn’t register the crime with the police fearing social stigma. Madhya Pradesh police arrested all the four accused and has now booked them for gang rape on Thursday evening. The incident took place in Sagar district, 186 km east of Bhopal, on the afternoon of January 1, when the teenager accompanied by the brother of her brother-in-law went to a picnic spot in Amjhira hillocks area while returning from a temple. There, they were waylaid and held hostage by the accused, who beat up the male companion and gang raped the girl. A day after on January 2, the 18-year-old rape survivor told the police in her complaint that the accused looted her silver ornaments, cash and the mobile phones belonging to her and her companion. She didn’t mention sexual assault, said a police officer.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh: After crows, poultry samples test positive for bird fluPolice lodged the FIR under section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and launched a manhunt.“When police arrested Gopal Patel and Mohit Patel, residents of Barkhera Khuman village and checked their mobile phones, they found a video clip of the gang rape. Police later arrested two more accused-- Prakash Patel and Sandeep Patel, residents of the same village,” said Samarjeet Singh Parihar, in charge, Cantonment police station. “When the survivor was called to the police station she told us that she didn’t mention the gang rape in her complaint out of the fear of social stigma,” added Parihar.Section 376D (gang rape) was added to the FIR. The accused have confessed to having committed the crime, he said. (With input from Anupam Pateriya in Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-police-nabs-men-for-robbery-their-phone-reveals-a-teenager-s-gang-rape/story-c5ynnWx6QuTKmy8Srw6NnO.html
08-01-2021||Lucknow||42-year-old man held for raping Dalit minor in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi||A 42-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor Dalit girl in a village under the jurisdiction of the Shukul Bazar police station here, a police official said. The 15-year-old girl had gone to attend nature’s call on Wednesday evening when the man who lives in a neighbouring village raped her, said SHO Bazar Shukul Ravindra Singh, citing the complaint given by the girl’s father.An FIR has been lodged on the basis of the complaint under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. The accused has been arrested and the girl has been sent for medical examination, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/42-year-old-man-held-for-raping-dalit-minor-in-uttar-pradesh-s-amethi/story-7E1DaTJ4tK6Wa4Zepe8niO.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt announces 7-day institutional quarantine for those arriving from UK||The Delhi government on Friday tightened the Covid-19 protocol for passengers arriving from the United Kingdom (UK) at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport by ordering mandatory institutional quarantine, even for those who test negative for the disease. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted the latest order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Friday. “To protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK, Del govt takes imp decisions. All those arriving from UK, who test positive will be isolated in an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for 7 days followed by 7 days home quarantine. (sic)” he tweeted. To protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK, Del govt takes imp decisions. All those arriving from UK, who test positive will be isolated in an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for 7 days followed by 7 days home quarantine pic.twitter.com/hYDsaOn8q1In the order, the chief secretary stated that this protocol will be strictly followed in Delhi on a trial basis for a week till January 14. Government officials said the rule may be extended after reviewing the situation. “As a matter of abundant precaution, in view of the increased transmissibility of the new variant, it is decided that all travellers coming from the UK to India would be mandatorily subjected to self-paid RT-PCR tests on arrival at the airport. Those who are found positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in as separate (isolation) unit as per existing laid down protocol. Those who are found negative shall be kept in compulsory institutional quarantine for a period of seven days followed by seven days of home quarantine,” read the order. Senior government officials said those who test negative will be given an option for paid institutional quarantine at Aloft Hotel in Aerocity, which has been put on Covid-19 duty by the New Delhi district administration. Those who want to opt for the government’s free institutional quarantine facility will be taken to Terapanth Bhawan in South Delhi’s Chhatarpur area. Also Read: Flights from UK resume today amid scare about new coronavirus strainThose who test positive will be taken to Lok Nayak Hospital where there is a separate isolation ward for UK returnees.The latest order by the Delhi government is slightly different from the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre on Wednesday. The Delhi chief secretary, on Thursday, had even issued an order asking all stakeholders in the city administration, including the police and airport authorities, to strictly follow the Centre’s SOP in letter and spirit for early detection and isolation of those found with the new strain of the virus.The SOP issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare had stated that those who are found negative on testing at the airport would be advised quarantine at home for 14 days. Kejriwal, on Friday, directed this rule to be tweaked and made institutional quarantine mandatory for all UK returnees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-announces-7-day-institutional-quarantine-for-those-arriving-from-uk/story-UtSl5u43kw3NbL39EwwW0I.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Beant Singh assassination: SC asks Centre to decide on Rajoana’s plea to commute death penalty by January 26||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to take a decision before January 26 on Balwant Singh Rajoana’s plea seeking commutation of death penalty in former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh’s assassination case. A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said that the decision be taken before Republic Day, which is a “good date”. “We will give two-three weeks. You should complete the process before January 26. January 26 is a good day. It will be appropriate if you take a decision before that,” the bench said. Beant Singh and 16 others were killed in an explosion outside the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh on August 31, 1995. Rajoana was sentenced to death in 2007 by a special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/beant-singh-assassination-sc-asks-centre-to-decide-on-rajoana-s-plea-to-commute-death-penalty-by-january-26/story-SJ1FNhPfUGHojMCZXteknN.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Sedition case: Kangana Ranaut, sister reach Bandra police station to record statement||Actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel reached Bandra police station at around 1.30pm on Friday to record their statement in connection with the case filed against them where both were booked for objectionable comments on social media aimed at spreading communal tension. Their advocate Rizwan Siddiqui was also accompanying them, said a police officer.Earlier, Bandra police had sent three summons to the sisters between October and November last year but they did not appear. Ranaut later approached the Bombay high court which asked her to be present at Bandra police station on January 8 between 12 and 2pm along with her sister. The Bandra police have prepared a list of questions related to the matter. All her tweets and video statements have been put on paper based on which questions will be put to her, added the official cited above.On October 16 last year, a Bandra court had ordered the police to investigate a complaint filed by Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer Munawwar Ali Sayyed referring to tweets and other statements of Ranaut and her sister.Following the order, Bandra police on October 17, 2020, booked the sisters under sections 124(A) (sedition - to bring or attempt to bring into hatred or contempt, or excite or attempt to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise), 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion, race, place of birth, language etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class, by insulting it’s religion or religious beliefs) along with section 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.In his complaint to the court, Sayyed had alleged that Ranaut has, through her tweets and television interviews, continuously defamed Hindi film industry by portraying Bollywood as a hub of nepotism, favouritism, drug addicts, communally biased and murderers etc.Sayyed alleged that this has “even created bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people and created a communal divide and rift between people of two communities.” His complaint added that Ranaut has been “maliciously bringing religion in all her tweets”. The casting director alleged that Ranaut’s sister Rangoli, who also works as her manager, has also tweeted highly objectionable messages, intended to create communal rift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-sister-reach-bandra-police-station-to-record-statement-in-sedition-case/story-A3YdOo1tPfUwJMARdVLzQL.html
08-01-2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur minor gang rape accused arrested after multiple raids||Five youths were arrested in connection with the gang rape of a minor girl following separate raids in Muzaffarpur district, conducted by the police in the last 24 hours.Three of the arrested suspects are from a single family, which owns the dilapidated house, where the incident took place. The accused are also said to be students of Bachelor of Technology (B Tech) in an engineering college outside Bihar.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) (east) Manoj Pandey, led the special investigative team constituted by Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jayant Kant, which raided the hideouts of the suspects. Pandey said that the arrested accused had been identified by the survivor during identification parade (TI parade) at the Sakra police station.“We have interrogated the arrested. One of them has said that he knows the girl very well. So, I have asked the investigating officer (IO) of the case to collect the call details record (CDR) of the phones used by the girl and all the accused. Even the statement of the girl has been recorded in the court after conducting her medical examination,” he said, adding that the arrested suspects will be sent to a jail after they are produced before the chief judicial magistrate of Muzaffarpur.Also Read: Shiv Sena criticises Bihar govt over rising crime rate, lawlessnessMeanwhile, the Sakra police took the rape survivor to the house, where she was gang raped, for identification. She identified the house, which belonged to two of the accused. Some of the locals said that the youth lived there alone since their parents died years ago.The minor girl was kidnapped and gang raped by five youths in the house adjacent to an abandoned petrol pump on national highway 28 near Sujawalpur village last Monday.The FIR was registered only on Wednesday evening, when parents of the victim approached the exclusive woman police station of the town. Meanwhile, the station house officer of Sakra police station, Ram Nath Prasad, has come under scanner for not registering the survivor’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/muzaffarpur-minor-gang-rape-accused-arrested-after-multiple-raids/story-ywUJ7VKIRaJ004dAV6QawM.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Death of over 4 lakh poultry birds in Panchkula’s Barwala belt due to avian influenza||Two of the three samples sent by the Haryana animal husbandry department from poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal tested positive for avian influenza on Friday. More than 4.37 lakh poultry birds have died in Panchkula’s Barwala and Raipur Rani areas, considered Asia’s second largest poultry belt, over the past 26 days. Also read: Bird flu spreads to six districts in Rajasthan, Centre takes stockWhile the Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory is still processing the samples sent to it, the Bhopal lab has confirmed the presence of influenza. The central team, which visited the Community Health Centre at Raipur Rani, is discussing the line of action with the Panchkula district administration. Culling of birds is to take place within 1 km area of Kheri and Ghanauli villages from where the samples tested positive. The death of poultry birds has been taking place since the first week of December and the Panchkula administration has come under criticism for inaction. The state animal husbandry and dairying department sent samples twice to the Jalandhar lab but the reports were inconclusive. It was only after the central team got the samples sent to Bhopal that the report came positive for bird flu overnight. Dr Saroj Aggarwal, deputy civil surgeon, Panchkula, said that arrangements have been made at CHC, Raipur Rani, and isolation wards have been set up, while Tamiflu tablets have been procured to check human-to-human transmission of the influenza. “We are ready to deal with any situation,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/death-of-over-4-lakh-poultry-birds-in-panchkula-s-barwala-belt-due-to-avian-influenza/story-wWm82yEnFkrsbtXuqTRnzO.html
08-01-2021||Jaipur||Bird Flu spreads to six districts in Rajasthan, Centre takes stock||Avian Influenza or Bird flu has spread to a total of six districts in Rajasthan with the samples of dead birds in Chittorgarh found positive for the deadly disease on Thursday. The samples of dead birds from districts such as Jhalawar, Kota, Baran, Sawai Madhopur and Jaipur have already been confirmed with Bird flu. The test report identifies the presence of Avian Influenza subtype H5N8 in the birds, which according to experts is less infectious. The death of birds continues to be reported from various parts of Rajasthan but no case of Bird Flu has been found among chickens. However, casualty toll among the birds is rising at a great speed across the state of Rajasthan with a total of 1,833 deaths, including 375 reported on Thursday alone. Director of the Animal Husbandry department Dr Virendra Singh said currently there was no confirmation of bird flu disease among the chicken population.“No cases of bird deaths have been reported from Udaipur, Rajsamand, Dholpur, and Barmer. Two samples from Sirohi have been sent for testing,” he said. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed officials to maintain special vigilance in view of the spread of the disease. He has asked officials to focus on dense bird sanctuaries, Sambhar Lake and other wetlands. Avian influenza or bird flu outbreak has been reported in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Himachal Pradesh, while Haryana is on high alert.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh: After crows, poultry samples test positive for bird fluThe Centre held a meeting with the states to understand the status of the outbreak of avian influenza and to suggest measures to states/Union Territories for control and prevent spread of the disease.Besides ensuring collection of representative samples and timely submission to the designated laboratories, the secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India requested State Animal Husbandry departments to ensure effective communication and coordination with health authorities for close vigilance of the disease status and avoid any chances of jumping of the disease into humans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bird-flu-spreads-to-six-districts-in-rajasthan-centre-takes-stock/story-cXf8WOoj6Q5D4zcG91hLGM.html
08-01-2021||Kolkata||Owaisi’s politics won’t work in Bengal: Muslim clerics react to AIMIM’s poll debut||Hyderabad-based All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi’s strategy to forge an alliance with Pirzada Abbasuddin Siddiqui, the scion of the Siddiqui family, the custodian of the famous Furfura Sharif shrine in Bengal’s Hooghly district, will not yield electoral dividend in the coming polls, prominent Muslim clerics, imams and political experts have said. Accused by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), Congress and the Left parties of helping the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by splitting Muslim votes in the perviously held Uttar Pradesh and Bihar assembly polls, the AIMIM, several Muslim clerics and imams told HT, will not be accepted by voters in Bengal. Siddiqullah Chowdhury, a minister in the TMC government and president of the Jamiat Ulema - e –Hind’s state branch has also declared that Owaisi has no place in Bengal politics. Also Read: Nadda to launch new campaign on farm laws during Bengal visitThe reaction from heads of the minority community against the AIMIM’s entry into Bengal is significant because all political parties are aware that it not possible to come to power solely with the support of Hindu voters. Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01% during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30% now. Among the districts where the Muslim population is substantially high are Murshidabad (66.28%), Malda (51.27%), North Dinajpur (49.92%), South 24 Parganas (35.57%), and Birbhum (37.06%). There is a large number of Muslim voters in East and West Burdwan districts, North 24 Parganas and Nadia as well. The BJP, which has been accusing chief minister Mamata Banerjee of appeasing the minority community for years, has said that AIMIM is an independent party and can contest anywhere. According to surveys done by the TMC and the BJP, a swing in Muslim votes can influence poll results in as many as 120 assembly seats. Union home minister Amit Shah has announced that his party will oust the Mamata Banerjee government by winning over 200 of the state’s 294 seats while Banerjee’s election strategist Prashant Kishor recently tweeted that he will give up his job if the BJP’s tally crosses 99. Making his first noticeable move to emerge as a threat to the TMC in the polls due in a few months, Owaisi, on Sunday, met Abbas Siddiqui, who has emerged as a critic of the ruling party in recent months. Siddiqui has even talked about his plans to launch a broad political platform with Hindu Dalits and tribal communities for contesting the polls. Owaisi said on Sunday that Siddiqui will decide how AIMIM will contest.The Furfura Sharif shrine is one of the most popular pilgrimage olaces in Bengal. It is built around the mausoleum of Pir Abu Bakr Siddiqui. It also has a mosque built in 1375. Furfura Sharif draws millions during the Urs festival and the annual fair dedicated to the Pir. The West Bengal Imams’ Association has reacted to Owaisi’s plans, saying there is no place for communal politics in Bengal. Of about 40,000 mosques in Bengal, clerics from at least 26,000 are members of the association. “Whether Hindus or Muslims, people in the state have only one identity. They are all Bengalis. On one hand, Bengalis are being branded as ghuspetiya (infiltrators in Hindi) by the BJP while on the other, some leaders from Hyderabad and Gujarat are coming to Bengal to divide the population on communal lines. This will not be accepted,” said Md Yahiya, chairman of the imams’ association. In April last year, Yahiya made news by writing to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, accusing him of “trying to disturb the communal harmony from a constitutional position” and seeking the retraction of his remarks on the Nizamuddin markaz in Delhi in a letter to the chief minister. In a significant development, other members of the Siddiqui family, including Pirzada Toha Siddiqui, the most prominent among the elders whose support helped the CPI(M) and TMC in the past, has made it clear that he will not support any move that can help the BJP. “Hindus comprise 70% of the state’s population. If they wanted, the BJP could have come to power long ago. We will not do anything to let our Hindu brothers down,” he said after Owaisi met Abbas Siddiqui at Furfura Sharif. On Thursday evening, Pirzada Jiauddin Siddiqui, another scion of the family told HT that Furfura Sharif cannot be dragged into politics. “Neither Pir Abu Bakr Siddiqui nor any of our ancestors joined politics. This is a religious place and so shall it be. What Abbas is doing is entirely his business,” he said. Maulana Md Shafique Qasmi, the imam of Nakhoda Masjid, said no party can benefit by propagating the politics of religion. “I am a religious man. I don’t know what happened in politics before my birth but today people of Bengal do not accept communalism. No political party, whichever it may be, can benefit from it,” he said. Built a century ago as a replica of the mausoleum of emperor Akbar in Agra, the Nakhoda Masjid is the biggest and most important mosque in Kolkata. Kolkata-based political science professor and election analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay said a tie-up with Abbas Siddiqui can help Owaisi in only a few pockets of Bengal. “Siddiqui’s influence is limited to some parts of Malda, North Dinajpur and South 24 Parganas. Unless the imams support him, Owaisi won’t benefit much. However, even if they manage to get only 1% of the Muslim votes it will be substantial,” Bandopadhyay said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/owaisi-s-politics-won-t-work-in-bengal-muslim-clerics-react-to-aimim-s-poll-debut/story-muiFk2Vw0zw9ReheKEXbBL.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP’s Ravi Kant Sharma is new Chandigarh mayor||Bharatiya Janata Party managed to keep its flock together, making a clean sweep in the Chandigarh mayoral elections on Friday.Ravi Kant Sharma, a first-time councillor and the outgoing senior deputy mayor, has been elected the mayor, and will succeed Raj Bala Malik. Other party nominees, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Farmila, have been elected the senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, respectively. BJP leaders gave a sigh of relief after the results, as despite fears, no cross-voting took place. The party’s choice of candidates had led to resentment within its councillors, and party state chief Arun Sood and other senior leaders had been holding meetings with them till Thursday night. BJP has 20 members in the House, Congress has five and Shiromani Akali Dal has one. Local MP can also vote, being an ex-officio member, taking the total number of votes to 27. While MP Kirron Kher and BJP councillor Heera Negi did not turn up due to health reasons, SAD councillor Hardeep Singh was present but boycotted the election. Sharma managed to get 17 of the 24 votes polled, while Congress mayoral candidate Devinder Singh Babla could muster only five. Two votes were declared invalid, as the councillors concerned had marked in front of both mayor candidates’ names, said returning officer Anil Kumar Garg. This is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s sixth consecutive term on the mayor’s post, and the last before the House goes to the polls again later this year. Congress cries foul over use of mobile phonesAfter Sharma was elected mayor, Congress councillors boycotted elections of the senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. Even as voting was going on in the MC House, Chandigarh Congress leaders and councillors addressed a press conference. “Despite the ban, mobile phones were used by BJP councillors. There is discontent in BJP, and if there were no mobiles, Congress candidate Babla would have won by a large margin,” said Congress chief Pardeep Chhabra. Mobile phones are said to be used for clicking pictures of the ballot paper after voting to rule out cross-voting. Babla alleged that MC officials favoured the ruling party by not adhering to stipulated rules. Notably, before voting started, Garg had directed all councillors to deposit their mobile phones with the House officials. Councillors were seen to be following the directions, but Congress later alleged that BJP councillors had bought two mobile phones and submitted only one. Meanwhile, both Sidhu and Farmila got 19 votes, equal to the number of those present and voting. BJP to take action against erring councillors State BJP in-charge Dushayant Gautam, who was present during the election, called the two invalid votes “a serious matter”. “Even after voting for the last four years in mayoral elections, councillors are making such mistakes,” he said, while ruling out any intentional wrongdoing on their part. However, he said that Arun Sood has been asked to examine the issue, and “we will take strict action against such councillors”. Gautam also indicated that councillors who indulged in anti-party activities in the last four years could be denied ticket during the MC elections. “It is an election year. Now, we will punish those who went against the party,” he said.‘No new tax will be imposed, water tariff will come down’Ravi Kant Sharma, 53, originally from Una in Himachal Pradesh, is associated with RSS since childhood and with ABVP since his college days. After shifting to Chandigarh, he actively participated in the party’s activities and rose through the ranks, from block-level worker to a mandal president and then to a district president. Running a courier and cargo business from Sector 34, he got the party ticket for MC elections for the first time in 2016. After getting elected from ward 3, he went on to become the senior deputy mayor last year. Upon his elevation to the mayor’s post on Friday, HT talked to him about his priorities. Q. What will be your priorities? A. Completing ongoing development projects will be top on agenda. Door-to-door waste segregation and road recarpeting also remain priorities. Q. Internal party strife preceded your election. Your take? A. There is no factionalism in the party. We all work in unison for the party and city’s development. Q. Will you be imposing fresh taxes? A. We will not impose any new tax. Water tariff will also be decreased. For improving financial situation of MC, we will ensure that adequate funds are received from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-s-ravi-kant-sharma-elected-chandigarh-mayor/story-yrKb3AsFx0ICT5b3GNZzfL.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses pre-arrest bail to municipal councillor booked for extortion||The Bombay high court on Thursday rejected anticipatory bail application of Dhananjay Gawade, a municipal councillor from Nalasopara, who allegedly used information obtained under the Right to Information Act for extorting lakhs of rupees from local builders.“In the case in hand, the material clearly suggests and points out his complicity in the offences alleged against him which are serious in nature,” said justice Sandeep Shinde, while rejecting the anticipatory bail plea of the 45-year-old.Ten offences were registered against Gawade, a sitting councillor of Vasai Viral municipal corporation, at various police stations in Palghar and Thane districts between March 31, 2018 and April 12, 2018.Also Read: Bombay HC raps customs authorities for acting contrary to court ordersHe had, however, moved the high court for anticipatory bail in all the cases, claiming he was actually a whistleblower who had exposed links between senior civic officials and the builders’ lobby by filing public interest litigations either himself or through his associates seeking the demolition of illegal and unauthorised constructions in Vasai Virar municipal area, but now the police, municipal officers and the builders’ lobby had ganged up against him by filing multiple FIRs.Justice Sandeep Shinde, however, refused to accept the claim after noticing that “tangible material was available on record, which on evaluation suggested that information in relation to the construction of the building, sought under RTI was allegedly used against erring or offending builders to extort the money from them.“In other words, the applicant being a city corporator and as it appears, not only he abused the Right to Information Act for his personal gains, but also breached the trust of the citizens who elected him their representative on local municipal authority,” said justice Shinde while rejecting Gawade’s anticipatory bail applications.The court added that the evidence on record also “disclosed complicity of the officers of the corporation either by extending the protection to unauthorised construction, or turning Nelson’s eye to it.” “...Not only officers of the corporation, but also editors of local newspapers exploited the situation to gain out of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-municipal-councillor-booked-for-extortion/story-SqtDFyyMoWLQ666RdtrxKL.html
08-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to receive 13.90 lakh vaccine vials in next couple of days||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Friday said the state is expected to receive 13,90,000 vials of vaccine against Covid-19 in a day or two.“The big good news for Karnataka is that I have received information from the Union Health Ministry that tomorrow or the day after probably we will be receiving 13,90,000 vials of vaccine for the state. It’s a big happy news for all of us,” Sudhakar said.Speaking to reporters after visiting a private hospital here, where vaccination dry run is being conducted, he said, the vaccination will be first administered to health care workers.“We have registered 6.30 lakh healthcare professionals in Karnataka till date. Those who are left out, may be in some medical or dental colleges, we have requested them to register,” he said adding that health workers will be followed by those with comorbidities, those above 60 years and those in other departments like Police and Revenue working against the pandemic.Covid-19 vaccination dry run is on at a total of 263 different health facilities across Karnataka on Friday.It is being held in 24 district hospitals, 20 medical colleges, 43 taluk hospitals, 31 community health centres, 87 primary health centres, 30 urban primary health centres and 28 private facilities in the state.The Minister who visited some facilities here, where the dry run is going on said, arrangements and preparedness were quite good, and the process is being followed as per the guidelines issued.The first round of the dry run, an exercise for end- to-end testing of Covid-19 vaccination process was held in five districts of Karnataka- Bengaluru (including BBMP), Belagavi, Kalburgi, Mysore and Shivamogga- on December 2 as per the government of India guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-to-receive-13-90-lakh-vaccine-vials-in-next-couple-of-days/story-99V7NvqJst2EQLMuE1YCuL.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Man held with pistols, cartridges hidden in car in Delhi||The Delhi Police on Friday said they have arrested a 24-year-old alleged gunrunner with 35 sophisticated illegally-manufactured pistols and 60 cartridges he smuggled into Delhi from Madhya Pradesh in his car.The pistols and bullets were hidden in the secret spaces created in the four doors and the boot of the car. The alleged smuggler, Ashish Pandey, was driving the car, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav. Pandey is from Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj. “The pistols and bullets were trafficked into Delhi from Madhya Pradesh for criminals operating in Haryana’s Sonepat. The consignment of the arms and ammunition was to be delivered to another gunrunner when we caught Pandey in Rohini [on Thursday],” said a police officer, who was part of the team that arrested Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-held-with-pistols-cartridges-hidden-in-car-in-delhi/story-igY17lf8VKtFSEGg0vNsXK.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Winter showers in Mumbai; weather likely to remain same till Saturday: IMD||Winter showers were reported across Mumbai and neighbouring areas late Thursday evening and early Friday morning. Cloudy weather and light rainfall are likely to continue till Saturday, said the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Isolated winter showers were reported in Kurla, Mahalaxmi, Borivali, Kandivali and Bandra. Neighbouring areas such as Thane, Dombivali and Badlapur also saw isolated spells of rain on Thursday evening and Friday morning. IMD attributed the unseasonal rain to a trough along the coast of Maharashtra and Karnataka.“Mumbai woke up to cloudy skies and rainfall in some parts. Under the influence of a trough in low level easterlies from Karnataka coast to Maharashtra coast in lower tropospheric levels, isolated to scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places is very likely over Maharashtra during the next two days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD. Also read | Snowfall warning for hills; light rain likely in NW plains todayBoth Santacruz and Colaba stations of IMD recorded a rainfall of 0.2mm each. Ratnagiri saw rainfall of 0.4mm.Meanwhile, minimum temperatures were slightly higher than that recorded on Thursday. Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 23.4 degrees Celsius, which was 5.9 degrees above normal and Colaba recorded 23 degrees Celsius, which was 3.4 degrees above normal. The air quality in Mumbai remained in the very poor category on Friday morning with air quality index (AQI) -- a pollutant measuring indicator -- of 313. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at ten locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Navi Mumbai reported the worst air of the 10 stations with an AQI of 329, which was closely followed by Borivali with an AQI of 326.“As winter conditions persist, a low dispersion of pollutant particles in the air is seen. This is why the air quality is in the very poor category,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/winter-showers-in-mumbai-weather-likely-to-remain-same-till-saturday-imd/story-kZsPsO0kCj60Et6xjIW6VJ.html
08-01-2021||City||Sangrur jail superintendent, his deputy and warder booked for taking bribe to keep two inmates out of prison||Sangrur District Jail superintendent, his deputy and a warder were booked for taking bribe to prolong the stay of two prisoners outside the prison on the basis of false health reports despite them having completed their Covid-19 isolation period, police said on Friday. Deputy superintendent of police (rural) Satpal Sharma said jail superintendent Balwinder Singh, his deputy Amar Singh, warder Gurpartap Singh were booked under Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Section 52 A of the Prison Act and Sections 51 and 56 of the Disaster Management Act at Sangrur police station city-1. Police station in-charge Pritpal Singh said that the accused provided facilities to the inmates, including access to mobile phones, and did not shift them back to their cells once their isolation period was over. The two prisoners, Kamal Kumar and Arun Kumar, were allowed a prolonged stay after wrong health reports were sent to the authorities. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-jail-superintendent-his-deputy-and-warder-booked-for-taking-bribe-to-keep-two-inmates-out-of-prison/story-4OQavhaZgA0PmKmvAlHJFP.html
08-01-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata International Film Festival to be launched virtually today; International book fair deferred||The 26th Kolkata International Film Festival would be virtually launched by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee from the state secretariat on Friday. Even though no guests would be physically present because of the Covid-19 pandemic, actor Shah Rukh Khan is expected to join the inauguration virtually. “Together, we will overcome this pandemic. But the show must go on. We are going ahead with #KIFF 2021 virtually, on a smaller scale. Glad that my brother @iamsrk will join us virtually at the inaugural event on Jan 8, 4pm. Watch Kolkata International Film Festival live,” Banerjee had tweeted earlier this week. This year, 81 full-length feature films and 50 short films and documentaries from around 45 countries would be screened at eight venues over the next one week. KIFF is usually held in November every year but had to be postponed because of the pandemic. While the state had more than 36,000 active cases in November, the number has come down to less than 9,000 now. Apur Sansar (The World of Apu), the third film in legendary film maker Satyajit Ray’s internationally recognised Apu Trilogy, would be screened at the inauguration. A special tribute will be paid to the Soumitra Chatterjee, one of Bengal’s most celebrated actors, who died in November 2020. Chatterjee made his debut in 1959 with Apur Sansar as the husband of another debutant, 15-year-old Sharmila Tagore. Meanwhile, another annual international event held in Kolkata, the International Kolkata Book Fair, has been postponed. The book fair is held every year in January – February. It is among the largest book fairs in the world attracting around two million visitors. “Due to the prevailing pandemic situation, the 45th International Kolkata Book Fair 2021 is deferred. The revised date of the 45th International Kolkata Book Fair 2021 will be intimated as soon as the situation improves,” said a statement issued by the Publishers and Booksellers Guild, which organises the fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-international-film-festival-to-be-launched-virtually-today-international-book-fair-deferred/story-GIt6h2jv3byhRaHYrhWjxM.html
08-01-2021||Lucknow||SP teams visit UP crematorium accident site, Badaun; demand CBI probe in both incidents||Two separate delegations of Samajwadi Party (SP) visited Ghaziabad and Badaun respectively on Thursday to probe the crematorium tragedy of January 3 and Badaun gangrape and murder of the same evening. Both the teams demanded CBI probe in the respective cases. The Badaun delegation, led by SP’s former Badaun MP Dharmendra Yadav, met the family of the 50-year-old woman who was gang-raped and murdered in a village of the district. Assuring the family of his party’s support, Yadav demanded that the government pay Rs25 lakh to the bereaved and that the incident be probed by CBI. The Ghaziabad team visited the site where the crematorium roof collapsed in Muradnagar, killing at least 25 people. It also visited some of the victims’ families. “At least Rs50 lakh should be paid to each family. We want a transparent investigation and the guilty should be punished. We are here to help victims get justice and not to indulge in politics,” said Ashu Malik, SP leader and former MLC. On their return to Lucknow, the teams would submit their reports to party president Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sp-teams-visit-up-crematorium-accident-site-badaun-demand-cbi-probe-in-both-incidents/story-uIBfedk8DFji4QAZvmEzWL.html
08-01-2021||Lucknow||UP: First phase of Covid vaccination to take place at 1,500 centres||The first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive will take place at 1,500 vaccination centres in all the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh and the health department plans to hold 3,000 sessions for the vaccination of health workers, who will be the first to get the shot. “The vaccination programme will be launched across the state in a phased manner, as per the guidelines announced by the Central government,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare. The health and family welfare department has also started preparations for the second dry run across UP on January 11, before the launch of the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination. Prasad said the state government has planned to vaccinate 900,000 health care workers in the first phase. “The Central government will supply the vaccine to Uttar Pradesh in a phased manner. It will take a decision on the quantity of vaccine to be supplied to the state,” he said. Also Read: Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine appears effective against mutation in new coronavirus variants: StudyChief minister Yogi Adityanath has indicated that the Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available in UP around Makar Sankranti (January 14). In the first phase, health workers, officers, employees in government and private health units, ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers and supervisors will be vaccinated. In the second phase, frontline workers from other government departments, including state and Central police personnel, homeguards, prison staff, local bodies, municipal corporation staff, personnel deployed for rescue and relief work during natural calamities, will be vaccinated. In the third phase, people above 50 years of age as well as those below 50 years of age but with co-morbidities like diabetes, cancer, high blood pressure and respiratory disease will be given the shot. Three sessions of the vaccination will organised in hospitals, while more than three sessions can be organised in big hospitals, according to the availability of space, said Prasad. As many as 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated in each session. The list of the beneficiaries will be uploaded on the Covid-19 portal, he added. The district magistrates have been directed to constitute a district task force, tehsil task force and block task force to review the vaccination drive in the respective areas. The officers of all state government departments as well as representatives of WHO, Unicef and UNDP will be members of the task force, he said. Medical waste will be disposed of according to the guidelines issued by the state government. The control rooms will be established at the district and block level in all 75 districts of the state. All the district magistrates and chief medical officers have been directed to launch a massive campaign highlighting the utility and quality of the vaccine to motivate people to get themselves immunised, he said. The additional chief secretary said adequate security arrangements should be made during the transportation of the vaccine in districts. Security personnel will be deployed 24X7 and CCTV cameras will be installed at cold chain points. “There will be no video recording or CCTV cameras in the vaccination rooms during the vaccination session,” added Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-first-phase-of-covid-vaccination-to-take-place-at-1-500-centres/story-mQ7HFrNhXkyH1EEBGsoVxH.html
08-01-2021||Lucknow||‘Covid vaccine dry run exposed UP govt’s lack of preparedness,’ alleges SP chief Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government yet again over its alleged lack of preparedness for Covid-19 vaccination drive.“The government’s dry run for the vaccination has exposed its preparedness,” he said in a statement, while referring to the incident in Varanasi where vaccine boxes were reportedly transported on a bicycle.“Cold chain maintenance is an important element of the vaccine’s safety and efficacy. There must be arrangements for rapid transportation of vaccine boxes. Such a potentially fatal kind of lapse puts a question mark on the preparedness,” he added.Also read | Akhilesh tweaks vaccine remark, says never raised questions on scientistsThe former chief minister said the government had made many dry run centres and deployed staff as well but had not mentioned any budgetary provisions for it.“Training has been given to staff, but no one knows who trained them. What’s the point in half-hearted preparations without any specialised training? Till now, the government has not given any clarification over the doubts raised by some experts over clinical trials and side-effects of the vaccines. The BJP is trying to duck these issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-vaccine-dry-run-exposed-up-govt-s-lack-of-preparedness-alleges-sp-chief-akhilesh/story-m81voNqK1js8muFhDo5a8O.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders continue to remain closed, traffic diverted||Border crossing points to Delhi from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed for traffic on Friday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws enacted in September to liberalise the sector.The Delhi Police have advised commuters from Uttar Pradesh to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND, and Apsara as Chilla and Ghazipur border crossings are closed.The Delhi-Haryana borders at Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli, and Mangesh, too, remain closed.Also Read: ‘Are farmers protected against Covid?’: SC asks Centre, cites Tablighi eventThe police have advised commuters from Haryana to take alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla, and Singhu school toll tax borders. The traffic from Haryana has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Commuters have been advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road, and NH-44.Motorists can also take the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad routes between the two states.The protests have been going on for 44 days now and farmers leaders will hold another round of talks with the Centre on Friday.Thousands of farmers took out a tractor rally on Thursday near Delhi as a “trailer” of their planned march on the Republic Day if the government does not accept their demands for scrapping the laws, which they say benefit big corporations at their cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-borders-remain-closed-due-to-farmers-protest-traffic-diverted/story-gTcSxuaKM7ryae5n3wzkVL.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality improves, to become better over the weekend: IMD||Delhi’s air quality improved slightly on Friday morning, will with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am reaching 223, in the “poor” zone.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recorded an AQI of 255 in Delhi, in the ”poor” zone on Thursday. On Wednesday, the AQI was 226, also in the “poor” zone. On a scale of 0 to 500, a reading between 200 and 300 is considered poor.Scientists said from Saturday, the wind speed is likely to pick up significantly, which will improve the air quality.Also Read: Light rain likely in some areas, temp may fall, IMD says“There is a possibility of light rain in some parts of Delhi on January 9, after which the wind speeds is likely to reach around 25kmph. The AQI will improve over the weekend,” said VK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s environment monitoring and research centre.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also said the ventilation condition is expected to improve marginally in the next two days.“The AQI is likely to marginally improve and be in the ‘poor’ or ‘moderate’ range on January 9 and January 10. No sudden deterioration of AQI is expected in the next few days,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-improves-to-become-better-over-the-weekend-imd/story-yydrijROVAFW5GnXi2IuhP.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccination drive: Chandigarh to develop own system for allocating time slots to beneficiaries||The UT health authorities will set-up their own system to provide staggered timings to the beneficiaries during the actual Covid-19 vaccination drive.The need for such a feature was felt during the dry run conducted at the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 and civil hospitals in Sector 22 and Manimajra last week, following which the authorities had also provided feedback to the Centre.“We found that the beneficiaries could be provided with time slots with around one to two hours of difference so that they don’t have to wait for too long. The whole activity can take up to 5-6 hours if all of them come at the same time. We will create another system that will apprise the beneficiaries of reduced time slots,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, UT director, health services.There are nine sites for vaccination in Chandigarh: two sites each have been created at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16; others are three sub-district hospitals in Manimajra, Sector 22 and Sector 45, and a dispensary in Sector 49.On Friday, another dry run monitored by the ministry of health and family welfare will be conducted by GMCH-32 and GMSH-16. The following steps will be followed: verification to make an entry on the CoWIN app, mock vaccination is administered, validation of completed vaccination is done on CoWIN, confirmation messages are generated and received by facility in-charge, also beneficiaries were made to wait under observation for 30 minutes and finally sent home after giving them a number on which he/she could contact in case of any problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-vaccination-drive-chandigarh-to-develop-own-system-for-allocating-time-slots-to-beneficiaries/story-7kvYmd1LQYtTZUsKPsyVGI.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Amid protests, CHB razes illegal constructions in Chandigarh’s Indira Colony||Amid protests by local BJP leaders and residents, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) on Thursday carried out an anti-encroachment drive in Indira Colony here.Unauthorised constructions in two houses and fresh illegal constructions including stairs and overhanging eaves/roofs projecting on public land were razed.“In both the cases, challans to stop further construction and remove fresh violations were issued in March and October. But these were not complied with by the allottees. In the circumstances, the demolition exercise was carried out. CHB is computing the cost of demolitions, which will be recovered from the allottees, and in case of non-payment, their allotment is liable to be cancelled,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.Earlier in the day, when the CHB accompanied by the police came to undertake the drive, they were confronted by BJP leaders including state general secretary Rambir Bhatti and councillor Vinod Aggarwal. The leaders and party workers were detained by the police and later released after the drive was completed.Later, BJP leaders including Bhatti, deputy mayor Jagtar Singh Jagga, councillors Shakti Prakash Devshalli and Aggarwal started an indefinite protest outside CHB office, Sector 9, demanding that all notices sent to CHB allottees for violations should be withdrawn immediately.Bhatti said, “For some time now, CHB has been undertaking such drives on its whims and fancies. It is demolishing people’s houses in such cold weather. We will continue with our protest outside the CHB office till it doesn’t stop harassing people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-protests-chb-razes-illegal-constructions-in-chandigarh-s-indira-colony/story-ddVDJoYxWFuBunNnBScohI.html
08-01-2021||City||As Punjab reopens schools, Haryana schools demand the same||As schools for students of Class 5 onwards reopened all over Punjab on Thursday, the private schools in Ambala, too, have demanded a reopening in a phased manner.Citing losses and overall adverse impact on the education of the students during lockdown, owners, directors and principals have joined in to demand the reopening.A delegation under the banner of Haryana Progressive Schools Conference met MLA Aseem Goel to hand over a memorandum in the name of chief minister Manohar Lal on the same.Saurabh Kapoor, president of Integrated Private School Welfare Society, said, “Students’ studies have largely been compromised and they should be allowed to come to schools so that the remaining time before exams can be utilised in a productive manner. Apart from this, management is under immense financial pressure as banks have started taking EMIs.”On this, MLA Goel said, “I understand their problem and I have spoken to education minister Kanwar Pal in their presence. He has assured that a positive step will be taken soon.”Classes above 9 already operationalThe Haryana education department had already allowed reopening of government and private schools for classes 9 and 11 from December 14, and for classes 10 and 12 from December 21, for three hours.The private schools have also talked about taking full precautions as laid down by the government for students above Class 9.State vice-president of the Haryana Progressive Schools Conference Prashant Munjal said, “This pilot project of the government has trained us on how to educate students while following Covid protocols. The reopening of schools from Class 9 onwards has gotten a positive response.”An official of the Haryana education department, on the condition of anonymity, said that despite winters and rising Covid cases, the attendance had improved in government schools: “Average attendance in schools was around 5-7% in the first week of reopening in December. Now, around 20-25% students are attending physical classes daily despite a few cases of students and teachers testing positive at a school in the cantonment earlier this week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-punjab-reopens-schools-haryana-schools-demand-the-same/story-Hu3zKPPx6Cu3gojb1kz30O.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Third vaccination dry run covering all 11 districts of Delhi today||After two dry runs of the Covid-19 vaccination process over the past week at select health centres, Delhi, along with other states and union territories, will conduct a full-fledged mock drill in all its 11 districts on Friday.Senior health officials said over 600 officials, comprising a mix of physicians and district officers, will be appointed as supervisors at vaccination centres once the actual drive is rolled out.“The chief district medical officers (CDMOs) have been made the nodal officers for the centres in their respective districts. Once the actual vaccination process begins, Delhi will start with about 621 session centres where the Covid-19 vaccines will be administered to registered beneficiaries after verification. Each centre will have a supervisor. In most districts, these supervisors are doctors; in a few, officers appointed by the district administration will oversee the process,” a health official said, on condition of anonymity. Dr Suneela Garg, public health expert and professor of excellence at Maulana Azad Medical College, Delhi, said apart from checking the vaccination process, a major reason for conducting a dry run in all districts is to check the efficiency of the Co-WIN mobile application.“During the dry run, there will be several queries from the medical teams who have been trained for the exercise. The idea is to clear all possible doubts, check for problems and resolve them over the next few days,” she said.On Thursday, a day before all 11 districts were to undergo the dry run, the respective nodal officers notified the health care centres where the mock drill would be held on Friday. In the south district, 10 vaccination sites will hold the dry run. These include AIIMS Ansari Nagar, Safdarjung hospital, Phoenix hospital in Greater Kailash, Centre for Sight in Safdarjung and Focus Imaging and Research Centre Private Limited, Green Park. The south-east district identified at least 19 facilities which include Apollo hospitals, Metropolis Healthcare Limited, Fortis hospital, Batra hospital, Holy Family hospital, Escorts hospital, Moochand Khairaiti Ram hospital and so on. The north-west district will hold the dry run at 12 health care facilities such as Max and Fortis hospitals, Shalimar Bagh, Saroj hospital and so on. The New Delhi district will conduct the dry run at four locations --in the northern railway central hospital, Primus hospital, MCD school in Rangpuri which has been linked to a government maternity and child care centre in the area and Fortis Vasant Kunj. The first dry run was conducted at three select health care centres of Delhi on Saturday, while the second dry run happened at around 66 sites on Wednesday. The Delhi government said all these centres will also be vaccination centres when the final immunisation drive is rolled out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/third-vaccination-dry-run-covering-all-11-districts-of-delhi-today/story-cDrfchTxrEh1oIYgDmqmHI.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Fewer reserved ICU beds in private facilities||The Delhi government has told the Delhi high court it has reduced the reservation of Covid-19 intensive care units (ICU) beds to 40% in 33 private hospitals.In an order passed on January 6 by RN Das, the medical superintendent of nursing homes, with the approval of state health minister Satyendar Jain, the government said it has accepted the recommendations made at a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) review meeting on January 5 to reduce the number of beds further to 40%.“It was further decided in the review meeting to convert four fully Covid private hospitals, namely, Fortis Super Speciality Hospital, Vasant Kunj; Saroj Super Speciality Hospital, Rohini; Maha Durga Charitable Trust Hospital, Model Town & Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Pusa Road to be part Covid hospital,” the order read.The government said these four private hospitals shall reserve 30% of their total bed capacity for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and 40% of their total ICU beds, or at least twice the number of occupied Covid-19 ICU beds as on January 5, whichever is higher, for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.On December 27, the government reduced the ICU beds reservation to 60%. However, it said they would not consider any further de-escalations in the wake of the new strain of the virus, as well as with Christmas and New Year’s celebrations in mind. The government said it will review the situation in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fewer-reserved-icu-beds-in-private-facilities/story-Epsvw47hxLuHKMWX7jOghI.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||No bird flu cases in Delhi yet, sample collection ordered to check spread||With at least four states across India reporting the spread of avian influenza or bird flu, Delhi on Thursday launched a large-scale sample collection drive to prevent its spread in the city-state even as wholesale rates of chicken dropped by ₹15-20 in a day, poultry traders said. In neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar, the divisional forest department on Thursday has restricted access to certain areas of Okhla Bird Sanctuary and closed the Surajpur wetland to visitors as a preventive measure.Thousands of birds have died in Kerala (mostly poultry), Himachal Pradesh (migratory birds), and Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (crows) since the start of the outbreak in December-end.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s development and animal husbandry minister, held a meeting on Thursday to review the situation. Soon after the meeting, Sisodia put out a statement that Delhi has not reported a single case of bird flu so far. “Doctors of all 48 veterinary hospitals of the government’s animal husbandry unit are continuously monitoring the situation across Delhi. Also, 11 rapid response teams have been formed which have been asked to regularly collect samples. So far, more than 100 samples have been collected and sent to the designated lab in Jalandhar, Punjab. The report is expected on Monday,” Sisodia said after the meeting.He directed officials to keep a close watch on poultry birds being brought in from neighbouring states, and instructed them to keep a close watch on migratory bird spots, poultry markets, water bodies, zoos and other potential hot spots. The sites from where samples are being collected include Ghazipur fish and poultry market, Shakti Sthal lake, Sanjay lake, Bhalswa horseshoe lake, Delhi zoo, and smaller water bodies in parks. Traders said after the Central government issued advisories to states on Wednesday regarding bird flu, the impact was seen on Thursday — a drop in sales which also resulted in a price drop of ₹15-20 for a kilogram.“In just a single day, the wholesale price of a kilogram of chicken in Delhi has reduced from ₹90 to ₹70-75. The number of trucks arriving at Ghazipur market on Thursdays is about 80, and today, too, around 76 trucks arrived at the market. But people have stopped buying chicken even though there is not a single case of bird flu in the city as of now,” said Iqbal Qureshi, general secretary of Ghazipur wholesale poultry association.Traders said the price of chicken would fall further if bird flu cases start emerging in Delhi. They insisted that chicken sold in Delhi are “100% safe” as these birds undergo medical checks before being brought to the Ghazipur wholesale market. The divisional forest department, Gautam Budh Nagar, on Thursday restricted access to certain areas of Okhla Bird Sanctuary and closed the Surajpur wetland for visitors as a preventive measure against bird flu. Forest department officials also held an inspection at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary to check for any unusual death of avifauna and later issued a caution against bird flu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-bird-flu-cases-in-delhi-yet-sample-collection-ordered-to-check-spread/story-8lE59h7JbQOX4RbyHsMNmL.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||486 fresh cases in capital, test positivity rate drops to 0.63%||The Capital recorded 486 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the sixth time the daily infection count stood below the 500-mark in January, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.63%.The active cases tally on Thursday dropped to 4,168 from 4,481 the previous day.The city had recorded 654 cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 0.88%, the only time the daily infection count has crossed the 500-mark in the first seven days of January.Experts regard the positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection, and the World Health Organization recommends that a region with a comprehensive testing programme should maintain a positivity rate below 5% for two weeks, for an outbreak to be considered under control.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said the positivity rate had been below one per cent for the past several days, indicating an improvement in the pandemic.The new cases on Thursday resulted from the 77,522 tests conducted the previous day, including 43,347 RT-PCR tests and 34,175 rapid antigen tests, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.With fewer cases, the government has also decided to de-escalate the number of beds at its Covid Health Centres, with the number of beds to go down from 305 in three centres to 50 beds in one centre. The Delhi government had also ordered 115 hospitals in the city – both government and private – to de-escalate the number of beds on New Year’s Eve. “We had reduced around 2,500 beds in Delhi government hospitals and 5,000-6,000 beds in private hospitals. The occupancy currently is less than 2,000. Earlier we had 18,800 beds available, but even after de-escalation we still have 10,500-11,000 beds. We shall be repeating the exercise of de-escalation next week,” Jain said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/486-fresh-cases-in-capital-test-positivity-rate-drops-to-0-63/story-mYjNNQAfGYobl11XDjIIzJ.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s vaccine drive likely to start early next week: Officials||The immunisation of health care and frontline workers in the Capital is likely to begin by Wednesday, with the first batch of vaccines expected to arrive in the city soon, according to multiple senior officials from the Delhi government involved in the vaccination drive. Once the doses are available, the government will need a day or two to figure out the cold chain and logistics to start rolling it out, the officials said. The districts have long-listed 55 government and 105 private hospitals, each with over 100 health care workers, to receive the initial roll-out. This includes hospitals such as AIIMS, Safdarjung, Lok Nayak, GTB, and Hindu Rao, among others. The list of private hospitals includes Max, Fortis, Apollo, BL Kapur, and Gangaram, among others. Vaccine to all the centres will be supplied by the Delhi government and will be free for the beneficiaries. The list will be finalised on Friday during the meeting of the state steering committee under the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (Negvac). “It was thought that the roll-out should begin in hospitals first, as immediate emergency care will be close at hand if there are any adverse events. From what we have seen in the US and the UK, some people had allergic reactions, fever, joint pains, and rashes. We need to be prepared for all eventualities as we still do not know how the Indian population will react to the vaccines,” said a senior district official who asked not to be named. Once the logistics are in place, the roll-out will happen simultaneously across all the selected centres, he said. “The vaccines should be with us by Monday or Tuesday, after which we will need a couple of days to figure out the cold chain and other logistics to get it from the stores to the sites. Once that happens, the vaccine drives will start across all the selected centres,” said a second Delhi government official. Even as these preparations are in full swing, the Union government is yet to sign procurement orders with the vaccine manufacturers with some negotiations on costs and paperwork still pending, according to a senior Union health ministry official who asked not to be named. Once that happens -- expected this week, according to officials -- systems are in place for the vaccine transport to start in a day or two. India’s drugs controller on Sunday granted restricted emergency approval to two companies for their Covid-19 vaccines. The first vaccine to become available in Delhi will likely be the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, called Covishield in India, and manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute of India. The other vaccine that has been granted approval for “restricted use in emergency situations” is Bharat Biotech’s Cavoxin.The first batches of the vaccines will be kept at Delhi’s central storage facility at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur. The facility has been prepared and security tightened in anticipation of the vaccine doses coming in. “The two-floor utility block in the hospital was earmarked as Delhi’s central store. Around 90 deep freezers were installed in the block to store the vaccine at the required temperatures. And CCTV cameras have been installed throughout the building to ensure that the doses remain safe. The police have also been contacted to provide additional security when the vaccines arrive. The vaccines are like gold at the moment,” said a third official from the Delhi government health department. He explained the transportation plan. The vaccines will be sent from the central stores -- apart from the Rajiv Gandhi hospital, there is another one in Civil Lines -- to the respective district stores. From there, they will be transported to 621 cold chain points in the city. From here, the vaccines will be carried by five-member teams to the vaccination sites in ice packs. All the vaccine sites have also been fitted with units to store vaccines at the right temperature. “Both the vaccines that have been approved by the drug controller have a 0.5 ml intramuscular dose. They are also stored in the same 2 to 8 degree Celsius. The vaccinators have already been trained for the same and no additional training is required,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College who is a part of the state task force. Several dry runs have been conducted across the city to prepare vaccine sites over the past week, and dry runs at four sites set to happen on Friday. “After approval to the two vaccines, Delhi Government is making all the arrangements. The health care workers, frontline workers, and people over 50 years of age, or below with co-morbidity will be injected in the first phase of the roll-out. Delhi has 3 lakh health care workers, and 6 lakh frontline workers. The vaccine will be first rolled out to these 9 lakh people,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. He said that the government will start with 500-600 vaccination sites, and gradually scale them up to a 1,000. There are at least 4.2 million people above the age of 50 years in the city, as per the electoral rolls, and a list of those under 50 with comorbidities is being prepared by the government, HT reported on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-vaccine-drive-likely-to-start-early-next-week-officials/story-sD5epmbAzteD9JaKjFrK3L.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Never-ending mess at Ashram Chowk||The traffic nightmare at Ashram, one of the busiest intersections in Delhi, will continue till at least April with the Public Works Department yet again extending the deadline for the completion of an underpass that is primarily aimed at decongesting the stretch. Prolonged and haphazard construction, poor site management and extension of barricades for building the 750-metre underpass, connecting Nizamuddin Railway Bridge and the Ashram Chowk, have turned Ashram into a commuter’s nightmare. The underpass which was scheduled to be completed in December 2020, will now take at least till April to finish. Earlier, the PWD had extended the deadline till March, but due to poor pace of work, even the March deadline could not be met. Hindustan Times on Thursday did a spot check at the intersection, where traffic jams have become the order of the day. Drivers, who had been waiting to cross the junction for several minutes, were seen honking helplessly to seek passage, as the trail of vehicles manoeuvred their way through the narrow lanes. Most of the space on the carriageways from New Friends Colony towards Nizamuddin and vice-versa has been taken up for construction work, leaving little space for the thousands of vehicles to move. Even during non-peak hours, vehicles at the Ashram intersection, which was already the Capital’s biggest choke point, are seen waiting in traffic snarls for hours only to cross the junction. Over the past fortnight, the PWD has not just extended the barricades up to the centre of the main intersection, crunching the space for traffic movement significantly, but has also simultaneously taken up space on the sides of the Mathura Road on the New Friends Colony side for the construction of pavements. The section of the Mathura Road near CSIR Apartments and on the opposite side of the carriageway has been cordoned off for the construction of pavements and digging work is on. What the construction agency has not taken into consideration, however, is that this, along with the main construction work in the middle of the main road, has left barely one lane for traffic. Surendra Singh, who owns a tea stall near the CSIR Apartments, said vehicles taking a left turn from the Ring Road to go towards NFC are suddenly squeezed for space as the barricades on both sides of the road create a bottleneck. “This construction work started around a week ago. Vehicles have three lanes till they cross the Metro station gate, but the road space shrinks to one lane a little ahead,” Singh said. Delhi PWD minister Satyendar Jain’s office said an additional two-metre space has been occupied for construction work, beyond what was originally being used. “After the construction of the retaining wall of the underpass, this barricading will be removed and an additional four-metre space will be available for traffic movement,” the minister’s office said in its response. The minister’s office said that most of the barricades on the stretch will be removed by February-end and the remaining work will be fast-tracked. While the overall traffic on the Ashram intersection is mismanaged, commuters going towards Nizamuddin have it worse. The PWD barricades, along with the vehicles parked on roadsides and encroachment at the Hari Nagar Ashram market forms a sudden and narrow bottleneck. Shalini Yadav, a regular commuter on the stretch, said crossing the portion of the road between the main intersection and the railway bridge is a test of a driver’s skill. “On one side you have the barricades, and on the other you have vehicles and cars parked on the roadside. If that was not enough, the pedestrian movement is also high in this area in the evening. Pedestrians just jump before your car unexpectedly because there is no space for them to walk,” Yadav said. Senior Delhi traffic police officials said since traffic plan for the site was approved, unforeseen events such as the closure of borders because of the farmers’ agitation has led to an increase in the traffic volume at the intersection. “When the plan was approved, there were alternative routes that could be used by commuters instead of having to cross the Ashram intersection. But with many of these now being restricted, people going towards Noida or Faridabad have to use this route. We thought this would be a temporary arrangement, but it has lasted longer than we anticipated,” said a senior traffic official, who asked not to be named.The problems, however, do not end here. The placement of temporary traffic signals to streamline traffic is causing cascading jams on the Ring Road and on the Ashram flyover. Apart from this, to avoid getting caught in traffic, commuters are now using a narrow passage between the barricades and the divider on Mathura Road on the NFC side, to crossover to reach the fuel station on the stretch. This traffic movement is further adding to the logjam. The PWD in their response said that since December 2019, when the foundation stone of the underpass was laid, the work on the project has moved slow because of multiple hurdles. “Shaheen Bagh protest started in mid-December 2019, due to which traffic load increased on Mathura Road and traffic police did not allow work on the full width of road. In March, lockdown was imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic, after which work resumed in May,” the PWD said. “Only after May 2020, the work started but there was shortage of labour and shortage of material because of the pandemic,” the minister’s office said. It added that other hindrances such as shifting of underground utilities, including water and gas pipelines, and power cables, also delayed work. “As per current situation the work will be completed by end of April this year,” the office said. Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said while undertaking construction on busy roads such as the Ashram intersection is a challenge but better use of technology and site management can ensure that minimum inconvenience is caused to commuters. He said the construction agency should adhere to the deadline, as extensions would only add to traffic problems on the stretch. “Road space should be left as per the volume of traffic. Since traffic volume was increased, the site should have been managed accordingly. More resources should have been used to fast-track work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/never-ending-mess-at-ashram-chowk/story-KW17bjpd2SWR31ObTsTUnK.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Extend ban on flights from UK: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged the Centre to consider extending the ban on flights from the United Kingdom, amid rising concerns over a mutant strain of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in India.The Centre partially lifted the ban and resumed India to UK flights from January 6. The first flight from the UK, after the ban was lifted, will arrive in India on January 8.Calling the Covid-19 situation in the UK “extremely serious”, Kejriwal demanded that the ban on India-UK flights be extended till January 31.“Centre has decided to lift the ban and start UK flights. In view of the extremely serious COVID situation in UK, I wud urge central govt to extend the ban till 31 Jan,” he said in one tweet. In another tweet, the CM said: “With great difficulty, people have brought Covid-19 situation in control. UK’s COVID situation is very serious. Now, why lift ban and expose our people to risk?”.With the Central government going ahead with its decision to allow flights from the UK to arrive in India, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued an order on Thursday asking all stakeholders concerned in the city administration, as well as the police and airport authorities, to strictly follow the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Centre. “Passengers testing positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility coordinated by the state health authorities. Those who are found negative on testing at the airport would be advised quarantine at home for 14 days,” read SOPs by the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/extend-ban-on-flights-from-uk-kejriwal/story-QTmhB1pJraBllYAfqnsiBK.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Light rain likely in some areas, temp may fall, IMD says||A day after spells of rain and hailstorm in parts of Delhi, the temperature in the national capital on Thursday remained higher than the season’s normal, with the minimum temperature settling at 14.4 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal. However, despite the rise in temperature, the air quality strayed further into the “poor” category on the air quality index (AQI) scale, as wind speeds remained low. India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings show that on Thursday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 14.4 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 19.9 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. IMD scientists said on Friday, the minimum temperature could dip by a couple of degrees. “For Friday, we are likely to see a minimum temperature of around 11-12 degrees Celsius. There is a possibility of moderate fog in the morning hours,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. Even as the temperature remained high on Thursday, the air quality showed a marginal deterioration, but remained in the “poor” zone. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recorded an AQI of 255 In Delhi, in the “poor” zone. On Wednesday, the AQI was 226, also in the ”poor” zone. On a scale of 0 to 500, a reading between 200 and 300 is considered poor. Scientists said from Saturday, the wind speed is likely to pick up significantly, which will improve the air quality. “There is a possibility of light rain in some parts of Delhi on January 9, after which the wind speed is likely to reach around 25kmph. The AQI will improve over the weekend,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also said the ventilation condition is expected to improve marginally in the next two days. “The AQI is likely to marginally improve and be in the “poor” or ”moderate” range on January 9 and January 10,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/light-rain-likely-in-some-areas-temp-may-fall-imd-says/story-opXVqyFOTgFHTZ0SYcx2fP.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccination mock drill across Thane, Navi Mumbai today||Thane district will conduct a vaccine dry run at three places on Friday – Thane Civil Hospital, Diva and Shahapur. A team of five people including vaccinators will be present for the dry run in each centre. Preparations have been made across the district with enough provisions to store the vaccines and manpower for the drive in both rural and urban areas.Dr Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane district, said, “There are five trained personnel in each of the three centres who will execute the dry run on Friday. Based on our experience in these places, we shall submit a report to the State Health Department. We have made all the necessary preparations. Rooms have been made available for this purpose in these areas. Additionally, we have some staff present at the centres if need be.”As per the state guidelines, a minimum of 25 beneficiaries will visit the centre for the dry run. Preparations have been made for separate entry and exit points at these centres. First, the beneficiaries will be registered and then taken to the vaccination booth. There will be an observation room as well where they will be kept for half-an-hour to ensure there are no after-effects of the vaccination. All of this will be done in a mock process on Friday.The beneficiaries will receive an alert through messages and will have to arrive for the dry run as per the time mentioned. “The main aim of the dry run is to understand the preparedness and the time taken to follow all the protocols.“The result of the dry run will help us plan for the actual drive. As of now, we have planned 850 vaccination centres across the district. There will be 100 vaccines administered in each centre across the district on a daily basis. Those who get an alert through the app will be given the vaccine,” added Pawar.Provisions have been made for vaccine storage across the district with 190 ice-lined refrigerators, 197 deep freezers, 199 cold boxes, 26,530 ice packs and 4,814 carriers. Across Thane district, there are 66,447 frontline workers who have registered online. Most are from within Thane city. There are around 846 vaccinators who will administer the vaccine.According to the district health department officers, Thane city has the highest number of frontline workers within the district. There will be an increased number of vaccination centres within Thane city and the civil hospital in Thane will be one of the immunisation centres where the first round of vaccination will take place.TMC dry run at Rosa Gardenia The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) will also conduct a dry run on Friday at Rosa Gardenia Health Centre on Ghodbunder Road. TMC has made provisions for a waiting room, registration centre, vaccination room and observation room for convenience.“As per the rules for the dry run, 25 beneficiaries are required, we have shortlisted those health workers from Rosa Gardenia for the same. They will be informed of the timing to reach the venue for the dry run on Friday,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.Thane mayor, Naresh Mhaske, and TMC chief, Dr Vipin Sharma, will be present to monitor the dry run.NMMC sets up mock centre at Nerul hospitalThe Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has organised a dry run for the vaccine at the civic-run Nerul Mother and Child Hospital on Friday. The NMMC has geared up with 5,905 litre capacity of 95 cold storage facilities for the vaccine.Medical officer of NMMC, Ratnaprabha Chavan, said, “For the dry run, 25 people from the health department have been chosen as dummy patients. All the procedures and protocols would be followed except for actually vaccinating the medicine. The drive will happen from 9 am to 11 am on Jan 8.”The NMMC chief, Abhijit Bangar, said, “We have trained 1,000 employees. However, we have not decided the centres as we are awaiting guidelines from the government. Once the distribution of the vaccines starts, we’ll get clarity on the centres.”After the commencement of the vaccination process, the registered person will be informed about the day, place and time of vaccination through a message on the registered mobile and the certificate after receiving the vaccination will also be received on the same mobile number.“The vaccination booth will be designed as per the government guidelines,” Bangar said.(With inputs from Raina Shine, Navi Mumbai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-vaccination-mock-drill-across-thane-navi-mumbai-today/story-jyufvA6W1bOJOqqEjwEUMJ.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Cidco takes steps to increase water supply to Navi Mumbai||To ease the water woes of Kharghar to Panvel in Navi Mumbai, which falls under the jurisdiction of City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco), the government agency has taken several measures for the same as the fast developing regions have long been suffering from severe water shortages. The measures include plans to reserve water by making payment to concerned agency, speeding up various works and appointing consultant to advice on improving water supply in the Cidco nodes.  Cidco vice-chairman and managing director Sanjay Mukherjee said, “The board of Cidco Ltd has approved a proposal to pay ₹119.18 crore to Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation (KIDC). This will enable us to reserve water to the tune of 120 million litres per day (MLD).”  Mukherjee said that a micro-tunnelling work project to allow drawing additional water from Hetwane dam is also approaching completion.  Water from Hetwane dam often pass through slopes, due to which the water supply is of low pressure. In a bid to deal with the issue, Cidco started the work of constructing underground aqueduct for Hetwane dam last year. The excavation work of the tunnel beneath Hamrapur hill for the pipeline, connecting Hetwane dam to the city, at the depth of 20-25 metre is near completion. This project is to be completed till February-end. Thus, Cidco will receive an additional quota of 30 MLD water from Hetwane dam, an official said.  Presently, water from Hetawane dam is supplied to Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) region along with some nodes and nearby villages under the jurisdiction of Cidco. Till now, Cidco had reserved 150 MLD water from Hetwane dam.  Besides, the state government has handed over Kondhane dam of Karjat taluka with 250 MLD to Cidco. However, the planning of this dam project is under process.  The population of Panvel and Uran taluka, developed by Cidco as south Navi Mumbai, has reached 20 lakh. By considering the increasing population in the city, the water demand of the city is likely to increase to 1,275 MLD by the year 2050. Hence, Cidco is looking to get additional 120 MLD water from Hetawne dam.  Mukherjee added, “Cidco will appoint an expert agency for proper planning of water supply for Cidco colonies coming under PCMC jurisdiction, Ulwe, Dronagiri and various upcoming projects of Cidco. This agency will conduct a thorough study of the entire water supply system and water resources and accordingly guide Cidco for water supply management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cidco-takes-steps-to-increase-water-supply-to-navi-mumbai/story-8JwW3iB3Lg5L0F9E60EPTI.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine dry run: KDMC gears up with 2 centres in Kalyan, Dombivli||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will hold a dry run at two of its health centres, one in Kalyan (E) and another in Dombivli (E) on Friday morning.“Since we have the necessary facility to store the vaccine once it is out, we have decided to conduct a dry run where we will learn on how to carry out the vaccination work smoothly. A demo of the same will be carried out on Friday morning,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The civic body will carry out a demo of vaccinating 20 beneficiaries during the dry run. A total of five employees will be deployed at each health post to carry out the process as per the guidelines set up by the state government.The health post at Gita Harkisandas civic hospital in Kolsewadi Kalyan is all set up with a waiting room, an immunisation room, four observation rooms, beds and oxygen cylinders and an emergency kit.“We have selected 20 beneficiaries for the demo of vaccination tomorrow. At first, the patient will wait in the waiting room before being directed to the immunisation room. After the vaccination, the patient will be directed to the observation room where the employees will check for half-an-hour if the patient has any trouble after the vaccination. Following this, the patient will be released,” said Vaishali Kashikar, medical officer, Kolsewadi health post.The KDMC has claimed to have a capacity to vaccinate more than two lakh residents in the first phase of the vaccination programme in the city. The KDMC has prepared a list of 6,000 health workers for the first phase of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-kdmc-gears-up-with-2-centres-in-kalyan-dombivli/story-rId0mJrnKRnfCdaKhxlKCJ.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||AAP starts campaign to ‘expose MCD graft’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday launched a campaign to organise 2,500 mohalla sabhas (public meetings) to highlight the alleged corruption in the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations of Delhi. On Day One, AAP MLAs Atishi and Saurabh Bhardwaj held these meetings in Kalkaji and Greater Kailash assembly constituencies, respectively.Bhardwaj held his public meeting at Dargah Chowk on Thursday afternoon, which saw a crowd of around 100-200 people. The AAP MLA and chief spokesperson criticised the BJP and its former Delhi unit chief Manoj Tiwari for “lying” to the people of Delhi. Bharadwaj said during the last MCD elections, Tiwari had promised the people of Delhi the BJP would ensure the MCDs get money directly from the Central government.“Tiwari promised the people of Delhi before the 2017 MCD election that if they make the BJP win, there will be no scarcity of money in the civic bodies because the BJP will directly bring money or fund from the Central government. The BJP won the 2017 MCD election and it has been four years since they are ruling the MCD. But the situation has not changed at all. The same financial mismanagement is going on in the civic bodies with its employees going on protests every day,” Bhardwaj said.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the strike in civic bodies is the result of a lack of political intent in the state government.“Ever since Kejriwal came to power in 2015, with a political bias towards the BJP-ruled civic bodies, it has been in one way or the other curtailing the release of constitutional funds for the three MCDs. The present situation is such that the arrears of municipal funds amount to over ₹13,000 crore, in the current financial year 2020-21. The fourth quarter of the year has started but civic bodies have got one about 30% of this year’s allocated funds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-starts-campaign-to-expose-mcd-graft/story-6weP7francT3CRoKuMY1jJ.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine dry run in 30 Maharashtra districts today||Maharashtra will take nearly three months to complete the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination for 800,000 people, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday. The health minister’s statement came a day ahead of the dry run for vaccination in 30 districts and 25 municipal corporation areas. The dry run is being done to detect logistical issues that may crop up in the actual immunisation drive expected to start after January 13. Tope said, “In the first phase, we have decided to keep 80 to 100 centres. If we have to immunise 800,000 people, it’ll take about 80-90 days. We will carry out the process scientifically.” He added that the administration has already uploaded details of approximately 800,000 health workers on the CoWin app. The minister said, “The vaccination centres will be at district hospitals, sub-district hospitals, medical college hospitals and civic n hospitals, where tertiary care is available.” Tope added that the Centre has not provided them any clarity on the time between two doses. The state has also sought clarity from the Centre on the vaccine to be provided and has also demanded more ice-lined refrigerators (ILR), deep freezers and walk-in coolers for the storage of vaccines. Maharashtra, meanwhile, on Thursday reported three fresh cases of the mutated strain of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The three new cases are from Pimpri-Chinchwad, state health department officials said. The total cases of the new variant in the state have now risen to 11. On Monday, eight samples tested positive for the new variant, which originated from the United Kingdom (UK) and is said to be 70% more transmissible than the original strain. A health department update stated all 11 patients are asymptomatic, of which two — one each from Mumbai and Pune — were discharged after completing 14 days of quarantine and their two consecutive samples were found negative by an RT-PCR test.Of the 11 cases, one person is from Gujarat and the other is from Goa.The state reported 3,729 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total to 1,95,82,82. The state also reported 72 fresh fatalities, taking the toll closer to the 50,000 mark at 49,897. Mumbai added 665 fresh cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 296,985. Mumbai reported seven fatalities, pushing the toll in the city to 11,162.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the dry run will help the administration find out any logistical issues, including the usefulness of the CoWin app, before the actual vaccination starts.“As per the guidelines of the Centre, a dry run will be carried out in Maharashtra’s 30 districts and 25 municipal corporation areas. Each district will have three centres, while the municipal areas will have one vaccine centre in the dry run,” said Tope in a statement. Last week, the state had conducted a small-scale dry run in four districts and two municipal corporation areas.A statement from the health department said the dry run will show if problems exist in storage, supply and administration, and these will be ironed out. The statement said it will help check out how convenient and useful the CoWin app. Besides that, it will help the planning, implementation and reporting of coronavirus vaccination, verification and inspection of all these matters, before starting the actual vaccination.The state health minister participated in the meeting with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan held via video-conferencing over the vaccination drive. “The meeting was to take stock of the preparation, but we do not have much clarity on the vaccine that will be provided. They [Centre] have said that they would inform us [about the vaccine]. They have categorically told us to carry out vaccination in tertiary care centres, a clarification we had sought,” the minister told HT.Tope said the state has sought several changes in the CoWin application. The state has also demanded only one of the two vaccinations, so as to maintain uniformity. “We have sought many changes in the CoWin app. We also demanded that only one vaccine should be given to us. Because one vaccine’s second dose could be after 30 days, while the other’s maybe after 45 days, it would create confusion. We have given them details about our shortage in the ILR, deep freezers, walk-in coolers. We need 667 ILCs, but so far they have provided 101, we asked for the remaining.“We asked time slots to be specified for people to arrive at Centres. In absence of timing, people may crowd at vaccination centres. Besides, in the app, we need bifurcation for ones who refuse to take the vaccine, since it is for emergency use now,” Tope added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vaccine-dry-run-in-30-maharashtra-districts-today/story-wOGIrqgcDpO71SLvipA9aO.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||MNS workers vandalise Torrent Power offices in Bhiwandi||Protesting against exorbitant power bills raised by Torrent Power Limited, which supplies electricity to Bhiwandi city, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) party workers vandalised the company’s offices at Oswalwadi in Anjurphata and at Chavindra Road, Vanjarpatti Naka in Bhiwandi on Thursday.The MNS party workers shouted slogans outside the offices and vandalised the windows of the office randomly with bats. They asked the security persons to stay away. A video of the incident went viral on social media as onlookers kept watching the entire act. Chetan Badiyani, customer service manager of Torrent, Bhiwandi, said, “There was no communication from the party regarding their complaints. They directly came and vandalised the offices. We are registering a case against the incident at both our offices.”MNS state deputy president, D K Mhatre said, “People were irked by the excessive bills by the company and also power cuts. After trying several times to get a response from the company, there was no feedback from them. Hence the protest.”The Shantinagar and Narpoli police have registered a case against Manoj Gulvi, president of MNS Bhiwandi and Pravin Devkar, secretary of MNS Bhiwandi, and at least eight others under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, Criminal Amendment Act and Covid Sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mns-party-workers-vandalise-torrent-offices/story-dji6Ap1Ut9Mc8vwcX37N5K.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A bungalow in Roshanpura||The sight is incredible. Two eras next to each other. One is more than 100 years old, and the other is just four months old. And the one uniting these two periods is a man in his 60s.“This is my granddaughter, and that used to be my neighbour’s house,” says a beaming Manoj Jain. The little girl is too young to have a name, he says, but “let’s call her Angel.” The house behind him is a bungalow in ruins. In fact, it is one of the very few edifices of such a vintage that still survive in Gurugram, a place in the National Capital Region otherwise so modern that it is known as the Millennium City. This particular locality, Roshanpura, actually has a handful of old houses, many of them in a similar shabby state. Mr Jain, who describes himself as a “retired man”, lives with his family in a house directly opposite this picturesque ruin.“My house is also old,” he declares. Waving his hand dismissively, he cheerily launches a diatribe on the newer buildings. “They are nothing compared to the old ones. Houses like ours have walls that are 18 inches thick. Imagine that in the houses of today, with their 4 inch walls!”Meanwhile, it’s warm and sunny, and Angel is lying on Mr Jain’s lap, her eyes closed, oblivious to the architecture of the past and present. Her family’s colourful laundry is drying on a wash line strung across the length of the derelict bungalow.The paint of this long-uninhibited house has peeled off the brick walls. The windows are without glass panes. The doors are open, but they are choked with overgrown wild grass. Money plant vines have spread upon the entire front facade, entangling the bungalow into a kind of fishing net. It’s difficult to see anything inside the open rooms because of the vegetation. The whole setting looks like a scene in a fairy tale.“The family that owns it now lives in another city,” says Mr Jain. He remembers playing in this house as a boy. “The kids living here were my friends.” He would go to the house—when it was still a home—almost everyday. There were taaks—arched niches—on every wall. Indeed, one can spot a few of those taaks even from the outside, if you strain your eyes and look through the vine-cover.“And it had marble floor,” adds Mr Jain. He gestures towards a multi-storey building on his right. It is very new. The walls haven’t been painted yet. “An old bungalow stood there too... all such houses are being replaced one by one,” he observes, betraying no hint of lament in his voice. “But my house shall remain.”One wonders what this place will be like when Angel will be big enough to understand the changes brought about by time. A mall perhaps? In any case, you ought to see this edifice before it disappears into history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-bungalow-in-roshanpura/story-cJ6DZa6hzJkakgbxMnn4IL.html
08-01-2021||City||40 BJP workers on way to police chief’s office detained||High drama was witnessed after 40 BJP workers, along with the party’s district president Pushpinder Sighal, were detained on their way to the office of police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Thursday.The local BJP unit had announced ‘gherao’ of the police chief’s office to register their protest against the him for not registering an FIR against Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu. They had been staging a peaceful protest for the past four days against Bittu for making “provocative speeches and instigating people”.However, the protest held near the Clock Tower fizzled out on Monday after the police cordoned off the area by installing barricades. Even the dharna outside the mini secretariat on Tuesday and Wednesday remained a lukewarm affair. However, party leadership decided to up the ante on Thursday and called upon their youth and women wing workers to gather outside the mini secretariat. As the BJP workers began to assemble outside the DC office, heavy police forces were called to control the situation. Upon being stopped by the cops led by ACP Jatinder Chopra, the BJP workers began sloganeering against the police and the ruling Congress regime. Soon, Singhal and his supporters were bundled up in police vehicles. Vice-president Mahash Datt Sharma and other party workers, who were left at the spot, accused the police of working at the behest of Congress leadership.“A total anarchy is prevailing in the state. The BJP is not causing any polarisation in Punjab, but the Congress and leaders like Ravneet Singh Bittu are. He is making loose remarks and terming the protesting farmers Khalistani, but no action has been taken against him,” said Sharma.ACP Chopra said as a preventive measure, the BJP workers were taken to Sarabha Nagar police station and let off with a warning.Covid safety norms went for a toss during the protest as most of the workers were not wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-bjp-workers-on-way-to-police-chief-s-office-detained/story-HIoP1az1xhm9SgtnibF7bK.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Two nabbed for setting Chandigarh grocer’s shop on fire to avenge friend’s murder||Two residents of Maloya were arrested for setting on fire a grocery store in Colony Number 4 to avenge the murder of their friend.The accused are Sonu and Paras, both residents of Housing Board Flats, Maloya.In his complaint, Rajesh Kumar Verma, who runs a grocery shop in Colony Number 4, Industrial Area, told the police that on January 1, around 2.15am, he was woken up by clatter outside. When he went out, he was shocked to find his shop on fire and immediately called the fire brigade and police. His shop was completely gutted in the incident, and he later got to know that it was set on fire by Jang, Shaved, Paras, Sonu and Najim to avenge the murder of their friend, Sandeep, 19. Verma said his two sons, Akash, 21, and Vikash, 19, were behind the bars for the murder of Sandeep, who was stabbed to death on August 24, 2020, in Maloya. Sandeep used to ply an e-rickshaw. On his father’s complaint, a murder case was registered against Verma’s sons, besides Aman and Varinder. Verma lodged an arson complaint on Wednesday, following which a case under Section 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Industrial Area police station. According to investigators, the accused and the grocer’s sons had been nursing a grudge against each other and had fought many times before Sandeep’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-nabbed-for-setting-chandigarh-grocer-s-shop-on-fire-to-avenge-friend-s-murder/story-0337wPxNsf6UqNdoShCevL.html
08-01-2021||City||Man leaves car with keys inside, robbers drive off with wife in Punjab’s Dera Bassi||Two robbers snatched a man’s Tata Tiago with his wife still inside the vehicle near Sukhmani School in Dera Bassi on Thursday.After driving around in the car for 5km, the accused, who were not wearing masks, dropped the woman, Ritu, on the national highway after taking a U-turn from the Ambala toll plaza and sped away in the car.Investigating officer (IO) Satvir Singh said Ritu, along with her husband, Rajeev Chand, were at the school around 1pm to pay their children’s school fee. While Rajeev went inside the school, Ritu stayed back in the car, with the keys still in the ignition.Suddenly, a man sat on the driver’s seat, and another sat behind Ritu and covered her mouth to stop her from raising the alarm.They drove off towards the national highway and dropped her near the Ambala toll plaza after taking a U-turn, before fleeing towards Dera Bassi, the woman told the police. The IO said the couple lived in Dhandrala village, Dera Bassi, and Chand had a private job. “We have initiated a probe after registering a case against the unidentified accused. We are checking the CCTV footage of the toll plaza and are hopeful of arresting the robbers soon,” said Satinder Singh, station house officer, Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-leaves-car-with-keys-inside-robbers-drive-off-with-wife-in-punjab-s-dera-bassi/story-41RD9lKj60baoM2jRsQlLL.html
08-01-2021||City||Cop, wife, son among 5 held for duping Jagraon man of ₹6 lakh||A sub-inspector (SI) posted in Faridkot, along with his wife, son and two accomplices, has been booked for duping a Jagraon man of ₹6.1 lakh. According to the police, the SI had “borrowed” money from the son of the complainant, but the complainant alleged that the accused extorted money to settle the marital dispute of his son and daughter-in-law.The accused have identified as SI Sukhdarshan Singh, his wife Raninder Kaur alias Renu, son Abhishek Singh Brar, and two accomplices Sukhjunt Singh and Dilbagh Singh of Jaiton in Faridkot.The FIR has been registered following the statement of Amarjit Singh of Galib Kalan village in Jagraon. In his complaint, Amarjit Singh, who is a farmer, stated that his son Gurinder Singh had a marital dispute with his wife, who was living at her parents’ house in Faridkot.“We had come in contact with SI Sukhdarshan Singh, his wife and son, who also knew the in-laws of my son,” Amarjit said, alleging that the accused demanded Rs 6.1 lakh from him on the pretext of settling the matter amicably, but to no avail.He further claimed that the SI and his family in collusion with his son’s in-laws duped them.SI Kulwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police found out that the accused had borrowed money from the complainant, but did not return it on time. The FIR in the case has been registered under sections 420 and 406 of the IPC. A hunt is on to nab the accused, he added. Amarjit Singh also mentioned that he had filed the first complaint on October 3, 2019, but the police did not take any action. He said he later filed another complaint with the senior superintendent of police (SSP) (Ludhiana Rural) on February 25, 2020. The SSP had then ordered a probe and marked an inquiry to superintendent of police (SP, headquarters). After investigation, the FIR was finally registered on Wednesday.Sarpanch, panchayat secretary booked for embezzlementThe sarpanch and panchayat secretary of Rajoana Kalan village have been booked for embezzling panchayat funds, police said on Thursday.The accused have been identified as sarpanch Nirmal Singh, who is associated with the Congress, and panchayat secretary Gurmeet Singh.The FIR has been registered following the statement of block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Heera Singh.The BDPO said they had received a complaint from two residents of Rajoana Kalan — Gurjit Singh and Gurbakhsh Singh — about the embezzlement in panchayat funds.When the department initiated an investigation, it was found that the accused had not deposited the money earned through auction of village pond in the account.Apart from it, the sarpanch and panchayat secretary had also withdrawn Rs 25,000 from the account of panchayat.Sudhar SHO Jasvir Singh said the department had asked the accused to deposit the record for examination, but they failed to do so.He added that a case under sections 420, 406 and 409 of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest, he added.When contacted, sarpanch Nirmal Singh refuted the allegation.He termed the case politically motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-wife-son-among-5-held-for-duping-jagraon-man-of-6-lakh/story-zUJ8gvmnOX7GFH8OSLzQhK.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Four more bird carcasses discovered in Chandigarh, five samples sent for testing||Amid the heightened surveillance in view of the bird flu scare, the UT forest and wildlife department found four more bird carcasses in the city on Thursday.A total of five samples were sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar after four birds were found dead – two crows – one in Maloya and another in Leisure Valley, Sector 36; a peacock at Sukhna Lake and a cuckoo at Sector 36.On Tuesday, a common coot was found dead in the lake, while a dead pigeon, a crow, an egret and a cormorant were found in the lake waters on Wednesday. “Reports of their samples to confirm the cause of death are still awaited,” said chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai.“Apart from Sukhna Lake, bird carcasses were discovered in Sector 36 and Maloya as well on Thursday. We have taken samples and sent them to NRDDL, along with two samples from Wednesday, which were collected late,” said Abdul Qayum, deputy conservator of forests, UT.“We have been receiving inputs from bird watchers and volunteers, and our teams are also on the field, keeping a watch on the behaviour of birds,” Dalai said.ALSO READ: 7,000 more poultry birds die at Haryana’s Barwala; central team pulls up Panchkula admnHospitality industry exercising caution“Chicken dishes are prepared in restaurants at a high temperature, killing any possible virus. So, we assure people, the food served is safe to consume,” said Ankit Gupta, president of the Chandigarh Hospitality Association.General manager of King Broilers in Sector 46, Ravinder Kumar said there was no impact on the demand for poultry products. “The slight fluctuation in prices is nothing unusual. In winter, the sale of fish also picks up, so traders have no cause of concern as far as business is concerned,” he added.Sector 21 Meat Market Association’s president Ashish Kumar said although there was a minor dip in the sale of eggs, the demand and sale of broiler chicken remained unaffected, and the prices were stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-more-bird-carcasses-discovered-in-chandigarh-five-samples-sent-for-testing/story-G49EUueCEWm9D1LHE6FnDN.html
08-01-2021||City||Property tax evasion: Pay ₹1.15 crore, MC tells Sacred Heart Convent||Tightening the noose around one of the renowned schools in the city — Sarabha Nagar’s Sacred Heart Convent School — over property tax evasion, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) served a notice to its management on Thursday. The school management has been directed to pay ₹1.15 crore, including 100% penalty on the evaded tax amount. The civic body had earlier received a complaint wherein the complainant — an RTI activist — sought inquiry into the property tax returns filed by the school for the years 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19. An MC official said that after going through the case, it was found that the school had filed property tax returns for three years under the self-occupied category. “The building owner or the tenant has to pay 7.5% of the annual rent as property tax, but in the case of schools, 50% exemption is provided by the department,” the official, who is not authorised to speak with media, added. It was also found that the school management had evaded tax amounting to over ₹57 lakh by filing the tax return under the wrong category. “As per the tax evasion norms, the violator has to pay 100% penalty on the amount evaded, so the MC served a notice for the recovery of ₹1.15 crore,” the official said. MC superintendent Harvinder Bindra said, “The school has evaded tax due to which a notice has been served to its management, seeking submission of ₹1.15 crore as tax, including penalty, otherwise action will be taken against the school after discussing the matter with senior officials. We have also tightened the noose around different city hospitals, managements of which had been evading tax.” The school authorities, however, denied involvement in tax evasion. School principal Sister Rashmi said, “No tax evasion has been done by the school and the notice served by the MC is not correct. The school has paid the tax as per the norms and is not involved in any illegal activity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/property-tax-evasion-pay-1-15-crore-mc-tells-sacred-heart-convent/story-F5pxepbatJhzKEkfR1ViZL.html
08-01-2021||City||Mundian rape case: Police investigation under scanner for ignoring key witness||The probe in the rape case at Mundian police post has come under scanner as the police did not involve the man who was brought to the station along with the victim on December 5, 2020. The man was suspected to be in an illicit relation with the victim by his relatives, who had thrashed both of them before dragging them to the police station.Delay in medical examination of the victim has also raised questions on the police probe. The woman had undergone medical examination at least 29 days after the crime. Any such delay in the medical examination in cases like this can lead to loss of evidence. Head constable Rakesh Kumar, the main accused who had allegedly raped the 24-year-old married woman at the police post of Mundian Kalan, is in police custody. He has undergone a test for coronavirus. After the test report, he would be sent to jail in judicial custody. The other accused — including a woman from Mundian Khurd, her daughter, son and another relative from Paramjit colony on Chandigarh Road — are still absconding. The accused are relatives of the man who was suspected of having illicit relations with the victim. The police commissioner has already formed a special investigation team (SIT), comprising additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) (City 4) Rupinder Kaur Saran, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Simranjeet Singh, Jamalpur SHO Kulwant Singh and a woman officer, Kulwant Kaur.The ADCP said that as the SIT has been constituted, they will investigate the matter from all aspects. “A hunt is on to nab the other accused. We will also involve the man in question in the investigation and record his statement,” she added. The ADCP said that earlier, the woman had withdrawn the complaint filed by her and also submitted an affidavit wherein she had requested not to take any action against the head constable. “However, after some days she pursued her application and sought registration of an FIR. We suspect that the woman had previously filed the affidavit under pressure from the head constable. We are also investigating previous cases and inquiries against the head constable, who is currently in police custody and under suspension,” she added. On January 3, head constable Rakesh Kumar posted at the Mundian police post was booked for raping and threatening the 24-year-old woman. The accused allegedly threatened her with false implication of her husband if she lodged a complaint against him.Taking cognisance of the incident, Punjab State Women Commission (PSWC) chairperson Manisha Gulati had also asked police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal to submit a detailed action-taken report. Flour mill owner held for molesting 8-year-old girlA 50-year-old flour mill owner was arrested for molesting an 8-year-old girl on Thursday. A case has been registered against the accused at the Sadar police station.The accused has been identified as Sukhdev Singh of Central Town.Sadar SHO Jagdev Singh said a labourer had lodged a complaint against the accused on Wednesday. “He said that his 8-year-old daughter had gone to buy corn flour from the accused’s mill. When she returned, she was crying. On being asked, she told that the flour mill owner had molested her,” the cops said.A case under Section 354 of the IPC and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mundian-rape-case-police-investigation-under-scanner-for-ignoring-key-witness/story-nYUhjG1r5XW7A5O1cLGLBO.html
08-01-2021||City||7,000 more poultry birds die at Haryana’s Barwala; central team pulls up Panchkula admn||Over 7,000 poultry birds died in Panchkula’s Barwala belt on Thursday, taking the toll to 4.37 lakh, even as a five-member team rushed by the central government arrived in the district, amid uncertainty over the cause behind the en masse bird deaths.In a meeting with the deputy commissioner, the rapid response team sent by Union ministry of health and family welfare sought explanation on delay in detecting the cause of the bird deaths.Considered Asia’s second largest poultry belt with over 15,000 workers, Barwala and Raipur Rani have around 110 poultry farms, housing over 77 lakh poultry birds and producing 1 crore eggs daily.ALSO READ: Be prepared for any eventuality: Centre to states on bird fluThe Centre’s team includes two microbiologists from the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi; an assistant professor from the internal medicine department of Lady Hardinge Hospital, New Delhi; the regional director of central government from Chandigarh; and an expert from PGIMER, Chandigarh.“The team will inspect the poultry farms on Friday and examine the situation on ground to ensure that no human-to-human transmission takes place in case avian influenza is detected,” said deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja after a meeting with the experts’ team, and the health and animal husbandry and dairying departments of Haryana.He added that reports of samples collected by the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, were still awaited to confirm bird flu.Meanwhile, the commissioner said, he had also constituted a special task force to look into the bird deaths. It includes experts from the health and animal husbandry departments, police, block development officers and other officials. “I will hold a meeting with them on Friday evening,” the DC said.Isolation wards set up in Raipur Rani, Tamiflu procured“Taking preventive measures, the district health department has set up an isolation ward at the Civil Health Centre in Raipur Rani. Also, Tamiflu tablets have been procured in case avian influenza is detected,” an official from the administration said, adding that an action plan in case the bird flu was detected had been prepared.On samples of 30 poultry workers sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, the official said fresh samples may have to be collected for accurate results.Apart from neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, thousands of birds have died in Kerala, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh since the beginning of the outbreak in December-end.According to experts, the current outbreak is caused by the H5N8 strain of bird flu. Both H5N1 (another strain of avian influenza) and H5N8 have high pathogenicity (the ability of a pathogen to cause disease), but they do not infect humans much.On Wednesday, Haryana animal husbandry department in an advisory had said that poultry products can be cooked and consumed as usual with no fear of acquiring avian influenza virus, as it was sensitive to heat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-000-more-poultry-birds-die-at-haryana-s-barwala-central-team-pulls-up-panchkula-admn/story-C8YybVijAXEux6NHYwimGO.html
08-01-2021||City||Drug addict caught with six stolen vehicles||The Sadar police arrested a 40-year-old man for theft and recovered six stolen vehicles from his possession on Wednesday, while his accomplice remains at large.The accused has been identified as Gaurav Sood alias Bhoopa of Nirmal Nagar. His accomplice, who hasn’t been traced yet, is Raj Kumar alias Nadda.Sadar station house officer (SHO) Jagdev Singh said the cops caught the accused from Basant Avenue following a tip-off. “Acting on the information provided by the accused, we recovered four stolen motorcycles and two scooters, which he had dumped at an isolated place,” he added. During questioning, the accused told the police that he was an addict and executed crime to meet his need for drugs. “They used to target vehicles which were parked out of the range of CCTVs and opened their locks using master keys. They would then sell the vehicles to scrap dealers,” the SHO said. The cop added that Sood is already facing trial in a theft case. “A hunt is on for the arrest of his accomplice Raj Kumar. We are expecting to make more recoveries from Raj Kumar. The accused have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drug-addict-caught-with-six-stolen-vehicles/story-BfJj8hNiqnwcvMlc8HcCgP.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali firm’s manager arrested for duping people on allure of jobs; owner at large||The manager of a Mohali-based company was arrested and the owner was booked on Thursday for allegedly defrauding people of several lakhs on the pretext of providing jobs. The arrested man has been identified as Harwinder Singh, a resident of Aluna Bana village near Payal in Ludhiana district, the manager of Weft Technology Company, Sector 70, Mohali. The company’s owner, Nitin Kumar of Pehowa in Kurukshetra district, is at large. The complainant, Diksha, said that she had uploaded her resume on Naukri.com and received a call on December 5 from the company’s office to appear for an interview on December 7. She said the accused asked her to give them Rs 4,500 in cash and also transfer Rs 10,000 from her account. She further alleged that they did not give her the job and instead started demanding an additional Rs 8,000. After receiving the complaint, deputy superintendent of police Pal Singh handed over the investigation to the economic offences wing of the Mohali police led by inspector Amardeep Singh. The investigation revealed that Nitin and Harvinder used to contact job aspirants after downloading their resumes and had duped people of several lakhs of rupees on the pretext of providing jobs. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged 1[document or electronic record]) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused at Mataur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-firm-s-manager-arrested-for-duping-people-on-allure-of-jobs-owner-at-large/story-sxUUrgIGkBLZ8AWnMMiYoK.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Second FIR against Dilip Chhabria for cheating comedian Kapil Sharma of ₹5.7 crore||Comedian Kapil Sharma approached the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch on Thursday to file a complaint against car designer Dilip Chhabria for allegedly taking ₹5.70 crore from him and not delivering his vanity van. Police have recorded Sharma’s statement. Joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambhe said, “We are in the process of registering a first information report (FIR) against Chhabria for cheating Sharma. We will verify the facts and investigate the case.” Another crime branch officer said that police are likely to arrest Chhabria again on Friday. Chhabria was arrested by CIU on December 28, 2020, after police found that he and his firm, Dilip Chhabria (DC) Designs Pvt Ltd, had allegedly availed loans from some non-banking financial companies (NBFC) by posing as customers looking to buy DC sports cars. Police raided his factory in Pune and seized 14 cars and 40 engines. After his police remand ended on Thursday, Chhabria was produced in court again and was granted judicial custody for 14 days. In his statement, Sharma said that he had approached Chhabria to design a vanity van between in 2017. Sharma paid ₹5.30 crore to Chhabria from May 2017 to May 2018, but when he found that there was no progress on his order, he approached Chhabria in July 2018, said Bharambe. Chhabria demanded ₹40 lakh more as GST (goods and service tax) and Sharma paid the amount in July 2018. However, after a few months, there was still no development on the van. Sharma then asked for his money back, said Bharambe. Chhabria said he would deliver the van but asked for an additional ₹60lakh from Sharma. The comedian then approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in 2019, following which NCLT froze Chhabria’s account, added Bharambe. Chhabria then sent Sharma a bill of around ₹12 lakh for parking the vehicle and keeping spare parts in the factory premises. After receiving the bill, Sharma approached the Mumbai economic offences wing (EOW) and registered a complaint. Now CIU is registering a separate case against Chhabria and will investigate the case.Chhabria had manufactured 127 DC-Avanti cars in the past four years, of which 120 had been sold in India and abroad. The crime branch suspects that 90 of the cars were registered with the same engine and chassis number in different states, under different registration numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-second-fir-against-dilip-chhabria-for-cheating-comedian-kapil-sharma-of-5-7-crore/story-Eubf0k8RaTYT0YbNXXP5QN.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman posing as passport official held for ₹20,000 fraud||A woman was arrested on Thursday for posing as an employee of the regional passport office and duping a Ludhiana resident of Rs 20,000. The accused has been identified as Dimple.  The regional transport officer, Chandigarh, stated in his complaint that Devinder Kaur of Ludhiana had approached them with a complaint against Dimple. Devinder said that she wanted a correction made in the passport of her son and Dimple told her that she worked in passport office and can get it done for Rs 20,000. But, despite making the payment, the correction was not done and she approached the passport office. Sources in the police said that Dimple was fleecing people and taking cash from them on the pretext of getting the work done from the passport department despite not being authorised to carry out the same. A case has been registered Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-woman-posing-as-passport-official-held-for-20-000-fraud/story-iqH2VTZzoEVDHSc2QwEI3K.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Mock Covid vaccination drive to be held at parts of Mumbai Metropolitan Region on Friday||Various places within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region will have a vaccine dry run, organised by civic bodies such as Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai, on Friday in accordance with state government guidelines. “Thane Civil Hospital and centres in Diva and Shahapur have been chosen to conduct the vaccine dry run within the district. A five-member team including vaccinators will be present for the dry run in each centre. There will be 25 beneficiaries at each centre for the dry run,” said Dr Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane district. Provisions for waiting room, registration room, vaccination room and observation room have been made at each centre. The dry run drive will begin at 9am and will be completed within two hours.“Last year, we had conducted measles rubella vaccination in every school. Similarly, we have taken trained staff for the Covid vaccine drive and offered them additional training keeping in mind Covid protocol. The dry run will be conducted based on names registered on the Co-Win application. The beneficiaries will get a message mentioning the time for the vaccine dry run,” said Manish Renge, district health officer, Thane zilla parishad. Thane district authorities will hold dry runs in three centres. Meanwhile, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is set to conduct dry run at a health centre near Ghodbunder Road. Similarly, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation has planned dry run in two health centres in Kalyan and Dombivli each. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation will hold the drive at the civic-run Nerul Mother and Child Hospital. Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation and Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation will also be conducting the drive at one centre each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mock-covid-vaccination-drive-to-be-held-at-parts-of-mumbai-metropolitan-region-on-friday/story-iu1Ml52cQdegKrFxlorRRP.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray reviews mitigation plan for flood spots in Mumbai, directs to expedite transport hub plan||With barely a year to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections, Shiv Sena has stepped up its focus on civic issues faced by Mumbaiites. On Thursday, Mumbai suburban’ guardian minister and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray reviewed integrated transport hub plan, mitigation measures on 386 flooding spots and also discussed a self-sustainable model for the BEST.Thackeray directed the officials to expedite the integrated transport hub (ITH) plan which aims to bring various modes of transport under one roof. According to the plan, the inter-city or inter-state bus terminals will be linked with other modes of transport like BEST buses, Metro and taxis, to ferry passengers from there. This is expected to reduce the influx of vehicles and reduce traffic within the city. Thackeray assured that immediate relief funds will be released for Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST). “A request of around ₹120 crore has been made by the BEST for covering their operational cost, which will be granted from the Covid relief funds. This is apart from the ₹1,000 crore financial aid that is given to the BEST,” a senior civic official said. The BEST services were running throughout the pandemic for ferrying essential services, while other public transport modes were shut.By January-end, BMC will float tenders to appoint a consultant to conduct a study and present a long-term business plan for the BEST. “We are now looking forward to appointing a consultant to give us a 10-year business plan for BEST to come up with reforms and scope for earning revenue to make it self-sufficient,” Thackeray said.The BMC has also identified 386 flooding spots in the city and 96 tenders have been floated for initiating mitigation measures for the spots. A senior civic official confirmed that the work has already begun in some of those spots.Thackeray said that the civic body has set a target for this year to achieve proper lane markers for roads and pedestrian crossing, footpaths and refuge areas, no overhead wires, garbage dump free footpaths, cleaner underbellies of flyovers, streetlights, traffic junctions with art and walking ways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-reviews-mitigation-plan-for-flood-spots-in-mumbai-directs-to-expedite-transport-hub-plan/story-OwxxMoxb0ScZvzypDaHyhK.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh men arrested for vandalism||Two men were arrested on Thursday for burning an Activa and damaging three vehicles in Sector 25 on January 3. The accused have been identified as Monu, 25, and Gaurav, 18, both residents of Dainik Bhaskar Colony, Sector 25, Chandigarh. Police said 20 cases have already been registered against Monu for rioting, assault, robbery and preparation of robbery. In her complaint, Pushpa of Dainik Bhaskar Colony, said that on the intervening night of January 2 and 3, she saw the accused moving in the locality with sticks and breaking windows of vehicles. She added that they even pelted stones at a house, set her Activa scooter on fire and damaged three vehicles before leaving. A case has been registered under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 336 (act endangering personal safety or life of others), 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.The accused were produced before a court that sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-men-arrested-for-vandalism/story-GySG3SWhtyR0r45WvqIG8L.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Hemant Nagrale takes additional charge as director general of police of Maharashtra||Hemant Nagrale, director general (legal and technical), has been given additional charge of the director general of police (DGP) of Maharashtra after the incumbent Subodh Kumar Jaiswal was appointed as the head of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Nagrale, a 1987-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, along with 1988-batch officers Param Bir Singh and Rashmi Shukla, are believed to be the top contenders for the post. In an order issued by the state home department on Thursday, the government has stated that Jaiswal, a 1985-batch IPS officer, has been relieved from the responsibility to take up the new job in the Central agency. “Hemant Nagrale has been appointed with additional charge to the post fallen vacant after Jaiswal’s new appointment,” the order stated. The state government has begun the process to appoint a new DGP as per the Supreme Court’s directions in the Prakash Singh case. An official from the home department said Nagrale is most likely to be appointed as DGP after completing the procedure. “By picking Nagrale for the additional charge over senior-most DG Sanjay Pandey (1986-batch), political bosses have hinted at their intention. Pandey is unlikely to be considered for the post because of his slew of litigations against the government over the years. The proposal to the Central government for the appointment will be sent soon,” the officer added requesting anonymity.“We will send names of officers who have completed 30 years of service to UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) for the empanelment. Based on seniority and confidential reports during service tenure, UPSC sends back a panel of three officers to choose from. The chief minister and home minister take a final call on the appointment,” said an official from the home department. Jaiswal was appointed as the director general of CISF on December 30 in an order issued by the department of personnel and training of the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hemant-nagrale-takes-additional-charge-as-director-general-of-police-of-maharashtra/story-cVQF4pHiYEqgjqMFGs9F1M.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Central Railway launches probe into spray painting at Mumbai’s heritage CSMT building||The Central Railway (CR) has launched an investigation into an act of vandalism wherein someone spray painted at one of the structures at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), which is a world heritage site. The structure is located at the entrance of the suburban railway station near the subway of the terminus building. CR will be filing a complaint after identifying the people behind the act. CR authorities are checking footage from closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the entrance of the railway station. “A thorough investigation will be conducted in the case. We will also scan footage from CCTV cameras near the entrance as well as ticketing windows. Meanwhile, railway staffers are removing the paint,” said a senior CR official. CSMT building, designed by Frederick William Stevens and built in 1888, was declared a UNESCO world heritage site in July 2004. The building attracts attention of not just tourists but also the common Mumbaiites. Currently the heritage building houses offices of senior CR officials. CR is also undertaking restoration work of the building at the cost of ₹41 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-launches-probe-into-spray-painting-at-mumbai-s-heritage-csmt-building/story-OABxc9viqQjepHLElNNxXP.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh teen found seven months pregnant, 20-year-old held for rape||A Manimajra man was arrested on Thursday for raping a 17-year-old girl after she was found seven months pregnant. The accused has been identified as Abhimanyu, 20. The rape came to light after the minor rushed to a hospital with complaint of severe stomachache and was found pregnant during medical examination. The minor’s family approached the police after she confided in them that she was raped by Abhimanyu. He has been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Muktsar man booked for rape In another case, a Muktsar Sahib resident, Karanvir Khullar, has been booked for raping a 38-year-old Chandigarh woman after promising to marry her. The complainant told the police that she met Khullar at a gym in Sector 9. They had exchanged mobile numbers and even met several times. On July 3, 2020, he asked her to meet him at a hotel in Sector 17. There, he promised to marry her and established physical relations with her. But, he later backtracked from his promise, following which the woman lodged a police complaint. A case under Section 376 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-teen-found-seven-months-pregnant-20-year-old-held-for-rape/story-0Fm1HJfoVJ9yuvuZXIt8JO.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||P Varavara Rao’s health improves, to stay in Mumbai’s Nanavati Hospital till January 13||The health of 82-year-old Telugu poet and Bhima-Koregaon accused P Varavara Rao, who is currently undergoing treatment at Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital, has improved. However, his wife P Hemlatha has sought one week’s time to go through Rao’s medical reports. The Bombay high court (HC) allowed an extension for his stay at the hospital till January 13 and posted the hearing of the petition seeking bail for Rao on health grounds to the same date.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the petition filed by Hemlatha, was informed by advocate R Satyanarayan that as per the directions of the bench, the state has supplied medical reports of various hospitals where Rao had been kept since May 28 which include the report from Taloja jail hospital as well. Citing that they required some time to go through the reports, they stated that an extension of Rao’s stay at Nanavati Hospital was required. Responding to the court’s query regarding Rao’s health condition and whether he was able to walk, Satyanarayan informed the court that there was improvement and Rao has recovered substantially but added that he was not aware of whether Rao could walk.In the absence of counsels for the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the state, the court accepted Satyanarayan’s submissions and request, and posted hearing of the bail application to January 13. The court is hearing two petitions — one filed by Hemlatha and an appeal by Rao against the rejection of his bail by the special NIA court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/p-varavara-rao-s-health-improves-to-stay-in-mumbai-s-nanavati-hospital-till-january-13/story-eAPui3rpWzOe5wBBf0GuxL.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: NCP won’t make alliances where it has strong presence, says party leaders||With maximum civic bodies in the state going to polls in next two years, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has chalked out its plan and decided to join hands with other two ruling parties where it has fewer corporators in the civic body. However, it may not go into an alliance in the areas where it enjoys a stronghold. In Mumbai, the NCP may join hands with the Shiv Sena, the party leaders said.Five major municipal corporations — Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad, Vasai-Virar, Kalyan-Dombivli and Kolhapur will face polls in next few months, while 27 district councils, 10 municipal corporations including Mumbai and more than 100 municipal councils and nagar panchayats will go to polls in 2022. All the political parties are preparing to wrest major pie in the local bodies.NCP chief Sharad Pawar has convened a meeting of party ministers, members of Parliament and senior leaders to chalk out the strategy and decide over the alliance with other two ruling parties — Shiv Sena and Congress in these elections. The leaders discussed various aspects for forming alliances and contesting polls on their own. “After due deliberation, it was decided that the party will contest the polls on its own where it has a strong presence or power in the local body. In the local bodies, where it has few corporators, we will go for the alliance with either or both of them,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.“The logic behind is to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) away from the power. Where BJP is strong, Maharasthra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners will come together to defeat it. But where any of us are in a stronger position then we will be contesting alone. This is to avoid the likely defection to the BJP from the ruling party members on being denied the tickets if fought in the alliance, as it reduces the number of seats available to contest. This would ultimately benefit the BJP and we want to avoid it,” said another minister, wishing not to be named.Elaborating it further, the leader said, “For instance in Kolhapur Municipal Corporation which is ruled by Congress and NCP, we would be contesting the polls independently. BJP too has a strong presence in the civic body and thus, contesting elections independently will benefit both of us.”In Mumbai, where NCP is on the weaker ground, and Congress cannot concede on less number of seats if alliance fought together, the Pawar-led party is expected to go with Sena.After the meeting, state minority affairs minister and party spokesperson Nawab Malik told reporters that the party discussed preparations for the upcoming local bodies elections and strategy to strengthen the party position in the state. “Pawar saheb’s stand for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections is very clear. Though Congress has been talking about going solo and the talks over alliance are yet to begin, all the three ruling parties should come together. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray too is positive on this,” Malik said when asked about BMC polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ncp-won-t-make-alliances-where-it-has-strong-presence-says-party-leaders/story-g3u4SX3ANOIYF4TKLU62oM.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC gets central award for energy efficiency||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has been awarded the first prize among municipal sectors by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency at the National Energy Conservation Awards-2020.The awards are given for exceptional achievement in energy efficiency in different categories like industry, buildings and municipal sector.On winning the prize, MC commissioner KK Yadav, said, “To reduce its energy foot-print and cut down electricity consumption costs, MC has replaced all 48,524 street light points with energy efficient LED lights.With this, the city saved 13.02 million units of energy annually and reduced its power bills from Rs 14 crore per year to Rs 8 crore.”These LED street lights are also eco-friedly and 10,543 metric tonne of carbon foot prints are reduced annually, he added.CHB awarded for slum rehabilitation programmeThe Chandigarh Housing Board has been ranked first in the country by Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) under the theme of “Housing, urban poverty and infrastructure’ for its slum rehabilitation programme. The award comprises Rs 1 lakh and a certificate.The certificate was presented to Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, on Thursday by Akash Tyagi, regional chief, HUDCO.“The top rank was given for CHB performance in the rehabilitation of slum dwellers from across the city to CHB flats in Maloya. The CHB constructed 4960 flats in Maloya. 2600 flats were allotted to residents of Colony no. 4 and 1700 have been given to the people under the Affordable Rent Housing Scheme,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-gets-central-award-for-energy-efficiency/story-IZl2bMpQdLpVAUU1D5x1jK.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Kulbhushan Goyal takes charge as Panchkula mayor||Kulbhushan Goyal took charge as the mayor of Panchkula at the municipal corporation office in Sector 14 on Thursday. He was welcomed by Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, municipal commissioner RK Singh, MC councillors and other senior leaders.The mayor said that a cow shelter and dog kennel will be inaugurated at Sukhdarshanpur village on January 14 and priority will be given to making the city free from the stray menace.He added that initiatives will be taken to make Panchkula self-dependent and MC will try to keep the city clean and green with the help of residents. Also, industrialists from Zirakpur and Mohali will be encouraged to invest here.Goyal had his first meeting with MC staff on Thursday. “A detailed meeting was held and you will start seeing results in a month. Main roads will be repaired, green cover will be increased and we are also encouraging industrialists to invest in the city.”Gupta said that pending development works will be expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kulbhushan-goyal-takes-charge-as-panchkula-mayor/story-It9JfxIqLT3Gze8yUxc92M.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Third panel by Maharashtra government to deliberate between Aarey and Kanjurmarg||tanushree.venkatraman@htlive.comAfter two committees that presented divergent views on the correct plot for the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed, a third panel appointed by the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Wednesday will take the final call on the Aarey and Kanjurmarg plots.A senior official from the state government said, “The earlier reports did not consider the fact that the Aarey plot would prove to be insufficient in the coming years. Therefore, the committee has been asked to study Aarey and also look at Kanjurmarg’s feasibility as an integrated car shed for Metro-3, 4 (Wadala-Kasarvadavali) and 6 (Swami Samath Nagar to Vikhroli), which was also not considered before.” While the government had also stated that it is looking at a plot in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), the terms of reference for the committee does not mention that plot.The two committees appointed earlier had studied nine plots before presenting their recommendations.In 2015, the Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government had appointed a committee under the then metropolitan commissioner UPS Madan. The panel had recommended building an integrated car shed for Metro-3 and 6 at Kanjurmarg. The committee had stated that the Kanjurmarg option becomes “preferential” when seen together with line 6. “Both the lines, when developed as one system, can share the same depot facilities at Kanjurmarg and operationally complement each other,” the 2015 report stated.It had also recommended a double decker depot at Aarey in case the Kanjurmarg land is not available. “The option entails a substantially smaller impact of only 446 trees and the depot area is also reduced to 20.82 hectares instead of the present 30 hectares,” the report stated. In 2019, Thackeray, after staying the construction at Aarey, appointed a committee under additional chief secretary (finance) Manoj Saunik. The panel, which submitted its report last year in January, stated that Aarey would be the most viable option. It said, “There is no alternative site available for the car shed for line 3 which could be selected which would be environmentally suitable and available at reasonable cost.” It stated that the government must allow the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation to go ahead with the construction at Aarey and also ask the agency to take additional possible measures to expedite “work of the depot to make up for the time lost due to litigation and otherwise.”While the committee studied the Kanjurmarg option, it stated that shifting the car shed to Kanjurmarg would have huge technical, operational, financial repercussions. It also stated that “shifting of depot would not address the requirements of line 3 and would also hamper the frequency of operations of both lines 3 and line 6 (sic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/third-panel-by-maharashtra-government-to-deliberate-between-aarey-and-kanjurmarg/story-g95utEv06JpVMrO8fCEJ5I.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Why was purchase of 19 houses in Alibag not mentioned in Maharashtra CM’s poll affidavit: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has raised questions about the purchase of 19 houses of 23,500 square feet at Korlai village in Alibag by Rashmi Thackeray, wife of chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, jointly with party legislator Ravindra Waikar’s wife Manisha. Somaiya asked as to why this deal was not disclosed in the election affidavit of the CM when government records show that these 19 properties were bought from Anvay Naik in March 2014, but were transferred in Thackerays’ name only in November 2020.Somaiya in a press statement on Thursday said, “These 19 houses valued at ₹5.29 crore remained Thackeray’s benami (anonymous) properties until 12 November 2020. I visited Korlai village and checked the land records of Thackerays’ and Anvay Naik’s family transactions.” Somaiya also produced documents of the transactions.In November when Anvay Naik’s suicide case was reopened and journalist Arnab Goswami was arrested in connection with the case under charge of abetment to suicide, Somaiya had made similar allegations about the purchase of a 9.35-acre land at Korlai village and asked why the deal was not made public.On Thursday, HT contacted Shiv Sena leaders for a comment regarding Somaiya’s allegations, but did not receive a response. Ravindra Waikar’s office told HT that Waikar has refuted these allegations time and again in public and in media. The spokesperson of the Thackerays did not respond.Waikar had in November said, “Somaiya has been trying to misguide people. Whether nine records were produced or 21, the land size (9.35 acre) remains the same. We did not buy it from 21 sellers but only from Anvay Naik. Somaiya has no business to ask relations between Thackerays and us. Uddhavji is our party chief and heads of the family and there was nothing wrong in purchasing the land jointly. Anvay had come to me through my secretary to sell the land. Neither I nor the Thackerays knew him before that and the question of having any business relations does not arise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-was-purchase-of-19-houses-in-alibag-not-mentioned-in-maharashtra-cm-s-poll-affidavit-bjp/story-OeauWycuOul6V53huu2ApK.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||AI, data science sectors attract more engineering applicants in Maharashtra||After months of delay, the first seat-allotment list for first-year Bachelor of Technology (BTech) courses was released by the state common entrance test (CET) cell on Wednesday. While computer science has been a favourite among top scorers year after year, many colleges are witnessing a growing number of students now opting for electronics and communication, as well as newly introduced courses like artificial intelligence (AI) and data science. “The electronics and communication course has managed to scoop the best of minds this year, and many have also opted for BTech in AI and data science fields. Since jobs in the electronics as well as AI sectors are gaining popularity, students are very clear about their ambition,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra. In early 2019, to attract more students to the engineering sector, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) had requested all affiliated engineering colleges to introduce new courses like data science and analytics, blockchain, machine learning and robotics, among others. Since 2020, AICTE also implemented a blanket ban on new engineering institutes across the country and instead requested colleges to apply for new-age courses. In September last year, the state CET cell recorded a rise in engineering applications, after witnessing a year-on-year drop in registrations until 2019. From 4.13 lakh aspirants who had registered for the MH-CET exam in 2019, the figure stood at 5.32 lakh in 2020. Registrations stood at 4.35 lakh in 2018. Many institutes felt the increased interest among students was due to the introduction of new-age courses. “Our institute had received several inquiries throughout the lockdown for admissions, especially asking if the institute had any plans to start new courses. More and more technically-aligned students now want to study new forms of engineering rather than the traditional courses,” said a faculty member from another city-based engineering institute. While demand for new-age courses is growing, and an increasing number of institutes are showing interest in wanting to introduce these courses, experts have highlighted how this move could be short-lived, especially for courses like AI and data science and analytics due to the evolving technology in these fields. “Most of the new-age courses introduced by AICTE this year are for application-based technology, and with every passing year, these sectors evolve, and new trends emerge. At present, these courses might be in a position to offer many jobs to graduating students, but there’s no guarantee the trend will stay for very long,” said SS Mantha, former chairperson of AICTE. “The shelf value of new-age courses could be limited, whereas basic knowledge in core engineering sectors will take students a long way,” he added. In some cases, engineering institutes have also chosen not to apply for the new courses due to lack of support from the state government. “We didn’t apply for any new courses because till date the state government has not approved faculty for the electronics and communication course that we had started in 2009. This particular course has attracted the brightest of minds over the years and is in popular demand amongst recruiters as well, which is why the institute is funding the course without any government support,” said Dhiren Patel, director, Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI), Matunga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-data-science-sectors-attract-more-engineering-applicants-in-maharashtra/story-SXKKsVdeE0RhKr3CU0MTKI.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s plasma heroes come to the rescue of Covid-19 patients||With blood donations seeing record lows and worries of contracting Covid-19, finding plasma donors has been a challenge for many. Fortunately, good Samaritans in the city have been helping connect plasma donors with patients. In August, Krishnan Bhandari, 59, was rushed to the intensive care unit in Nanavati Hospital, after he contracted Covid-19 and developed pneumonia. The doctors suggested plasma therapy. “We hopelessly searched for a donor for almost two days,” said Bhandari’s daughter, Mohini. Finally, she found Plasma In Need For Transfusion (PINT), a pan-India network of plasma donors. “Within 24 hours of registration, I got a donor who came to the hospital and donated plasma under my father’s name. He was like a god to us,” said Mohini. Bhandari returned home on August 31 after recovering from Covid-19.PINT was set up by Dr Neil Pinto, 24, and Karina Thakrar, a graduate from from Loyola Marymount University, in July 2020. “We match the details of patients with registered donors. Once we get a match, we immediately send the contact details of the donors to patients,” Dr Pinto said. So far, over 240 recovered Covid-19 patients and over 3,400 patients have registered with PINT. “We have been able to save over 400 Covid-19 patients across 12 cities in India,” said Dr Pinto.He has recently started a campaign on Ketto, an online crowdfunding website, to raise money to help Covid-19 patients in their treatment and assist blood banks in conducting antibody tests that are required for donors to donate plasma.Business developer Ronak Shah, 30, has also been helping Covid patients find plasma donors. “I have been associated with blood donation campaigns for years so many social workers have my number. Between May and August, when the pandemic was at its peak, I used to get calls even in the middle of the night, seeking plasma,” said Shah, who lives in Bhayandar. Working with a few blood banks, which were grappling with shortages, Shah created a data bank for recovered patients who wanted to donate plasma. Twelve years after Bandra resident Balu Nayar started a Twitter account (@BloodDonorIndia) to help connect blood donors to patients, the handle became a lifeline for many searching for plasma. Last year, the handle received 28,000 requests of which 20% were related to plasma. “During the pandemic, we were overwhelmed with responses as we recorded almost 200% surge in demands. Some people had to struggle for days to arrange for a donor,” said Nayar. Convalescent plasma therapy uses plasma from recovered patients of Covid-19 as their plasma contains antibodies that can fight the infection. While the country’s largest trial for this therapy suggests it is not effective at severe stages of Covid-19, plasma therapy has its supporters. Dr Arpita Dwivedi, head of the critical care unit at LH Hiranandani Hospital in Powai, said, “We have seen faster recovery among moderately-ill patients who are treated with Covid-19. It helps provide relief to patients who have problems with breathing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-plasma-heroes-come-to-the-rescue-of-covid-19-patients/story-M9uSFRjFyXPdc7712SFI3I.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Nitin Gadkari announces new highway to curtail pollution, congestion in Mumbai and Pune||To curtail the vehicular pollution in Maharashtra’s two major cities Mumbai and Pune, a new highway between Surat and Bengaluru was announced by the Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday, in Mumbai. Gadkari also announced new national highway projects worth ₹5,801 for Maharashtra, under his ministry’s annual plan.The new highway between Surat and Bengaluru, worth ₹6,000 crore will facilitate south-bound vehicles coming from northern Indian states, to bypass Mumbai and Pune. Gadkari said that the new highway starting at Surat connecting Nashik, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Hyderabad, Chennai will end in Bengaluru. “The vehicular traffic towards south from the northern states like Rajasthan, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh passes through these two Maharashtra cities, leading to pollution and congestion. The new highway will bypass Mumbai and Pune, and will help in reducing major congestion,” Gadkari said while addressing a press conference in Mumbai, after meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on various projects being implemented in the state, on Thursday.He also said that the ongoing four-lane work on Mumbai-Goa highway will be completed in a year. The highway which was expected to be completed last year has been delayed, due to issues related to land acquisition, forest and wildlife clearances, and poor planning. The Panvel-Indapur section of the highway was to be completed in June 2014 but is still reeling with technical issues. The Union minister said that during his meeting with State Bank of India (SBI) chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara on Thursday, the financial issues have been resolved. “Around 70-75% work of the patch has been completed till date. The contractors for the other two patches have been replaced, ” Gadkari said.The minister said that he has ensured additional funds for the roads in Maharashtra from the annual plan of his ministry. “The annual plan for national highway works in Maharashtra was approved for ₹2,727 crore. I got it enhanced to ₹5,801 crore, which will help in developing 1,035 km of national highways in the state” he said. Gadkari said that the ₹1 lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project will be extended till Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), to facilitate container traffic. He said the state government will partner in its construction by the means of goods and services tax (GST) exemption and royalty-free supply of steel and cement, which will be considered as its equity in the project.CM Thackeray directed state officials to resolve the issues related to land acquisition and clearances from the forest department at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nitin-gadkari-announces-new-highway-to-curtail-pollution-congestion-in-mumbai-and-pune/story-qAYSV7EnSANeq8FM07VItK.html
08-01-2021||City||Folic acid awareness week: Why folic acid is an important public health issue||It is Folic Acid Awareness Week (January 4-10) and thus a write-up about this seems timely, but a paediatric surgeon writing about folic acid — a simple B-complex vitamin — may be considered anomalous by some. The truth is folic acid, or rather the lack of it, is responsible for the many complex and long surgeries that I perform as a part of my paediatric surgical practice. And many of these surgeries are performed on new born and young infants. These are children born with a birth defect of the spinal cord and the brain – collectively termed as neural tube defects (NTDs). Neural tube defects are the commonest type of birth defects seen in India. They can result in death of the new-born (neonatal mortality) or will cause childhood paralysis in those who survive. The paralysis is much more severe and disabling than polio. Additionally, these children require several surgeries during their childhood and adolescence for associated medical problems. From published data, it is estimated that in India, up to four-five per 1,000 births are affected by this serious defect, of which 90% can be prevented by effective folic acid intervention. To prevent NTDs, adequate levels of folic acid are required in the mother’s body during the first six weeks of pregnancy when the brain and spina cord are developing. An important, original research article recently published in a leading birth defects Journal – authored by two of the world’s leading NTD-epidemiologists, Godfrey Oakley and Vijaya Kancherla from Atlanta, mentioned that in 2015 alone, proper public health interventions and policies for folic acid in India “would have prevented about 116,070 cases of folic acid preventable SBA (NTDs) ”. Can you imagine so many cases of polio in India in one year! If that were to happen, health ministers and public health officials may have to resign. Then why are we turning a blind eye to the problem of folic acid preventable NTDs, which cause childhood paralysis, which is worse than that caused by polio, and is preventable! My tryst with NTDs began as a resident doctor in the late 1980s, when often I was the first to receive these newborns who were brought in by their distraught families, with the visible protuberant swelling on the back where the spine and spinal cord was defective. Many of these babies, girls and boys alike, had varying degrees of paralysis of their lower limbs. In 1991, the famous Medical Research Council study from the United Kingdom proved unequivocally that folic acid prevents NTDs, and by 1998, the United States had implemented mandatory fortification of enriched cereal grain products with folic acid. This and other folic acid awareness programmes have enabled the US to decrease the prevalence of NTDs to 0.5/1,000 live births. Currently, about 60 countries have implemented mandatory folic acid fortification, and reported similar reductions in prevalence of NTDs. Additionally, in several countries, large folic acid awareness campaigns have been undertaken to educate women about the need to take a folic acid supplement before planning a pregnancy. This dual policy of creating awareness about pre-conceptional folic acid supplementation and fortification of suitable foods with adequate levels of folic acid must be implemented in India without further delay. In a 2016 published study conducted by the department of community and family medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Rishikesh), it was found: “Totally, 94.25% of women had planned pregnancies; however, only 4.75% of women reported FA supplementation before conception. This indicates that if these women would have been properly counselled and prescribed FA, they might have taken it.” Regarding food fortification with folic acid, we seem to be going in the reverse direction. In 2016, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) developed standards for the type and amount of nutrients that can be added to fortified wheat flour. Those were very much in line with the World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations. But in 2018, FSSAI switched to dramatically lower standards, which will lead to no health impact. If India adapts the 2018 FSSAI standard, it will not see results as seen in other countries, where fortification with FA has been mandated because the level of folic acid included is 17 times lower than WHO recommendations. Global experts in grain fortification are questioning the 2018 FSSAI standards and feel that fortification’s success in India is in jeopardy, unless FSSAI goes back to its 2016 standard for fortified wheat flour. Almost 20 years ago, at a neural tube defects conference in Atlanta, I first met and heard Dr Godfrey Oakley, then a professor of epidemiology at CDC. His evangelical lecture opened my eyes to the fact that folic acid awareness and effective public health interventions can prevent the large number of cases of children born with severe childhood paralysis in India. Prof Oakley has since then travelled all over the world becoming the global ambassador for folic acid. I invited him to India first in 2006 and recently in 2018. Since 2006, The Spina Bifida Foundation, along with other organisations, such as the International Federation and the Flour Fortification initiative, have been lobbying with the government to become serious about NTDs prevention. Although some state governments have undertaken initial steps for fortification, on the whole, precious little has been done in this regard. The prevention of folic acid-preventable NTDs must be given high priority in India because it will not only prevent thousands of children being born with paralysis since birth, but also is a cost effective and sustainable way to achieve significant reduction in neonatal and under-five mortality rates. Dr Santosh Karmarkar is the founder trustee, Spina Bifida Foundation, and paediatric surgeon, Lilavati Hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/folic-acid-awareness-week-why-folic-acid-is-an-important-public-health-issue/story-Oi86UGCGG5RTjQgsgtJk4L.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: Maharashtra education department to announce FCFS round for those without a seat||In a relief for first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants in the state, the education department has decided to have first-come, first-served (FCFS) admission rounds for those left without a seat through the online admission process. While the department had earlier decided to do away with the FCFS rounds this year, the decision was revoked owing to a large number of students still without seats after five admission rounds. In Mumbai, more than 10,000 students are without seats after these rounds, despite there being nearly 1.3 lakh vacant seats in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “The department has granted special permission to conduct FCFS rounds. A detailed schedule of the same will be declared soon,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education in the state. In 2020, the department had declared that there would be no FCFS rounds, and only special rounds would be conducted for students who do not get admission in regular rounds. FCFS rounds usually follow regular admission rounds, in which students can claim seats against vacancies across colleges in a particular city or district, and are allotted seats based on who claims them first. These rounds were introduced in the academic year 2018-19 but were criticised by many parents and experts as they allowed students with lower scores to get into top colleges against vacant seats. On Wednesday, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad tweeted, “Admissions under the second special merit list will conclude on January 8 after which the schedule for FCFS round will be announced.” According to data shared by Gaikwad, 42% of the total seats lying vacant after five admission rounds are in six regions – Amravati, Aurangabad, Mumbai, Nagpur, Nashik and Pune – where admissions to FYJC is online.Similarly, 23% (nearly 1 lakh) of the total (4.15 lakh) students who have applied for seats are yet to take admission anywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-maharashtra-education-department-to-announce-fcfs-round-for-those-without-a-seat/story-UocbKJIK5TDyxCsrgTp24J.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||December saw fewest Covid-19 cases in Mumbai since April||After witnessing two sharp surges last year, December saw the lowest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths since April in the city. In end-December, Mumbai’s recovery rate was 93% and the Covid growth rate was 0.21%.Statistics released by the state health department show December 2020 recorded a drop of 60% and 84% compared to the number of Covid-19 cases in November and September respectively. Compared to May last year, December’s caseload dropped by about 70%. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), active cases in Mumbai have been below 10,000 since December 15.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “BMC had expected yet another surge in cases in November and December, owing to the festival season, but that did not happen.” December recorded 9,245 cases of Covid-19 and 223 deaths. This is significantly less than the figures for November (25,062 cases; 566 deaths), October (49,877 cases; 1,281 deaths), September (58,321 cases; 1,236 deaths), August (30,474 cases; 1,260 deaths), July (35,139 cases; 1,722 deaths), June (36,559 cases, 3,237 deaths) and May (31,874 cases; 984 deaths). Lower caseloads were recorded in April (5,917 cases; 109 deaths) and March (151 cases; 7 deaths) last year.The surge in cases in September-October 2020 has been attributed to lifting restrictions on public movement.BMC also scaled up the number of daily tests to 14,000 in September 2020, when the positivity rate was high (between 17% and 25%). The number of tests dropped to 11,000 a day in November 2020 and the positivity rate fell to a range of 5-10%. The positivity rate remained at 5% and lower in December 2020 despite BMC increasing testing to 25,000 tests a day.Dr Om Shrivastav, a city-based doctor working with the Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 task force, said, “The Covid graph worldwide goes through peaks and troughs. In December, Mumbai witnessed its trough. It is too early to comment on whether herd immunity contributed to the decrease in Covid-19 cases. However, it is notable that despite unlock plans, the number of cases in the city have been under control and declining.” The case fatality rate (CFR) for Covid-19 has also dropped from over 9.5% in March 2020 to between 2.1% and 2.5% between September and December 2020. BMC reconciled 862 deaths (from April-May) and 751 deaths (from May-June) in June and July respectively. Following this, Kakani ordered his department to plot the deaths that were reported late, noting the dates on which they’d occurred. This exercise showed May ( 2,269) had the highest number of Covid-19 deaths, followed by June (1,922) and July (1,773). BMC has attributed the improvement in CFR to interventions such as the Mission Save Lives and greater awareness regarding testing among Mumbaiites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/december-saw-fewest-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-since-april/story-IbUDAhVrsgashYhFxeyfSJ.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC reserves order on plea filed by Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters to quash FIR filed on Rhea Chakraborty’s plaint||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday reserved its order on the petition filed by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh to quash a first information report (FIR) registered by Bandra police in September 2020, on the basis of a complaint lodged by actor Rhea Chakraborty. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik closed the petition for orders, observing that Rajput was a very good human being. “Everybody liked him, especially the role played by him of [cricketer] Mahendra Singh Dhoni. You can make out from his face that he was a very sober and good human being,” said the judges. On September 7, 2020, the police had registered an offence against Rajput’s sisters after Chakraborty alleged that Priyanka had on June 8 sent the late actor prescriptions given by a Delhi-based cardiologist Dr Tarun Kumar. The prescriptions contained psychotropic substances controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 and they were given without examining Rajput, Chakraborty had alleged. The consumption of the psychotropic substances in the prescriptions “may have caused and contributed to the suicidal death of the actor”, she further claimed. The sisters then moved HC through advocate Madhav Thorat seeking the quashing of the FIR and claimed that the statements made in it do not make out any cognisable offence. It added that Chakraborty’s complaint was nothing but a feeble attempt on her part to scuttle investigations against her by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and blame Rajput’s family for his suicide as she was on the verge of being arrested by NCB. Chakraborty had been arrested by NCB later. Their counsel, senior advocate Vikas Singh, submitted that there was gross delay in registering the offence, as Chakraborty was allegedly well aware of the WhatsApp chats exchanged between the late actor and Priyanka on June 8, but she lodged the complaint only on September 7. Singh also pointed out that the Telemedicine Guidelines issued by the Medical Council of India permitted prescription of medicines even on first consultation, and there was nothing wrong in the prescription. Singh asserted that the FIR registered by the police was non-est (non-existent) in the eyes of law for being second offence on the same cause of action, and thus, liable to be struck down on this ground as well. The senior advocate relied on the ruling in the Jacob Matthew’s case, in which the Supreme Court had held that an offence cannot be directly registered against a registered medical practitioner. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) supported the sisters by terming Chakraborty’s allegations “mostly presumptive and speculative in nature” and claimed that the FIR was “vitiated and bad in law” for being the second FIR on the same cause of action. Senior advocate Devdatt Kamat, who represented Bandra police, maintained that there was no illegality in registering the offence. Kamat submitted that the prescription (sent by Priyanka to Rajput) was on the face of it a fabricated document. He said the WhatsApp messages exchanged between the late actor and Priyanka falsified the claim that the prescription was followed by online consultation. He pointed out from the documents that someone other than the late actor had gone to the Delhi-based hospital as an indoor patient and obtained the prescription. With regards to the contention of the second FIR on the same cause of action, Kamat said the FIR in Bandra was in the nature of a counter complaint, countering the allegations levelled against Chakraborty in the FIR registered at Patna on the basis of a complaint by Rajput’s father. He added that the Jacob Matthew’s case involved issues relating to complaints of medical negligence against doctors, and was thus not applicable to this matter. Advocate Satish Maneshinde, who represented Chakraborty, insisted that the circumstances relating to Rajput’s death need to be investigated. He responded to the ground of delay in lodging the complaint, saying Chakraborty was aware of the messages exchanged between the late actor and Priyanka in June 2020 but Rajput had asked the actor to leave his home as she insisted that he should not take the illegally prescribed medicines. However, Maneshinde said she realised that the medicines were actually procured and the consumption of the same could have led to Rajput’s untimely death only after certain other messages were leaked. So she accordingly lodged the complaint. He submitted that the petition filed by Rajput’s sisters was premature as the case is handed over to the CBI, and if the agency finds no truth in Chakraborty’s complaint, it will file a closure report and urged the court to not foreclose the case. He insisted on allowing investigation into Chakraborty’s allegations, contending that in a case of abetment to suicide, proximate reasons are most important, and as the prescription was of June 8 and the actor has ended his life six days later, it could be the most proximate reason behind his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-reserves-orders-on-plea-filed-by-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sisters-to-quash-fir-filed-on-rhea-chakraborty-s-plaint/story-8frSTB2A8XrD78L2NbLJ3K.html
08-01-2021||City||Ludhiana schools record 10% attendance on Day 1 of reopening||Ten months since the Covid-19 outbreak, schools reopened to thin attendance in Ludhiana on Thursday amid confusion among school heads over the requirement of written consent from parents. A majority of schools had only sent messages to parents to send their wards, but when the children arrived on Thursday, they were asked to submit the written consent from their parents. Government school authorities said the thin attendance at most schools was also due to the parent-teacher meeting scheduled for Thursday during which few students turn up in any case. Barely 10% students attended the regular classes in Ludhiana with the authorities saying many parents were hesitant to send their wards, fearing they may contract the infection. At the Government Primary School, Model Gram, only seven of the 45 students of Class 5 came to school. The students were accommodated while maintaining social distancing in classrooms. Jyoti Arora, an elementary training teacher at the school, said, “Parents have been informed to send their children with written consent. We expect more students to attend classes from Monday.” The situation was similar in almost all schools of the district.Twenty of the 130 students of Class 5 at Government Primary School, Haibowal Kalan, attended classes on Thursday. School head Shivani Sood said, “Today’s parent-teacher meeting was aimed at motivating the parents. We are hopeful they will give their consent in the days to come.”At Malwa Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Model Gram, which is a government-aided facility, 57 students of Classes 6 to 8 attended the classes physically. The school has 121 students enrolled in these classes.Entry was allowed from the main gate of the school and circles were drawn to ensure social distancing . Staff were deployed for thermal screening of each student.At least nine students were accommodated in one classroom to maintain a distance of 2 metres. Ludhiana DEO, (elementary-cum-secondary) Rajinder Kaur said, “We got an overwhelming response at the PTMs. The attendance in primary and middle schools will improve in the next few days. Parents are willing to send their children as only two months are left for the final exams.” Students, parents give mask the go-byMany students and parents reached the schools to attend PTM while ignoring the basic safety protocols, including social distancing and wearing masks, despite the guidelines. At many government primary schools, textbooks were also handed over to parents. Sharing his joy, Vishal, a Class-7 student, said, “I missed the classroom teaching and am glad to be back. I will be able to concentrate better on my studies now.”A grand welcomeThe government schools in the rural areas, meanwhile, made special arrangements to welcome the students of Class 5. At Jandali school, the authorities rolled out a red carpet at entry gate and staff showered flower petals to welcome Class-5 students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-schools-record-10-attendance-on-day-1-of-reopening/story-7UVH0K9WtMU8q5MWWilQXO.html
08-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body files plaint against Sonu Sood for turning residential building into hotel||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recently filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police against Bollywood actor Sonu Sood alleging that Sood converted a residential building into a commercial complex. BMC in its complaint alleged that Sood converted a residential building, Shakti Sagar, a residential building on Juhu’s AB Nair Road, into a hotel without proper permission. The complaint was filed by BMC on January 4 under the Maharashtra Region and Town Planning (Act) for alternations, change of user and unauthorised additions.Vishwas Mote, assistant commissioner of BMC’s K West ward, said, “We are co-operating with the Mumbai Police for undertaking further police investigation into the matter.”It has come to light that the illegal construction was first pointed out by BMC in September 2018 and Lokayukta was informed about the same in October 2020. Sood had, in October, also moved the city civil court against the notice issued by BMC.Local activist Ganesh Kusmulu said, “I have written to the Mumbai Police requesting them to file a first information report (FIR) in the matter. Even BMC has filed a complaint. I have been following up on the issue since 2018 and urge BMC to act on the same.”Sood, however, has reportedly maintained that he has permissions from BMC for the work and only permission from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Authority (MCZMA) is pending.According to police officers, BMC has given complaint but no FIR has been filed. “The BMC engineer concerned should personally approach us and point out structural changes or any violations,” said assistant commissioner of police Suhas Raikar.Meanwhile, Sood did not answer repeated calls from HT. His public relations executive said there would be no statement issued by the actor on the issue.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stood by Sood and attacked the Shiv Sena, which is in power in the civic body, saying the BMC action was done out of vengeance. BJP MLA Ram Kadam alleged that BMC’s complaint to the Mumbai Police was a political decision and said, “Action has been taken against Sonu Sood only out of revenge. The state government had failed to help the people during lockdown. At that time, Sonu had done what the government should have done. Sonu helped migrants in person and as a result, Shiv Sena was not happy.”The BJP leader further said, “Earlier, it was Kangana Ranaut. Is it Sonu’s number now? It was the government’s job to send poor labourers to their villages. But Sonu did it. Also, during Covid-19, everyone used Sony’s hotel as a quarantine centre. Was the hotel not illegal at that time? Why did BMC officials not verify this?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-files-plaint-against-sonu-sood-for-turning-residential-building-into-hotel/story-WY3tJuf5yFdNB8qMGLtJ2K.html
08-01-2021||City||Ludhiana residents raise concern over canal turning into ‘Buddha nullah’||While efforts are being made to clean the polluted Buddha Nullah, another water body Sidhwan canal is also turning into a “nullah” due to the apathy of the irrigation department, and municipal corporation (MC) in cleaning it and failing to prevent the residents from dumping waste into it. The residents rued that the water body has already taken the shape of ‘Buddha Nullah’ as it is full of waste nowadays, and the authorities have turned a blind eye to the problem. The residents stated that the civic body is making efforts to make Buddha Nullah pollution-free but not paying heed to the deteriorating condition of the canal, which will become worse if no action is not taken soon.Former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor Tanvir Singh Dhaliwal said,” While it is the duty of the irrigation department to clean the canal, the MC has to prevent the residents from dumping waste into it. The canal was cleaned in 2016 at Rs 25 lakh but authorities made no concrete efforts to prevent residents from dumping waste into it nor did they do anything to clean the water body since then.”“The MC should take the responsibility to clean the canal otherwise it will turn into a permanent dumping spot in a few years,” he added.The residents rued that on one hand, the MC is working on projects like Sidhwan canal waterfront and is beautifying the canal banks, on the other, no efforts are being made to clean the water body.Keerat Singh, a resident of Sarabha Nagar area, said,” No doubt MC has done a good job in developing the waterfront project alongside the canal in Sarabha Nagar area, but it will look dirty if the canal is not cleaned regularly. It will look more like a nullah moving through the city.” Jagpreet Grewal, sub-divisional officer, irrigation department, said,” In the past few years, efforts have been made to prevent the residents from dumping waste into the canal. Iron meshes were also installed at the canal bridges with the help of NGOs but it didn’t deter them from dumping waste into it. I will take up the matter with the higher authorities.” MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We’ll start issuing challans to residents of they don’t stop dumping waste into the canal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-raise-concern-over-canal-turning-into-buddha-nullah/story-GBamg7hnRpLaIg11El5soI.html
08-01-2021||City||E-Daakhil portal launched in Ludhiana district||Punjab food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Thursday launched the e-Daakhil portal along with other welfare schemes during a district-level function organised at Bachat Bhawan, here. Ashu informed that the e-Daakhil portal would help consumers safeguard their rights. It will provide an effective mechanism to protect them from exploitation at the hands of traders, and will facilitate them in approaching consumer courts with ease, he said, while launching the portal. Created to enable e-filing of consumer complaints per the new Consumer Protection Act 2019, the portal will facilitate the online filing of complaints by citizens/advocates. He also said that the manufacturer would now be held responsible for defective goods along with the seller under the new Consumer Protection Act, 2019.He added that under the Dheeiyan Di Lohri special scheme, a series of events will be held throughout the month, during which congratulatory letters penned and signed by the CM will be handed over to the parents of more than 1.5 lakh girls celebrating their first Lohri.Regarding the Rs 75.64 crore 3-phase smart metering project, he said the consumer-friendly scheme will help reduce human error in manual reading through automatic uploading of data. “From January to December 2021, a total of 96,000 metres will be installed across the state by PSPCL, which will also help curb the malpractice of theft of electricity and improve the reading/billing efficiency and quality,” he said.These metres will enable consumers to view instantaneous/live data as well as the last bill data via PSPCL Consumer App, besides maintaining and regulating power consumption. They will have the option to change the meter to prepaid or post-paid. “Consumers will not need to visit DISCOM offices to register the complaint of wrong meter readings now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/e-daakhil-portal-launched-in-ludhiana-district/story-CXo1NcwodcGRHkEZL4jhOM.html
08-01-2021||City||4 thieves rob Mira Road jewellery store at gunpoint, walk away with ₹2-crore gold, diamonds||Four unidentified armed thieves robbed a jewellery store at Mira Road on Thursday and fled with over ₹2 crore worth gold and diamond items. The accused men, all aged between 25 to 40 years, visited the S Kumar Gold and Diamonds showroom in Shanti Nagar, Sector 4, on Thursday afternoon. They were wearing masks due to the Covid-19 pandemic and posed as customers. After an initial interaction with the counter staff about the jewellery displayed, one of them pulled out a revolver from a bag while the other three walked around the showroom picking up gold and diamond ornaments and putting in their bags and pant pockets.The entire robbery was captured on the store’s CCTV cameras and shows the terrified staff and customers standing by while the four accused took the jewellery. The security guard is seen sitting on a stool inside the showroom with folded hands.Within 15 minutes, the thieves cleared out most of the jewellery and walked out of the showroom.According to police, the men had arrived on two motorbikes. “While two of the accused left with a bag on a bike, the two others had to flee on foot as their bike would not start. They abandoned it outside the showroom,” said Amit Kale, deputy commissioner of police, Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate.Police suspect that the two-wheelers used for the theft may have been stolen ones. The men are likely to have done a recce of the showroom as there was no sign of urgency while robbing the place.The showroom staffers told police that when the men walked in wearing masks, they presumed them to be customers. A case of theft has been registered against unknown persons, and nakabandis have been set up at Palghar, Boisar, Borivli, Bhayander and other areas, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-thieves-rob-mira-road-jewellery-store-at-gunpoint-walk-away-with-2-crore-gold-diamonds/story-KPEaXUQ8U04xZ1CI9DWvmK.html
08-01-2021||City||‘Loan mela’ organised to equip Ludhiana sewermen with modern machinery evokes low response from informal sector||The first “loan mela” organised by the municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday under the ”Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge” started by the ministry of housing and urban affairs received a tepid response from the informal sector due to high prices of machinery exhibited during the event.The fair is being organised to stop manual scavenging in the city by providing loans to sanitation workers to purchase machinery/equipment. The event was organised at the indoor stadium, Pakhowal Road and inaugurated by mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal. As many as 20 companies exhibited their products during the event and most of them had put machinery worth lakhs on display.Apart from the informal sector, the officials of different urban local bodies (ULB) of Amritsar, Mohali, Malout and Jagraon also participated in the event. During the event, MoHUA officials said MC will also be providing work assurance to the sewermen so that they can pay back the loan to the banks.A consultant working with MoHUA, Pooja Saini said, “The loans are being provided by the National Safai Karamchari Finance Development Corporation (NSKFDC). While urban local bodies can avail a loan of up to Rs 50 lakh, those working in the informal sector can get Rs 5 lakh. The loans are being provided at 4% interest rate and have to be paid back in instalments in 10 years. The interest rate will be further reduced to 3% for women”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “This given an opportunity to the sewermen involved in the informal sector to equip themselves with modern machinery as loans are also being provided by the banks. MC will also be purchasing the required machinery in the coming time and the officials were told to make a list of requirements so that manual scavenging can be stopped.” However, workers of the informal sector said that it is not feasible for them to purchase the machinery or avail a loan for the same, due to the high cost.Ankit, a private sewermen who works in ward number 81, said , “The minimum cost of machinery put on display during the “loan mela” was around Rs 3 lakh. No private sewerman can purchase it on their own. Even if a loan is provided, how can we pay it back.”Ankit said only a contractor or MC can purchase the machinery because they deal at a large scale. Vasu, a sewerman who works in ward number 91, said, “We also want to work safely as accidents have taken place in the past wherein people have even lost their lives while cleaning the sewer lines. But, MC should provide the equipment at nominal rates.”With an eye on the first prize of Rs 12 crore under the category of the population over 10 lakhs, the civic body had stepped into the ”Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge” which was launched by the Centre in November last year. MC WITHOUT SAFETY KITS FOR ITS OWN EMPLOYEES While MC is working to equip the informal sector, the civic body itself is struggling to provide safety kits to its sewermen. One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said that around 1,600 sewermen work in the MC, but few are provided safety kits. The authorities are planning to purchase them but no final decision has been taken so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/loan-mela-organised-to-equip-ludhiana-sewermen-with-modern-machinery-evokes-low-response-from-informal-sector/story-CF7ZuDS5yCmkriqqqUaAPP.html
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cross-voting shadow over BJP as Chandigarh gets new mayor on Friday||The city will get a new mayor on Friday amid fears of cross-voting as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) eyes a fifth consecutive term for its candidate in a two corner fight this time for the last mayoral election of the current MC House, which goes to polls by the end of this year.Discontent is ripe within the BJP over selection of its nominees though on paper it appears to be smooth sailing for the party, which has 21 electoral votes, including that of the city MP who as ex-officio councillor can vote in the mayoral election. The Congress has five votes and the Shiromani Akali Dal one.Fissures within the party appeared to have deepened on January 4, the last date of filling of nomination papers, when BJP councillors Chandervati Shukla and Bharat Kumar revolted against the party. However, following a change of heart, they returned to its fold in a show of strength at the city party headquarters, where, except for Heera Negi, who has been hospitalised after contracting Covid-19, all party councillors were present.But party insiders say that anger among party councillors is still smouldering.“For most, there’s anger over choice of party candidates (senior deputy mayor and councillor Ravi Kant Sharma is the mayoral pick) as there’s a strong feeling that people who earlier worked against party interests are being awarded with posts now,” said a councillor requesting anonymity.For some, the recent ward delimitation has also come as a shocker. “Some of the current councillors are finding it hard to lose major areas of their older wards to newly created ones, which could mar their chances of a re-election. They are worried that they might even lose the party ticket and are questioning the intentions of the party’s current leadership on creation of new wards in areas unfavourable for them,” said the councillor.Cross-voting won’t be a first for the party, as in 2019 elections, too, rebel candidate (Satish Kainth) had managed to get 11 votes.The situation has become all the more tricky for the BJP as the magic mark of 14 can elude it and be reduced to 13 votes as BJP councillor Hira Negi and city MP Kirron Kher are unwell and unlikely to vote. SAD, a former BJP ally, is likely to boycott the elections.Aware of its weak position in the House, the Congress is hoping for cross-voting in the BJP though it is keeping its cards close to its chest.“We have not contacted any of the BJP councillors on the election. It is up to them,” said Devinder Singh Babla, the Congress’s mayoral nominee. Notably, Congress had declared support for Shukla’s candidature for the mayor’s post, but later, the MC secretary rejected her nomination papers on technical grounds.The BJP leadership, however, remained confident that voting day will go without any hitches. “We will win all three posts, with all BJP votes in favour of party nominees,” said state party chief Arun Sood.The state party in-charge, Dushyant Gautam, also arrived in city on Thursday and attended a meeting with the party councillors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cross-voting-shadow-over-bjp-as-chandigarh-gets-new-mayor-today/story-4QNovVWUClgAIE3YrBcPEJ.html
08-01-2021||Gurugram||CBI files chargesheet against four police officials in school murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a supplementary chargesheet against four Gurugram police officers for falsely implicating a school bus conductor and for fabricating documents against him in the 2017 school murder case.An 80-odd page chargesheet was filed before Aman Inder Singh, special judicial magistrate of Punjab and Haryana high court, on Wednesday. The agency gave a clean chit to the private school.The probe agency, which had named a juvenile as the main accused in the case and filed a chargesheet in February 2018, said in the supplementary chargesheet that “there is sufficient evidence for prosecution” against four police officials who allegedly implicated the bus conductor and accused him of murder and sexual assault.Birem Singh, assistant commissioner of police, Narender Khatana, then station house officer of Bhondsi police station, Shamsher Singh, sub-inspector and the investigating officer for two days, and Subhash Chand, EASI, are the four officials named.Khatana refused to comment on the matter, while the three other officials could not be reached for comment.Sushil Tekriwal, counsel for the father of the victim, said that the police had forced Kumar to confess and had fabricated the documents in the case. “Police officers have made fake daily diary (DD) entries. They had prepared the first document of the case in the mortuary on September 8, 2017, where they had shown Ashok Kumar as a suspect without a complaint and a case was registered. They knew since day one there was no sexual assault. Still, they forced him to accept that he had attempted to sexually assault the victim,” he said.Tekriwal alleged that the investigating officer had prepared the documents without visiting the crime spot. “They had tried to give a clean chit to the juvenile and recorded his statement before the Sohna court on September 15 as a witness under Section 164 CrPc without verifying his friend’s statement. Even the gardener had informed the police that the juvenile had informed him during the incident, but no one questioned him. Police had also tried to create pressure on the physical education teacher to record his statement in favour of juvenile, which he had denied,” he said.The bus conductor was the initial suspect in the murder of an eight-year-old student of a private school in Bhondsi. He had accused the police of assassinating his character and for torturing him. He was arrested on September 8, 2017, but was acquitted by a special court on February 28, 2018.Kumar alleged that he was tortured, beaten, hung upside down and his head submerged in water by police officials to obtain a confession. “I was asked to parade before the media and they humiliated me in front of my family and public. Since then, I have had sleepless nights and I am still trying to regain my lost self-esteem and reputation,” he said.The father of the deceased, who is the complainant in the case, said that the CBI has delayed filing supplementary chargesheet and they are yet to get justice. “The police officials are also equally guilty as they tried to mislead us and tried to implicate an innocent man instead of the real culprit. Those guilty should be punished as per the law. Such incidents tarnish the image and lose trust in police,” he said.The court has fixed January 15 for consideration of the chargesheet.The father of the 18-year-old suspect, who was a juvenile at the time of the incident, had filed an application on January 3 with juvenile justice board (JJB) seeking interim bail for his son so that he could take his class 12 examinations between January 21 and February 15. The father had also stated that since his examination centre was in Nuh, an interim bail was necessary.The hearing of the application is listed for Friday.The court has dismissed a bail plea at least 15 times over the last 37 months. In May 2019, he was shifted from an observation home in Faridabad to a place of safety in Madhuban, Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-four-police-officials-in-school-murder-case/story-etwD9pwNRm9mNZngsD3ZnO.html
