11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get Covishield for vaccination drive from Jan 16||The Chandigarh administration is set to receive 21,000 doses of Covishield, which is to be administered to front-line health workers in the first phase of vaccination drive.UT adviser Manoj Parida on Monday confirmed that the drive will begin on January 16.Covishield has been developed by the Oxford University scientists in collaboration with the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. In India, its trial was undertaken by the Serum Institute of India. It can be stored at 2–8°C and has to be taken in two doses with intramuscular injections within 28 days.“The central government has communicated to us that Chandigarh will get doses of only Covishield. At least 12 states are receiving dboth vaccines (the other being indigenously developed Covaxin),” said a senior UT official, who did not wish to be named.The vaccine will be administered at eight sites across the city, and a list of around 8,350 health workers, both government and private, has been prepared for the first phase. The PGIMER will also vaccinate its 12,000 healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-get-covishield-for-vaccination-drive-from-jan-16-101610389717707.html
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Two caught cheating at ITBP recruitment test, arrested||Two candidates taking a written test for recruitment as tradesmen in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were caught cheating at different examination centres on Sunday. The accused, Sandeep, hails from Hisar’s Dhani Jatan village in Haryana, while Pardeep Sharma is from Khatod in Haryana’s Mahendragarh district. Sandeep was arrested on the complaint of Gagan Sharma, representative for offline test at Alaska Online Testing Centre, Raipur Kalan, Chandigarh. He was caught cheating with the help of a mobile phone and Bluetooth device. These were recovered by the police, who are trying to trace the persons helping him. Pradeep was caught with eight paper chits during inspection before the test. He was arrested on the complaint of Ravi, invigilator at examination centre, MS Technology, Phase 2, Industrial Area, Chandigarh. Sandeep was booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mauli Jagran police station, while Pradeep is facing a case under Sections 420 and 511 (attempt to commit crime) of the IPC, registered at the Sector-31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-caught-cheating-at-itbp-recruitment-test-arrested-101610389718073.html
11-01-2021||Other||Woman politician’s murder in Ambala: Serving life term for murder, shooter was out on parole||Isham Singh, who had shot dead Haryana Jan Chetna Party’s Amarjeet Kaur Sodhi, 58, in Ambala on Sunday and later shot himself too, was serving a life sentence in a murder case and currently out on parole, police said on Monday.Isham, a resident of Karnal’s Amarpur village in Gharaunda block, was convicted in a 2010 murder case by a trial court in 2015 and sentenced to life imprisonment. Now in his late 50s, he had been out on parole from the Ambala Central Jail since April last year, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. On Sunday, he had fired three shots at Amarjeet at her friend’s house in Baldev Nagar, hitting her in the head and foot, and later killed himself too.Families had business tiesAmarjeet’s elder son Gagandeep Singh told the police in his complaint that Isham had liquor business ties with his family for the past 10 years. But, he was unsure what led to the confrontation between his mother and Isham, and later firing. Police are also probing the role of Amarjeet’s friend at whose house she was shot dead. “The friend says she was in her dining room, while Amarjeet and Isham were in a bedroom for a meeting. She had prepared tea for them, while Amarjeet asked her to wait outside. Isham had a .32-bore revolver in his hand with his finger on the trigger when she rushed in after hearing gunshots,” said Hamir Singh, in-charge, Baldev Nagar police station.“A tenant lives on the first floor of the house. She claims she didn’t hear anything except the firing because of the volume of her television. We’re investigating the case from every angle, as the only accused has died,” said Singh, adding that autopsies were conducted at the Ambala civil hospital on Monday. Victim contested MC polls unsuccessfullyAmarjeet had contested the recent Ambala civic polls from ward number 6 and got 1,433 votes, but lost to BJP’s Archana Chhibber by a margin of 834 votes. She had earlier served as district president of Congress’s woman wing and switched to Venod Sharma’s HJCP on December 14 last year, when Shakti Rani Sharma was declared the party’s mayoral candidate. Sources said Isham didn’t want Amarjeet to contest the elections and had also threatened her on this.The victim leaves behind her husband, Paramjeet Singh, and two sons, Gagandeep Singh and Jasbir Singh, who are married and run a business of threads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-politician-s-murder-in-ambala-serving-life-term-for-murder-shooter-was-out-on-parole-101610389656953.html
11-01-2021||Other||Bird flu: As sales dive, shops in Panchkula stop stocking eggs||With eggs finding few takers in the wake of detection of bird flu in Panchkula district, some shopkeepers have stopped stocking eggs, leaving residents looking to buy them hassled.“Ever since bird flu was confirmed in the district, demand for eggs started falling, so we stopped stocking them. Earlier, we would sell eggs by the tray, but now we have stopped ordering them,” said Ashok Kumar, proprietor of Chandigarh Provision Store, Sector 9, Panchkula.Those who are still selling eggs, claim their sales have dived drastically. Proprietor of Jai Maa Devi store at Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, Sunil Kumar said customers were preferring the much costlier branded eggs. “The price of a tray of 30 eggs has decreased from ₹200 to ₹160, yet people are interested in buying branded eggs, which can cost as high as ₹390 for six eggs.”Taking note of this, president of Panchkula Beopar Mandal, Bobbee Singh said, “Shopkeepers choosing not to stock eggs can cause problems. Awareness is needed. The Beopar Mandal will reach out to the shopkeepers and assure them that it’s safe to sell eggs.”In a health advisory, the Haryana animal husbandry department had said that poultry products can be cooked and consumed as usual with no fear of acquiring avian influenza virus, as it was sensitive to heat.Chandigarh stores report lower sales tooMeanwhile, retailers in Chandigarh are also complaining that demand for eggs has plummeted. Nitish Singla, a grocer from Sector 48, said, “A tray of 30 eggs would cost around ₹200 a week back. Now, people are unwilling to purchase it even at ₹150 per tray. Only 30% of our customer base is still interested in buying eggs now.”Anirudh Thakur, a grocer from Sector 23, also confirmed that egg sales at his store had dropped by around 40% in the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-as-sales-dive-shops-in-panchkula-stop-stocking-eggs-101610389596919.html
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Amid flu scare, 14 dead birds found near railway station in Chandigarh||Thirteen dead crows and one pigeon were found near the railway station on Monday, raising fears of avian influenza outbreak in Chandigarh as well. It was last Tuesday that the carcass of a migratory bird was found floating in Sukhna Lake, and since then 19 more dead birds were recovered from different areas in the city till Sunday. However, all these were isolated cases. On Monday, for the first time, a number of dead birds were found in the same area, which is close to Chandigarh-Panchkula border.Bird flu has already been confirmed in the Barwala poultry belt of Panchkula district, where culling operations are underway. “The birds were found close to each other and 13 of them were crows. Even before this, we have found dead crows in the city, which makes the matter serious. We have sent the samples for testing to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar,” said Debendra Dalai, chief conservator of forests. Of 34 dead birds found till now, 16 were crows. The test results of the bird found at Sukhna and a pigeon recovered on Wednesday had come negative on Friday night. Results of five other samples are still awaited, because of which no further sample had been sent for testing till Sunday. “We are creating awareness on symptoms of bird flu and have asked people to keep vigil,” said Dalai, adding that measures are being taken to ensure domestic species of birds don’t interact with wild species.As of Monday, 10 Indian states have reported the outbreak: Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and Delhi. No case among the human population has been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-flu-scare-14-dead-birds-found-near-railway-station-in-chandigarh-101610389538326.html
11-01-2021||Other||Bird flu in Barwala:Just ₹90 per culled bird will drive us to bankruptcy, says poultry farmers||Detection of avian influenza in two poultry farms of the Barwala belt has left poultry farm owners on tenterhooks about their fate.Around 1.66 lakh chickens in five farms falling in the affected area are being culled after the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, confirmed presence of the virus in different areas of the belt.While the government will be paying the affected poultry farms ₹90 for every bird culled, farmers say, this is pittance compared to the ₹500-crore loans, which were set to cripple the industry.“Farm owners in Barwala belt owe over ₹500 crore in loans. How will they repay it, if birds are culled? Besides, over hundreds of workers at the affected poultry farms will be left unemployed,” said Darshan Kumar, president of the Haryana Poultry Farmers Association.Farmers approach admnOn Monday, the association gave a representation to the Panchkula deputy commissioner, seeking that the compensation for each bird be increased to ₹450.“Each bird costs the farm owners up to ₹500, but the government will be paying only ₹90, which was the rate back in 2013. Now, cost of raising each bird has increased manifold,” the association members said.They also requested the administration to spare the farms situated near affected farms. “If authorities go about culling birds falling in the 1-km radius of affected farms, nearly 80 farms will go extinct,” said Rajesh Singla, owner of a poultry farm.This mass culling is unprecedented, said Singla, who has been in the trade for the past 30 years. “This is the first time bird flu has been detected in Barwala belt, which called for culling of birds at this extent,” he added.But, widespread culling will push farmers into bankruptcy, he said, adding that killing healthy birds just because they were in the 1km radius was unreasonable.‘Banks will come after loan defaulters’Sudhir Aggarwal, who has been in the business for 35 years, said, “Every farm owner has taken loan of ₹300 to ₹500 on each chicken, translating into a load of nearly ₹3 crore for 1 lakh birds. How will they tide over the losses if the government pays only ₹90 per bird?”“In the next few months, private banks will start seizing farms of defaulting poultry owners. Where will they go then?” he questioned.Nearly 30% farms had shut down over the past three years, especially during the ongoing pandemic, said Sishpal, owner of one of the farms, where culling is undergoing. With his farm set to lose around 1 lakh birds that cost him around ₹450 each, he said his business’ fate now hanged in balance.BOX: Over 20,000 birds culled in 3days, more samples takenPanchkula The local administration collected more samples from poultry farms in the Barwala belt on Monday, even as culling of over 20,000 birds finished at two farms.After bird flu was confirmed in samples taken from Siddharth Poultry Farm, Kheri, and Nature Poultry Farm, Dandlawar-Ganauli, the Haryana government on January 8 turned the area within a kilometre of the two epicentres as infected zone (covering three more farms in Kheri) and 1-10km as surveillance zone, besides announcing culling of 1.66 lakh birds in these farms.With around 40 rapid action teams culling birds, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the situation was under control.“Culling has been completed at Siddharth and Nature poultry farms. On Tuesday, four teams will complete sanitisation at these farms. Meanwhile, culling of birds has started at Narender poultry farm,” he said, adding that more samples were collected on Monday from 12 poultry farms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-in-barwala-just-90-per-culled-bird-will-drive-us-to-bankruptcy-says-poultry-farmers-101610389357691.html
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays proceedings in decade-old Chandigarh theme park case||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday stayed the proceedings in the decade-old multicrore amusement-cum-theme park project scam, involving three former Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers.The high court had taken up petition filed by the three officers, including the then adviser to administrator Lalit Sharma, seeking quashing of the FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 2010 and the special CBI court’s order summoning the three while rejecting the investigating agency’s third closure report on January 6, 2020. The other two officers involved in the case are then UT home secretary Krishan Mohan and then director, tourism, Vivek Atray. Court had already grated them bail after summons were issued to them under cheating, criminal conspiracy and corruption charges. In 2009, Vivek Aditya, a Right to Information activist, had complained to the Central Vigilance Commission about alleged financial irregularities in the project coming up at Sarangpur village. Later, the case was shifted to the CBI. It was alleged that the former top officials awarded 73.65 acres of land to Unitech Limited ignoring financial rules. The project has since been scrapped.In the third closure report submitted on November 14, 2018, the CBI had stated that no evidence was found against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-proceedings-in-decade-old-chandigarh-theme-park-case-101610389297758.html
11-01-2021||Other||Big blow to Akali Dal as former Mohali mayor’s group decides to go independent in MC polls||In a major blow to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh’s group on Monday decided to contest the upcoming municipal elections independently and not on party symbol. The elections are scheduled next month.The decision was taken at a meeting held on Monday under the leadership of Kulwant Singh, where around 25 former SAD councillors were also present.Just two days back, SAD had officially declared a list of 28 candidates (all of whom were former councillors), but on Monday, 22 of them sided with Kulwant.In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad group (of Independents) and won 10 seats. With the support of Congress, he was elected the mayor. Later, in 2017, he joined SAD.“We want development of the city. All former councillors have decided to rise above party lines while contesting the MC elections. We are hopeful of winning all 50 seats,” said Kulwant.Parvinder Singh Sohana, president, Youth Akali Dal, Mohali, said: “We will contest elections only under the leadership of Kulwant Singh.”Last month, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had appointed a five-member committee for the MC elections in Mohali. It included former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra and Kulwant. “The party’s core committee has decided to contest on party symbol. The decision was taken in the presence of Kulwant Singh. He should have objected in the meeting itself,” said Chandumajra.Four-cornered contestWith the latest development, a four-cornered fight awaits the MC polls. In the fray are SAD, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Kulwant’s group. The splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has opted out of the elections and will support AAP candidates and Independents. Meanwhile, Punjab cabinet minister and Congress leader Balbir Singh Sidhu said: “In 2015, we supported him (Kulwant) to become the mayor, but after 18 months ,he back-stabbed us and joined SAD. People of Mohali are aware of his truth and will give his group a befitting reply.”The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 last year. Among the 50 wards, 25 have been reserved for women besides five for scheduled castes (including two for women) and two for backward classes (men).Flip-flops so farA real estate developer, Kulwant Singh was the SAD candidate from Fatehgarh Sahib in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.He along with other members of Azad group left the party over denial of candidature ahead of the first Mohali MC elections in 2015.He went on to become Mohali’s first mayor in August 2015 as per an agreement with Congress.As many as 27 councillors, including 10 from Azad group, 14 from Congress and two Independents, voted for him.Rishabh Jain of Congress had secured senior deputy mayor’s post and Independent councillor Manjeet Singh Sethi became the deputy mayor with 23 SAD-BJP councillors deciding not to vote.Later, in 2017, Kulwant went back into the SAD fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/big-blow-to-akali-dal-as-former-mohali-mayor-s-group-decides-to-go-independent-in-mc-polls-101610389117473.html
11-01-2021||Other||Noida residents demand road repairs||NOIDA: Residents on Monday demanded that the Noida authority repair all roads and build drainage networks to address prevailing civic issues in sectors 74, 75, 76, 77 and 78, among other sectors.The move comes after they realised that the authority resurfaces roads without handling drainage network issues. As a result, when it rains, the water collects on low lying spots of newly resurfaced roads, leading to water-logging.“Water logging on low lying areas damages the roads slowly, but if the authority designs the drainage systems in a manner that the rain water does not stay onto the road, the damage can be stopped. We have demanded that road resurfacing be done keeping in mind gradient channelling water into nearby drains,” said Amit Gupta, a member of Progressive Community Foundation, a citizens’ group. They have written to the authority demanding that any service provider to lay cables cuts the newly built roads, however, it is not repaired properly afterwards.“There is no coordination among different departments of the authority when it comes to giving permission to service providers to cut the newly built roads and lay cables, that include internet, water pipeline, gas pipeline and telephone, among others. The authority’s area official builds the roads and then the water department gives permission to cut the road. But later it is not repaired. As a result it weakens the road so much so that commuters have to face issues,” said SK Jain, another member of this group.Jain further added, “We advise that the road cutting or line laying permission be given only by a local officer, who knows when the road was built.”The Noida authority’s chief general manager Rajeev Tyagi said that he will look into all of these issues.“We will look into these issues raised by the residents and take appropriate action as per rules,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-residents-demand-road-repairs-101610388816863.html
11-01-2021||Other||‘Freedom 251’ scam kingpin arrested again, this time for duping traders||Noida: Two men, including the alleged mastermind of the 2017 Freedom 251 Ringing Bells scam, were caught when a gang duping people across the country on the pretext of selling commodities was busted in Noida. Police said the gang allegedly used to purchase dry fruits and spices from wholesalers by quoting a higher price but then default on payments. The gang allegedly then used to sell the goods in the open market. The suspects were identified as Mohit Goel, a resident of Sector 50 and Omprakash Jangid, from Rajasthan.According to the police, Goel (40) is the mastermind in the 2017 scam, in which victims were offered smartphones at ₹251. He was arrested in February 2017 when the company, which placed orders with Goel, alleged that they had not received the handsets they had paid for. Pre-orders for the “cheapest smartphone” had led to the company’s website to crash in 2016.Police said he has also served time on previous occasions for allegedly cheating people in various scams, one of which was in Delhi for taking ₹25 lakh from a victim.According to police officers, a case was registered at the Sector 58 police station in December last year against 14 suspects, including Goel and Jangid, in connection with duping people on pretext of paying for dry fruits and spices. “A probe was conducted in the matter and the suspects were found running a luxurious office from Sector 62 by the name of Dubai dry fruits. They offered rates above the market value to wholesalers to purchase the commodities. Initially, in order to build trust, they conducted some business properly but then would pay only 30 to 40% of the amount as advance, while not paying anything later and giving a post-dated cheque, which would eventually bounce. The goods were then sold at a profit in the open market, thus earning them a decent profit margin,” said joint commissioner of police, law and order, Luv Kumar.Police officers said that the suspects have allegedly duped more than 500 people in this manner across the country. At least two dozen such cases have been identified against them, while more cases are being looked into. Police said the suspects have allegedly duped people in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. A senior police official, requesting anonymity, said that the suspects are allegedly responsible for the majority of dry-fruit related scams in the country.“They were running a company from Gurugram in 2017 which they later shut and moved to a new location. They started one in Noida in 2019 in Sector 63, before starting Dubai dry fruits. Their modus operandi was to close the company they were running after duping a good number of people and then starting another firm,” said Kumar.Another senior police officer, requesting to not be named, said that the suspects allegedly kept a large amount of money for their legal team, including High Court lawyers, who came into action every time a case was filed against them. The officer also said that Goel was allegedly unperturbed after his arrest today as well. One of Goel’s partners is on anticipatory bail.Police also said that they have identified at least six other accomplices and several more associates, including foreign nationals, who were allegedly working for them.“The current office had an employee strength of 56. They were offered a 2% incentive for bringing in clients. We are working to identify everyone associated with them and then take necessary action against them,” said the joint CP.Police are working to identify how much profit they have made but suspect it to be in crores. They will also identify assets purchased by them and then seize them.“Sometimes when complaints were filed against them, they would file counter FIRs through court. In Meerut action was taken against them for filing a false case. In some cases, they would also honeytrap people who would try to take action against them. In Rajasthan, they got five people arrested in one such honeytrap case,” said Kumar.Almost ₹10 crore of profits from frauds were invested allegedly by Goel and his wife, Dhaarna, in a virtual reality games company, said the police.They were nabbed from near Meghdootam Park in Sector 50. Three phones, 60 kilogram dry fruits, an Audi car, an Innova and other electronics were recovered from them.The suspects were produced before a magistrate where a team of six lawyers argued their case. However, the court remanded them to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/freedom-251-scam-kingpin-arrested-again-this-time-for-duping-traders-101610388636847.html
11-01-2021||Other||Ghaziabad to place solid waste collection bins underground at five locations||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad municipal corporation on Monday initiated a project wherein they have placed underground solid waste collection bins at a single location in each of the five corporation zones. The officials said that each of the underground solid waste collection bins will be able to handle two tonnes of dry and wet waste and thus aid in improving the look of the city by helping keep the city clean.The five centres are near Sarvodaya Hospital in Kavi Nagar, near Santosh Medical College in Vijay Nagar, near Vandana Farm House in Vasundhara, Hindon cremation ground in Ghaziabad city and at Sector 7 in Raj Nagar. “The five underground solid waste collection points have been built at a cost of about ₹32 lakh. These will help improve the city’s look and will also help in maintaining hygienic conditions. These have been installed at locations where people dump garbage in open,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. “We will start more collection points as per requirement. Each of the sites has two bins for dumping dry and wet waste, with each having capacity to store about one tonne of waste each. Once the bins get filled up, they can be emptied using our vehicles. The waste dumped at the opening above the ground level goes down to the underground bins,” he added. The officials said that this will also help improve the city’s rankings in the upcoming Swachh Survekshan which is likely to be initiated in March. The national ranking of Ghaziabad city had slipped to nineteenth from the thirteenth spot (in the ranking of cities having population of over 10 lakh) in the fifth edition of the Swachh Survekshan – 2020, results of which were announced by the ministry of housing and urban affairs in August last year.The Ghaziabad city stood at 351 spot in the ranking released in 2017, while it considerably improved its position in 2018 when it was placed at 36th rank, and further improved its position to the 12th spot in 2019. In 2019, the city stood at the top in the state ranking but in 2020, it slipped by two positions giving way to Lucknow and Agra ahead of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-to-place-solid-waste-collection-bins-underground-at-five-locations-101610388456778.html
11-01-2021||Other||Greater Noida: Two found dead in illegal liquor factory; property owner, brokers arrested||Greater Noida: Two persons were found dead in an illicit liquor factory in Site V area on Sunday night, said the police, adding that it appeared they had died of consumption of spurious liquor. Three persons – the owner of the property and the brokers – have been arrested in connection with the incident.The bodies were discovered during a joint search operation by the Bulandshahr police and the Greater Noida police.Explaining the sequence of events, Ranpal Singh, senior sub-inspector, Site V police station, said that Kalu left Greater Noida and came to Bulandshahr on January 8, as allegedly revealed by him. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that last week, six people had died in Bulandshahr after consuming spurious liquor and that Kalu had also consumed the spurious liquor. “On January 9, Kalu was admitted to GIMS, Greater Noida by the Bulandshahr police for treatment. On January 19, when he regained consciousness, he revealed that he had been consuming liquor with Pradeep and Santosh at a factory in the Site V area in Greater Noida.” Police said Kalu allegedly told them that Pradeep and Santosh may still be at the same spot drinking and guarding the liquor cartons, after which officers from Bulandshahr and Noida, who were interrogating Kalu, rushed to the spot.The police team, along with the excise department team, conducted a joint search operation at the said factory and found the main door of the building open. “The team recovered the two bodies. Scattered next to the bodies were illegal liquor bottles. One body was found on the bed and another body near the washroom,” the SSI said. The police also found 36 cartons of illicit liquor, wrappers, and other paraphernalia from the rented premises. There was no one else at the premises, said officers. Police said Kalu and Santosh were named in the FIR registered in Bulandshahr, adding that Kalu was allegedly also involved in the operations of the illicit liquor racket. Both the decease were from Gangawali in Bulandshahr, said the police.On Monday, the Greater Noida police arrested the property owner, Surendra Sharma, a resident of Tappal, and two property brokers – Niraj Nagar, a resident of Dankaur and Shashank Tyagi, a resident of Beta 2 – for facilitating the rent agreement with the suspects for ₹25,000 a month. The rent agreement was signed between Mintu and Surendra.The DCP said that the suspects had allegedly hired the premises from Surendra on January 2 this year on the pretext of running a cosmetic products manufacturing unit. Surendra was arrested for criminal conspiracy, said officers.“A case has been registered against five persons – Kalu, his accomplices Mintu, Tinku, and the deceased Pradeep and Santosh under Sections 272 (adulteration of food or drink intended for sale), 273 (sale of noxious food or drink) of the IPC and Section 60 (penalty for unlawful, export, transport, manufacture, possession, sale) of the Uttar Pradesh Excise Act. The property owner and two dealers have been charged under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC,” SSI said.R B Singh, Gautam Budh Nagar excise officer, said that an excise department team also conducted a search operation and found wrappers of “Miss India” brand on the liquor bottles. “We scanned the QR codes and found that they were counterfeit. We found some liquor bottles, wrappers and other things at the spot. However, there was nothing at the premises to suggest that a factory was operating from there. It appears the gang had shifted the illegal liquor to Greater Noida from Sikandrabad after the situation deteriorated there,” he said.On January 8, six persons died while around a dozen people fell ill after consuming spurious liquor in Jitgadhi village of Bulandshahr district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-two-found-dead-in-illegal-liquor-factory-property-owner-brokers-arrested-101610388396767.html
11-01-2021||Other||Muradnagar incident effect: Civic body steps up checks, all low quoted tenders will be scrutinised||Ghaziabad: Following the roof collapse incident at Muradnagar which claimed the lives of 24 persons, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation has decided to keep tabs on technical specifications and quality of construction material where tenders are quoted much below the estimated price. In the Muradnagar incident, Ajay Tyagi, awarded the contract for the structure which had collapsed, was arrested by the Ghaziabad police apart from four others, including officers of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika. He had also been a major contractor with the Ghaziabad municipal corporation which blacklisted his three firms -- Ajay Tyagi Constructions, Mahi Construction and Builders and Krishna Associates – after the incident. Tyagi had allegedly told the police that he bribed officials and also resorted to malpractices.“Although technical and quality checks are taken up time and again, we will now undertake strict and special checks in cases where contractors quote 25% or below the tender cost. This is done as there is always an apprehension that quoting a rate much below the tender price may involve compromise with the quality of construction material. So, these works will be strictly checked and suitable action will be taken up,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The corporation has a list of about 350 registered contractors who take up different civic infrastructure related works under the jurisdiction of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation.“In other cases, if the price is quoted slightly below the tender price, there are chances that contractors may have resorted to malpractices like forming cartels or managing tenders among themselves. So, these practices will also be checked up and we will encourage that more bidders participate in tenders,” Tanwar added.As per norms, works of over ₹1 lakh are awarded through e-tendering process, with the work going to the lowest bidder. “Corporation officials are always entrusted to maintain quality checks in works which are awarded, irrespective of whether the price is quoted only slightly below or much below the tender price. In fact, after the Muradnagar incident, some expert agency should be roped in to check the quality of work, for instance of over ₹50 lakh, while the other smaller works should be checked by a committee of technical experts from different agencies such as the public works department, the UP Jal Nigam, among others,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar. “Further, if the corporation wants to ensure transparency, they must publish its works online with details. This will ensure that everything is in the public domain and any citizen can see whether the same work is allotted frequently (as in case of roads) or not,” he added. The Muradnagar roof collapse incident has virtually exposed the alleged nexus between certain officials and contractors and a special investigation team of the Economic Offences Wing is now probing the case, on directions of the Uttar Pradesh government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muradnagar-incident-effect-civic-body-steps-up-checks-all-low-quoted-tenders-will-be-scrutinised-101610388336751.html
11-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC in clean-up mode for Punjab CM’s visit||Chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh is scheduled to visit the city today to inaugurate the ₹650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project.A day before his arrival, officials of the municipal corporation and police department were seen in action mode, to ensure that the city is spick and span.On Monday, MC workers were seen repainting the dividers and whitewashing the sidewalls of the road, on the stretch between PAU Gate Number 4 and Haibowal Chowk. Sweepers were also pressed into action and earthmovers were brought in to clear the debris scattered on the bypass road near Haibowal Bridge.The garbage accumulated near the wall all of Lord Mahaveer Homeopathic College and the School for differently abled was also cleaned.The cleaning drive, however, brought a smile to the residents’ faces who said that the area had been lying in a state of neglect for a long time.Kanwar Jatinder Singh Bajwa, a resident, said, “Over the years, crossing the Haibowal bridge had become quite a task. We had raised the issue several time but to no avail. But today, I was relieved to see the MC staff carrying out cleaning work. Sadly, the MC got into action only in view of the CM’s visit; otherwise the place would have remained in shambles.”Manu Dogra, another resident of Haibowal, said the CM should visit the city frequently. “CM’s visit has brought a pleasant change to this route. The roads are being cleaned and potholes are being filled. I would urge the CM to keep visiting different parts of the city so that other areas can also get a facelift,” he said.Later in the evening, MC commissioner Pradeep Kumar Sabharwal inspected the route that the CM’s cavalcade is expected to take. Heavy police force was also deployed in the area.Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu welcomed the chief minister’s visit, stating that it has finally brought in some hustle and bustle as the pandemic had brought life to a standstill. “We are eagerly waiting for the CM as his project will rejuvenate the water body that had turned into a bane for the city,” said the mayor.New cleaning project new foundation stoneAt Haibowal Bridge, the workers were busy preparing the foundation stone of the project that would be inaugurated by the CM on Tuesday.Interestingly, the foundation stone of ₹650-crore project of rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah is being set up right in front of the foundation stone of Buddha Nullah in-situ bio-remediation project, which had been inaugurated in 2011 by the then Union minister for environment and forests, Jairam Ramesh and then Ludhiana MP Manish Tewari.The project, estimated to cost ₹15.05 crore, had failed badly. Tewari had blamed the SAD-BJP government, which was then in power in the state, for the failure of the project.The project:Under the ₹650-crore Buddha Nullah Nullah Rejuvenation Project, ₹342 crore would be spent by the state, while ₹208 crore would be contributed by the centre and ₹100 crore private operator.Under the first phase, augmentation and refurbishment of sewage treatment facility, dairy effluent treatment, survey to find out missing links for industrial effluent and laying of dedicated conveyance system for industrial waste water to carry the same to common effluent treatment plant, if required, would be executed.The second phase, involving ₹150 crore, would include reuse of treated effluent, and landscaping and beautification along the Buddha Nullah at a cost of ₹283 crore.CM’s schedule After the inauguration of the Buddha Nullah project, the CM will attend an interactive session with traders at Dr Manmohan Singh Auditorium, near Gate No 1, PAU, at 2pm.He would be accompanied by Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla. It would be broadcast live through video conferencing simultaneously in other districts of the state, from where other cabinet ministers and traders would join in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-in-clean-up-mode-for-punjab-cm-s-visit-101610388165671.html
11-01-2021||Other||Covid safety norms thrown to the wind as Ludhiana’s PAU govt school reopens||Covid safety norms were thrown to the wind as Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, reopened for students of Classes 5 to 8 on Monday.In most classrooms, social distancing norms were flouted, and authorities failed to implement the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government. Four students were accommodated on multi-seater benches, which should be used for only two students, as per the guidelines. School principal Sanjeev Thapar, said, “We have reopened the school for students of Classes 5 to 8 on Monday and will follow all SOPs issued by the government. We will provide two rooms to each class so that social distancing is maintained. One student will be asked to sit on a single bench and teachers will ensure Covid norms are followed.”At Government Senior Secondary School, multipurpose, most students turned up without wearing masks, a visit to the school revealed. It was also confirmed that many students came to school without getting written consent from their parents. The school reopened for students of Classes 6 to 8 on Monday. Over 350 students reported in the morning shift and 150 in the afternoon.Teachers were seen directing students to attend the physical classes after submitting consent forms and asked them to not commute in public transport.School principal Navdeep Romana, said, “We have sent messages to all parents to ensure their child wears a mask to school. They have also been told that that written consent is mandatory. Despite this, instructions were not followed. Students have been told to stay at home if they can’t get the written consent from their parents.”Guidelines issuedAs per the guidelines, there must be at least six-feet distance between students in the seating plan. The authorities have also been advised to mark the seats students should occupy. It is also states that if there are single-seater desks, providing space between them to maintain physical distancing of six feet, will be effective. If benches are used, the principle of one child one bench can be considered.Two pvt schools reopen amid precautionsTwo private schools reopened for students of Class 5 to 8 on Monday, with all Covid precautions in place, ten months after the nationwide lockdown was announced.At Nankana Sahib Public School (NSPS), Gill Road, 55% students attended classes physically with parents’ consent, while 120 reported at Guru Nanak Public School (GNPS), Model Town Extension.In adherence to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government, students underwent thermal screening at the entry gate, and circles were marked to maintain social distancing .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-safety-norms-thrown-to-the-wind-as-ludhiana-s-pau-govt-school-reopens-101610388163278.html
11-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Teething troubles in pet registration process||From running after pets for a photograph to struggling with documentation, Ludhiana residents are facing teething troubles in completing the pet registration process. The residents have time until the end of March to get their pet dogs and cats registered, failing which they have to shell out ₹4,000 as fine, and lose custody of the pet to the civic body till the formalities are complete. Avneesh Aggarwal, a resident of Mall Road, who was seen chasing his labrador for a picture, said, “The real problem is the long format of the registration form. By the time you manage to fill in all the details, the session expires and you have to start the process all over again.”Sunil Vinayak, a resident of Sham Singh Road, said he was struggling with the online payment. “Making online payment through the MC website is tough as there are many technical glitches. I had planned to visit MC’s Zone-D office to physically fill out the form, but it is always crowded and risky considering the pandemic situation,” he said, adding that he hopes that the MC authorities will find a way to make the process less cumbersome. Another resident, Rishi Punni, said that he has been making multiple rounds of the vet’s office for the last few days as he lost a few old prescription slips of his pets. “I have two pets and had got them vaccinated. But I only have the new prescription slips. The old ones had been misplaced. Since, the MC has asked for details of the vaccination, I have to visit the veterinarian to get the entire chart of the prescription,” said Punni. MC’s senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dalla agreed that technical glitches are hampering the pet registration project. “I have received several complaints from residents. Some are facing troubles, not just in online registration, but also at the MC office. I have taken up the issue with the IT staff and soon all glitches will be solved. We are also planning to do away with the long format of registration forms to make it easy for the residents to register,” said Dr Harbans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-teething-troubles-in-pet-registration-process-101610388158206.html
11-01-2021||Gurugram||Nine, including spa owner, arrested in Sushant Lok for flesh trade||The police on Monday arrested seven women and two men, including the owner of a spa, in Sushant Lok 1 for their alleged involvement in flesh trade. Two teams from DLF Phase-4 and Sushant Lok police stations raided the spa after sending decoy customers to the establishment. “We had sent two head constables as decoy customers at A-One Spa Centre in Block C in Sushant Lok-1. They met the spa manager at the reception. A man present at the counter demanded ₹1,000 for a massage. When asked about the charges for extra services, the man demanded ₹2,000 for each service. The decoys agreed and handed over two notes of ₹2,000 denomination to each woman to finalise the deal,” said KK Rao, commissioner of police. The head constables soon gave a missed call to one of the inspectors, who was standing guard nearby along with a police party. “We raided the club and arrested seven women for illicit trade. We also recovered ₹4,000 given to them by the decoy customers,” Rao said. The women are aged between 20 and 25 years, the police said.“The women had been working in the spa for the last six months and they received a part of the payment,” Rao said, adding that the owner was involved in flesh trade running out of the spa. A case was registered against the accused under sections 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act, 1956 at Sushant Lok-1 police station. The accused men and women were produced in the district court on Monday and sent to judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nine-including-spa-owner-arrested-in-sushant-lok-for-flesh-trade-101610388097153.html
11-01-2021||Gurugram||Three men snatch ₹10 lakh cash from an executive near Sector 14||Three unidentified suspects allegedly snatched a bag of cash and other valuables at gunpoint from an executive on a scooter near Sector 14 crossing, towards Palam Vihar on Monday afternoon, said the police. According to the police, they received a call on the police control room number that three men had snatched a cash bag at gunpoint from a man. After this, a team from Palam Vihar police station was sent to the spot. The police said that Deepak Pandey, a resident of Delhi who works for a private company in Udyog Vihar, had gone to Sector 14 to withdraw ₹10 lakh from the company’s account. He was riding a scooter while returning to his office. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that Pandey received a call soon after he crossed Atul Kataria Chowk at Sector 14 towards Palam Vihar. “He parked the scooter near a nursery and was attending the call, when three men on a motorbike pulled up close to him, took him at gunpoint and snatched his bag,” he said. Pandey said the bag contained important documents, his laptop and cash, which was kept in the middle pocket. “I screamed for help and asked another motorist to chase the bike. But no one helped. The snatchers disappeared in one of the lanes of Palam Vihar,” he said. The police said the suspects were following Pandey since he was out of the bank. However, as the area was congested and the police were deployed at the gate, they targeted him near the nursery. A case under sections 379 B(snatching and use of force) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Arms Act was registered at Palam Vihar police station on Monday. The police recorded the victim’s statement and are verifying his claims. They said they are scanning the CCTV footage to check the sequence of details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-men-snatch-10-lakh-cash-from-an-executive-near-sector-14-101610388037653.html
11-01-2021||Gurugram||Animal husbandry department issues advisory on consumption of meat and poultry||As panic around the outbreak of avian influenza (or bird flu) spreads, the district animal husbandry department on Monday issued a public advisory, assuring citizens that the consumption of poultry and eggs is safe. Officials said they have been receiving a large number of enquiries from concerned residents, who want to know whether the virus poses a risk to personal and public health, and what level of care needs to be taken. “There is a lot of panic around the whole situation because Haryana has confirmed an outbreak of H5N8 avian influenza virus. People are not visiting parks and have stopped eating chicken. There are also a lot of rumors about how the virus can be transmitted to humans. In a meeting with state authorities this afternoon, we were told to widely disseminate that there is no health risk from eating chicken and eggs. It is completely safe,” said Dr Punita Gahlot, deputy director, animal husbandry department, Gurugram. The particular H5N8 strain, officials said, is extremely lethal to birds but has no proven pathogenicity in humans. Officials also pointed out that unlike the H5N1 strain, which was found to be circulating in birds in Himachal Pradesh, H5N8 has no proven incidence of transmission from birds to humans. “We have to be careful of course. But this reluctance to eat poultry is going to disproportionally affect the poultry industry. In fact, if there is even the slightest risk with both strains of the virus, it is not to people who are eating the chicken but to those who are butchering it,” said a veterinary officer with the animal husbandry department, seeking anonymity.Translated from Hindi, the animal husbandry department’s advisory states, “It is completely safe to eat poultry and poultry products in Gurugram. People should cook chicken thoroughly for 30 minutes at 70 degrees Celsius and no raw meat or eggs should be consumed this time. Our teams are on high alert. There are no unusual deaths or illnesses among birds at poultry farms in Gurugram. Citizens are advised not to panic or fall prey to rumors.” “We will be publicising this message widely through the public relations office and through social media. In case a risk emerges for humans, people will be immediately notified,” Gahlot said. “There is a lot of concern over this outbreak because after Covid-19, people have become aware of the risk of zoonotic diseases. But Covid-19 is still the largest public health concern that we have to worry about, not bird flu,” she said.As of Monday, a total of 34 commercial poultry farms and 24 backyard units having high-density of poultry have been put on round-the-clock surveillance, officials revealed. Meanwhile, the wildlife department has also extended its surveillance of wild birds to other green areas in the district, including Leisure Valley Park and Bhondsi. “Only in Tau Devi Lal Park, we have we seen an unusual number of bird deaths. In other places, it is business as usual. We will know once the samples have returned from Jalandhar,” said Rajesh Chahal, district wildlife inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/animal-husbandry-department-issues-advisory-on-consumption-of-meat-and-poultry-101610388037194.html
11-01-2021||Gurugram||Canal water supply for sectors 58-115 likely to start this summer||The city’s newer sectors, 58 to 115, are likely to start getting canal water supply by this summer, with 75% of the work having been completed and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) targeting to lay water distribution pipelines in these sectors by March 31. Although officials confirmed that a majority of the work across the three land parcels has been completed ahead of summer, when the demand peaks, they were reluctant to commit to a specific deadline.A senior official in the GMDA’s infrastructure-II division, which looks after water supply, said, “We have already made some progress in this regard. In Sectors 58 to 70, pipelines had been laid by August last year and water supply has already begun. Then, we had also started supplying water to some areas between sectors 71 and 76 around the same time, and to a few more areas beyond Sector 99. A few land litigation issues are still pending, but a quick resolution is expected and we will lay more pipelines in the remaining sectors as the right of way is handed to us. Supply should start in April, but I can’t say for sure.”In all, the GMDA has to finish laying about 130 kilometres of the piped network to achieve what has been its central mandate, after it took over water infrastructure from the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). While the initial deadline for the same was March 2019, this was subsequently pushed to June 2020 due to multiple land acquisition issues. “After that, the lockdown happened and we were not able to complete the work due to lack of labour. But we have taken it up again on a priority now,” said Pradeep Mehta, chief engineer, GMDA (Infra-II). The GMDA also plans to complete construction of a water boosting station in Sector 72 by March 31, which will supply water to sectors 70 to 80, and to Gwal Pahari as well. “Around 25% of the work is complete, but the scale of the project is not as intense as building a whole new plant, so it should be done by March,” Mehta said. However, water supply to sectors 80 to 115 may take longer as the augmentation of the GMDA’s water plant in Chandu Budhera is expected to be completed by June 2021. “We are creating four new holding tanks with an additional capacity of 1060 million litres of water. Around 70% of the work is complete. The pipelines in areas between sector 81 and 115 will be laid by March, but the additional water storage capacity is needed and will be ready a few months later,” said the senior official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/canal-water-supply-for-sectors-58-115-likely-to-start-this-summer-101610388036735.html
11-01-2021||Gurugram||Data collection of frontline workers for vaccination gains pace||The data collection of frontline workers for Covid-19 vaccine has begun at the district level, with the Gurugram police sharing the data of its 5,800 employees with the state administration. The district administration on Monday directed urban local bodies and the revenue department involved in public dealings to prepare the list of vaccine beneficiaries at the earliest. With the data collection ongoing across the state, over 450,000 frontline workers are to be registered on Co-WIN, the digital platform for real-time data on Covid-19 vaccine. Frontline workers are second on the list of priority groups to be vaccinated in the initial phase, which is expected to start on January 16 with the immunisation of healthcare workers. While the police had submitted the list directly to the state administration, data for urban local bodies data is to be managed at the district level.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, Gurugram, “Details of the police staff has been shared with the state administration. Of the 5,800 police personnel, the plan is to first provide vaccine shots to over 1,500 who were deployed on Covid-19 duties, such as at borders, or those who were tasked with identifying missing Covid-19 positive patients, and even those who were stationed at hospitals.”“Second on the list are those who were stationed in residential areas to monitor the containment zones and were involved in public dealings at police stations. Finally, those who are at police lines or with the crime cell will be vaccinated,” said Rao, adding that the department has already submitted its details to the state. In the case of urban local bodies, a count of municipal and revenue employees is set to be taken. Yash Garg, the newly appointed deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “A letter has been sent to the urban local body and revenue to prepare the list of frontline workers at the earliest. Within the revenue (department), employees who are under subdivisional magistrates and are involved at the block level of the district with various tasks are included. Although there hasn’t been a specific deadline issued by the state, the administration is trying to get the details fast.”Under the urban local bodies’ list, municipal workers engaged in public health, sanitation and waste management are also covered. Other staff like engineers, bus drivers, conductors, water tanker operators and those working at crematoriums and maintenance department are all included as frontline workers. The list will include permanent, contractual and outsourced workers, and also those working with contractors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/data-collection-of-frontline-workers-for-vaccination-gains-pace-101610387977652.html
11-01-2021||Other||At Chilla border, farmers organise kabaddi, wrestling to keep themselves ‘in shape’||Noida: Farmers camping at the Chilla border to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws organised kabaddi and wrestling matches to keep themselves busy and “in shape”.A group of farmers from Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Bhanu faction has been on a sit-in at the border since December 1 while another group from the Lok Shakti faction has been protesting at the Dalit Prerna Sthal.Amid the wrestling matches organised on Sunday and those of kabaddi conducted on Monday at the Chilla border, farmers are hopeful for a positive result.“The government has to roll back these laws. They don’t have a choice and with the court pulling up the Centre, maybe it will happen soon. All groups have major plans for the Republic Day, and we have been practising and coordinating for it constantly. The point of organising matches is not just to keep ourselves in shape or entertained, but to show the government that we are ready for a prolonged fight,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU (Bhanu).The farmers are adamant that if their demands are not met, they will march down with their tractors and conduct a parade on the Republic Day at Rajpath.“Our farmer brothers have been asked to march to Delhi on January 23 itself with each of them carrying a fist full of soil from our lands because that is where our hearts are. It is our belief that each child of the nation is a farmer. The government is still not listening to our demands and we have no plans of backing out,” said Dr Shailesh Kumar Giri, national spokesperson, BKU (Lok Shakti).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-chilla-border-farmers-organise-kabaddi-wrestling-to-keep-themselves-in-shape-101610387978128.html
11-01-2021||Other||Farmers mobilising at Haryana border for Delhi march on Jan 26||Farmer leaders from Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra, who are protesting at the Haryana-Rajasthan border in Jaisinghpur Khera, on Monday said that they will march towards Delhi on Republic Day. They said that preparations for January 26 are in full swing and that farmers from several states are mobilising at the site. Groups of farmers from Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Orissa also joined the ongoing agitation on Monday, with more expected to join in the coming week.Addressing a press conference at the protest site on Monday, national vice president of All India Kisan Sabha and former CPI(M) MLA Amra Ram said that farmers would join the agitation in Delhi. “We will move towards Delhi on January 26, once again. Since Day One, this has been our goal. The Haryana government has been stopping us and not allowing us to move ahead,” said Ram. Farmers from several states have been camping at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for the past 30 days. Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new agriculture laws that were passed by the Centre in September last year, over fears that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. The farmers at the site had tried to proceed towards Delhi on December 25, 2020. However, amid heavy police presence and barricading, farmers could not enter Haryana as planned and blocked the second carriageway of the Delhi-Jaipur national highway. On December 31, nearly 20 trolleys led by youngsters from Rajasthan broke the barricades and entered Rewari with the aim of proceeding towards Delhi. They were joined by their counterparts from Hanumangarh and Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan on January 3, after which they tried proceeding towards Delhi, but were stopped as the Rewari police resorted to using tear gas and water cannons. Ram blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of sowing seeds of divisions to weaken the movement. “Some news reports have claimed that locals here are not happy with our agitation. This is not true. We are getting a lot of support from locals who pitch in with various resources,” said Ram. BJP spokesperson Jawahar Yadav said that allegations against the party were baseless. “The BJP has no interest in creating divisions in any movement. If protesters feel that locals are against them, it must be due to their actions and behaviours. The BJP is only making efforts to make farmers understand the true benefits of the three farm laws,” said Yadav.Ram said that locals are continuing to support the agitation. “They are sending milk, snacks and other items. A majority of the locals support our movement. A few concerned shopkeepers had approached us, but even they were convinced after we told them that the roads were blocked by the police,” said Ram.Support for the farmers’ agitation, however, seemed divided among residents of villages near the site. Sinu Jaisinghpuria, a resident of Jaisinghpur Khera, said that most villagers want the protesting farmers to move towards Delhi. “Due to the farmers’ movement, a number of heavy vehicles have started passing through the village. There have been some accidents due to the increased vehicular movement in the area. Most people are of the view that farmers should move towards Delhi,” said Jaisinghpuria. He added that the earnings of small shops on the highway are being adversely affected due to the agitation. Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that both locals and farmers were being inconvenienced for the past four days due to the closure of a slip road. With the Haryana government opening the road on Monday, the issue had been resolved, he said. “The police had closed a slip road due to which we were facing difficulties in procuring supplies as before. Even the locals were being inconvenienced. However, the road has been opened again now. We requested the police to not create obstructions for us,” said Madhav. He said that the agitation would be marking important days to honour different sections of farmers ahead of January 26, when the protesters plan to march to Delhi. “We will be marking a day to honour women farmers next week, on January 18. We will also be celebrating Lohri and other important days before proceeding ahead,” said Madhav.Deputy superintendent of police for Bawal, Rajesh Kumar, couldn’t be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-mobilising-at-haryana-border-for-delhi-march-on-jan-26-101610387976781.html
11-01-2021||Other||Noida: Cold days ahead as mercury to touch 5°C||Noida: Noida and its adjoining cities registered a near-cold wave situation on Monday, while weather analysts stated that the mercury may further dip due to strong, icy-cold north-westerly winds.According to the weather department, the minimum temperature may fall over the next two days and hover around 5 to 6 degrees Celsius, bringing some isolated areas of the national Capital region, including Noida, under a cold wave.“The region is already facing cold day conditions at isolated places, which happens if the maximum temperature is either below 4.5 degrees Celsius of the season’s average, or it’s simply below 16 degrees Celsius. The condition will be the same for two days, after which the minimum temperatures may fall further. The western Uttar Pradesh areas like Noida and Ghaziabad may experience cold wave conditions over the next two days,” Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency, Skymet, said.Cold day conditions happen when maximum temperatures are low while cold-wave conditions happen when weather conditions under which the minimum temperatures are too low.On Monday, Noida saw a minimum temperature of 8.7 degrees Celsius against 8.1 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature on Monday for Noida was recorded at 16.4 degrees Celsius against 15.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier. Meanwhile, the average minimum for NCR, based on the Safdarjung observatory was recorded at 7 degrees Celsius – the season’s average, while the maximum was recorded at 17.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below the season’s average. According to officials from India Meteorological Department (IMD), wind speed is likely to increase on Tuesday, which may further drop the maximum temperatures. “The winds speeds on Monday were around 15 kmph of north-westerly direction. Tuesday may see speed go up to 20 to 25 kmph, with shallow fog and mist in the morning. The mercury will fall sharply around January 14, with minimum temperatures likely to hover around 5 degrees Celsius,” said an official from the IMD.Meanwhile, the air quality of Greater Noida improved to the “poor” category from “very poor”. All three cities were in the “poor” category on Monday, with pollution monitoring agencies expecting the air quality to improve to the “moderate” category over Tuesday and Wednesday, due to strong surface winds.According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) for Noida on a scale of 0 to 500, was recorded at 264 against 239 a day earlier. The AQI for Greater Noida was recorded at 283 against 311 or “very-poor” a day earlier. The AQI for Ghaziabad was recorded at 283 against 280 a day earlier. “Surface winds are westerly and high. The minimum temperature is likely to fall however the improved ventilation conditions are likely to influence AQI positively for the next two days. The AQI is likely to improve and in the “poor” to “moderate” category on January 12 and 13. No sudden deterioration of AQI is expected till January 14. Calm winds and extremely low ventilation conditions are likely to affect air quality negatively thereafter,” said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-cold-days-ahead-as-mercury-to-touch-5c-101610387977166.html
11-01-2021||Other||Bird flu: Sensitising the poultry farms, says GB Nagar admin||Noida: Following the confirmation of bird flu cases in neighbouring Delhi, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Monday said it is keeping an eye on the small chicken shops and has sensitised the only two large poultries in the district. Officials said that they are not closing down any shop or poultry for now as there is nothing to worry given that GB Nagar has seen no signs of avian influenza so far. They also said that the vigilance has been stepped up in the district. There are 20 rapid response teams of three members -- two foresters and one veterinarian -- in the district for the purpose. The district administration has already set up a task force to keep an eye on any case of bird flu. The officials said that they have also sensitised the chicken shops and poultry owners. “So far there has been no case of bird flu in GB Nagar. However, we have stepped up the vigilance especially after cases being reported in the neighbouring cities like Delhi. All the officials have been asked to check the poultries and sensitise them about the symptoms and report us in case any symptom is noticed. There are anyways only a few poultries in the district,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. He added that the vigilance is being kept on all big poultries and smaller shops equally. VK Srivastava, chief veterinary officer (CVO) of GB Nagar, said, “There are only two major poultry farms in the district and those are in Jarcha village, Greater Noida. We have already visited them and apprised them of the symptoms and asked them to inform us in case of any emergency. The entry of outsiders and extra stockings have been barred for some time in a bid to avoid any source that might bring along the pathogens.” Srivastava, who heads the district animal husbandry department, said that the district largely depends on chicken supply from Ghazipur chicken market, which was shut last Saturday for 10 days. “The roadside small shops that sell chicken are in our radar too, but most of them are now closed as they depend on the wholesalers from Ghazipur market. Sale is anyways down with most of the shops now closed,” Srivastava added. Asked if those shops selling chicken would be shut as precautionary measures, the officials denied for now. “We are not shutting any shop for now or taking any such measures as it would create panic among people. For now, we have just asked out teams to stay alert,” CVO said. The district has 20 rapid response team (RRT) to inspect different areas of Jewar, Bisrakh, Dankaur and Dadri. Each RRT has two officials from the forest department and one from animal husbandry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-sensitising-the-poultry-farms-says-gb-nagar-admin-101610387858014.html
11-01-2021||Other||Inaugural vaccination at 15 centres in Ghaziabad and Noida, 1500 healthcare workers to get shots||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government will be carrying out the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination at 852 centres across the state on January 16, with seven in Ghaziabad and eight in Gautam Budh Nagar districts. Officials said that on the first day, 100 beneficiaries each at one centre will be given the shots. The two districts on Monday also conducted a “comprehensive” dry run across all the vaccination centres, 44 in Ghaziabad and 73 in Gautam Budh Nagar. This was the second dry run with first conducted on January 5 at six centres each in the two districts. During the second dry run on Monday, the districts catered to 15 beneficiaries each across all the centres.“The comprehensive dry run was conducted across the centres in the district and it went on smoothly. For the inaugural vaccination session on January 16, we have selected eight centres where all preparations have been taken up,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. The district has come up with 13 cold storage points for storing of vaccine, besides the main vaccine depot. The officials have also identified 73 centres where the vaccination will take place, and about 21,543 doctors and medical staff have been identified for vaccination under the first phase. According to GB Nagar’s immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the eight centres include Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (better known as Child PGI), Sharda Hospital, Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital, Kailash Hospital, Jaypee Hospital and Yatharth Hospital. The officials of the Ghaziabad health department said that they have identified seven locations -- Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar and Kaushambi, Gayatri Hospital at Lohiya Nagar, district women’s hospital, Max Hospital at Vaishali, Shanti Gopal Hospital at Indirapuram and Le Crest Hospital at Vasundhara -- for the inaugural day vaccination session. “For the inaugural vaccination on January 16, all the seven facilities are fully prepared and the government staff will be deployed for vaccination. Teams will provide shots to 100 beneficiaries (at each centre) designated under phase I of the vaccination as per the guidelines rolled out,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. Out of the 852 centres selected for the inaugural launch of vaccination across UP, 16 sites are in Lucknow, 12 in Meerut, four in Hapur, 16 in Bulandshahr and highest number of 21 sites each in Azamgarh and Jaunpur. “We are expecting that the vaccine will reach the district latest by January 15 or even before. We have our vaccine store and 29 cold-chain points for storage of vaccine. Our dry run on Monday also went smoothly and we are focussing on adverse event following immunization (AEFI) facility at all centres,” Dr Gupta added. Under the phase I of vaccination, the Ghaziabad district has a list of about 21,800 beneficiaries which are health care workers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday had said that India would take a landmark step forward in fighting the coronavirus pandemic on January 16 when the government begins the drive to vaccinate nearly 30 million health care and front-line workers. The UP government has already said that health care workers (HCWs), which include staff of government and private health care facilities, will get the vaccine in the first phase. The second phase is scheduled for frontline workers such as police personnel, home guards, jail staff and employees of Nagar Palikas, among others, while the third category includes people aged over 50 years and also those aged below 50 but suffering from comorbidities like diabetes, cancer, and high blood pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inaugural-vaccination-at-15-centres-in-ghaziabad-and-noida-1500-healthcare-workers-to-get-shots-101610387796737.html
11-01-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccine to be administered at six sites on Jan 16||The Covid-19 vaccine will be administered to nearly 600 healthcare workers at six session sites in Gurugram on January 16, said senior health officials, with a decision on further vaccinations to be taken once the procurement and distribution plans are finalised at the state level.Only a limited number of session sites have been given the go-ahead to smoothly conduct vaccinations on the launch day, said health officials. “A decision on vaccination post-January 16 is yet to be taken by the state government. It will depend upon the vaccine stock and distribution strategy,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Of the 5,000 session sites across the country, where vaccine administration will start this week, at least 113 are in Haryana. About 11,000 healthcare workers in 22 districts are set to get the first dosage. However, officials did not disclose which vaccine would be administered during the drive.“As directed by the state, only six sites have been selected in Gurugram for the vaccine launch. But we are prepared with 161 sites, in case the vaccination gains pace next week,” Yadav said.In Gurugram, over 36,000 healthcare workers, both from government and private set-ups, are registered for the vaccination. According to Yadav, whenever the full-fledged vaccination drive starts, they will try giving a vaccine shot to all healthcare workers in the district within three days.At the six identified sites — government primary schools in Wazirabad and Daulatabad, Chauma urban primary health centre, Bhangrola primary health centre, SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera and Medanta Hospital — a dry run was conducted at four sites on January 7. Two private hospitals — SGT and Medanta — are the new sites added to the list.On January 16, the Wazirabad session site has been chosen for interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi through videoconferencing. The Wazirabad site is one of the two session sites in the state, with the other being in Panchkula, chosen for the videoconference. Other session sites will have a webcast of the event, said Yadav.For making the system robust before the vaccination day, another dry run was planned on January 14 at 161 sites in the district. The drill, however, has been cancelled due to lack of clarity on the vaccination schedule, confirmed MP Singh, the district immunisation officer.On Monday, Yadav held a meeting with medical officers from 21 private hospitals, urban primary health centres and community health centres. He directed them to strictly adhere to the dos and don’ts. A training session was also conducted for data entry operators who will have to work on the Co-WIN platform to track and update the beneficiaries list.Yadav said that for vaccination, well-trained and experienced personnel are being deployed for smooth functioning at the session sites. Foot signage will be put at the session sites to clearly demarcate the entry and exit to prevent chaos. He said that Covid-19 vaccine will not be administered to female healthcare workers who are pregnant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccine-to-be-administered-at-six-sites-on-jan-16-101610387736730.html
11-01-2021||Bhopal||Chouhan emphasises police action in recovery of missing girls, women||Instructing the police to act to recover girls and women who have been reported missing in the state, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the number of missing girls is double when compared to missing boys. He said it was a clear indication that the disappearance of girls was not normal, as per an official release.CM’s observation and instructions came during a high-level meeting with home minister Narottam Mishra, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri in connection with girls and women reported missing from the state, as per the release.Chouhan said, “Police should increase the number of recoveries of girls… Serious action needs to be taken in the case of the missing girls. Disappearance of girls is a matter of concern.”The CM said recovering lost girls should be a priority. "Such a system should be made that a complete record of the girls going out of the district for work, employment etc., is maintained so that they could file a complaint. There should be such a system that registration should be mandatory for those who go out of the district for work. Only then this could be stopped," he said.Chouhan suggested merging of different types of helplines. At present, the Umang app and helpline 1090 are operating in the state. The helpline number of the Government of India is 1098.He, however, congratulated the police on the decline in the number of crimes against women in the last few months. Crimes against women have reduced by half in the last eight months, he said.Also read: Democrats in US Congress begin second push to impeach Donald TrumpDGP Vivek Johri said, ”The main reasons behind the disappearance of girls and women in urban areas include their leaving house without informing anyone or getting angry and running away or eloping with boyfriends. In rural areas, people migrate in search for employment. In such cases, action by the Labour Department becomes necessary. A record should be maintained of where and what work the contractor is taking from them.”Reacting to the CM's and the DGP’s statements, state Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “By talking of boyfriends, the state government is trying to trivialise a serious issue like crimes against girls and women. It is trying to cover-up its inefficiency in taking action against organised gangs which target girls and women across the state. The fact remains that a good number of girls and women are trafficked from tribal areas by these organised gangs but the government and its police force continue to remain oblivious of the ground reality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/chouhan-emphasises-police-action-in-recovery-of-missing-girls-women-101610386962549.html
11-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 434 new Covid-19 cases, nine deaths||Mumbai on Monday reported 434 fresh coronavirus positive cases, which were the lowest in a single day after more than 50 days, and nine deaths, taking the tally to 2,99,323 and the toll to 11,195, the city civic body said.Mumbai had recorded 409 Covid-19 cases, which were the lowest in a single day since May, 2020, on November 16.With 9,411 new tests conducted on Monday for coronavirus, the overall tally of samples tested so far in Mumbai went past the 25 lakh-mark to reach 25,04,971, as per the data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).A total of 239 patients were discharged from hospitals after treatment in Mumbai, taking the cumulative count of recoveries to 2,79,882.The number of active cases in the megapolis increased to 7,364 from 7,180 cases the day before, the BMC said.The Covid-19 case doubling rate in Mumbai now stands at 359 days, while the case growth rate is 0.21 per cent, as per the data. PTI KK NSK NSK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-434-new-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths-101610385465399.html
11-01-2021||Other||To check crowd, no darshan at Shirdi without online booking||PUNE: With many devotees visiting Shirdi to take darshan, the Shri Saibaba Sansthan Shirdi decided not to allow devotees without online booking. The devotees would not be allowed to get darshan, if they did not have taken the online pass issued by temple trust. Earlier when the Maharashtra government allowed the temple to open, Shirdi Sansthan decided to allow 15,000 devotees per day. With many visiting the temple without pre-planning on auspicious days and weekends, the temple trust is unable to manage the crowd. Shirdi trust has appealed to devotees to take online pass from its website online.sai.org.in Shirdi Saibaba Sansthan Trust’s chief executive officer IAS Kanhuraj Bagate said, “Due to a large number of devotees visiting the temple especially on Tuesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, the darshan system is under stress. We have decided to allow only those who have taken online darshan pass free and paid. We have decided to close the pass distribution system at Shirdi on Thursdays, Saturday and Sundays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-check-crowd-no-darshan-at-shirdi-without-online-booking-101610385696502.html
11-01-2021||Other||Daund passengers plan “Rail Roko” protest on January 17||Pune: For the demand to restart the daily Pune – Daund shuttle Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) train between Pune and Daund, Baramati Member of Parliament Supriya Sule took a meeting with Pune railway division senior officials on Monday. While the Pune – Lonavla local train service has resumed as part of the lockdown relaxation steps, the DEMU train is yet to restarted causing inconvenience to its regular passengers. They have been demanding to restart the service immediately. The passenger group plans to hold “Rail Roko” protest on January 17 to press for their demand. “Today we had a meeting with the Pune railway division officials and several topics were discussed about our Baramati constituency. One of the major demand made to the railway administration was to restart the Pune – Daund daily shuttle train service, as the entire route’s electrification work is completed. There are many people who are in emergency services sector who travel between these two cities daily. They should be allowed to travel through trains on Daund to Pune route,” said Sule. Meanwhile, the Daund Pune Daund Pravasi Sangh met political leaders and representatives of various organisations in Daund on Sunday. ‘ “The meeting was chalk out the future plan of action and to discuss to restart the DEMU services immediately. We have given an ultimatum to the railways to restart the train service immediately or else we will carry out “Rail Roko” Daund railway track on January 17.” said Vikas Deshpande, secretary, Daund Pune Daund Pravasi Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/daund-passengers-plan-rail-roko-protest-on-january-17-101610385216474.html
11-01-2021||Other||PMPML to restart “Pune Darshan” bus service soon||Pune: Those visiting Pune will soon get a chance to visit various archaeological sites and tourist spots in and around the city, as the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is going to restart its “Pune Darshan” bus service. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh had last week given permission to reopen archaeological sites, tourist spots, museums and forts in Pune district. As Shaniwarwada, Kelkar Museum and other tourist destinations that are part of “Pune Darshan” bus service have reopened for public, PMPML is reviewing the spots with respect to Covid prevention measures. “As we are working to generate revenue for the organisation and have already started various new bus services, “Pune Darshan” will also be beneficial for both PMPML and public. Due to the countrywide lockdown the bus service was stopped,” said Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director (CMD) PMPML. The bus service used to be a one-day trip around Pune city for visitors. It would start at 8.30 am and end by 6 pm, while the ticket fares were ₹475 per person. It would cover around 21 spots in and around Pune, including Shaniwarwada, Raja Dinkar Kelkar Musuem, Lal Mahal, Sarasbaug, Chaturshrungi temple and Shinde Chhatri. “Currently, we are looking at the safety protocols to restart the service. We hope that it gets goods response from visitors,” said Jagtap. Welcoming the PMPML decision, Ruchi Pant, who hails from Himachal Pradesh and stays in Pune, said, “Every time my relatives used to visit Pune, I took them on “Pune Darshan” bus tour. Next month my cousin is coming to Pune with his family and we will definitely plan a “Pune Darshan” trip for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmpml-to-restart-pune-darshan-bus-service-soon-101610384125644.html
11-01-2021||Bangalore||Hectic lobbying for ministerial berths ahead of Karnataka cabinet expansion||By Venkatesha BabuWith Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa saying he has received the consent of the party high command to induct seven new members into his cabinet, hectic lobbying has begun among nearly two-dozen aspirants. Differences also have cropped between newcomers into the party - those who crossed over from Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) to help BJP form the government - and old guard loyalists who feel the interlopers have bagged bulk of the cabinet berths.In the 224-member Karnataka assembly, there are 2 vacancies with the BJP having 119 members plus the support of three independents. The Congress has 67 MLA's while the JDS has 33. Among those who crossed over from Congress and JDS who are waiting to be inducted include Raja Rajeshwari Nagar MLA Munirathna as well as Vidhana Parishat members MTB Nagaraju and R Shankar.Munirathna told HT, "while campaigning for my by-poll victory, the CM himself said that I would be made a minister and I am confident that he will keep his word." AH Vishwanath, another defector who was defeated in the subsequent by-poll but was nominated to the upper house, sounded bitter and said, "Yediyurappa should remember the sacrifice of those who helped him become the chief minister. Our sacrifice should not be easily forgotten."However, with the High Court passing strictures against Vishwanath becoming a minister following a PIL - he is a nominated member to the upper house - he is unlikely to be taken into the cabinet. Several of the BJP's old guards, including CM's political secretary M P Renukacharya, seven-time MLA Umesh Katti, five-time legislators S Angara, GH Thippareddy, Mudigere MLA MP Kumaraswamy, Karkala legislator Sunil Kumar, Basangouda Somangouda Patil representing Devara Hipparagi, Parana Munavalli, Hartal Halappa, Dattatreya Patil Revoor, Aravind Limbavali, are some of those who have publicly expressed their desire to be a part of the cabinet.Also read: Satellite imagery shows China creating new military logistics hub in TibetOthers like Hiriyur legislator Poornima Srinivas said that to increase women representation, she should be given an opportunity. Speaking to HT, Mudigere MLA MP Kumaraswamy said that he was fully confident that he would be allowed to serve the people as a minister. "I am sure that adequate representation to a backward class person like me would be provided," he said.Meanwhile, minister for urban development Byrati Basavarj, who crossed over from Congress to help BJP form the government, expressed confidence that his fellow defectors would also be rewarded with cabinet berths. "I am sure that MTB Nagaraju and Muniratha will be made ministers for helping the party come to power. I am confident that promises made will be kept," he stated.However, in the past, some like MP Renukacharya expressed unhappiness over preference given to defectors against long-time loyalists. Last month, as talks of cabinet expansion swirled, Renukacharya had said, "If we hand out all ministries to those who have come in now, should the old-timers who have helped build the party twirl their thumbs?"Renukarcharya on Monday reiterated that he was an aspirant for a ministerial berth "but ultimately we will go by the decision of Yediyurappa who is like a father figure to us," he said.While there was no clarity on whether the cabinet would merely be expanded or there is a reshuffle in the offing, some of the ministers expressed confidence that they would not be dropped. Independent MLA H Nagesh, excise minister facing allegations of corruption relating to transfers in his department, said, "I am confident that I will not be dropped from the cabinet."CM Yediyurappa on Sunday night had said that the cabinet expansion and the oath-taking ceremony would take place on Wednesday (January 13) afternoon. Today, while speaking at a party convention, he said that it may take place on January 13 or 14. Sources in the BJP said that since January 13 is a new moon day (Amavasya - considered inauspicious), the event might be pushed by a day or two.Political analyst Manjunath said that jockeying for cabinet berths was normal but also warned that there might be a spike in dissidence after the expansion. "There are too many aspirants and too little berths. So dissidence will inevitably come to fore. It remains to be seen how the CM decides to handle that," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/hectic-lobbying-for-ministerial-berths-ahead-of-karnataka-cabinet-expansion-101610381485949.html
11-01-2021||Other||MPSC announces revised dates of examinations; Pune candidates happy||Pune: The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) has announced the revised dates for the state civil service preliminary examination. The civil service prelim examination, scheduled on October 11, 2020, will now be conducted on March 14, 2021 (Sunday). The examination had been postponed after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. A circular was issued asking Maratha candidates to apply under open or Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category. Vishnu Tangade, a candidate from Jalna district, has applied through EWS category. According to him, no matter what, exams should be held. “I am relieved to know that MPSC is going to conduct the exams. Lakhs of candidates had been looking forward to this. Supreme Court has said that it will hear Maratha reservation case on daily basis. I am hopeful that till the date of examination we will have some definitive answer on the Maratha reservation issue. We don’t want to take the right of other EWS candidates,” Tangade said. Nayan Rathod, who has applied through the open category, said that it is important that the commission issues notification for 2021 examination as well. “This exam which will be held in March was due in 2020. So, the examination of 2021 is pending. After this exam is over, MPSC should issue the dates for the 2021 examination. It is essential for students who face attempt and age limitations,” Rathod. Candidates have expressed happiness after the dates are declared. “We are happy that the exam will take place. MPSC should clear the doubt about 2021 examinations as well,” said Mahesh Gharbude, who has been preparing for the civil service examinations for last 3 years. Experts think that it is essential for candidates to overcome worries and focus on the exam. “Candidates should focus only on the examination now. Notification for this exam was issued on December 2019. The exam was scheduled to be held on April 5, 2020. Almost a year after its original date, it is going to be conducted. Students should not worry about the results and the cut-offs. They should concentrate on revision and solving old question papers,” said Sachin Dhawale, director, Sachin Dhawale’s Maths & Reasoning Academy Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mpsc-announces-revised-dates-of-examinations-pune-candidates-happy-101610383225539.html
11-01-2021||Other||Three of seven schools in Pune yet to submit audit report: DyDE||Pune: Only four out of seven schools have submitted their audit reports at the deputy director of education (DyDE) department. The department had earlier directed schools to submit the report ahead of complaints on overcharging of fees by parents. As per officials, three more schools will be submitting the audit report on January 9 and it will be made public. Audumbar Ukirde, deputy director of education, said there were seven schools from the city which were to be audited as per the notification issued on December 31, 2020 by the department.“Out of seven, four had submitted the report. The remaining will submit it in the next two days,” said Ukirde. He said there were some schools who are not filling the Class 10 forms of students who haven’t paid full fees.“We approached those schools and made it mandatory for them to fill the forms. Parents also assured us that the remaining fee will be paid in the next few months,” said Ukirde. Meanwhile, some parents said that schools are yet to make the audit report public.One of the parents said that despite repeated efforts, the school (one of the seven audited schools) is not complying with the orders of DyDE department.The parent, on condition of anonymity, said that the authorities should take stern decision in this matter.On December 31, DyDe had issued a notification that it will post a list of authorised schools from the city for the reference of parents.Jayshree Deshpande, president, Parents Association of Pune said, “No list has been made public by the DyDE department. The list would be helpful for parents to identify the authorised schools while taking admissions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-of-seven-schools-in-pune-yet-to-submit-audit-report-dyde-101610382385467.html
11-01-2021||Other||PMC allows reopening of private coaching classes, training institutes; extends garden visit timings||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has allowed reopening of private coaching classes for Class 9 and above students, training centres in the city, more than nine months after they were shut because of the Covid situation. The civic body has also extended the visit timings of 81 gardens already opened from November. According to the order issued by Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Monday, all coaching classes above Class 9 can restart operations from Tuesday by taking necessary precautions. At the same time, all training institutes like computers and typing centres will be able to reopen from January 12.The commissioner instructed private coaching classes to carry out the RT-PCR test of trainers and teachers before reopening. The order also stated social distancing norms to be maintained when the classes are on. PMC had given nod to reopen 81 of its 203 gardens in the city from November 1. In the order issued on October 29, the civic body had specified visit timings —6am to 8am and 5pm to 7pm. The latest order has extended the visiting period from 6am to 9am and 4pm to 7pm. The civic administration extended the timings following demands from citizens. Following the demand from citizens and corporators to reopen all the gardens in the city, PMC garden department said it is chalking out a plan to do so and a decision is expected this week, said a civic official. Priti Sinha, PMC assistant garden superintendent, said, “The garden visit timings have been increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-allows-reopening-of-private-coaching-classes-training-institutes-extends-garden-visit-timings-101610381185457.html
11-01-2021||Other||Petition in HC seeks to nullify all child marriages performed in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea to declare all child marriages in the national capital as “invalid”. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on the petition by a woman who has also sought to nullify her wedding which was allegedly performed when she was a minor.The woman has also sought a declaration from the court that every child marriage performed in the state should be null and void right from the onset.The court issued notices to her father, brother and husband seeking their response to the plea before February 12, the next date of hearing.According to the woman, represented by advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, when her wedding was performed in April 2010, she had no option but to give her consent as at that time, she was awaiting her class 10 results and could not go against her parents’ wishes.The woman, who claims to be born on December 10, 1993, said she was residing peacefully with her parents till November 19, 2020, when the person to whom she was married as a child came with his parents to take her to Gujarat with them.When she objected, she was allegedly beaten up by her brother at the behest of the husband. Subsequently, she escaped from her home on November 20, 2020, and has remained in hiding since then, the petitioner claimed. She also sought protection from the husband and her family.Advocate Mir told the bench that his client was staying at an undisclosed location as she feared that her family would force her to agree to the live with a marriage that was performed when she was a minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petition-in-hc-seeks-to-nullify-all-child-marriages-performed-in-delhi-101610378785182.html
11-01-2021||Other||One held for bludgeoning to death man who refused to give him liquor||A 32-year-old man was bludgeoned to death with a hammer at a public park in south Delhi’s Tigri allegedly by a 22-year-old man over an old rivalry and the man’s refusal to give him liquor on Sunday afternoon, police said. The alleged attacker, who is into the profession of installing cellphone towers, was arrested a few hours after the murder. He was planning to leave the city to avoid his arrest, police said.The dead man, identified by his first name as Rahul, lived in a slum cluster in Tigri. He was previously involved in nearly half a dozen cases of murder, robbery, theft and those under the excise act, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.“We have learnt that the arrested man, Govind alias Pundi, had an old rivalry with Rahul and his brothers, who are also history sheeters. Around a month ago, Rahul and Govind had an altercation over drinking liquor at the park. Govind had asked Rahul for liquor but the latter refused him and that had led to an altercation,” said DCP Thakur.On Sunday, around 2.30pm, Rahul was sitting at the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) managed park with one Sanjay and other persons. Govind arrived there and allegedly began attacking him with an iron hammer. He allegedly hit Rahul several times on the head. As Rahul collapsed to the ground, Govind fled from the scene, the DCP said.“The injured man was rushed to Batra hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. A case of murder was registered and an investigation was taken up,” said Thakur.The investigating team recorded the statements of the persons present in the park at the time of the crime. After the suspect was identified, teams were formed to conduct raids and nab him.“Govind was caught the same evening from another park near Mehrauli-Badarpur Road. He was all set to flee the city. The weapon used in the crime was also recovered,” said the DCP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-held-for-bludgeoning-to-death-man-who-refused-to-give-him-liquor-101610378606379.html
11-01-2021||Other||Man, claiming to be divorcee, promises marriage and rapes woman; held||Police on Monday said they had arrested a 45-year-old man on charges of raping and threatening a 35-year-old widow in south Delhi’s Aya Nagar near Fatehpur Beri. The man had befriended the woman through a common friend nearly three years ago. He allegedly proposed her marriage by claiming to be a divorcee, but she later found that he had a wife and children, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said on January 9 (Saturday), the woman approached the Fatehpur Beri police station and filed a complaint against the man. In her complaint, the woman said her husband died in 2015 and a few months after that, she came in contact with this man.As per the woman’s allegation, the man first raped her in his car in Aya Nagar in 2017 after promising to marry her. Recently, the woman learnt that the man was married and had been living with his wife and children in Ghitorni village, the DCP said.“When the woman confronted him, he started threatening to harm her -- he claimed to be an influential man in his neighbourhood. As the woman found herself cheated, she approached the police and filed a complaint,” a police officer associated with the probe said, requesting anonymity.DCP Thakur said a case of rape and criminal intimidation was registered under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 376 and 506 and the suspect was arrested on Sunday. During questioning, the DCP said the man, Sanjay Singh Lohia, disclosed that he was working as a peon at the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in Delhi.“Lohia also confessed that he deceived the woman and made physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage after claiming to be a divorcee. He has been sent to jail,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-claiming-to-be-divorcee-promises-marriage-and-rapes-woman-held-101610378605754.html
11-01-2021||Other||Farmers protest hits daily wagers at Labour Chowk in Bahadurgarh||Rajan Awasthi is just back after a session of back-breaking work -- he and his friend had unloaded 75 cement bags from a truck near Pandit Shree Ram Sharma in Bahadurgarh, about a kilometre away from the Tikri border where farmers have been camping since the past 47 days to protest against the three farm laws.The two men were paid ₹3 per cement bag and they each had a little over ₹100 to show for their effort. Until a few weeks ago, Awasthi was making over ₹600 a day and currently, he is glad of any work, even one that pays a pittance.Since the past 47 days, scores of daily wagers like him, who usually wait at the labour chowk near the Metro station to find employment, are struggling as the farmers’ road blockade has killed opportunities.Labourers say they now have to wait for hours on end at the Labour Chowk and even then, only a handful manage to find work that was plentiful before, given the numerous factories and warehouses in that part of Haryana, not far from the Delhi border.“I found this work after four days of unemployment. Many other daily wagers have left for their homes in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh after waiting for a couple of days in the hopes that the farmers would disperse,” Awasthi said.The biggest problem is that very little raw material is arriving in this industrial area because of the closure of Rohtak Road. “Some trucks still bring in goods via the inner roads, but a distance that was covered by these vehicles in five minutes earlier now take three to four hours because of the jam that often builds up on these narrow roads. Many truckers have refused to ferry goods because of the jams,” said Praveen Chillar, who deals in construction material and often hires daily wagers.Factory owners said while a few businesses have temporarily downed their shutters, the arrival of material at factories that are open has dipped to as low as 30%.“I would earlier hire nearly a dozen wagers daily. Now I need just two or three a day because of the dip in business,” said Subhash Jangra, accounts manager of a factory dealing in iron and steel goods.Three to four daily wagers squat outside this factory daily in the hopes of finding work, but most will go away disappointed.“This factory is among the few that hires labourers like us, but they will need only a few of us. Most others are able to make do with their own staff,” said Bhure Singh, a daily wager who said he hasn’t had any work for a week now.“Now we know that most of our days will be spent squatting here with no luck. It is better than staying home and being scolded by wives for not working,” said Kali Charan, another wage earner.The workers said they do not grudge the farmers their protest, but they are finding it hard to take this hit after a prolonged period of unemployment during the lockdown just months earlier.“Unlike the farmers, we don’t even have lands to go back to and cultivate. We don’t have a system of minimum wages. It all depends on the demand and supply. Right now, there is very little work and lots of people to do it,” said Ajay Pal, a daily wager.The only silver lining is the free food at the langars organised by farmers. “I have my breakfast there and leave for home after having dinner. It had reduced the quarrels back at my home,” said Pal.Agitating farmers here said they try to ensure that none of these workers is turned away from langars. “Us farmers know the hardships of these labourers. So, we have been cooking much more than what we would have needed for our small group. We cannot give up this protest, but we are trying to lessen their problems,” said Harminder Singh, a farmer from Katera village in Firozpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-hits-daily-wagers-at-labour-chowk-in-bahadurgarh-101610378605146.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Air pollution: SC asks Govt to come out with steps to deal with stubble burning||The Supreme Court Monday asked the Centre to file an affidavit detailing “concrete steps” to deal in future with the situation of stubble burning, which is a major cause of air pollution in the Delhi-national capital region (NCR) during the winters.The order by a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, came after it was submitted that the pollution caused due to stubble burning will again come to fore in future.“Mr Tushar Mehta (Solicitor General), you come back with some concrete steps on stubble burning,” the bench said.The top court was hearing a petition which has raised the issue of pollution caused due to stubble burning in neighbouring states of Delhi.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioner, told the bench, “The issue will arise again. For this year, the issue of stubble burning is over and it will start again next time. The Centre has said nothing on this”. The bench asked solicitor general to file an affidavit on the issue. The apex court had last month said it was “not satisfied” with the work done by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas, which has been constituted by the Centre to tackle air pollution. “We don't know what your commission is doing. People in Delhi are not satisfied with your work. We are also not satisfied,” the bench had said. Mehta had earlier told the bench that the commission is working on “war footing” and several steps have been taken to deal with pollution. On November 6, the apex court had asked the Centre to ensure there is no smog in Delhi as it was informed that the Commission has started functioning from that day. It had said that pollution problem has to be dealt with by the executive as it has the power, money and resources for this. The Centre, which has appointed former Chief Secretary of Delhi M M Kutty as the chairperson of the Commission, had apprised the court that there were experts from the field besides members from NGOs in the newly created Commission. On October 29, the top court was informed by the Centre that it has come out with an ordinance on curbing pollution and it has been promulgated already. The top court is also hearing a separate plea on air pollution and had last year even taken a suo motu note of alarming rise in air pollution in Delhi-NCR where several directions have been passed with regard to stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-pollution-sc-asks-govt-to-come-out-with-steps-to-deal-with-stubble-burning-101610375244679.html
11-01-2021||Kolkata||First lot of Covid-19 vaccine vials to arrive in Kolkata on Tuesday||The first consignment of around 70-80 lakh vials of Covid-19 vaccines is likely to reach the city on Tuesday, a senior official of the state health department said.Four vehicles have been readied to ferry the consignment from the city airport to state-owned Central Family Welfare Stores at Bagbazar -- the biggest depot for stockpiling vaccines in Bengal, he said on Monday.At the Bagbazar store, five walk-in-coolers (WICs) and four walk-in-freezers (WIFs) have been prepared to store the vials, he added.Hoping that distribution of the vials to other districts may begin shortly after it arrives, or on Wednesday, the official said all "transportation has been arranged"."Before the vials are dispatched to other districts, we will have to take down details, such as batch number and other specifications," he said.The central government had last week said that the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive would begin on January 16. Frontline workers will be among the first ones to receive the dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/first-lot-of-covid-19-vaccine-vials-to-arrive-in-kolkata-on-tuesday-101610374935986.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court grants bail to five accused in two cases||A Delhi court Monday granted bail to five persons in two separate cases related to the communal violence in north east Delhi in February last year.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the relief to them on furnishing a bail bond of ₹20,000 with one surety each in the case related to the alleged vandalism and torching of a car showroom during the riots in Dayalpur area.The court granted bail to Shebu Khan, Hamid, Shakeel and Jaan Mohd them bail on the ground of parity, saying recently as many as 13 co-accused persons were enlarged on bail in the case.It further noted that they were arrested in the case after about 10 months of the incident on February 25, 2020.The court also granted bail to Mohd Tahir on furnishing a bail bond of ₹20,000 with one surety of like amount in the case related to vandalism and looting of a shop allegedly by a riotous mob in Gokalpuri area.It noted that Tahir has neither been named in the FIR nor there are specific allegations against him in the matter.It further said he was neither visible in any CCTV footage nor his call detail record location was available on record.The court directed all the accused not to tamper with evidence and to install the “Aarogya Setu” app on their mobile phones.During the hearing, advocate Nasir Ali, appearing for Shakeel and Jaan, claimed they had been falsely implicated in the matter and and were not present at the alleged scene of crime on the date of the incident.Advocate Salim Malik, appearing for Tahir, said he had nothing to do with the alleged offence and there was no electronic evidence available against him in the case.The police's Special Public Prosecutor opposed the bail applications saying although charge sheet has been filed in the cases, the investigation was ongoing and accused may threaten the witnesses if enlarged on bail.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-grants-bail-to-five-accused-in-two-cases-101610374219710.html
11-01-2021||Kolkata||'No difference!' Mamata Banerjee compares BJP with Donald Trump’s followers||The Bharatiya Janata Party will behave in a similar fashion like that of US President Donald Trump’s followers the day they lose the elections, Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said.“Haven’t you seen them? Trump keeps on insisting that he has won despite losing. Similarly, BJP will say 'hum jeeta hai, hum jeeta hai (We have won, we have won)', when they will lose. There is no difference,” said Banerjee, while addressing a rally in Nadia district.Thousands of protesters supporting US President Donald Trump breached the security of the US capitol late on Wednesday night as the Congress was certifying President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.Attacking the BJP over the three contentious farm bills, Banerjee alleged that BJP leaders have staged lunch with farmer’s family in rural Bengal after arriving in chartered flights. They feasted on dishes prepared in five-star hotels and drank costly branded mineral water, she said while asserting that she always consumes locally bottled drinking water.“Where were you when farmers protest in Haryana? They are protesting for the last one month under the sun and rain. Some have died in the cold. You have shot people, attacked them with lathis and gas but justice hasn’t been delivered”"Life is not so easy my brother. If you want to meet success you will have to hit the roads. But there is not a speck of dirt on your clothes," she said.Also read: 'Centre to bear expenses for phase 1 of Covid vaccination' - PM ModiShe tagged the BJP as a junk party and christened it as the 'Bharatiya Junk Party', saying that corrupt politicians, who want to save themselves from central investigation agencies, defect to the BJP.“In the entire country, they (BJP) are somewhat afraid of me because they know very well that I cannot be purchased. I would stand in front of the barrel, but I won’t allow them to sell Bengal,” Banerjee said, as she upped her ante against the centre’s privatization and disinvestment policy.The BJP however stung back saying that the tone in which the chief minister has been speaking indicates that she has become bewildered and disappointed.“Her party’s leaders and old-timers are abandoning her. On the other hand, people are coming to attend BJP rallies in large numbers. She is not able to take this. Hence she is sometimes making some contradictory statements. It is better not to reach to her comments,” said Dilip Ghosh, head of BJP’s Bengal unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/no-difference-mamata-banerjee-compares-bjp-with-donald-trump-s-followers-101610371744302.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Asked to pay ₹20 for chilli potatoes, man thrashes fast food vendor, robs cash||The police have arrested a man for allegedly robbing and thrashing a fast food vendor who had asked him to pay ₹20 for a plate of snacks, officials said on Monday.The incident took place southeast Delhi's Jamia Nagar area, they said.The accused has been identified as Firoz Khan (26), a resident of Hazi Colony here. He was previously involved in eight cases, including robbery and theft, police said.According to the complainant Subhash Gupta, Firoz came to his food cart on January 9 and ordered a plate of for chilli potatoes. After eating, when he was asked to pay ₹20 for it, Firoz got angry and started abusing him.When the vendor opposed, Firoz punched him and beat him. He robbed ₹1,500 cash and Aaadhar card from his cart and ran away, police said.The injured fast food vendor was then taken to a nearby hospital for treatment.A case was registered under IPC section 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) at Jamia Nagar police station and the accused was arrested on Sunday, said RP Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast)."On sustained interrogation, the accused disclosed that he was a drug addict and had no work. He committed crime to earn a quick buck for his daily needs," he said.The robbed cash and the Aaadhar card of the complainant was recovered from him, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/asked-to-pay-rs-20-for-chilli-potatoes-man-thrashes-fast-food-vendor-robs-cash-101610362219333.html
11-01-2021||Dehradun||3 Akhadas to herald Mahakumbh 2021 on January 25||By Sandeep RawatAnnouncement by three Akhadas of their arrival in Haridwar for Mahakumbh 2021 from January 25 has heralded the first major religious activity related to Mahakumbh 2021.Shri Panch Dasnam Juna Akhada, Aahwan Akhada and Agni Akhada will be entering the Kumbh city on January 25 by carrying out a religious processions, installation of traditional Kumbh Dharma Dhwaja (flag) and worshipping at major shrines on the pathway.Ramta Panch (the roaming ascetics) will be leading these Akhada processions which are a major attraction for pilgrims, tourists and locals, drawing crowds on both sides of the path through which the royal processions of Akhadas will pass through.According to Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj, who is also the international convener of Juna Akhada, the first bhoomi pujan will be performed at Juna Akhada on January 16 after which the holy flag will be installed which will remain throughout the Kumbh fair. After this ritual, the Akhada seers will start arriving in a religious procession from other parts of the country.“Juna Akhada, Aahwan Akhada and Agni Akhada seers will be entering Uttarakhand from Najibabad side of Uttar Pradesh on January 25 and through the path, they will worship and offer rituals to deities, sacred Ganga, shrines of Mata Chandi Devi, Siddhpeeth Dakshin Kali, Gauri Shankar Mahadev, Mayadevi and Daksheshwar Mahadev, among others. The flag hoisting is done at Juna Akhada only by these three Akhadas,” said Mahant Hari Giri.The Kumbh mela administration has also started preparing for the mega fair with infrastructural works being done in mela zone at a fast pace.“Along with the mela officials, I have inspected the ongoing works at Akhadas. All the arrangements will be done in time before the flag hoisting event and the entry of Akhadas seers into Kumbh city,” said Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat.Akhada Parishad has also demanded waiver during Mahakumbh from mandatory verification of pilgrims coming from other states during Mahakumbh citing downfall in number of Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand and across the country in the past few weeks.To this, state urban development minister Madan Kaushik pointed that Kumbh fair is scheduled to be held in a grand fair though standard operating procedures regarding the spread of Covid-19 and a notification to be issued next month regarding the Mahakumbh fair will make the overall picture clearer.While the state government and the Mela administration are taking this year’s Mahakumbh as a 48-day affair assuming core Kumbh fair from March 11 till April 27, Kumbh Mela Security Force administration is taking the mega fair as a 60-day event, also taking into account the tentative notification date issuance in late February."The arrival of security forces, their deployment, traffic plan need to be chalked out beforehand. By February 28, the state government will issue a notification for Kumbh. We are taking the mela as a 60-day affair from that very date itself," said Director General of Uttarakhand Police, Ashok Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/3-akhadas-to-herald-mahakumbh-2021-on-january-25-101610368512504.html
11-01-2021||Dehradun||Harish Rawat urges Cong high command to declare CM candidate for 2022 polls||Senior Congress leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat has urged party high command to declare the chief ministerial candidate for the 2022 polls to stop damage due to ongoing factionalism in the party. He said it should also be made clear that the person who leads the party in the elections will be the chief ministerial candidate. This is being seen as a direct claim by Rawat for leading the party in the polls.Rawat, while expressing his gratitude to the Uttarakhand Congress in-charge Devendra Yadav, tweeted on Monday, “Thank you Devendra Yadav ji…for increasing my respect…But why Harish Rawat….the electoral fight is incomplete without every single leader and party worker….without much delay, the party should declare the commander (senapati) of the electoral strategy for 2022 elections…the party should also make this clear that in the case Congress wins the elections, the same person would be chosen as the chief minister…”“If we go into elections not clear about all this, it will not be good for the party… the morale of the party cadre is getting affected by undue speculations and groupism….factionism has reached to the level of workers… whosoever the party decides as the leader, I will be behind that person….we have many experienced and energetic people in the party…the high command needs to declare one name and lead us ahead,” his tweet read.Rawat’s bold assertion has not gone well with senior party leaders in the state.Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress state vice president said recently, during the three-day tour of Devendra Yadav, he had said that Pritam Singh is the party president and the elections would be fought collectively with the blessings of Harish Rawat and leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh.Also read: 'Centre to bear expenses for phase 1 of Covid vaccination' - PM Modi“So it has been made clear that the Congress doesn’t believe in declaring the CM candidate before the elections. We will fight collectively and then when we win the elections, the party will decide the CM candidate,” he said.The BJP said it was Congress’s internal matter, but indicative of the fact that Congress is ridden with factionalism.State BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat said Congress is dreaming of winning elections. “People know who they have to choose. It doesn’t concern us at all what Congress is doing about its CM candidate,” he said.The bickering in Uttarakhand Congress over who will lead the party as the chief ministerial candidate in the 2022 assembly polls has come out in the open in the last few months.Congress had even issued a statement in November that it will be state Congress president Pritam Singh who will lead the party in 2022 elections.Many senior Congress leaders, including Rajya Sabha member Pradeep Tamta, senior Congress MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal, Dharchula MLA Harish Dhami, former Almora MLA Manoj Tiwari, have been projecting Harish Rawat as the party’s chief ministerial candidate in the forthcoming assembly elections in 2022. This has not gone well with state president Pritam Singh and his supporters.The infighting in the state unit is raging ahead of the elections, especially at a time when the party is trying to strengthen itself at the grassroots level. Some Congress leaders have even indirectly attacked Harish Rawat, blaming him for the 2017 election loss.Rawat had responded saying, “I have been at the forefront of election campaigns from 2002 to 2019. These statistics masters ought to stop counting my wins and losses and move forward”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/harish-rawat-urges-cong-high-command-to-declare-cm-candidate-for-2022-polls-101610368078208.html
11-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu outbreak in Maharashtra, confirms central laboratory||The National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, a nodal body for testing bird flu cases, has confirmed that the cause of death of poultry birds (chicken) in Parbhani district is bird flu or avian influenza. Maharashtra has become the eighth state to have been affected by bird flu. The central laboratory has confirmed to the state animal husbandry department that the poultry birds died owing to H5N1 virus, the most common strain of the virus that causes severe respiratory diseases in birds. State animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh confirmed the development.On Friday, around 800 poultry birds (chicken) and two herons were found dead in Parbhani district of central Maharashtra and their samples were sent to NIHSAD the same day to ascertain the cause of death. Dapoli in Ratnagiri district and Beed district in central Maharashtra, too, had reported deaths of six and 11 crows respectively.“Following the guidelines issued by the Central government, we will have to start culling poultry birds within one km radius of the infected zone in Parbhani district,” said a senior official from animal husbandry department, requesting anonymity. In addition, the area from 1 km to 10 km will be declared as ‘surveillance zone’, he added.“We are still awaiting detailed reports from NIHSAD which could give us clarity on the possibility of the presence of H5N8, which may have caused the bird deaths in other districts too,” said another official from the department.This is second time that Maharashtra is affected by bird flu in the past two decades. Last time, H5N1 outbreak was reported in Navapur village of Nandurkar district in 2006.On Sunday, 160 more birds were found dead in several districts of the state. Of them, 43 and 40 poultry birds were found dead in Parbhani and Latur districts, respectively. In addition, 50 parrots in Nagpur, 29 poultry birds in Amravati, etc, were found dead and their samples were sent to NIHSAD for testing to find out the cause of death, stated a release issued by the animal husbandry department on Sunday.On Saturday, around 200 poultry birds in Latur district, one crow in Akola, two crows each in Gondia and Chandrapur, one heron in Thane and three crows in Dapoli at Ratnagiri district were found dead.Four days ago, 15 pond egrets, two parrots were found dead in Thane and three crows were found dead in Mumbai and test reports of primary investigation conducted at Western Regional Disease Diagnostic laboratory (WRDDL) Pune had come negative.Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat have been other states confirmed to have affected of the bird flu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-outbreak-in-maharashtra-confirms-central-laboratory-101610366545310.html
11-01-2021||Other||Mohammadwadi residents form citizens’ forum to tackle water crisis||PUNE At least 10,000 residents of the Mohammadwadi suburb in eastern Pune are facing their worst water crisis yet.Sixteen residential societies don’t have any “official” water supply and are completely dependent on private water tankers.The residents of Mohammadwadi have now formed the Anandvan Parisar Residents Forum (APRF) to press for civic amenities in the area commensurate with the property taxes being paid. Two public water tanks constructed opposite the Dorabjee Heritage mall are now abandoned, a spot for selfie seekers, if at all. The water tanks were constructed to solve water crisis in Mohamadwadi, but seem to be have been forgotten by the PMC.APRF co-founder Nitin Bokey, who has been spearheading the empowerment mission, said, “PMC has failed to provide water to residents and Mohammadwadi has been neglected all these years. We have huge monthly water bills to pay and citizens are suffering due to PMC apathy despite regular taxes being paid. The forum will raise its voice against the water injustice in Mohammadwadi and will ensure that PMC discharges its duty towards citizens.” Danish Shaikh, a resident of Imperial Housing Society, said, “We have been demanding round-the-clock water supply for the area for the past many years. We will take up the water issue through our citizens’ forum. Currently, water is being bought in private at high prices, despite us paying taxes. PMC must wake up to the reality and discharge its duty.” PMC’s water supply department chief, superintendent Aniruddha Pawaskar, said, “We have been supplying water regularly to Mohammadwadi. There is a water problem at some places in the area and we will try to resolve that issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohammadwadi-residents-form-citizens-forum-to-tackle-water-crisis-101610365704327.html
11-01-2021||Other||Disabled face a job crisis in the post-Covid world||Rizwan Safi, 24, gets distressed every time his wife asks him about when he is returning to work. Safi, had joined an auto parts company in September 2019 and his parents arranged his marriage soon after. In March last year, during the lockdown, his factory shut temporarily and Safi, who earned ₹9,000 a month, lost his job. “ My wife seems to feel that she and her family was cheated into marriage, which is devastating for me. They feel I never had a job in the first place,” says Safi, who is visually challenged. “My supervisor at the factory kept promising me that I would be called back soon, but that has not happened. Everyone else, except three totally blind people like me, have been called back to work. A blind person depends on physical touch, which is a taboo in these times of social distancing. I think it is the need for social distancing that has cost me my job,” adds a distraught Safi. Safi is not the only one. “ Almost half of the 200 people with disabilities I found placements for over the past few years lost their jobs or have been furloughed. Covid 19- is particularly harsh on the blind. These days employees have so many questions and apprehensions about hiring the blind, fearing they would not be able to maintain social distancing. My job as a placement person has never been so difficult in the past decade,” says Tejinder Singh Bisht, who helped place Safi and heads placement division at Blind Relief Association, a Delhi- based non-government organisation, which works for the empowerment of the blind people. People with disabilities—physically disabled, blind, the deaf -- have been disproportionately affected by the economic consequences of the Covid crisis, with thousands of them losing their jobs or being furloughed. They say even before the pandemic, disability-inclusive work culture was a mirage for them and they were hired mostly with a sense of charity. Covid- 19, they feel, has changed even that consideration on the part of companies, creating an unprecedented job crisis for them. And non-government organizations who provide them vocational training and find placement for them say finding jobs for them — most work in hospitality, retail, finance, BPO — has never been harder. Life for people with disabilities who lost their jobs has been a daily struggle. Take, for example, Shayam Sunder, 43, who is deaf. Sunder, who lives in Dwarka and worked as a linen and uniform attendant in a five-star hotel in Delhi, earned ₹11,000 a month before he was furloughed during the lockdown. He has since been desperately trying to find a job, but to no avail. “It was always difficult for a disabled person like me to find a job. The hospitality sector is hit hard, and since I am just class 10 pass, I am not sure if I will find employment in the near future. I have so far survived on my meagre savings and on support being provided by relatives. The feeling of being a burden on others is stifling, ” says Sunder, talking to HT through a sign language interpreter. “People with disabilities, who mostly have entry-level jobs in different sectors, have suffered massive job losses during the Covid -19 crisis. Many of them are the only bread earners in their families. The emotional cost of being unemployed is high as a lot of them are considered a burden by their own families,” says Arman Ali, executive director, National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP), a cross-disability, non-profit organization that works with industry and government for the empowerment of people with disabilities. The problem , Ali adds, is that barring a few exceptions, most companies continue to consider employment for disable as part of their CSR activity and not their HR practice. “The pandemic has made it necessary that employment for people with disabilities is rethought. They should be part of the companies’ business plans and seen as drivers of profitability,” says Ali. According to World Bank data, India has 40 to 80 million people with disabilities. The 2011 census pegged this figure at 26.8 million, with the National Capital Territory of Delhi accounting for 2.34 lakh, a number disputed by disability rights activists, who say that the actual figure is much higher. While there is no data available about how many disabled people lost their jobs during the Covid-19 crisis, NCPEDP conducted a study during the lockdown—‘Locked Down and Left Behind’-- to assess the condition of people with disabilities across the country. Out of 1,067 who were surveyed, 57% said they were facing an employment-related financial crisis, 13% spoke of challenges in accessing rations, while 9% were facing obstacles in access to health care and medical aid. Praveen Jindal, a resident of Vishwas Nagar in Delhi, who has a disability in one leg says that every month he faces threat of eviction from his house by his landlord. His only income right now, he says, is ₹2500 that he gets as disability pension from the government. Until the lockdown, he worked with an agency that collected credit card payments for a bank. “My landlord has raised my rent from ₹4,000 to 6, 000 a month, which I just cannot afford to pay. For a few months, I survived with support from family and friends. Eventually, I had to sell my two-wheeler to survive,” says Jindal. Top e-commerce companies, says Ramya Miryala, the director of Deaf Enabled Foundation, an organization which helps train and find placement for people with hearing impairment across the country, have been the only ray of hope in the otherwise grim employment scene. “At least 220 people out of 750 we trained and found employment before the pandemic lost their jobs . In the 11 years that we have been working for the deaf, we have never seen so many people lose their jobs. Thankfully, we were able to place some of them with e-commerce companies where they are into loading, unloading and packing-tagging,” says Miryala. “The hearing impaired succeed very well in jobs where they do not have to take instruction and work is visual, but our placement numbers have decreased by 50% last year,” says Ruma Roka, founder Noida Deaf Society. AS Narayanan, president , National Association of the Deaf (NAD), says it will be difficult for a deaf to regain their jobs as a majority of them worked in the hospitality sector which was hit hard by the pandemic. “All the hotels are quite conscious of their social responsibility. The problem is they are working at reduced staff strength and are gradually calling back staff on a need basis, including people with disabilities, most of whom worked in spas, housekeeping and service departments. One needs to understand that many areas of hotels are still closed,” says KB Kachru, vice president, Hotel Association of India and chairman emeritus & principal advisor, South Asia, at Radisson Hotel Group. Arman Ali, whose organization is currently working with IIM (Bangalore) to understand the challenges and gaps in creating employment opportunities for the people with disabilities in the post-Covid world, however, sounds hopeful. “ The job scenario for people with disabilities will improve as new norms of work from home might eventually help them. In fact, people with disabilities have been demanding work from home and flexibility in work for years,” says Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/disabled-face-a-job-crisis-in-the-post-covid-world-101610364383989.html
11-01-2021||Other||Monday Musings: Everyone, except the locals, loves good spread of hyacinth||January is normally the season when Pune’s cultural calendar begins. It starts on high note with the Sawai Gandharva music festival, followed by the Pune international film festival and eventually, ends with Vasantostav, a programme named after late classical singer Vasantrao Deshpande. January is also the month when local newspapers, every year, report on hyacinth accumulated on the surface of several of the city’s water bodies. These aquatic weeds mask the water, reduce oxygen to marine life, and more importantly, become a breeding ground for mosquitos. The Covid pandemic has put a pause on cultural events this year, but the hyacinth has come up again. Be it the historically important Katraj lake or the three rivers – Mula, Mutha and Pavana - that flow through Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, the thick green cover is conspicuous by its presence. The rapid growth has often destroyed the ecology of these water bodies. And the presence has provided shelter to disease vectors and pests, a reason for complaints by locals, even as authorities have turned blind eye. Every year, the two municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad hand over contracts for removal of the hyacinth. In the process, crores of rupees are spent, and yet, no long-lasting solution has been found. Last year, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was under the scanner for its tendering of a ₹23 crore plan for clearing the hyacinth from the Katraj and Pashan lakes. The tender was floated for a contract of five years when the hyacinth had already been removed by local corporators using their ward funds. Opposition members in the civic body alleged that tender was floated with an inflated cost - eight times higher than the provision made in the annual budget - leading to allegations. Eventually, after much uproar, the tender had to be scrapped and an inquiry was ordered by the then PMC commissioner Saurabh Rao, who is now divisional commissioner for Pune region. The inquiry did not bring out much and nobody knows what happened to the report. To spend ₹23 crore to remove hyacinth in two lakes, which are not more than half a kilometre in radius, each, is costlier than addressing the root cause. Rampant water pollution in upper and lower Katraj lake, built during the Peshwa era when it provided crucial source for water to city, has often provided a lease of life for weeds. The poor drainage line network in nearby areas has allowed polluted water to enter Katraj lake, which has seen hundreds of fish die, due to lack of oxygen, on multiple occasions in the past. Hyacinth prevents sunlight from reaching the waters, thus stopping generation of oxygen, which in turn kills all aquatic life forms. Due to the large amount of hyacinth, people residing in the surrounding areas have complained about contracting diseases like dengue and malaria. The story is not different for Pashan lake or the Mula, Mutha and Pavana rivers. However, instead of addressing the root cause – fixing drainage lines of nearby areas, which have seen rampant development due to availability of land at cheaper rates – PMC and PCMC (Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation) have allotted contracts worth crores of rupees to remove hyacinth, that will come up again next year. So what if environmental watchdogs such as the Maharashtra pollution control board (MPCB) has served notices to PMC for not addressing the problem? For politicians and bureaucrats, fixing drainage lines would end the problem and put a full stop over allotment of contracts; something that will also halt money exchanging hands.Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-everyone-except-the-locals-loves-good-spread-of-hyacinth-101610363845571.html
11-01-2021||Other||Five steps to transfer ownership of vehicle in Pune||Step 1: Visit parivahan.gov.in portal click on the option related to online services then choose vehicle services. Choose the state and enter the details of vehicle registration. Proceed to miscellaneous which will lead to generating an OTP. Enter all details of the vehicle.Step 2:There are several forms that one needs to fill. For a NOC (No Objection Certificate) you will need to upload an online fee receipt (2 copies), original Registration Certificate (RC), form No 28 (It is also required to prove that you don’t hold any liabilities that can stop you from legally selling your vehicle).Step 3:For a change in ownership use form no. 29 (2 copies). One would also require a police commissioner’s report as an NOC for another state passing, pencil print of the original chassis. Three copies pasted duly on form No. 28. Mention your mobile number also.Step 4:In the case of a vehicle registered within the same state, the transfer is done within fourteen days after the application for the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle is submitted made by the transferee in form 30. Form 30 is a confirmation of form 29.Step 5:Documents required: Form 29, 30, I, certificate of registration, certificate of insurance, certificate of PUC, PAN card (seller and purchaser) or form 60, chassis and engine pencil print, proof of date of birth of purchaser, address proof, RC book, purchaser’s undertaking, passport size photograph. “The ministry of road transport and highways-run portal is a well-managed digital platform where 50 RTOs are connected. We have made the procedure easy and hassle-free for people. Forms have to be filled online and payment as well to maintain transparency. The forms need to be downloaded and submitted as hard copies to their nearest RTO. During the lockdown, we had slot booking and now we have walk-in facilities after one has filled the forms online,” says Sanjay Sasane, deputy RTOFor more details visit parivahan.gov.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-steps-to-transfer-ownership-of-vehicle-in-pune-101610363004739.html
11-01-2021||Patna||Bihar GA to boycott assembly if budget session is curtailed, says Tejashwi Yadav||Leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday cautioned the government that any attempt to curtail the upcoming budget session would be opposed tooth and nail by the Rashtiya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Grand Alliance. He said that Grand Alliance leaders would boycott the assembly and gherao the residences of the chief minister and deputy chief minister.Yadav accused the government of running away from dealing with burning issues, claiming that this was the reason why there was talk of the budget session being curtailed. The Leader of the Opposition said he had expressed his opposition to the idea of a truncated budget session during his interaction with Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Sunday.Also Read: Umesh Kushwaha appointed as new Bihar chief of JDU“I have advised Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha that an all-party meeting should be called to decide the schedule of the budget session. The government is keen that budget be called early and truncated to four days which is totally unacceptable to us. If the House is not convened for the budget session that lasts over one-and-a-half months, we will boycott the session and also gherao the chief minister’s and deputy chief minister’s residence,” he said at a press conference.Earlier, he held a meeting with Grand Alliance leaders, including Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha, Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation state secretary Kunal and other allies. Yadav said the government’s argument that a vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) would be fully rolled out by March was only an assumption as no date had been fixed.“Even if the vaccine is rolled out fully by March, what is wrong if the budget session goes on ? It would rather help because MLAs would be able to get feedback as how the vaccination drive is going on in the state and what are the shortcomings. The officers would be under pressure to implement the drive with more alertness,”he said.Accusing the state government of doing little on the front of eradicating unemployment, implementation of state schemes and failing on the law and order front, Yadav said the very fact that the House sat for only four days last year was an indicator of how the government is shying away from discussing core issues related to common people. “In this new House, several MLAs are newcomers who have to learn about legislative business. If the House is truncated, how will they raise people’s issues and learn about legislative business? This is why we want the budget session to be conducted in a traditional manner,” he said.Human chain to protest against farm lawsSlamming the Central government for failing to resolve the protests over the farm laws, Yadav said the Grand Alliance was in full support of the farmers and would form a human chain in solidarity with them on January 30 across the state.“The farm laws are totally against the farmers and are an attempt to hand over the agriculture sector to private players. The Grand Alliance partners have decided to form a human chain on January 30 to show support to protesting farmers and withdrawal of the farm laws,” he said. He added the Central and state governments were totally insensitive towards the protesting farmers.Yadav also said the agriculture sector in Bihar had suffered big damage due to the Nitish Kumar government’s decision in 2006 to scrap agriculture marketing boards. “In Bihar, the migration and unemployment of farm labourers have increased drastically over the last 14 years because of the scrapping of marketing boards. The farm sector has completely been ruined and farmers are now forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices,” he said.On the reports of a rift between Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the RJD leader said the JD(U) is getting back what it had done to others. “JD(U) had betrayed us and now it is getting the same treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ga-to-boycott-assembly-if-budget-session-is-curtailed-says-tejashwi-yadav-101610361066690.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||'Only samples from Sanjay Lakes tested positive': Manish Sisodia on bird flu in Delhi||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday that samples of ducks from Sanjay Lake area are the only ones in the national capital that have tested positive for bird flu so far. He also asked people not to panic."Only samples of duck from Sanjay Lake have tested positive for bird flu. There is no cause for concern. Reports of other samples are awaited," Sisodia said at a press briefing.Addressing an important press conference | Live https://t.co/mi2NKYLquZ"The Delhi government is making all efforts to check the spread of bird flu and monitoring the situation. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is constantly in touch with officials. There is no need to panic as bird flu does not spread from one person to another," Sisodia added.The Delhi government has sanitised the Sanjay Lake area. The government has also closed down Ghazipur poultry market and banned entry of livestock from outside Delhi, said Sisodia.The Delhi government on Monday confirmed bird flu cases after samples sent to a Bhopal-based laboratory tested positive for avian influenza.The Delhi government had sent eight samples - four from a park in Mayur Vihar Phase 3, three from Sanjay Lake and one from Dwarka - to the laboratory.A drive to cull ducks has begun at Sanjay Lake, where several ducks were found dead in the last few days, said Dr Rakesh Singh from the animal husbandry unit of the Development Department.Seventeen more ducks were found dead at Sanjay Lake on Sunday, prompting authorities to declare it an "alert zone", DDA officials said.Three other recreational parks in Delhi - Hauz Khas Park, Dwarka Sector 9 Park, Hastsal Park - were closed on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-samples-from-sanjay-lake-tested-positive-for-bird-flu-manish-sisodia-101610358767288.html
11-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhandara hospital fire: Markets, shops shut in district over bandh call||Markets and other commercial establishments in most parts of Bhandara remained closed on Monday in response to a bandh called the BJP to express anguish over the death of 10 infants in a fire at the district hospital.BJP workers took out a bike rally in the Maharashtra district, appealing to people to keep their establishments closed and support the bandh.BJP MP from Bhandara, Sunil Mendhe, on Sunday said his party wanted either a judicial inquiry or a probe by a retired judge into the Saturday's incident in which 10 infants were killed in a blaze at the district hospital.Medhe said they also want a compensation of ₹10 lakh to the bereaved families.Referring to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's visit to the hospital earlier on Sunday, the MP had said they expected that he would immediately suspend the civil surgeon, doctors and other staff and order a detailed inquiry, but nothing happened.The BJP has taken a decision to call a bandh in Bhandara on Monday to draw the attention of the government, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhandara-hospital-fire-markets-shops-shut-in-district-over-bandh-call-101610355426931.html
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Hry CM calls off meet after protesters vandalise venue||Farmers protesting against three central farm laws ransacked the venue of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat, in Karnal’s Kaimla village on Sunday, forcing the CM to cancel his programme. The protesters also clashed with the police personnel, participants of the event and villagers.Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat was aimed to drum up support for the three contentious agriculture laws that have triggered widespread protests in North India, particulary at the borders of the national capital, where farmers have been protesting since November-end.Ahead of the programme, the police blocked all the roads leading to the village but protesters managed to reach the venue and broke chairs, tore banners and damaged the helipad where the CM's helicopter was supposed to land. The police used water cannons and lobbed teargas shells to prevent farmers from marching towards the village.According to eyewitnesses, a clash first broke out between the farmers and police personnel when they were marching towards the helipad.The villagers in favour of the panchayat also tried to stop the protesters. However, the protesters outnumbered the police and the pro-Kisan panchayat organisers and ransacked the venue.The CM returned to Chandigarh without addressing the gathering.Karnal superintendent of police, Ganga Ram Punia said “Three farmers have been arrested under preventive measures and they will be produced in the court on Monday.” He said, so far, 71 farmers have been booked under various sections of IPC for rioting and assault on public servants.Describing ransacking of the venue in Karnal as an act of “betrayal by the farm union leaders”, Khattar accused Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) state leader, Gurnam Singh Charuni responsible for the vandalism. Notably, on January 6, the BKU(Charuni) had threatened that they would oppose the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ event.“Vishwasghat kiya gaya unke dwara (This is an act of betrayal by farm union leaders). The leaders of the agitating farmer unions had assured the administration on Saturday that they will hold symbolic protest... but they did not keep the promise,” the chief minister said.In a video message, BKU (Charuni) president, Gurnam Singh Charuni took the responsibility of the incident in Kaimla village and said, “Yes we have done this because the BJP wad holding parallel programmes to weaken our agitation. The BJP has announced to hold 700 rallies in favour of three contentious laws and we will oppose all such meetings”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hry-cm-calls-off-meet-after-protesters-vandalise-venue-101610326476319.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Anxious wait for test results as count of dead birds in Capital climbs to 140||More than 140 birds, mostly crows, have been found dead across locations in Delhi over the past four days, with the state government declaring the Sanjay Lake area an “alert zone” after 17 more ducks were found dead on Sunday, even as district officials were directed to ensure that unauthorised wholesale poultry markets remained closed for 10 days amid concerns of the spread of avian influenza.The move came a day after the Delhi government announced the closure of the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market for 10 days and banned the import of live birds in the Capital as a preventive measure to stop the potential spread of bird flu.The dead birds — recorded till Sunday afternoon — have been found in groups ranging between two to 17 in places that include the green area around Sanjay Lake, Hastsal Park, Golden Jubilee Park, an area near the Red Fort and several other parks in Mayur Vihar, Yojana Vihar, Preet Vihar’s sectors 5 and 9 in Dwarka, Dilshad Garden and Ashok Niketan, a senior government official said.“So far, more than 140 dead birds have been found across several locations in the city – of which 27 are ducks and the rest are crows,” the official said on condition of anonymity.He said samples of 115 birds — which include samples taken from both dead birds and live birds – have so far been sent for testing from Delhi. The first set of results is scheduled to arrive on Monday, the official added.A helpline set up by the Delhi government received 120 bird death-related calls in three days, said the official quoted above, adding that only instances in which two or more birds were found dead in a location at a time were added in the total figure and eventually considered for sampling. “For a group of birds found dead in one location, samples would often be collected from a few,” said the official.Another senior government official said district officials have been directed to make sure unauthorised wholesale poultry markets in their areas are shut for the next 10 days. “District officials have been asked to ensure closure of unauthorised poultry markets as a preventive step against the possible spread of bird flu,” the official added.Delhi has a daily demand of about 350,000 poultry birds, of which around 250,000 are supplied from Ghazipur market, said a government official. The remaining comes from unauthorised poultry markets scattered across the city, the official added.The green area of Sanjay Lake, which is popular among joggers in east Delhi localities, has been declared an “alert zone” by the government’s animal husbandry department. Access to the area – which has a concrete boundary wall – is prohibited and it is being periodically sanitised, said the first official quoted above.“Sanjay Lake was declared an alert zone with an increase in the number of dead ducks from 10 to 27. The rapid response team of the animal husbandry department visited the site today again,” said a senior official of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) – the agency that maintains the lake and the area around it. “The dead birds have been buried deep in the ground on the instruction of experts,” the official said.Dr Rakesh Singh, the director of Delhi’s animal husbandry department said, “In Delhi, it has so far been only crows and ducks. We are closely monitoring the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/anxious-wait-for-test-results-as-count-of-dead-birds-in-capital-climbs-to-140-101610325174173.html
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||GMSH-16 to get state-of-the-art mother, child care centre||The Chandigarh health authorities are planning to shift childbirth-related medical services to the civil hospital in Sector 22 from Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where infrastructure upgrade is expected to start in the next two months.As part of the upgrade plan, the three-floor GMSH-16 building presently housing services related to childbirth will be razed to make way for a state-of-the-art mother and child healthcare centre. The planned space-optimised and vertically designed structure will bear room for around 300 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmsh16-to-get-state-of-the-art-mother-child-care-centre-101610319079918.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||AAP holds 450 mohalla sabhas to highlight corruption in MCDs||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday organised public gatherings in 450 locations across the city, highlighting alleged corruption in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD).“Today, the AAP organised 450 Mohalla Sabhas in 65 assembly constituencies. They were collectively attended by around 45,000 people… Enthusiasm and spontaneity of the people in Mohalla Sabhas prove that they are tired of corruption in the BJP-led MCDs. They have decided to throw the BJP out of power… People have realised that the MCDs have enough resources but the corrupt BJP has no will to run the MCDs,” said the AAP in a statement.The AAP had announced on Monday that it will hold 2,500 mohalla sabhas (public meetings) across Delhi between January 7 and 15 to highlight the alleged rampant corruption within the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations.Announcing the campaign on Monday, AAP leader MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak had said that through these meetings, the AAP will apprise the people of Delhi about the alleged “scams done by the BJP” during its tenure of 15 years in the civic bodies. He said the party has identified around 600 speakers who will address these mohalla sabhas. Pathak said members such as AAP MLAs, councillors, district in-charges, Lok Sabha in-charges, sangathan mantris and ward in-charges have been trained by the party to communicate with people during these public gatherings.Both the AAP and the BJP have intensified their outreach ahead of the municipal elections scheduled to be held next year. While the AAP has been targeting the BJP over rampant corruption and poor financial health of the three municipal corporations, the BJP had claimed that the AAP government in Delhi has denied funds to the MCDs leading to financial crunch.The BJP dismissed the allegations of corruption as “baseless”.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations. All these numbers about the size of gatherings are just lies. People of Delhi will not forgive the AAP for stopping funds of the MCDs which led to strikes by sanitation workers and other staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-holds-450-mohalla-sabhas-to-highlight-corruption-in-mcds-101610310951960.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Obscene posts in class WhatsApp group may lead to FIR against parents: North MCD||New Delhi: After receiving complaints from several schools about obscene messages being posted and inappropriate videos and pictures being circulated on WhatsApp groups created to share online study material with students, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation warned parents of legal action if found responsible for any such activity.The warning was issued after the north body’s education department received a complaint from a school in the Narela zone.In an order issued on January 5 and addressed to all stakeholders, including parents, teachers, principals, and zonal education officers, the department said, “A complaint has been received from Narela Zone about posting of pornographic content by a parent in a class’ WhatsApp groups. It is a serious matter, and all parents and guardians must be warned to not use any irrelevant content in the WhatsApp groups of classes created for the purpose of online classes and must be directed to take more precautions to avoid any legal action.”“In case of any repetition, FIR must be lodged against the erring person without any delay,” it added.An official at the north civic body said, “The order was issued after receiving similar complaints from several schools. No one can harass teachers in this manner. The young students in the group will also read the messages, which can possibly create an unfavourable impact.”To be sure, officials said it was not immediately clear whether these messages were sent by parents, students, or a third party. However, these messages were received from the official registered mobile number, which is why parents were warned, officials of the civic body said.The principal of a civic body-run school in Jahangirpuri, requesting anonymity, said, “We had received an objectionable video clip in a class 5 WhatsApp group last month. The clip was sent from a student’s registered number. We summoned the students’ parents, but they denied sending the message. Our teachers regularly send messages on the groups requesting parents not to share anything on the group other than any queries related to online classes. Now, we have shared this order issued by the education department.”Ramnivas Solanki, general secretary of civic body teachers’ association, said, “A female teacher in our school had received an objectionable picture from a registered mobile number recently. When we summoned the parents, they claimed that a neighbour had sent the message. It’s good that the department has sent out such an official order in this regard. Principals will now directly file a police complaint in case anything like this happens.”North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said, “The corporation will take serious action against those found responsible for sending such obscene messages on WhatsApp groups meant for study material to be shared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/obscene-posts-in-class-whatsapp-group-may-lead-to-fir-against-parents-north-mcd-101610310093545.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||North MCD to create parking slots for 13000 cars||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation proposes to create space for parking nearly 13,000 cars across at least 20 sites, in a massive ramp up of the infrastructure in north Delhi areas where haphazard parking is one of the major reasons for congestion.North MCD officials say the plan, which was proposed in the civic body’s budget for 2021-22, will help bring in additional revenue for the civic body. The corporation is going through a financial crunch, forcing it to withhold salaries of its staff.According to the plan, the North corporation will build nearly 17 multilevel parking lots and three stack facilities across several areas under its jurisdiction. Currently, the North corporation runs 130 parking lots.The new multilevel parking lots are proposed to come up at 17 locations. These are Shivamarket in Pitampura (500 cars), Gandhi Maidan (2,338 cars), Qutub Road (174 cars), Sant Nagar in Rani Bagh (600 cars), Idgah Road (3150 cars), Shastri Park (577 cars), Rajendra Nagar (464 cars), U&V-block, Shalimar Bagh (288 cars), AC Block, Shalimar Bagh (350 cars), Bank Street in Karol Bagh (500 cars), Madipur (580 cars), Udyog Nagar (470 cars), Punjabi Bagh (324 cars), Nangloi (1000 cars), Mundka Metro Station (1,000 cars), RG Complex Paharganj (350 cars) and Pratap Nagar (250 cars).Stack parking lots for a total of 291 cars will come up at Nigambodh Ghat, Salim Garh near Hanuman Setu and Bagh Diwar at Fatehpuri.“Work on most of the major projects have started. At some places, construction has begun while some are in planning and tendering stage. Parking facilities at Nigambodh Ghat and Fatehpuri are likely to be opened in the beginning of next financial year while multilevel lots at Shivamarket in Pitampura, Qutub Road near Sadar and Gandhi Maidan near Chandni Chowk are likely to be made operational by the end of next year,” a senior official of the north corporation said on the condition of anonymity.He said that construction work on multilevel parking at Shivamarket, Qutub Road and Gandhi Maidan is already underway while bidding process for facilities at Sant Nagar in Rani Bagh, Shatri Park and Rajendra Nagar is likely to be started next week. Parking at Idgah Road and Mundka will be developed in collaboration with the Delhi Metro. He said that a memorandum of understanding has already been signed with the Delhi Metro for Idgah Road parking. The official further said that all the multilevel parking facilities will be at least six floors high, including basement.Officials said these parking spaces will also help in reducing traffic bottleneck in different areas.“Paharganj has featured on the traffic department’s list of most clogged areas. During our study we found out that the area is prone to traffic logjams because of haphazardly parked vehicles near RG Complex in Paharganj. We worked out a solution that a multilevel parking should be constructed to accommodate over 350 cars which spill over nearby roads. Approval from the House has been given for this project and we will soon start the process to acquire a piece of land from the DDA (Delhi Development Authority). The project will be completed in two years,” another official privy to the development, said.Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation, said these remunerative projects will not only solve parking and traffic congestion problems but also help the civic body in generating revenue.He said the modalities of several of these projects are yet to be worked out but some of these are likely to be carried out on the basis of public private partnership.“All of these parking facilities will be made operational in next two to three years. This will help great deal in solving parking menace and traffic issues. We are also hoping to generate more annual revenue from such remunerative projects. We will also look for more new sites where multilevel, stack or surface parking sites can be developed,” Prakash said.KS Mehra, former commissioner of the unified MDD, said these are much needed initiatives and such projects will financially help the cash-strapped civic body.“This is the right approach as these projects will not only give a solution to the parking menace in congested areas like Chandni Chowk and Karol Bagh but also help the municipality in augmenting their revenue collection. These projects can be developed on PPP mode and I suggest that the government should also support such initiatives,” he said.Mehra also suggested that the civic body should also implement dynamic parking charges — charge extra during peak hours near markets — not only to streamline parking problems but also to earn more revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-to-create-parking-slots-for-13000-cars-101610309860393.html
11-01-2021||Other||16-year-old drowns in lake in Diva at Thane||A 16-year-old boy from Diva drowned in Agasan lake in Diva, Thane, around 4pm on Sunday. His friends who accompanied him fled from the spot after they could not find the body. Fire brigade, disaster management team and villagers were searching for the youngster when the story was sent to press.The youngster, identified as Aryan Chipa, is a resident of Bedekar Nagar, Diva. The incident took place when he and his friends decided to go for a swim in the lake after lunch. However, around 3.40pm the others could not find Chipa and left the spot. Two of his friends informed Chipa’s family, following which Chipa’s family members along with other villagers started looking for him and informed the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16yearold-drowns-in-lake-in-diva-at-thane-101610306191140.html
11-01-2021||Kolkata||BJP-TMC clashes break out in two districts of West Bengal||At least seven people were injured in clashes that allegedly broke out between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the (TMC) Trinamool Congress in two districts of poll-bound West Bengal. The clashes broke out in East Midnapore district on Sunday.“BJP workers were attacked by the TMC with bamboo sticks when they were hoisting party flags. At least seven party workers were injured,” said a media statement issued by the BJP.Some of the injured were taken to a state-run hospital in Contai, BJP leaders said. Police, however, said that no complaints were lodged till 9 pm on Sunday even though an officer confirmed that an incident took place.Also read: BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s office ransacked in East MidnaporeThis comes a day after the TMC supporters allegedly ransacked Suvendu Adhikari’s office in Nandigram in the same district.Local TMC leader Mamud Hossain, however, said that the party was not associated with the attack.“Both the attacks were the result of BJP’s infighting between the old-timers and newcomers. The infighting is going out of control, so much so that BJP workers of one faction hurled shoes at a rally organized by another faction,” he said.At Anandapur in West Midnapore's Keshpur area, a minor clashed broke out between the two rival parties late on Saturday night.“There was a clash. Four people have been arrested. None were injured,” said a senior police officer of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjptmc-clashes-break-out-in-two-districts-of-west-bengal-101610305631994.html
11-01-2021||Kolkata||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s office ransacked in East Midnapore||An assistance booth set up for Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in East Midnapore district was ransacked on Saturday.While the BJP alleged that Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters were behind the attack, the TMC refuted the charges, claiming it to be a result of the BJP’s infighting.Adhikari, a former TMC heavyweight and a former minister in the Mamata Banerjee-cabinet, had defected to the BJP on December 19, 2020. Adhikari had won from Nandigram constituency and has resigned.On Friday he held a roadshow in Nandigram. The TMC had alleged that BJP workers tore TMC posters. On Saturday, TMC held a counter-rally in Nandigram. Allegations surfaced that some people from the rally led the attack on Adhikari's assistance booth.Also read: People in MP village go on digging spree in hope to find Mughal-era treasure“TMC is scared because more and more people are joining the BJP every day. Hence, they are attacking us. The more they attack us, the more people would join us and the BJP would become more powerful,” said Kanishka Panda, a local BJP leader of East Midnapore district.TMC leader Sheikh Sufian refuted the charges saying it was a BJP’s factional fight.“TMC is no way associated with the attack. It is a result of a fight between BJP’s old-timers and newcomers,” said Sufian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-leader-suvendu-adhikari-s-office-ransacked-in-east-midnapore-101610305297562.html
11-01-2021||Bhopal||People in MP village go on digging spree in hope to find Mughal-era treasure||Scores of people are camping on the bank of dry Parbati river in Madhya Pradesh's Rajgarh district, 141 kilometres north of Bhopal, for the past three days to dig the riverbed in hope to find treasure dating back to the Mughal period.After a section of people found ancient coins on the bank of river in Shivpura village a few days ago, some people spread a rumour of the presence of Mughal-era treasure in the river. With the spread of the rumour, a large number of people from Rajgarh, Guna and Sehore districts gathered in the village for a treasure hunt, said an officer of local administration.Heavy gathering of people led to the deployment of police and district administrative officers to keep a vigil on the situation and maintain law and order.Rajgarh superintendent of police Pradeep Sharma said, “We are taking care of the law and order situation in the area with ensuring the safety of people. We are telling them not to believe in rumours.”"People of different age groups are digging at different places of the river bank to test their luck as we came to know that these coins have value of lakhs of rupees," said Ranu Yadav, 18, who is a local.“We are trying our luck 24x7 and we are sure that we will get the coins,” said Ramnaresh Singh, 37, a resident of Ahmedpur, Sehore.Also read: PM Modi to meet chief ministers on Monday over Covid-19 vaccine rolloutThe district administration is also investigating the matter.Rajgarh collector Neeraj Kumar Singh said, “A few days ago, some people found some ancient coins on the bank of river of the district. Later, a rumour spread in the area about hidden treasure.”“We have asked the archaeology department about the importance and the era of the coins. We also checked with jewellers to evaluate the value of the coins but they informed that coins are made of bronze and iron and don't have any value.”“We are spreading awareness to make people understand that these coins have no value but people are not paying any attention to our request,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/people-in-mp-village-go-on-a-digging-spree-in-hope-to-find-mughal-era-treasure-101610304625713.html
11-01-2021||Other||Flyers complain of pigeons at Chandigarh International Airport||Strong resentment prevails among fliers at the Chandigarh International Airport over the growing pigeon population at the premises, which they say has gone up in the last two years and the authorities have failed to take any action.Tejinder Singh Bhatia, a local builder and frequent traveller, said one cannot sit comfortably in the restaurant area or the lounge area as the birds would start eating from the plates.Gaurav Kansal, a city-based entrepreneur, said pigeons were a complete nuisance at the airport. “We have lodged a complaint with the concerned authorities several times, but nothing has been done so far. The sad part is that they are everywhere, including the restaurant area. The authorities do not take any steps to get rid of them.”Sanjeev Vashisht, member of the Airport Advisory Committee, said, “No doubt it is a nuisance, but at the same time we suggest the passengers not to feed them. I will take up the matter with the concerned authorities.”Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer at the airport, said, “We have caught so many birds and now the number is less. Hopefully, the issue will be sorted out soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flyers-complain-of-pigeons-at-chandigarh-international-airport-101610304809913.html
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Hosting Asian tour next target for Chandigarh Golf Club, says new president||The Chandigarh Golf Club ( CGC) has set its sight on hosting the Asian tour event as part of its ambitious plans to put the city on the international golf circuit.“We reached the pinnacle of Indian domestic professional golf by hosting a ₹1.5-crore prize money tournament, the highest so far. Our next target is to bring Asian tour event to Chandigarh. If we are able to pull it off, it will be a big boost for golf in the region,” said Ravibir Singh Grewal, 55, the club’s new president.On Sunday, the CGC general house formally ratified the unanimous election of Grewal and 11-member governing council for its one-year tenure. This is Grewal’ s second term at the helm of the region’s premier golf center. He had also served as the acting president in 2016-17 after the demise of the then incumbent president, IPS Mann. An avid golfer and an alumnus of Doon School, Grewal comes from an illustrious family - he is the grandson of former Punjab chief minister Justice Gurnam Singh.After the lockdown, when professional golf circuit was resumed in the country in the first week of November, Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) hosted two events — ₹40-lakh TATA Steel PGTI Players Championships and ₹1.5-crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational Tournament — of the Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI). In fact, CGC was the only club in the country to host two professional prize money tournaments in the 2020 season. ‘Brought back professional golf to CGC’ During his previous tenure as president in 2017-18, Grewal,55, was credited for bringing back professional golf tournaments to CGC after a gap of four years . That included the ₹1-crore Take Open Golf Championship in 2017. “Organising big-ticket professional tournaments has always been our priority. We will definitely look forward to achieving the milestone of hosting the Asian tour in Chandigarh,” said Grewal told Hindustan Times, adding “Development of junior golf and welfare of caddies will also be major priorities of our team.”The minimum prize money required for the Asian tour event is $300,000 ( ₹2.2 crore) and in addition to that, the host has to pitch in another $150,000 ( ₹1.1 crore) for meeting other expenses. Professional golf organsiers endorse Grewal’s ‘mission statement’. “As far as golfing facilities and standard of the course are concerned, Chandigarh Golf Course meets the mark for hosting the event. Moreover, Chandigarh as a city easily meets the hospitality and logistics requirements. The only challenge is sponsorship for the event,” said Uttam Singh Mundy, CEO, PGTI. No election this yearSince the annual elections of CGC, due in April last, couldn’t be held due to Covid-19 pandemic, the term of incumbent executive committee led by president Bobby Sandhu got extended till January this year. It was unanimously decided to elect the new president and the committee without voting. voting for the president’s post as well as for the 11-member executive committee.The other members are Arvind Bajaj, Maj Rajinder Singh Virk (Lalli), Dr Jaspreet Batth, Brig Balwinder Singh SM (retd), Dr GS Kochhar, Gurpreet Singh Bakshi, Zorawar Singh, Sanjeev Verma (DOC), Amarbir Singh Lehal (Sandy), Kanwarvir Singh Sibia (Biru) and Col SS Gill (Sardul).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hosting-asian-tour-next-target-for-chandigarh-golf-club-says-new-president-101610304509939.html
11-01-2021||Mumbai||Tunnelling for Mumbai's Coastal Road set to begin, 100 workers to drill 24x7||By Mehul R ThakkarMajor tunnelling work on the 9-kilometre-long Coastal Road between Mumbai's Princess Street Flyover and Worli is starting from Monday. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is scheduled to inaugurate the tunnelling work that will be conducted in the 3-kilometre-long stretch between Chowpatty and Priyadarshini Park.For the next 18 months, about 100 workers will drill day and night daily to complete the tunnelling by June 2022. The entire coastal road is expected to get ready by mid-2023. The 9-kilometre-long stretch of the coastal road is being constructed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The overall tunnelling work is expected to take 18 months. The BMC has set a deadline of June 2022 for the completion of the tunnelling work. There will be tunnels for both up towards south Mumbai and down towards Worli end. Boring work for each tunnel will take around nine months.The tunnel boring machine (TBM), which is said to be the largest in India, and named 'Mavala' will be used to create a 3.45-kilometre twin undersea tunnel from Priyadarshini Park to Girgaum Chowpatty. Currently, the BMC has completed the assembling of the parts of the TBM, that it had purchased from China last year, at the worksite at Priyadarshini Park in Malabar Hill. The machine had arrived in April last year and was taken to the site in many dismantled parts on 17 trailer trucks.Also read: PM Modi to meet chief ministers on Monday over Covid-19 vaccine rolloutThe tunnelling work has been much delayed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic which initially delayed the delivery of the TBM from China and. Also, the BMC had to tweak its plan for not using Chinese experts for the assembling of the TBM in the backdrop of border tensions between India and China.According to the plan, the TBM that will start boring from Monday will be used to drill the 3.4-kilometre-long twin tunnels partially running under the sea, between Girgaum and Malabar Hill, as part of the 9.98-kilometre-long Coastal Road between Priyadarshini Park, and the Worli end of the Bandra Worli Sea Link.It will operate 25 metres below the surface at Girgaum and 75 metres below the surface at Malabar Hill. The width of each tunnel will be 12 metres, with two lanes – each 3-3.2 metres wide – and one emergency lane. The BMC claims to have completed over 20 per cent of the work for the Coastal Road Project and has set a deadline of July 2023 to complete the entire project.Vijay Nighot, chief engineer, BMC's Coastal Road Project, said, "At any given time, there will be a total 100 workers including technical persons, skilled and unskilled labour working for the tunnelling to undertake using the TBM. The tunnelling work will be done on all days for 24 hours. The aim is to timely complete the project."Municipal commissioner of the BMC, Iqbal Singh Chahal said, "This is the largest diameter TBM (12.1 metres) till date in our country and we plan to complete two tunnels fully in 9 months each. Considering this timeline, the overall tunnelling would be completed by June 2022. This project will ease traffic movement in Mumbai from Nariman Point to Bandra."Post-construction of Coastal Road, motorists will be able to reach Worli from Nariman Point within minutes.However, beyond this towards the western suburbs, the state government is yet to take a call on the construction of a sea link or a coastal road beyond Versova. Initially, a decade ago, Coastal Road Project project was planned between Nariman Point and Kandivali claiming it will ease traffic for those travelling between north and south Mumbai. However, now there is a question whether there should be a Coastal Road or a Sea-Link beyond Versova to connect the suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tunnelling-for-mumbai-s-coastal-road-set-to-begin-100-workers-to-drill-24x7-101610304343718.html
11-01-2021||Other||Dombivli woman nabs phone of robber who attacked her disabled father, helps police trace gang||anamika.gharat@htlive.in A 20-year-old woman helped the police nab three people who had allegedly attacked her and her disabled father in their home to rob jewellery. The woman had fought back and also managed to snatch the phone of one of the alleged attackers, which helped Dombivli’s Vishnu Nagar police to nab the accused in 24 hours. According to police officers, the incident happened on Friday evening, when Ashok Gori, 61, a retired bank employee officer, was alone at his Vishnu Nagar home. His daughter and wife had been out. Gori’s wife had left the door open so that he did not have to get up and open the door in case there were visitors. “Four attackers entered the house but Gori didn’t realise it as he was sitting near the window and his back was towards the door. The accused tied his hands and mouth and tried to rob valuables. When Gori’s daughter Pratiksha entered the house, she saw her father tied up and two of the accused tried to nab her. The woman managed to rush to the neighbours and attack them but the attackers pulled her and tied her mouth with cloth. However, by then her neighbours had gathered at Gori’s door, forcing the accused to flee from the house. The woman managed to snatch one of their phones and later handed it over to the police.” Through the number, the accused was traced and arrested three accused – Dinesh Rawal, Chetan Makwana and Abdul Shaikh. The fourth attacker is a woman and is absconding. A team is on her lookout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dombivli-woman-nabs-phone-of-robber-who-attacked-her-disabled-father-helps-police-trace-gang-101610303549745.html
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh all set to go green with new electric vehicle policy||The Chandigarh administration is all set to introduce a wide range of incentives, changes in building bylaws, and infrastructure upgrade to promote electric vehicles in the city under its new policy.The electric vehicle policy, after approval from the UT administrator, will be implemented for five years and thereafter revised as per changed conditions.Under the proposed plan, the registration fee, road tax and 50% parking charges for all electric vehicles will be waived in order to incentivise their purchase.The policy also envisages making registration of private and commercial e-vehicles easier and quicker by offering immediate online registration. The registration will be allowed for two-, three-, and four-wheelers retrofitted with electric motor.“The aim of the policy is to reduce pollution in the city by bringing down emissions from the transport sector,” said a UT official.Move towards green public transport For promoting electric cabs and autorickshaws, all the existing app-based aggregators will be offered “app-based e-cab/e-auto user incentive scheme”. Under the scheme, the administration will give cashback rebates to make their fares at least 20% cheaper than the ordinary cabs/autos.Moreover, transport regulations will be eased out for the commercial e-vehicles. Electric autos will be given permits on priority. Companies and corporates will also be allowed to own and operate electric three-wheelers.There will be no limit on e-autorickshaw permits, though they will be allowed to ply on a limited number of routes in the city to avoid congestion.The UT transport department has set a target to replace 25% of its fleet with electric buses by 2025. Chandigarh Transport Undertaking will be starting electric bus service on interstate routes as well.Additional taxes on fuel-run vehicles Besides pushing for eco-friendly transport in the city, the administration would impose additional taxes on diesel/petrol-run vehicles.The policy proposes levying a pollution cess on all petrol and diesel vehicles on the sale of fuel. A higher cess will be levied on diesel.An air quality parking surcharge will be imposed on base parking fees as per the Chandigarh parking policy.Additional road tax will be levied on diesel and petrol vehicles, especially luxury cars. The high-priced diesel vehicles will pay the highest additional road tax, while two-wheelers will pay the lowest.A congestion fee up to 2.5% on fare will be levied on all the trips originating or terminating within Chandigarh and taken through cab aggregators running on diesel and petrol cars.The collection from all these proposed taxes will be allocated to an electric vehicle fund.Charging infrastructure ● All new and renovated non-residential buildings to reserve 20% electric-vehicle ready charging points● RWA-managed residential buildings, group housing societies and colonies with over 100 equivalent car space to make 100% demarcated parking with charging points● UT to give 100% grant on charging point installation● Electricity tariff rebate for charging stations● Provision of public charging points every 3km||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-all-set-to-go-green-with-new-electric-vehicle-policy-101610303429799.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Bird flu fears: As demand falls, cost of eggs set to tumble in Delhi||As fears of the emergence of avian influenza grip the national capital, traders on Sunday said the prices of eggs were set to tumble, while those of mutton would likely increase.In Delhi, the state government has shut the wholesale poultry market in Ghazipur for 10 days and prohibited the arrival of live birds from other states, starting Sunday, as a preventive measure against potential spread of the bird flu, which has been confirmed in seven states so far. These include Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.To be sure, no confirmed case has been recorded in Delhi as of Sunday evening.“The demand for eggs has already gone down over the last four days, after news about the emergence of bird flu [in other states]. Crates of 30 eggs that were selling for ₹140 around four days ago, are now selling for ₹120. The rates can further go down this week if demand does not pick up,” said Rashid Alam, a trader based in Delhi’s Seelampur.As on Sunday, prominent retail supermarkets in the city sold crates for between ₹180 – 200, compared to ₹210 – 220 last week.While the Ghazipur wholesale market has been closed, there is no restriction on sale of chicken by retailers from their existing stock. Chicken currently sales for around ₹160 – 200 per kilogram in Delhi.The government has not, so far, imposed any restrictions on the trade of eggs.“We saw this happening in 2006 when bird flu was reported across several countries, and in 2016 when it was last reported in Delhi. It is about to happen once again. Even though there is no recorded instance of people getting the flu through cooked chicken or eggs, there is large-scale fear. The demand for eggs falls every time there is such a scare about bird flu, even if it is based on rumours,” said Iqbal Qureshi, vice-chairperson of Ghazipur wholesale poultry market.Each time there has been a bird flu scare, Delhi has seen a significant shift in consumption from poultry to mutton and, a concurrent spike in the cost of the latter. Several traders who HT spoke to on Sunday recalled how rumours about poultry contributing to transmission of Covid-19 had hit the market in mid-2020, and the retail price of mutton had touched ₹1,100 a kilo in several locations across the city.Mutton currently costs anything between ₹530 to ₹580 per kilo in most retail stores across Delhi. “However, the shift from chicken to mutton has already started happening. In the last seven days, demand for mutton has gone up and the price will increase in no time because supply is a problem,” said Shamim Qureshi, a Delhi-based mutton trader.For poultry and meat consumption, Delhi needs around 350,000 birds, two million eggs and 10,000 goats per day, said traders. The Capital’s main sources of poultry and meat are Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.“Goat slaughter is a difficult affair, compared to poultry. Ghazipur has an organised system, but it only accounts for half of the city’s mutton supply. There are several slaughterhouses, mostly illegal, scattered across the city which account for the other half. Space and hygiene are major issues. So, supply of mutton usually fails to cater to an abrupt rise in demand, for which price witnesses sharp increase,” said Shamim Qureshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-fears-as-demand-falls-cost-of-eggs-set-to-tumble-in-delhi-101610301990142.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Eye on municipal polls, BJP plans public outreach||Gearing up for the municipal polls scheduled next year, the Delhi BJP will start a public outreach programme from February to tell people about how the functioning the three civic bodies has been adversely affected due to alleged non-payment of dues by the AAP government in Delhi.During this one-and-a-half month programme, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta will be covering two assembly constituencies in a day where he, along with senior party leaders, will be meeting people from different walks of life.This outreach is planned at a time when the BJP and the AAP are at loggerheads over municipal funds. While the BJP has been claiming that the Delhi government owes the corporations ₹13,000 crore (approx.), the AAP is campaigning against the BJP alleging a ₹2,500 crore scam in the functioning of North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The AAP is holding mohalla sabhas since January 7 till January 15 to highlight the alleged scams by the BJP-led corporations.Gupta said, “It is important to tell people about how the AAP government has failed people of Delhi on multiple counts. The government has made it impossible for the three civic bodies to function, as it is yet to release ₹13,000 crore. The corporations are unable to pay salaries to its employees, as they don’t have adequate funds. We will also highlight the failures of the Delhi government. I will be meeting various group of people where we will also discuss about the work done by the central government. We will start this outreach programme from February.”The BJP is eyeing a fourth consecutive term in the civic bodies, elections for which are due in March-April next year. In 2017, the party had won 181 out of 270 wards spread across three civic bodies despite anti-incumbency.The BJP has decided to start its preparations much in advance. Giving details of the outreach programme, a Delhi BJP spokesperson said, “We will cover two assembly constituencies in a day. In each constituency, we will meet people from different sections of society. A team in each constituency will soon be formed which will plan meetings with resident welfare associations, professionals, traders, etc. We will also cover slums and unauthorised colonies.”AAP senior leader and in-charge of municipal corporation issues Durgesh Pathak said,”The BJP is in power in the municipal corporations for the last 15 years and they have done so much corruption that today the corporations have no money to pay the salaries to their employees. On one hand the poor employees of the BJP-ruled corporations are starving and on the other hand, the BJP councillors are becoming richer.”He added, “In the last 15 years, the BJP has transformed the MCDs into a den of corruption. The BJP has only gifted three huge landfills to the citizens of Delhi. If you go anywhere in Delhi you will see heaps of garbage, and during monsoon Delhi faces waterlogging because the BJP-ruled MCDs neither clean the capital nor the drains of the city.”Pathak added, “There is a scam of ₹2,500 crores in the MCDs, which is the biggest scams in the history of Delhi. This scam is bigger than the Commonwealth Games scam. To divert the attention of the citizens of Delhi from these massive scams, the BJP-ruled MCD has come up with such fabricated allegations against the Aam Aadmi Party government. To build a house in Delhi, owners need to pay bribes to the MCD. The MCD councillors take money on per lintel basis to build any new house in Delhi from the owners.”He added, “The Aam Aadmi Party believes that the BJP has no moral right to continue ruling the MCD. The Aam Aadmi Party demands that the BJP should immediately resign from the MCD and hold fresh elections. The Aam Aadmi Party believes that the citizens of Delhi have made up their mind to throw BJP out of the power in the MCD.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eye-on-municipal-polls-bjp-plans-public-outreach-101610301930806.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi records its lowest Covid positivity rate||The national capital on Sunday recorded a Covid-19 test positivity rate of 0.51%, the lowest since the Delhi government started releasing testing data in April last year.The Capital added 399 new infections according to Sunday’s health bulletin, which reflects data primarily from the previous day. These infections came on the back of 77,600 tests, a majority of which used the more reliable reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method.Experts regard test positivity rate as a vital metric to judge the spread of an infection. The World Health Organization recommends a number below 5% for two weeks for an infection to be considered under control.The positivity rate in the Capital has been below 5% for 39 days now, since the third wave of the infection — the most severe so far — subsided in the Capital. Further, the city has also added less than 1,000 cases of the infection, which has claimed 10,678 lives so far, for 17 consecutive days.The seven-day case average as on Sunday was the lowest in the city since mid-May. In the seven days ending December 10, Delhi added an average of 475 cases of the infection, compared to a peak of 7,341 cases a day in the week ending November 14, when the city was in the throes of the third wave of infections.While experts said the precise causes for this sharp drop were unclear, some said it may have to do with immunity built up over time.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “Immunity to this infection lasts at least for five or six months, which may be one of the reasons for the drop.”According to the health bulletin on Sunday, Delhi added 12 more fatalities of the infection. Over the past seven days, Delhi recorded an average of 13 deaths due to Covid-19, a sharp fall from the average of 116 daily deaths during the third week of November.Kant, however, warned residents of the city against letting their guard down. “One thing is clear — whenever there has been a peak, it has been followed by a trough. So, since the vaccine is on the anvil, we should take advantage of this decline in cases by immunising as many people as possible.”State health minister Satyendar Jain said, “The Covid-19 situation in Delhi has improved a lot and is now under control”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-records-its-lowest-covid-positivity-rate-101610301929734.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Singhu farmers put up new signage, rename protest areas||Farmers protesting at Singhu border on Sunday installed a green signage near the main stage designating new names for different areas in a radius of several kilometres on the Kundli Highway. According to organisers, the signage has been installed to remember freedom fighters of our country and is a symbol of the cultural movement at Singhu border.The over ten kilometre-long protest spot has been divided into seven areas and has been named after freedom fighters like Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, Chandrashekhar Azad, Kartar Singh Sarabha, along with Sikh warrior Banda Singh Bahadur.For instance, the area from the main stage to Kessel Grand mall – one of the most crowded stretches – has been renamed as Banda Singh Bahadur Nagar, after the 17th century Sikh warrior. The stretch from Kessel Mall to HP Petrol Pump has been renamed as Sardar Bhagat Singh Nagar.The signage is among the many elements installed in the past 46 days by farmers, who have transformed the Kundli highway into a town having its own makeshift hospital, mall, library, gurdwara, and gym, among other facilities.Jagjit Singh, 20, a Nihang Sikh from Chamkaur Sahib in Punjab, who was present when the signage was installed early on Sunday, said, “We have been at the Singhu border for over a month now. Until the farm laws are repealed, the area will be a home for protesting farmers and it is our colony. This is why we decided to name the area in the memory of our leaders.”The green signage was suspended from the shed of the main stage area on early Sunday morning. Harinder Singh, media coordinator of the Samyukt Kisaan Morcha – an umbrella organization of over 40 farmer groups — said installing the signage was a symbolic gesture. “The ongoing agitation is not just a farmers’ protest, but also a cultural movement. We need to remember the legacy of our freedom fighters and leaders, which is why their names have been given to different key points across the highway.”Jaspreet Kaur, 32, a resident of Ludhiana, who joined the protest last week, said, “We have a Sarabha Nagar market in our city as well. It is nice to see that the names of our leaders are being included at this historic protest in Delhi as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/singhu-farmers-put-up-new-signage-rename-protest-areas-101610301870044.html
11-01-2021||Other||A day after another farmer suicide during stir, protesters set focus on mental health||A day after another farmer died by suicide at Singhu border, several internal committee members of an umbrella body of farmers’ union on Sunday said they have planned to rope in mental health experts along with celebrities, religious leaders, and motivational speakers to spread messages of hope among farmers and steer them away from depression.Harinder Singh, media coordinator of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is the umbrella body of farmers’ unions, said they have been talking about these initiatives since the beginning of the protests. “Six farmers have died by suicide since protests started, including two farmers who went back to their homes and took their own lives. We understand the need of doing something to address the problem. We also need to ensure that these deaths do not become a public spectacle or get glorified in any way.”Singh, a PhD student from Rajasthan, said they were now planning to address the issue in two ways. “In addition to asking celebrities, religious leaders, and farm leaders to motivate farmers and share these videos on social media, we also plan to share positive stories with the farmers of people coming in to support our agitation from across the country. We plan to share these stories on the main stage for at least an hour everyday,” he said.The committee members also plan to form groups and personally visit tractor-trolleys and talk to farmers to help them. “We will ask the youth to connect with the elderly and see if they need any assistance, or tell us if they are anxious or depressed. These farmers could be referred to therapists and counsellors at medical camps on the protest site. We are still in talks with several organisations to see how many therapists, psychiatrists, and counsellors can be arranged for the protest spots,” Singh said.On Sunday, Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab, issued an appeal to protesting farmers asking them not to “contemplate any extreme action like taking your own life.”“This is a strong movement with all of you being there. The government has to accept the demands sooner or later. Stay alive, stay safe. Many activities will be organised by the Kisan Morcha in the coming time to prevent such incidents,” he said in his statement.Volunteers working at the spot said farmers have been agitated and stressed over a variety of reasons, including no resolution over the farm laws, death of their fellow farmers, the cold weather, trying conditions, and staying away from the family. Sanya Kataria, 26, a clinical psychologist pursuing a doctorate degree from Amity University, said she sees around 10 farmers everyday since January 4 at the counselling camp set up by the United Sikhs NGO.“Though the environment is a challenge since there is little privacy and constant disruptions, we have been working with the farmers and sharing the basics of psychoeducation, depression, and anxiety with them,” she said.Virender Singh, 42, a farmer from Mandiala village in Jalandhar said, “My friends and I keep ourselves busy throughout the day through seva at langars or by cleaning the roads so that we don’t think any negative thoughts. We are sad for the families of those farmers who died by suicide but this is the way out. We have to fight for our rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-day-after-another-farmer-suicide-during-stir-protesters-set-focus-on-mental-health-101610301869618.html
11-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM meets Shah and Nadda, promises 'sweet news' on cabinet expansion||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda in the capital to discuss issues related to the upcoming by-polls in the state as well as the much-awaited cabinet expansion. BJP national general secretary-in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh was also present during the meeting.After the hour-long meeting, a smiling Yediyurappa told reporters, "I had a detailed discussion with the national leaders and explained to them in details about our victory in the recent gram panchayat polls and they expressed happiness about the same. We also discussed candidates for the upcoming by-polls to two assembly seats and one Lok Sabha constituency and they have asked the state unit to send the names so that it can be cleared immediately."The chief minister was referring to the upcoming by-polls to Basava Kalyan and Maski assembly segments apart from the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency the schedule for which is likely to be announced by the Election Commission in less than a month. The by-poll to the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat was necessitated after the sudden death of Union minister Suresh Angadi due to Covid-19.After landing in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa told media that about seven members would be inducted in the cabinet "with the oath-taking ceremony likely to take place on the afternoon of January 13."The Maski assembly seat by-poll became due because Pratap Gowda Patil who was elected on a Congress ticket and chose to cross over to the BJP. The Basava Kalyan seat became vacant after the incumbent Congress MLA, B Narayan Rao, died due to Covid-related complications.Also read: 'Despite internal problems with alliance partner...' - Manjhi salutes NitishYediyurappa, who has made several trips to the capital for ensuring clearance for a cabinet expansion, sounded upbeat about its prospects, saying that "this was the last meeting for that (issue). We had a detailed discussion. You will all hear the sweet news shortly."Asked whether it was cabinet expansion or there would be a reshuffle also, he said, "Please wait and see, all (issues) will be resolved shortly."Asked whether he would continue to remain the CM for the remaining two and half year term, Yediyurappa ducked the question telling the media, "you should tell me that." According to a person privy to the meeting, “Shah appreciated the BJP’s performance in the gram panchayat polls where BJP-backed candidates doubled their numbers and for winning two assembly seats in the by-elections in Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar constituency”.On whether the CM will initiate the process of expanding the cabinet following Sunday’s meeting with the party brass, a second functionary said the CM had “many issues to discuss”.The cabinet expansion in the state has been on the cards for over a year now.The first functionary said the meeting will also put to rest the speculation that the party unit is still bickering. “There is no substance in the claims that the CM will be replaced. He has been a consistent performer and has delivered,” the functionary said. The second leader added that the central leadership will revert on the issue of cabinet expansion by Monday evening.AH Vishwanath, MTB Nagaraju and R Shankar - three legislators who quit their MLA posts to help the BJP topple the Congress-JDS coalition government - are demanding that "their sacrifices be recognised and rewarded with a cabinet berth as promised."Also read: Why is Indonesia prone to plane crashesWhile Nagaraju and Vishwanath contested on a BJP ticket and lost in by-polls held in November 2019, both of them, along with Shankar, were sent to the Vidhana Parishat, the upper house. However, Karnataka HC has ruled that Vishwanath cannot be inducted as he was nominated in the literature category rather than being elected by legislators as Nagaraju and Shankar were.Also 'original' BJP legislators like Renukacharya, Umesh Katti, MP Kumaraswamy, GH Thippareddy, Poornima Srinivas and several others have publicly said that they should be inducted into the cabinet as they have been steadfastly loyal to the party.In the 224 member assembly, BJP has 119 members plus the support of three independents while the Congress has 67 and the JDS has 33 with two seats vacant. The maximum number of cabinet berths can be 34, including the chief minister.Currently there seven vacancies. Political analyst Aravind said that Yediyurappa might go in for a cabinet reshuffle along with an expansion and drop some of the non-performing ministers. "He would like to keep at least two vacancies empty so as to stave off any dissidence. But looks like finally, he has got the green signal from the party high command and he may go in for a mix of party veterans plus rewarding MTB Nagaraju and R Shankar."The analyst added that the tricky challenge lay in identifying a candidate for the Belagavi LS seat especially as Anagadi's family is demanding it for one of its members, something the party was unlikely to agree. "Also Yediyurappa's second son, the ambitious Vijayendra, has been eyeing the Basava Kalyan seat and therefore it would be interesting to see who gets that ticket," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-meets-shah-and-nadda-promises-sweet-news-on-cabinet-expansion-101610290784845.html
11-01-2021||Jaipur||Youth suspected of killing mother, her live-in partner in Jaipur rural||A couple in a live-in relationship were allegedly shot dead in Jaipur rural area on Saturday morning. Rajasthan police suspects the duo was killed by the son of the murdered woman (40) as he was unhappy with his mother’s relationship with a married man (41) with five children.The killings took place in a house located in Shiv Colony near Kotputli town. Senior policemen including Jaipur rural superintendent of police (SP) Shankar Dutt Sharma, along with a dog squad and a forensics team, reached the spot soon after the incident.“Body of the couple with bullet shots on their head was recovered from a room of the house. We suspect that the 20-year-old son of the lady is behind the murder and we have formed teams to nab him,” said Sharma.The SP said the deceased woman was a native of Bhakri village of Pragpura town in Jaipur rural. Some 20-years ago, she got married to a man in Budhwal village of Mahendragarh district in Haryana. In 2009, she left her husband and started living with her two children including the absconding son and a daughter in Kotputli area.She came in contact with her partner, a native of Bansur town some years ago“Preliminary probe reveals that the son of the woman was angry with his mother's relationship. On Saturday, he shot his mother and her alleged lover. Further, he called his sister and said that somebody had shot the couple dead and asked her to inform the police and call an ambulance,” said Sharma.He added that after calling his sister, the suspect fled the spot and his mobile phone was switched-of.Family members of both the deceased have been informed and a case under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered.Statements of the neighbours, relatives and others are been taken while the technical cell is trying to trace the mobile location of the victim.The bodies have been handed over to the families after the post-mortems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/youth-suspected-of-killing-mother-her-live-in-partner-in-jaipur-rural-101610274165085.html
