13-01-2021||Noida||Man wanted in doctor’s abduction arrested by Noida STF||A 27-year-old man wanted in a 2019 abduction case was arrested in an alleged encounter with the Noida special task force (STF) in Mathura on Wednesday. The man was identified by a single name as Anoop, a resident of Naujhil in Mathura, who had a ₹1 lakh reward on his arrest. Anoop and three accomplices had allegedly kidnapped a doctor named Nirvikalp Agarwal while on his way home near Govardhan crossing in Mathura. They let him go the same night after his family paid the ₹52-lakh ransom. Police said the family, fearing for Agarwal’s life, informed them only after the ransom was paid.In February 2020, Mathura police had arrested a man named Nitesh from Naujhil in connection with the case. Nitesh allegedly said Anoop, along with two other men Sunny Malik and Mahesh Kumar, were behind the abduction. Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Noida-STF, said Anoop was hiding in a rented accommodation in Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar. “The STF team and arrested him from there on Wednesday. Since, he was wanted in Mathura, the team took him to Mathura for formalities. On the way, he asked the police to stop so that he could relieve himself. He then managed to snatch a policeman’s gun, opened fire and tried to escape. The police returned fire in which the suspect was injured in his left leg and was arrested,” he said. The suspect allegedly told police that he worked as a technician and was earlier arrested for stealing batteries from mobile towers in 2017. In jail, he allegedly made his acquaintance with Malik. Police said Anoop was wanted in about 20 criminal cases in Western UP. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-wanted-in-doctor-s-abduction-arrested-by-noida-stf-101610561723269.html
13-01-2021||Other||Vets check horses after a positive case of glanders disease in Greater Noida||Noida: The animal husbandry department of Gautam Budh Nagar has collected samples from over 20 horses across the district following a positive case of glanders disease in the Dadri area. The glanders – a life-threatening infectious disease in equines (horse family) by bacteria Burkholderia mallei -- is transmittable to the humans causing lung, kidney and respiratory issues. One such asymptomatic horse, during the routine sampling, was confirmed of glanders last week, officials said. The horse, still with the owner, is being closely monitored and another sample will be sent within a week’s time to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s National Research Centre for Equines, Hisar (Haryana) for further confirmation. If confirmed, the animal will be euthanised or scientifically culled through medicines, veterinarians said. Meanwhile, more samples were collected and sent to Hisar, as a precautionary measure. “We have collected about 11 samples from horses at veterinary hospital in Bisrakh area and nine samples at the government veterinary hospital in Barola area. The serum samples were collected on Tuesday and will be sent for testing,” said Dr Abhishek Dabar, veterinary doctor, animal husbandry department, GB Nagar. The fatal disease was used as biological weapon by the Nazi army during the World War-II, a veterinarian stated.Speaking of the positive case at Dadri, the vet said that they will be sending more samples for testing. “The lab had confirmed glanders in the horse, but since its asymptomatic, the centre at Hisar also cross-checks with us again. So within a week, we will have to send more samples. The sample collected second time also includes nasal swap,” Dabar added. According to the officials, the department had been collecting random samples, a common practice being followed since 2013 when about 30 horses were found affected with glanders, following which samples of over 5,000 horses were checked and those 30 infected were culled. “The symptoms among animals includes leaky nose, health deterioration, body ulcers, among others. The sample from Dadri was collected during the random and routine sampling. The horse has been asymptomatic and a retesting will be done. If finally confirmed, it will be culled and deep buried. Against this, the owner is given a compensation of ₹25,000,” said Dr VK Srivastava, chief veterinary officer, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vets-check-horses-after-a-positive-case-of-glanders-disease-in-greater-noida-101610561663686.html
13-01-2021||Other||Noida: Former IAF officer loses ₹67 lakh in ATM card fraud, 2 held||Greater Noida: Police on Wednesday arrested two persons in connection with a cyber fraud worth ₹67 lakh. The police said that the duo fraudulently withdrew the money from the bank account of a former IAF officer. Chetan Singh, the complainant in the case, said that his father Suresh Kumar Yadav is a retired wing commander and presently lives in Myanmar. According to him, a group of criminals got Yadav’s mobile number (linked to the bank account) reissued on forged documents and also managed to get a new debit card issued, and then used the card to fraudulently withdraw the money from ATMs and also for shopping gold. The complainant said that his father shifted to Myanmar about 10 months ago. “My father has an account with a private bank in Sector Alpha 1. We had a good relation with the bank manager who was transferred to other branch a few months ago,” Singh said. Singh further said that the mobile phone number linked to his father’s bank account was presently not in use. “On October 6 last year, the same manager informed us that there was some suspicious transactions from my father’s bank account. We visited the bank and found that ₹67 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn from my father’s account in the first week of October,” he said. The account holder did not receive any notification of transaction at registered email ID, he said. Singh then filed a complaint at Sector Beta 2 police station and a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 66 of IT Act on October 31 last year. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that on Wednesday, the police arrested two suspects – Satish Rana, a resident of Bagpat, and Anuj Singh, a resident of Bulandshahr. Both suspects live on rented accommodations in Greater Noida. “The two suspects admitted that they had committed the crime. They were in contact with their accomplices -- Pradeep Rana and mastermind Ravi. Primary investigation suggests that Ravi was in touch with a bank employee, who leaked the information about Yadav’s account,” Pandey said. Police said that the account holder’s linked phone number was not active for some months. “The gang members visited a mobile shop and got the same mobile number issued on forged identity. Once the number became active, they called the bank’s customer care and asked to deliver the debit card afresh,” Pandey said. The bank delivered the debit card to the account holder’s address, but the suspects received the delivery from the delivery boy on the way, said the police. “The suspects got the debit card, along with PIN, and withdrew ₹11 lakh cash from different ATMs. Further, they also bought gold coins from some jewellery shops using the card. The actual account holder had no information about this transaction. We scanned CCTV footage from different spots and then arrested the two suspects,” Pandey said. Police have launched a search for the bank employee and two other suspects in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-former-iaf-officer-loses-67-lakh-in-atm-card-fraud-2-held-101610561664154.html
13-01-2021||Noida||Noida police to develop app for biometric attendance of domestic helps||Noida Police on Wednesday said it was developing a mobile application to record details of people who worked as domestic help in the city, including their fingerprints.While the city already requires residents to get their domestic helps verified, taking their fingerprints is a first. And while legal, an analyst termed it unfair.Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Sing said that the system is being fine tuned and did not commit to a deadline of when the project will be rolled out. The system, he said, was mooted after several crimes were reported in residential societies and domestic helps were suspects in a few of them.“Most of these workers are loyal to their employers. However, there are instances when some people masquerade themselves as domestic workers and commit crimes. This initiative is to check such people and take actions,” said the commissioner who completed one year in office on Wednesday. The commissionerate system was introduced in the district to streamline policing and improve law and order. “We will soon announce the mobile app’s launch date and following that, the Noida Police will organise camps in different societies and ask people to register their domestic helps. We will record their fingerprints and other details which will be used for safety and security purposes,” said Singh. Apar Gupta, executive director of Internet Freedom Foundation, said that the police could had powers to take fingerprints under the preventive measures as given in the criminal procedure code and police manual. “These preventive measures are normally taken against people with criminal history. Domestic helps do not have any such issues and hence collecting their finger prints is not good. This is like considering domestic helps as suspects (even before they had done anything),” Gupta said.The police commissioner said that to deal with the cyber crime, Noida Police will also sign a memorandum of understanding with a big tech firm on Thursday. “This will help us in solving crime cases and also creating awareness among public,” he said. The police also organised Jansamwad programme at each police stations where they interacted with the local residents and received their feedback on the commissionerate’s completing one year. “People want more police patrolling and increased presence in certain pockets of the city and industrial areas. High rise residents want action to be taken against abandoned vehicles, and better regulation of traffic at roundabouts. Senior officials have assured that they will look into our issues. We have also been informed about more CCTV cameras and better surveillance in the district under the safe city project in the next month,” said Sumit Basoiya, a resident of La Residentia society under the Bisrakh police jurisdiction.Harish Chander, DCP Noida Central, said that police received feedback from the public and listened to their concerns about law, order, traffic, patrolling, and police perception. “Each area has a unique set of problems and we hope to address them all soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-to-develop-app-for-biometric-attendance-of-domestic-helps-101610561663326.html
13-01-2021||Other||Meerut division receives Covid-19 vaccine consignment; GB Nagar and Ghaziabad to get their share today||Ghaziabad: The health department authorities in Meerut on Wednesday said that they have received 15,350 vials of Covid-19 vaccine for Meerut and Saharanpur divisions as part of the first batch meant for the nationwide vaccination drive from January 16. Of these, Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts will be supplied with 2,884 and 2,741 vials, respectively, they said. As many as 5.6 million doses of Covishield, the vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, got delivered across 13 cities on Tuesday. The first batch of the vaccine also arrived at Lucknow and was further despatched to eight other state stores for distribution across the 75 districts. “The Covishield vaccine consignment arrived at Meerut on Wednesday and we received a total of 15,350 vials with each having 10 doses. The respective districts under Meerut (including GB Nagar and Ghaziabad) and Saharanpur divisions have been asked to send their vaccine pick-up vans and it is likely that the districts will get their vaccine consignment on Thursday,” said Dr Renu Gupta, additional director (health) at Meerut. The consignment arrived at vaccine depot located on the Meerut Medical College campus. “Every district, along with their vans, will also send along their security personnel who will ensure that it reaches safely to their respective destinations,” Gupta added. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the administration has received information of arrival of vaccine at Meerut. “One of our vaccine vans will be sent early morning to get our stock of vaccine. We have made proper arrangements for storage of vaccine and security will be put in place during the transportation and storage of vaccine at our vaccine store located at MMG Hospital,” he said. The GB Nagar district officials said that they will also send their van to fetch vaccine. “Our arrangements are also put in place along with the security apparatus. It is likely that we get our stock of vaccine on Thursday,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. The GB Nagar district during the inaugural session on January 16 will be giving shots to 800 health care workers at eight vaccination centres while the Ghaziabad district is scheduled to get 700 of the health workers vaccinated at seven selected centres. According to GB Nagar’s immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the eight centres include Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (better known as Child PGI), Sharda Hospital, Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital, Kailash Hospital, Jaypee Hospital and Yatharth Hospital. The officials of the Ghaziabad health department said that they have identified seven locations -- Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar and Kaushambi, Gayatri Hospital at Lohiya Nagar, district women’s hospital, Max Hospital at Vaishali, Shanti Gopal Hospital at Indirapuram and Le Crest Hospital at Vasundhara -- for the inaugural day vaccination session. “We are trying to achieve 100% vaccination during the first and second phases,” DM Pandey added. According to a communication from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Uttar Pradesh has been allotted 1055500 vials. About 21,543 doctors and medical staff have been identified for vaccination under the first phase in GB Nagar while about 21,800 have been identified in Ghaziabad under the entire phase I.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meerut-division-receives-covid-19-vaccine-consignment-gb-nagar-and-ghaziabad-to-get-their-share-today-101610561603338.html
13-01-2021||Other||Jewar airport master plan to be revised||GREATER NOIDA: The Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) on Wednesday forwarded suggestions from the director general of civil aviation (DGCA) and airport authority of India for minor changes to the airport master plan to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL).“Comments and suggestions from ministry of civil aviation, DGCA and airport authority of India (AAI) were necessary in order to ensure the compliance of all rules,” said Shailendra Bhatia nodal officer of NIAL.Comments from the ministry and AAI are awaited, said officials.“Once all agencies will send their suggestions, YIAPL will revise the master plan and NIAL board will approve it. Then YIAPL will prepare a development plan to be submitted in 90 days after the master plan is finalized,” said Bhatia.Work is expected to begin at the site by middle of this year.The master plan contains the details related with the development about the airport project, including terminals, commercial space, hotels, offices, training centre, cargo facility and parking, among other facilities.NIAL is the nodal agency to monitor the projectm while YIALP will develop and run the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jewar-airport-master-plan-to-be-revised-101610561483274.html
13-01-2021||Other||GDA’s horticulture department inspector booked for rape||Ghaziabad: A 28-year-old woman has accused a horticulture inspector posted with the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) of raping her. The police have registered an FIR under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 376 (rape) at Sahibabad police station. The suspect was questioned but not arrested.Police said the woman said that alleged she was raped at the City Forest area at Karhera near the Hindon air base. “She told us that had gone there with the hope of getting a job. There the suspect allegedly raped after spiking her drink,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). “We are gathering evidence.”Karuna Karunesh, authority’s vice-chairperson, and secretary, SK Rai, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts for comment. Police said that they will question more people in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gdas-horticulture-department-inspector-booked-for-rape-101610561423840.html
13-01-2021||Other||At UP Gate, protesting farmers burn copies of farm laws on Lohri||Ghaziabad: Farmers protesting at the UP Gate on Wednesday burnt the copies of the Centre’s three new farm laws on the occasion of ‘Lohri’ which they celebrated at the protest site. The farmers alleged that the government is not ready to listen to them. The harvest festival of Lohri was celebrated on Wednesday across north Indian states, including Punjab and Haryana, and bonfires were lit during celebrations. Thousands of farmers from UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab are camping at the UP Gate border since November 28 and also blocking the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway since December 3. “We have no option left but to show our resentment by burning the copies of the three farm laws. The government should consider the demands raised by the farmers. Now, our core committee will decide the future course of action,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of the UP Gate protest site committee, said, “Thousands of farmers celebrated the festival at the UP Gate away from homes and burnt the copies of the three laws since the government is not listening to our demands.” Meanwhile, the committee on Wednesday decided that they will install Wi-fi systems due to poor network coverage in the area and will also install new CCTV cameras as the site besides providing more walkie-talkie handsets to their volunteers. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and directed the formation of a four-member committee to resolve the deadlock between farmers and the government. The farmers at the UP Gate after the directions from the court said that they would continue their protest till the three farm laws get repealed and also said that they would carry out their proposed ‘tractor march’ to Delhi on the Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-up-gate-protesting-farmers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-on-lohri-101610561363710.html
13-01-2021||Other||Laptop left on charging-mode starts fire at sixth-floor flat in Ghaziabad high-rise, three family members rescued||A family was rescued on Wednesday morning from their sixth-floor apartment in Vaishali sector 4 after a fire. Fire department officials could not confirm the cause of the fire but suspected that it could have been after laptop was left for charging overnight.The incident happened at Leela Homes high-rise in the house of paediatrician Dr. Puneet Kalra who said he had gone to sleep at around 4.30am and left the laptop to charge.“Around 7.30 am, my wife woke me up saying that there was a fire in our flat. We tried to go to the drawing room but there was fire and thick smoke. Unable to move out, we took our seven-year-old daughter to the balcony from where we started shouting for help,” said Dr Kalra. “Then we heard a blast, which could have been the air conditioner.”“Our neighbours in the opposite flat came to our aid help,” he said. “They got a ladder and put it across our balconies. Our daughter, then my wife and finally I crawled over.”The fire department officials said that they got a call around 7am and deployed three fire tenders and about a dozen firemen from nearby Vaishali fire station. By the time they reached there though, the family had been rescued.“One of our teams went up the stairs to reach the flat with water pipes. Another team tried to douse the flame from outside,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer. “It is likely that the fire started as the laptop was left on charging mode on a sofa and the heat or a spark caused the fire.”A few residents caught the blaze on their phone cameras that later made it to social media.“We estimate that we lost goods worth ₹3-4 lakh” said Kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/laptop-left-on-charging-mode-starts-fire-at-sixth-floor-flat-in-ghaziabad-high-rise-three-family-members-rescued-101610560703232.html
13-01-2021||Other||Noida’s air quality enters ‘very poor’, Greater Noida worst in country||Noida: Noida’s air quality dropped to “very poor” on Wednesday as meteorological conditions remained unfavourable. Greater Noida and Ghaziabad turned out to be the top-two polluted cities in the country. The air quality index (AQI) of Noida deteriorated to “very-poor” for the first time since January 9 when it was “poor”. According to the weather analysts, the minimum temperatures fell and wind was calm on Wednesday leading to poor ventilation.“The wind was calm through evening hours and even at its peak it was around just 10-12 kmph unlike two-three days back when the stronger winds pulled the region out of the very polluted zone. The day had also been misty with shallow fog, which tends to keep particle pollutants in the air,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. Noida’s AQI, on a scale of 0 to 500 on Wednesday was 348 against 278 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 398 against 312 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 388 against 324 a day earlier. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The major pollutant or PM2.5 in the region also spiked from about four times the standards. The average PM2.5 for Wednesday for Noida was 222.14 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³), against 150.90 µg/m³ a day earlier. The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 252.36 µg/m³ against 153.94 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 levels for Ghaziabad against 238.66µg/m³ against 161.34 µg/m³ a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m³. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to deteriorate further due to poor ventilation conditions. “The minimum temperature is likely to fall and surface winds are likely to slow down gradually. The AQI is likely to slip from the middle to the higher end of Very Poor by tomorrow. Extremely low ventilation conditions and lowering of boundary layer height are forecasted for 15th Jan which will lead to further deterioration and SAFAR model predicts that the AQI will touch higher end of Very Poor to Severe category on 15th and 16th Jan. No quick relief to the deteriorated situation is expected in the next few days,” said SAFAR on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noidas-air-quality-enters-very-poor-greater-noida-worst-in-country-101610560643213.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||DC asks stakeholders to submit objections to proposed circle rates||As homebuyers and stakeholders in the real estate sector expressed concerns over the administration’s proposed circle rates, officials on Wednesday called for objections to be submitted by January 15.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner, said that the issues and concerns raised by the stakeholders will be considered and addressed appropriately. Garg, who was addressing a press conference at the Mini Secretariat on Wednesday morning, also said that no major changes in circle rates have been proposed this year and rates have been increased only for areas at the periphery of Gurugram.A circle rate is a minimum value set by the government at which a property can be sold. Garg also said that circle rates will be implemented from April 1 this year and that the next revision would be from next January.“The exercise to formulate the circle rates was carried out at the tehsil level by taking local inputs. Previous rates and present market conditions were taken into account while calculating these rates. We shall consider the objections after January 15 and send a final proposal to the state government after February 15,” Garg said, adding that the proposal was posted on the website of the district administration on December 15 for public access.Referring to the proposed circle rates for 2021, Garg said that no major change in rates has been proposed for Gurugram and Sohna tehsils, with changes proposed for Badshahpur, Qadipur and Harsaru sub-tehsils. In Pataudi, the committee has proposed an 8% increase in rates for residential areas and a 12% increase for commercial areas. For Farrukhnagar, a blanket increase of circle rates from 2% to 10% has been proposed for commercial, residential and agricultural properties.The district administration has also proposed an increase in circle rates in Manesar. Garg said that earlier, plots located in the industrial area of IMT Manesar were kept out of the purview of circle rates so far, but that they have decided to implement a revision from this year.For Wazirabad tehsil, the administration has proposed an increase in circle rates for group housing societies located along the Golf Course Road. Circle rates of ₹9,000 per square feet and ₹7,000 per square feet have been fixed for Emaar MGF projects and Emerald Greens, and The Icon, respectively, while a rate of ₹23,000 per square feet has been proposed for Aralias, Magnolias and Camellias.Referring to the problems being faced by buyers and sellers in the registration of properties, Garg said the system would be streamlined further to ensure that it becomes seamless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dc-asks-stakeholders-to-submit-objections-to-proposed-circle-rates-101610559685373.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||Phone shop owner held for selling SIM cards without ID proofs||The chief minister’s flying squad on Wednesday raided a shop in Sector 44 and arrested a 28-year-old man for allegedly selling SIM cards without asking for identity proofs. The suspect was identified as Vijay Kumar Mandal of Supaul in Bihar. He lived in a rented room in Kanhai village and was running a mobile phone shop for the last four years. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said that they had visited the shop twice in the last two days and bought three SIM cards without giving any identification documents. “We deployed two people near the shop who kept a close watch on his operations and Wednesday, we caught him red-handed and recovered a register which mentioned all details of the SIM cards and name and IDs used on their behalf,” he said. Budhiraja said that they started sending decoy customers after receiving a tip-off. Mandal used to allegedly supply SIM cards of different telecom operators and activate the same without any identity proof, he said. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, Crime Investigation Department, said they received a tip-off on Monday about the illegal sale. “On average, he used to sell 10 SIM cards daily for between ₹1,000 and ₹1,200, without taking any details. He has sold more than a 1,000 SIM cards in the last four years and we are probing if anyone else is also part of this fraud,” he said. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sushant Lok police station on Wednesday. The suspect was taken on a one-day remand for questioning. The police recovered 44 SIM cards and initiated a probe to find the source of these SIM cards in Gurugram. On October 22, 2020, the same squad had arrested another person man for allegedly selling multiple SIM cards on seven identity cards. A case was registered at the Sector 17/18 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/phone-shop-owner-held-for-selling-sim-cards-without-id-proofs-101610559686244.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||Hooda takes aim at farm laws in Gurugram||Former Haryana chief minister and the leader of the opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that the farm laws proposed by the Central government should be withdrawn so that the ongoing farmers’ protests can come to an end.Hooda, who was in Gurugram on Wednesday, said that the farm laws would harm not only the farmers’ interests but also that of workers and consumers, as they are aimed at “giving an advantage to large corporations.”Hooda said that the present state government had lost the trust of both the public and the legislators. “Such governments automatically fall due to the burden of their own failures. The Congress wants to move a no-confidence motion against the government on the issue of farmers. As soon as a no-confidence motion comes in the assembly, the truth of the rebellious MLAs will also be revealed to the public. Everyone will know if they stand with the government or the farmers,” he said.The former CM also alleged that the farm laws were designed to help corporations profit at the cost of producers and consumers. “When the produce of the farmer comes to the market, the rates will be brought down and once the profiteers buy the entire produce, it will be sold to the general consumer at an expensive rate. Similarly, if the government purchases stop, then the government will also stop giving cheap food grains to below poverty line (BPL) families,” he said.Urging the state and central governments to repeal the laws, the Congress leader said that the government should understand the gravity of the situation and factor in the condition of the farmers.Samay Singh Bhati, the president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kisan Morcha for Haryana, said that a majority of the farming community in the state is in support of the three proposed laws and they would create awareness across the state in this matter. “The Congress and its leadership are misleading the farmers. We must remember how many scandals and corruptions were exposed during the rule of previous Congress regimes. They don’t have the interest of farmers in mind, but they just want to fuel the protests. The stay on laws is fine and amendments are welcome, but these should not be repealed,” said Bhati at a press conference in Gurugram.Meanwhile, farmers and workers in Gurugram held a protest against the farm laws on Wednesday. Workers associated with trade unions in Gurugram-Manesar industrial complex wore black bands as a mark of protest against the farm laws. Trade union and Left party leaders also gathered at Rajiv Chowk in the afternoon and burnt copies of the farm laws. The trade union leaders said that they fully support the farmers in their struggle to get these laws repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hooda-takes-aim-at-farm-laws-in-gurugram-101610559685832.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||People must not be reluctant to get vaccinated: Health officials||To assuage public apprehensions regarding any possible side effects from the Covid-19 vaccines, senior health department and district administration officials on Wednesday stated that they are ready to get vaccinated first. Asserting that Covid-19 vaccination will be a voluntary exercise, they clarified that the general public will get the vaccine jab once healthcare and frontline workers, people above 50 years and those below 50 years with comorbidities are covered. In a press conference at the Mini Secretariat on Wednesday, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Over 40,000 healthcare workers will first get the vaccine jab. I am ready to get vaccinated first to deal with apprehensions about the vaccine. Every vaccine has minor side effects like redness at the injection site or fever. People should not fear or be reluctant to get vaccinated. Therefore, I would appeal to prominent doctors of the city and deputy commissioner Yash Garg to get vaccinated along with me.”Garg, who was present at the conference, agreed to the appeal. He said, “Herd immunity in the population can be developed either through letting the virus transmit from one person to the other or by vaccination. Like other inoculations given at birth, it is likely that Covid-19 vaccine, after a certain time period, might become a part of the immunisation programme. Citizens should not be scared of the vaccine .” Garg said that people should take preventive measure until at least 70% of the population is vaccinated against coronavirus.In the state, almost 0.25 million healthcare workers have to be vaccinated, followed by 0.45 million frontline workers. The inoculation of healthcare workers is set to start from January 16, while the data of frontline workers has to be finalised before January 25. For others, union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan earlier this week said that the entire population can be vaccinated after prioritising risk groups, without giving any specific dateline. When asked about the vaccination of the general population, Yadav said, “It is difficult to comment as there has been no direction from the state or central government.” Going by the Covid-19 vaccine guideline issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare, there will be a self-registration tab on the Co-WIN platform for the general population. The portal is currently accessed by health department employees to register healthcare and frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/people-must-not-be-reluctant-to-get-vaccinated-health-officials-101610559684887.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||Dense fog envelops city, minimum temperature at 4.6°C||Mercury levels plummeted as cold winds from the Himalayas continued to sweep the plains for the second consecutive day, bringing the minimum temperature in the city to 4.6 degrees Celsius. Air quality in the city also deteriorated to its worst in over a week and the situation expected to persist till the next week, as per official forecasts.The city was enveloped by a blanket of dense fog on Wednesday morning, which gave way to partially clouded skies during the afternoon.While Gurugram’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not record the temperatures on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department’s nearest monitoring station in Delhi’s Palam area recorded a maximum temperature of 15.2 degrees Celsius, while the minimum stood at 4.6 degrees Celsius. This indicates a steep drop from warmer conditions a few days ago. The Palam observatory on January 9 had recorded a maximum temperature of 19.2 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 11.4 degrees Celsius.“Until Monday, we were seeing temperatures above normal. A cloud hanging above the city under the influence of a passing western disturbance had managed to trap the heat and warm up the air, but now that regular northwesterly winds are blowing again, cold drafts from the Himalayas are blowing over the plains and pushing the temperature down,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Delhi.The IMD has currently sounded a cold wave alert for parts of north India, including Haryana, Delhi, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. A cold day can be defined as a diurnal cycle in which the minimum temperature drops to 4 degrees Celsius or below, whereas a severe cold day is when the minimum temperature drops to below 2 degrees Celsius. A cold wave, on the other hand, is characterized by a simultaneous dip in both minimum and maximum temperature readings. IMD officials said that both cold days and cold waves remain a possibility in the next two to three days.As per the IMD’s seven-day weather forecast for the region, moderate to very dense fog is expected to prevail in the mornings due to a high level of relative humidity after recent spells of rain. The maximum and minimum temperatures, at the end of the week, are expected to settle at about 7 degrees Celsius and 17 degrees Celsius, respectively.Air quality in the city remained in the poor category, with a reading of 276 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin on Wednesday. However, Gurugram and neighbouring Manesar remained the least polluted major cities in the National Capital Region, as Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad all recorded very poor air, with AQI readings ranging between 350 and 390.The early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR stated: “Winds are likely to slow down and ventilation conditions to remain very poor from 14th to 18th January which will lead to further deterioration in air quality... Air quality is likely to remain largely in the upper end of the very poor category with chances of reaching in severe category owing to poor ventilation conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dense-fog-envelops-city-minimum-temperature-at-46c-101610559683714.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||10 faecal samples sent for avian influenza test||The animal husbandry and wildlife departments on Tuesday dispatched 10 faecal samples of wild birds, obtained from the Sultanpur National Park in Farrukhnagar, to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab in Jalandhar for testing. This is in addition to the crow and egret carcass samples, retrieved from the Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park in Sector 56, sent on January 8 for testing avian influenza.Lab results for both sets of samples expected within the next three days, officials confirmed.At a press conference on Wednesday morning, deputy commissioner Yash Garg spoke of the threat of avian influenza for the first time. “There are no indications of an outbreak, but we are prepared to launch a containment operation if a case of bird flu is detected. We are in touch with the animal husbandry department, which is monitoring the health of poultry, as well as the wildlife department. We have to remain on alert as we are hearing lots of news of avian influenza from different places,” Garg said.Faecal samples from other popular birding destinations, including Basai and Najafgarh, may also be collected and sent if those from Sultanpur do not provide conclusive results. “If they are positive, then an outbreak may be assumed. If they are negative or inconclusive, we will keep looking. Field surveys are being conducted every day. The Civil Hospital in Farrukhnagar also dispatched a medical officer to inspect the Sultanpur area yesterday, to be sure,” said Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector.Chahal did not specify the species of birds from which faecal samples were collected on Tuesday.Despite the death of over 400,000 poultry birds in Panchkula district last month and proximity to three states — Rajasthan, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh — where avian influenza outbreaks have been confirmed, the situation in Gurugram remains business as usual, officials said, except for a few suspicious deaths at the Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park.They pointed to the nature of the district’s poultry industry, which is relatively small and disorganised in comparison to other parts of the state, as a possible reason for a deferment of the outbreak.Dr Ramphal Mann, a senior veterinarian with the animal husbandry department, said, “Gurugram, at one point, did have a flourishing broiler business, but that was more than a decade ago. As the area became more and more urbanised, large-scale commercial poultry enterprises started moving out to areas where land was cheaper. Presently, the demand for poultry and eggs is met by smaller backyard farmers, and is mostly consumed within the district. There are no organised mandis or even large bird markets, so very little intermingling of flocks happens. This could be one reason why the outbreak hasn’t found its way into bird farms yet.”As per official data, Gurugram’s poultry industry is a fraction of that in districts of Panchkula, Karnal and Panipat. While Gurugram has an estimated poultry population of 148,532 birds, Karnal’s poultry farms have over 63 times that number, with an estimated 9,469,646 poultry birds. In Panchkula and Panipat, the estimated number of poultry is about 5,874,419 and 5,138,898 birds, respectively.“Even if an outbreak is detected, the scale of response required is much smaller and can be easily managed,” said Dr Punita Gahlot, deputy director, animal husbandry department.However, officials cautioned that Gurgram happens to be a prime location for migratory birds, which flock to the wetlands in Basai, Najafgarh and Sultanpur between October and March. “These wild birds are natural reservoirs of avian influenza. They may not fall seriously ill or die, but say a crow or a pigeon happens to catch the virus from a wild bird and then interacts with poultry in backyard units, it could set off bird deaths at chicken farms,” said Chahal, emphasising that there is no evidence of unusual poultry deaths, as of Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/10-faecal-samples-sent-for-avian-influenza-test-101610559684297.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||May deadline set for monsoon preparedness at eight key roads||The city’s civic agencies have shortlisted eight key stretches for executing monsoon preparedness measures and have set a deadline of May 31 for completion of the work.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will be laying new drains, repairing or widening stormwater drains along CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, the stretch from St Thomas Marg to Ghata T-point, Central Peripheral Road, Old Railway Road, Sheetla Mata Road, Bajgehra Road, Jwala Mill Road and Khandsa stretch on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.Following massive flooding of the city and seven underpasses on August 19 and 20 in 2019, the MCG, GMDA, district administration and traffic police, in a meeting a week later, had decided to formulate an action plan to prevent a repeat of the incident.As per the joint action plan of the civic agencies, preparedness measures at the eight key roads have been listed as a priority, besides construction of check dams in the Aravallis, ahead of the next monsoon.To resolve waterlogging issues on the CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, located next to the Medanta underpass, a new stormwater line would be set up by the agencies. The original drainage lines were covered during the construction of the underpass in 2017 and GMDA officials are yet to identify them. Hence, instead, they have now opted to lay a new stormwater drain along the stretch between Rajiv Chowk and Bakhtawar Chowk.To resolve waterlogging related issues in DLF Phase-4, sectors 43, 54 and 56, the open stormwater drain running between St Thomas Marg and Ghata T-point, along the Chakkarpur Bundh, will be de-silted and cleaned. “The entire open drain will be levelled. At certain points, the drain is elevated, while at some points, it is at a depression due to which the flow of rainwater gets hampered. In addition, we will also be linking the drain to the master stormwater drains in DLF Phase 4, by constructing a new 200-metre pipeline. This way, the carrying capacity of the drains will also increase and waterlogging issues will be addressed,” a senior GMDA official said.To resolve issues on other stretches, officials have decided to construct stormwater drains along the entire length of the CPR, lay a new drain along Old Railway Road and Bajgehra Road, and clean the entire leg of the master stormwater drains along the Sheetla Mata Road, besides identifying points where repairs are needed.Officials have also identified Jwala Mill Road as a stretche where extensive monsoon preparedness measures need to be executed. However, they are yet to finalise an action plan for the stretch.The MCG has also decided to build a 2.5-kilometre stormwater line to link the drainage lines of the service lanes along the expressway at Narsinghpur to the Badshahpur drain, which is located nearby.“Overall, 19 points have been identified by the GMDA and the MCG where action needs to be taken. Most of these points are located near residential areas while the eight are major stretches. The departments concerned have been allocated duties and directed to complete them before May 31 at any cost, to avoid flooding,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/may-deadline-set-for-monsoon-preparedness-at-eight-key-roads-101610559683194.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||45,000 vaccine doses to arrive today, inoculation to take weeks instead of days||The state health department allocated 44,950 doses of the Covishield coronavirus vaccine to Gurugram on Wednesday, according to senior health department officials, who added that the vaccination will take place over weeks instead of three days.According to officials, the vaccine will arrive in the district on Thursday and the vaccination process of healthcare workers in the district will start on January 16. However, the department has now changed its vaccination strategy, with officials confirming that healthcare workers would be vaccinated over several days or weeks, instead of three days, as proposed earlier.Earlier this week, district health officials had planned to inoculate over 36,000 healthcare workers, of government and private facilities, in three days by holding a vaccination drive at almost 161 session sites. “The plan has to be revised according to the fresh guidelines issued by the state and centre. It is confirmed that vaccination drive to cover healthcare workers in the first phase will continue for days or weeks,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Even the union ministry of health and family welfare, in a series of tweets on Wednesday, clarified that the vaccination process has to stabilised, without haste. The ministry tweeted: “States have been advised to organize vaccination sessions taking into account 10% reserve/wastage doses and average of 100 vaccinations/session/day. Therefore, any undue haste on the parts of States to organise unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised.”Further, it tweeted: “States and UTs have been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilizes and moves forward.”Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, was in the city on Wednesday to inspect the Wazirabad session site, which will be linked with the vaccine launch event of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for two-way communication on January 16.He said, “Within a week after January 16, the pace of the vaccination will be clear. The future strategy depends upon the vaccine supply. After healthcare workers, frontline workers will be inoculated. Their data has to be finalised by January 25.”Yadav, on the other hand, said that it will take a couple of days to devise the vaccination plan as it has to be discussed with private stakeholders too. In Gurugram, as per the vaccine allocation list, over 43,070 are healthcare workers employed by the state government as well as those practising in private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics. At least 1,820 are those commissioned by the Central government, while 60 health workers are under the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS).They have to be placed in groups of 100 for every finalised vaccination site and the health department has to identify vaccination sites for maximum coverage. However, for the January 16 vaccine launch, the district has already fixed the six session sites.According to Yadav, Gurugram will also do the procurement of vaccine for four other districts — Palwal (5,090 doses), Nuh (7,120 doses), Faridabad (22,620 doses) and Rewari (5,700 doses). These districts will collect the vaccine from the storage unit at Civil Hospital in Pataudi. Neighbouring NCR districts of Jhajjar, Sonepat, Panipat and Karnal have been allocated 7,990, 10,310, 6,660 and 13,160 doses of the vaccine, respectively, by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/45000-vaccine-doses-to-arrive-today-inoculation-to-take-weeks-instead-of-days-101610559623230.html
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cuts down Covid vaccination sites from 8 to 4||The Chandigarh administration has decided to restrict the number of Covid-19 vaccination sites to four instead of eight in proportion to the vaccine doses received for now.The health department on Tuesday had received 12,000 doses of vaccines to be used to immunize 5,400-6,000 health workers through two doses with a 28-day gap. The vaccination process will begin on January 16. Senior officials on Wednesday confirmed that two sites will be functional at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and one site each at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and Civil Hospital, Sector 45. The remaining sites have been put on hold.“The instructions to the department are that sites once functional should continue to remain so. But, in view of the number of doses received, four sites will be adequate and will function for a longer period of time in a staggered manner,” said a senior UT health official, wishing not to be named.“This will also be helpful in closely analysing any adverse reaction due to the vaccine,” the official added.Among the first beneficiaries will be level-3 and -4 employees involved in the healthcare services. “The automated appointment messages will be sent one or two days in advance. We are hopeful of a good response though vaccination is totally voluntary,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department. Panchkula to get 9,000 doses in first batchWith Haryana receiving the first consignment of the Covishield vaccine on Wednesday, the Panchkula health department is expecting to receive 9,000 doses in the first batch. “The Covid-19 vaccine has reached Haryana. The vaccine has been sent to Kurukshetra, from where it will be forwarded to Hisar, Gurugram and Rohtak. Thereon, it will be dispatched to other districts,” said Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cuts-down-covid-vaccination-sites-from-9-to-4-101610559083894.html
13-01-2021||Other||Akalis still hopeful of former Mohali mayor Kulwant’s return||Three days after former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh’s group parted ways with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the party is still hopeful of their return ahead of the municipal elections scheduled next month.Senior Akali leaders are to hold a meeting with Kulwant’s group on Thursday.However, Kulwant, whose group comprising former Akali councillors has decided to contest the elections as Independents, said that no SAD leader had approached them, and “we have no plans of going back”.SAD senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema said: “Sometimes, there are issues at local level, but we are hopeful of sorting them out with the disgruntled leaders soon.”Former SAD councillor RP Sharma, who is with Kulwant, said: “The party is holding a meeting with us on Thursday, but we have already decided that we will not contest the polls on party symbol. In the past five years, they have humiliated us on several occasions.”In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad group (of Independents) and won 10 seats. With the support of Congress, he was elected the mayor. Later, in 2017, he joined SAD. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 last year. Last week, SAD had officially declared a list of 28 candidates (all of whom were former councillors) for the upcoming elections, but on Monday, 22 of them sided with Kulwant.With the latest development, a four-cornered fight awaits the MC polls. In the fray are SAD, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Kulwant’s group. The splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has opted out of the elections and will support AAP candidates and Independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akalis-still-hopeful-of-former-mohali-mayor-kulwant-s-return-ahead-of-mc-elections-101610558903878.html
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Syed Mushtaq T20 Trophy: Chandigarh defeat Manipur, to face Mizoram next||Chandigarh recorded a fine 112-run win over Manipur in their Plate Group game during the ongoing Syed Mushtaq T20 Trophy at the TI Muragappa Ground in Chennai on Wednesday.Batting first, Chandigarh piled up a total of 178 runs for the loss of five wickets in 20 overs. Shivam Bhambri scored the highest (56) runs while captain Manan Vohra and Ankit made 39 and 38, respectively. For Manipur, Bishworshjit captured two wickets. In reply, Manipur could score 66 runs, losing 8 wickets in 20 overs.Spinners did a fine job for Chandigarh. Gurinder Singh bagged three while Bipul Sharma took two wickets for Chandigarh. Chandigarh collected four points and will take on Mizoram in their next match.Brief scores Chandigarh: 178 for 5 in 20 overs (Shivam Bhambri 56, Ankit Kaushik 38, Manan Vohra 39, Bishworshit 2 for 33)Manipur: 66 for 8 in 20 overs (Kishan 20 not out, Th Kishan 20, Gurinder Singh 3 for 10, Bipul Sharma 2 for 8)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/syed-mushtaq-t20-trophy-chandigarh-defeat-manipur-to-face-mizoram-next-101610558664030.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Toxic foam continues to float near Yamuna River bank in Delhi||For the last four days now, toxic froth can be seen floating in the Yamuna River and is accumulating near Chhat Ghat.Local residents told ANI that the day-before-yesterday the white forth formed a layer making it impossible for anybody to stand near the river bank."It is a little better today, however, a day before yesterday the condition was much worse. The toxic forth could be seen in large quantity," said 50-year-old Lal Mann, a local resident near Chhat Ghat.Another local resident who is also a diver said, "People here suffer from breathing issue. While diving, we can feel a burning sensation and redness in the eyes."Environmentalists earlier have stated that the reason for the frothing could be the release of certain gases when reacting with few specific bacteria.Toxic forth at the Yamuna River has hit global headlines when in 2019 pictures of devotees of Chhat puja could be seen standing in waist-deep toxic forth in the Yamuna at Kalindi Kunj.Experts when asked about the particular episode of the surge in toxic level, stated that the forth was a common thing in the Yamuna but increased in last five-six years.Government of Delhi recently has sketched out a nine-point action plan to minimise frothing in the Yamuna River is happening due to discharge of untreated sewage in the river.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) convened a meeting on January 4, with the officials of Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Irrigation & Water Resources Department of Haryana and Irrigation and Flood Control Department of Delhi to discuss the recurring issue of increase in Ammoniacal Nitrogen in River Yamuna and short and long term remedial actions required.Also, it was agreed to constitute a Joint Surveillance Squad comprising DJB, DPCC, Irrigation and Flood Control Department, Delhi, HSPCB and Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Haryana.Moreover, litters and plastic waste in ample amount could be found across the entire stretch of 22kms of the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toxic-foam-continues-to-float-near-yamuna-river-bank-in-delhi-101610557940055.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's coronavirus positive cases breach 3 lakh-mark||The Covid-19 tally in Mumbai crossed the 3 lakh-mark on Wednesday and reached 3,00,471 with the addition of 675 new cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.It took 307 days, since the first Covid-19 case was recorded in Mumbai on March 11 last year, to cross the grim milestone of 3 lakh cases.The first 1 lakh Covid-19 cases were added in 130 days, whereas the next one lakh cases were added in another 72 days. The cases rose from 2 lakh to 3 lakh in another 105 days, as per the data.With eight more people succumbing to the viral infection, the overall death toll in Mumbai mounted to 11,210 on Wednesday, the civic body said.A total of 531 people were discharged in the day after treatment, taking the count of recoveries in Mumbai to 2,80,853, it said, adding that Mumbai is now left with 7,525 active cases.Mumbai's Covid-19 case recovery rate now stands at 93 per cent, while the average growth rate of cases is 0.21 per cent and the average doubling rate of cases is 371 days, the BMC said.With 15,419 new tests conducted in the last 24-hours, the total number of samples tested in Mumbai so far rose to 25,33,640, according to the BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-coronavirus-positive-cases-breach-3-lakhmark-101610556069991.html
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Amid bird flu scare, 34 dead crows found in 3 days in Chandigarh||Amid fears of avian influenza outbreak in Chandigarh, 14 more dead birds, including 13 crows and one peacock, were found from different areas of the city, mostly on the periphery, on Wednesday. As many as 60 dead birds have been recovered since the carcass of a migratory bird was found floating in Sukhna Lake last Tuesday. In just the past three days, 41 birds have been found, with dead crows amounting to 34. Even as all eight samples of dead birds sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, last week tested negative on Tuesday, the UT forest and wildlife department is concerned about the samples of 13 crows that were found near the railway station on Monday. This was the first and only case of a number of bird carcasses found at the same spot. The test report is awaited, said chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai. Even in other states where avian influenza has been confirmed, dead crows were found in high numbers. 7,770 more birds culled in PanchkulaMeanwhile, in Panchkula, where bird flu has already been confirmed in its Barwala poultry belt, 7,770 birds were culled on Wednesday. As many as 37,695 poultry birds have been culled at three farms in the past five days. Samples from two farms had tested positive last week, after which five farms (including the two) were declared as falling in the infected zone and culling was ordered. However, two farms were removed from the list on Tuesday, as they fell beyond the stipulated radius of 1km. Meanwhile, even as the Jalandhar lab director had claimed that samples from four more farms tested positive for bird flu, the confirmation is awaited from the national laboratory in Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-bird-flu-scare-34-dead-crows-found-in-3-days-in-chandigarh-101610556203879.html
13-01-2021||Other||Case filed in Pune against alleged fake university; its website down||PUNE: Two officials of a university were booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Tuesday night for running a varsity without the required permits.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Abhishek Subhash Haridas (38) of Rahulnagar in Kothrud. The accused have not yet been identified, according to the police. According to the police, the accused claimed that he had applied to the university for a PhD in Philosophy through their website. However, he soon learned that the website belonged to a university that does not have the required accreditation or permits to offer vocations and degree courses.However, on trying to access the website which the complainant claimed to have accessed, it showed that the website was down for maintenance.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 511 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 and 9(2) of Maharashtra Unauthorised Institutions and Unauthorised Courses of Study in Agriculture, Animal and Fishery Sciences, Health Sciences, Higher, Technical and Vocational Education (Prohibition) Act, 2013 was registered at Chikhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-filed-in-pune-against-alleged-fake-university-its-website-down-101610556142962.html
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees third severe cold day in 4 days||Even as the day temperature went up a notch on Wednesday, Chandigarh continued to be colder than hill stations in the region. The maximum temperature was recorded at 12.2°C, up from 11.1°C on Tuesday, which was the coldest day this season. However, despite the rise, Wednesday was third severe cold day in four days, with maximum temperature recorded nine degrees below normal and minimum at 5.7°C. A severe cold day is declared when minimum temperature drops below 10°C and maximum temperature is more than 6.5°C below normal.The city was also colder than Manali, Dharamshala and Shimla, where maximum temperature was recorded at 14.8°C, 15.8°C and 16.1°C, respectively.According to the India Meteorological Department, similar weather is expected in the coming days, with shallow to moderate fog in the morning and evenings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sees-third-severe-cold-day-in-4-days-101610555903807.html
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to cough up ₹25,000 for failure to reply to a petition in HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a cost of ₹25,000 on Panjab University, Chandigarh, for its failure to file a reply to a petition. The division bench of justices Jitendra Chauhan and Vivek Puri was hearing a petition seeking the quashing of a circular on scrapping the entrance examination for admission to the master of laws (LLM) course on the ground of Covid-19 outbreak. It was filed by one Uday Partap Singh, who contended that other universities and institutes had been conducting entrance examinations despite the pandemic. While the university blamed the pandemic for the delay, stating that because of it the registrar was not available to file a reply, and sought a week’s time, the court took strict note of its inaction and imposed the cost during a hearing on Tuesday. The bench already on November 18, 2020, had directed PU to “positively file reply within three weeks”, with a further direction that in case, it is not done within the stipulated period, it shall entail a cost of ₹25,000.As per the directions of the division bench, PU will have to now first deposit the money with the high court registry and only then its reply will be accepted. The money will go to the Covid-19 relief fund of the high court bar association. The petition is to be taken up on February 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-cough-up-25k-for-failure-to-reply-to-a-petition-in-hc-101610555843211.html
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Senate polls: Chandigarh admn asks PU to take decision on its own||Stating that it has no objection to the Panjab University senate elections, the Chandigarh administration has informed the varsity that it should take a decision to conduct them on its own.The response from the Chandigarh deputy commissioner came after the university once again sought advice from the administration regarding conducting the senate polls, which have been on hold since August last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.On Tuesday, in a letter to the registrar-cum-returning officer, the deputy commissioner responded, “The decision regarding holding of senate election and fixation of schedule is to be taken by Panjab University on its own. This office has no objection to holding of any such elections subject to strict observation of Covid-19 protocols as notified from time to time by the Government of India and UT administration.”In October last year, the UT administration had advised PU to continue with its previous decision to postpone the senate elections to avoid the risk of Covid-19 transmission.Pending since AugustThe senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the Vice-President of India (who is also the university chancellor), two are nominated from the Punjab legislative assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected. The four-year term of the previous senate ended on October 31, 2020. While the elections were scheduled in August last year, these were postponed twice by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar due to the pandemic. The one-year term of the syndicate, which is PU’s executive body and elected from among the senators, also ended on December 31, leaving the varsity without a governing body.Ever since the senate elections were postponed by the V-C for the first time on August 15, the rival group (Goyal alliance), which had majority in senate and syndicate, has been at loggerheads with him.“What we were demanding has proved to be correct. The UT administration ought not to have any objection to the senate polls,” said former senator Ashok Goyal. “Now, we urge the V-C to immediately announce the dates of polling for various constituencies of senate and we hope that good sense will prevail.”PU registrar Vikram Nayyar said: “We are initiating the process. The varsity will look into how to conduct the senate polls while following all safety norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-polls-chandigarh-admn-asks-pu-to-take-decision-on-its-own-101610555723711.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi Transport Dept to launch 3-day drive to check HSRP, colour-coded sticker compliance||The Delhi Transport Department will launch a "full-fledged" three-day drive from January 14 to penalise vehicle owners found without the mandatory high-security registration plate (HSRP) and colour-coded sticker, officials said on Wednesday.So far, we have been conducting a drive limited to a few areas by deploying nine enforcement teams. The number of teams will be increased to 50 and they will catch violators across the city from Thursday to Saturday, a senior Transport Department officer said.The "full-fledged" drive will again be followed by the "limited" drive, he said.All vehicles in Delhi are required to be fitted with HSRPs and colour-coded stickers to determine their engine and fuel type as per various court and government orders. Violators are being fined ₹5,500 by Transport Department teams.According to officials, around 30 lakh vehicles need to be fitted with HSRPs and colour-coded stickers. Two-wheelers don't need the stickers that identify the fuel type.The stickers, which are also known as the third registration plate, the other two being the HSRP and the one at the front of a vehicle, can be booked by vehicle owners online through www.siam.in or www.bookmyhsrp.com.The colour-coded stickers can also be booked online.A vehicle owner who has booked HSRP and colour-coded sticker online will not be penalised if he or she produces the booking receipt, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/transport-dept-to-launch-drive-to-check-hsrp-colour-coded-sticker-compliance-101610555432801.html
13-01-2021||Other||Five men with collective history of more than 130 cases arrested in Pune||PUNE: Five men with a collective criminal record of over 130 cases were arrested by the Pune police on Tuesday and remanded to police custody. While evading arrested on January 2, one of the four had attacked a police officer with a knife, according to a statement issued by the Pune police.The five were identified as Birjusingh Rajputsinngh Dudhani (37), Bintusingh Shamsingh Kalyani (24), Ravisingh Shamsingh Kalyani (22), Hukumsingh Ramsingh Kalyani(28) and Sangatsingh Ajmersingh Kalyani (37), of Ramtekdi in Hadapsar, according to the police.Of the arrested men, Bintusingh has 58 cases against him, Ravisingh Kalyani 49 and Hukumsingh 26 cases. The number is expected to rise as the police is yet to include the history of two others.The police had received information about involvement of Birjusingh, Sunnysingh Pappasingh Dudhani, Bintusingh, and Lakhisingh Gabbarsingh Taak in multiple house break-in and theft cases registered in Chatuhshrungi police station recently.The Chatuhshrungi police led by sub-inspector Mahesh Bhosale traced them to a hillock in Ramtekdi and upon seeing the police, Birjusingh attacked Bhosale with a knife he was carrying. As PSI Bhosale evaded the attack, the three others escaped.Birjusingh then attacked himself with a knife and caused cuts on his own stomach and neck to evade arrest. He was admitted to a hospital while a case under Sections 353, 307, 309, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Arms Act and Maharashtra Police Act was registered against the injured man at Wanowrie police station based on complaint lodged by Bhosale. After his wounds were healed, the police arrested him and was found his involvement in three cases registered at Chatuhshrungi, one at Vishrantwadi and Khadki police stations each, according to the police.The investigation was then undertaken by Unit 3 of Pune police crime branch led by senior inspector Rajendra Mokashi. His team arrested the four others who are now in police custody.This is not the first time that the men have landed in police custody. Sunnysingh had been arrested in November 2020, he was also arrested along with Birjusingh in June 2020. While Birjusingh is in custody, Sunnysingh is at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-men-with-collective-history-of-more-than-130-cases-arrested-in-pune-101610555662945.html
13-01-2021||Other||Vehicles, unclean household fuels major contributors of CO in Delhi, govt study finds||Vehicular emissions and use of unclean household fuels are the major sources of carbon monoxide (CO) in the national capital, a study conducted by the union ministry of earth science and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) has found. The study, which focuses on the sources of CO emissions in Delhi and Mumbai, has recorded levels of the pollutant during the Covid-19 lockdown— when restrictions were placed on vehicular movement, industrial operations and other financial activities — and compared it to emissions on regular days when all of these sources were operational and contributing to emissions. The findings show that in Delhi during the Covid-19 lockdown, the total CO emissions showed an 86.39% reduction compared to regular days, as opposed to a decline of 62.14% reduction in Mumbai. It also showed that the biggest reason behind this reduction, especially in Delhi, was because of restrictions in traffic movement. In the national capital, the CO emissions from vehicular movement reduced from 31.01gigagram/month (Gg/month) on regular days to just 3.1 Gg/month during the lockdown period. The second biggest contributor of CO in Delhi was the use of unclean household fuels, which contributed to 1.35 Gg/month on usual days. This did not show any change even during the lockdown. “The major sources of CO in Delhi were transport and household fuels during normal time. Transport was completely shut during lockdown, except for vehicles from law enforcement agencies, emergency services and that of essential supply chains. Not more than 10% of total vehicles were on the road, a data that cross-checks with the total sale of petroleum products,” the findings read. Carbon monoxide (CO), which is a colourless and odourless gas, is highly toxic and is produced by incomplete combustion of fossil fuels, oil, coal, woods, and natural gas. Scientists said that CO is more harmful than particulate matter, as it has the potential to stay for a longer period in the atmosphere and does not get washed away by rain like PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) and PM 10 (PM with diameter less than 10 micrometres). “Exposure to CO is particularly harmful for the elderly, children and people who are suffering from medical conditions such as heart and lung problems. We have examined the scientific processes responsible for the variability in CO during the Covid-19 lockdown in two of the largest megalopolises of India and the role of transport in influencing its concentration during the lockdown, and to understand the role of biofuel emissions,” said Gufran Beig of System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (Safar) at IITM, who headed the study. Beig added, “The CO data was collected from continuous Air Quality Monitoring Stations (AQMS) under the Safar network.” Another important observation made by the study was the contribution of CO levels in Delhi’s air from neighbouring states. The findings of the study showed that because of the landlocked demography of Delhi and the long lifespan of pollutant, the sources from long-range transport was also adding to the CO levels in the city. “CO has a long life and hence a significant contribution can come by the long-range transport from surrounding regions. The long-range transport of CO in Delhi, whereas wind reversal combined with emissions from slum clusters in Mumbai played a major role during the lockdown period,” the study said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vehicles-unclean-household-fuels-major-contributors-of-co-in-delhi-govt-study-finds-101610555602981.html
13-01-2021||Other||Man alleges stabbing during robbery bid, police suspect a personal fight||An 18-year-old man was stabbed in his stomach, allegedly by two men who were trying to rob him of his phone, near Moolchand Flyover in south Delhi on Sunday evening, prompting the police to register a case of robbery and causing grievous hurt during robbery. However, Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said the probe so far is pointing to the attack being the result of a personal fight, rather than a robbery bid.While the police continue to hunt for the assailants, they could pursue legal action against the injured man and his friend for lying to the police if it eventually turns out to be a case of a personal fight. The injured man, Firoz Ansari, is a resident of Khanpur Extension and works as a painter. The alleged crime happened around 8.30pm on Sunday while he and his friend, Imran Khan, got off a bus at the Lady Shri Ram College bus stop and were walking towards Moolchand Flyover. In his complaint to the police, Khan alleged that while they were walking, Ansari was suddenly dragged to a drain nearby by two men who began beating him up for not handing over his mobile phone. He alleged that when he tried to rescue his friend, the two suspects stabbed Ansari in the stomach and fled. “While I looked around for a vehicle to take my injured friend to a hospital, some policemen passing by rushed him in a police vehicle to Moolchand Hospital from where he was referred to AIIMS,” Khan said. The DCP said the injury to Ansari are not grievous in nature. The police subsequently registered an FIR at Greater Kailash police station. “Our probe reveals that the two men were actually getting high next to a drain near the flyover when they got into a quarrel with some people standing nearby. We are continuing our probe,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-alleges-stabbing-during-robbery-bid-police-suspect-a-personal-fight-101610555543394.html
13-01-2021||Other||MCDs have collected fee, must provide cashless treatment to retired employees, says HC||The Delhi high court on Wednesday criticised the three municipal corporations of Delhi for not providing cashless medical services to their retired employees despite charging a subscription fee from them for the same.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh expressed their disappointment with the three municipal bodies -- south, north and east -- while noting that retired employees of the corporations had pending medical bills. The court asked how a fee could be charged if the corporations do not have a tie-up with the hospitals for cashless treatment.It also queried about the employees not getting their pension for a long time and issued a notice to the three municipal corporations, directing them to file an affidavit with all details in this regard.The court’s order came on a plea by Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, through advocate Ranjit Sharma, which contended that despite retired employees having deposited the premium, the corporations are yet to extend to them the cashless medical facility.During the hearing, the counsel for the petitioner said the retired employees have not got their pension from June 2020. Advocate Namrata Mukim, counsel for East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), said there has been a delay in reimbursing the premiums due to paucity of funds. To this, the court said, “You are taking ₹39,000 as subscription and you are not giving them treatment. You are obligated to provide them the medical facility. There is a legal obligation on your part after taking the money. They are not asking for heaven and sky. It is your responsibility to provide them facilities.”“This is the administrative difficulty with the MCD and hospital. They are not foreigners, they were your employees. You have no option but to give the money,” the court further said.The court also issued notice on the petition and posted the matter for further hearing to January 22.The plea had said during the pandemic, a large number of retired employees who did not receive pension on time had to face extreme hardships in arranging money for their treatment as the hospitals did not provide cashless treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcds-have-collected-fee-must-provide-cashless-treatment-to-retired-employees-says-hc-101610555542949.html
13-01-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 8 deaths and 688 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||On Wednesday, Pune district reported eight deaths due to Covid-19 infection in 24 hours. The district reported 688 fresh cases which took the final total to 3.80 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.56 lakh have recovered, 7,874 have been reported dead and 15,427 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The city reported 328 new cases taking the final toll to 1,94,771 and six deaths took the death toll to 4,445. PCMC reported 152 new cases taking the final toll to 95,221 while one death was reported which took the death toll to 1,292. Pune rural reported 208 new cases which took the final toll to 90,076 while one death was reported which took the death toll to 2,100. The department reported that 3,009 patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.74 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.75%. Also, 3,556 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 19.78 lakh. In addition, 70 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 51,400. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.54%. Of 1,35,62,194 laboratory samples, 19,78,044 have tested positive (14.58%) for Covid-19 until Wednesday. Currently 2,26,599 people are in home quarantine and 2,496 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-8-deaths-and-688-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-101610555003396.html
13-01-2021||Other||HC constitutes fresh panel in medical negligence case||The Delhi high court on Wednesday constituted a fresh committee to look into the alleged medical negligence by a doctor at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, which had resulted in the death of a man in 2016. The court said the earlier decision of the committee was “cryptic” and “did not give any reason” justifying its conclusion.Justice Pratibha M Singh said the erstwhile committee had not followed the protocol and instructions which the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had given after the deceased’s brother, seeking relief, had gone to the CM’s Delhi Durbar. In 2019, Kejriwal had directed an inquiry by a committee, while also directing the videography of the proceedings.“Final inquiry report is quite cryptic and does not discuss the facts nor are they recorded by the committee. Entire report is in one para….,” the court said.“Considering the factual matrix of the case, the committee has not followed the protocol or given any reason to dismiss the complaints,” it said.The court said the pending committee will be set aside and a new committee will be constituted under the chairmanship of Dr Sanjeev Kathuria. The proceedings would be videographed and a speaking order would be given to the petitioner within four months.It said the committee will take written responses from all parties and then give a detailed report to the Delhi government as well as the petitioner.The court’s order comes while hearing a plea by a man filed through advocate Prashant Vaxish stating that his brother (deceased) had a minor chest pain after which he was treated by a doctor on March 28, 2016, treated in the Maharaja Agrasen Hospital. He said the doctor prescribed some medicines and asked him to take rest.He said two days later, the doctor called them multiple times and asked them to come to the hospital, stating that the condition of the patient required immediate action.“The brother of the petitioner died on April 2016 due to the sheer medical negligence and wrong treatment by the doctors at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital,” the plea said.The plea had also contended that the authorities created forged reports and he was charged for tests which were never conducted on his brother. It said while no action was taken, the deceased’s brother had sought help from the CM who had directed the constitution of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-constitutes-fresh-panel-in-medical-negligence-case-101610555002920.html
13-01-2021||Other||Heavy vehicles opting to drive in neutral on bypass highway slope could cause mishaps, says Suhas Chitnis||Pune: The rising number of accidents and fatalities on the Katraj– Dehu road bypass highway has left residents in the neighbourhood to avoid the “deadly” stretch. Suhas Chitnis, Pune project director of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and responsible for the infrastructural work of the bypass highway, shares the steps taken to ensure safe travel on this stretch. What would you say about the accidents taking place on the Katraj–Dehu Road accidents? What steps NHAI is taking to prevent accidents on the highway? We are taking steps to better road infrastructure on this stretch of the bypass highway to prevent accidents. Work is going on of road surface markings, curve paintings. More signage boards will soon be installed at various spots on the highway. So, we are taking all necessary steps to improve the infrastructure on the highway and prevent accidents. I personally have visited the recent accident spots along with the traffic police officials, and we reviewed the stretch and have chalked out steps that need to be done best to prevent mishaps. What is the reason for rising number of accidents taking place on the new Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge chowk stretch? While many blame the highway gradient on this stretch for accidents, it is not the reason. The highway road gradient is built within permissible limits and accordingly other infrastructural safety measures have been taken. It has been observed that heavy vehicles and trucks driving on the slope on neutral gear lead to accidents, as the heavy vehicle goes out of control. Brakes of these vehicles sometimes fail. So, there is a need for more efficient enforcement and action on such vehicles. I appreciate the Pune traffic police department pro-activeness as they have started taking action on vehicles that violate the traffic rules. What would you appeal to commuters passing through the bypass highway? The motorists using the bypass highway should not drive on neutral gear or switch off their vehicles on the slope. It is risky to drive in neutral, check the speed limit and do not risk your life and others who are using the stretch. NHAI is working hard to improve the infrastructure on the highway, but people should also follow traffic rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-vehicles-opting-to-drive-in-neutral-on-bypass-highway-slope-could-cause-mishaps-says-suhas-chitnis-101610554282903.html
13-01-2021||Other||Tom2 2020 traffic index: Pune sees 17 per cent decrease in congestion||Pune: The city saw a decrease of average 17 per cent in congestion, and 26 per cent and 31 per cent average decrease in congestion during morning and evening rush hours respectively in 2020, according to TomTom (TOM2) traffic index for 2020. The leading independent location technology specialist on Wednesday released the report detailing the traffic situation in 2020 in over 400 cities in 57 countries. The report shows that congestion levels in India have fallen due to the pandemic. Apart from Pune, the other three cities from India featured in the index — Mumbai, Bengaluru and New Delhi — saw an average decrease in congestion levels by 12, 20, and 9 per cent respectively. Despite drop in congestion levels, three cities from India featured in the TomTom traffic index’s global top 10 list — Mumbai at second position, Bengaluru at sixth and New Delhi at eighth position. TomTom’s traffic data, which is powered by 600 million connected devices, is an authoritative indicator of people movement, economic activity levels and global trade. Since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, TomTom’s traffic insights have been used by analysts, corporations, and the media to explain a world in flux. Apart from ranking cities from the most to the least congested, the TomTom traffic index report provides data insights into how the global pandemic changed mobility through engaging and interactive visuals. Talking about the index release, Werner van Huyssteen, general manager, India, TomTom said, “Last year, we announced that both global and India congestion levels in 2019 had increased for the ninth consecutive traffic index. In 2020, we saw a vastly different picture. From lockdowns to closed borders, people movement changed – and it changed very fast.” “Although traffic congestion in India was down in 2020, it’s not going to become a trend unless we take action. We might even see traffic levels shoot up again as people get back to work and back into old routines. That’s why now is the time that India’s city planners, policy makers, employers – and drivers – must take stock of what they will do to make the roads less congested in the future.” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tom2-2020-traffic-index-pune-sees-17-per-cent-decrease-in-congestion-101610552602866.html
13-01-2021||Other||Next consignment of Covishield vaccine over next five days||PUNE The next consignment roll out of Covishield vaccine by Oxford-AstraZeneca manufactured at Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune, is likely as the cold chain transport company has been asked to prepare for a major movement over next five days.“We have been asked to be prepared with almost seven trucks leaving from the city every day for the next five days at least. The number may change depending on the order,” said Kunal Agarwal, co-founder, Koolex Cold Chain Solution Pvt Ltd.“We do not get to know the destination of the truck until it is sealed and an invoice is created. There may be delays in the process as we have seen earlier as well,” he said.Pune airport, on Wednesday, witnessed the movement of three more passenger flights which carried the remainder of the boxes of Covishield vaccine as per the work order issued by the Government of India.Through flight and road transport collectively, a total of close to 11 million doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine produced at SII, Pune, were delivered on Tuesday, according to officials of the institute.“What the firm is left with are 9,000 vials, as part of a purchase order placed by Centre,” according to a statement by Serum. These 9,000 vials contain 90,000 doses.“A GoAir flight carried three boxes to Chennai, a SpiceJet flight carried 34 boxes to Delhi, and one Air Asia flight carried 37 boxes from Pune to Jaipur on Wednesday,” said Kuldeep Singh Rishi, director, Pune airport.Furthermore, six trucks left around 10pm from SII and reached Mumbai Central Hub, Silvasa, Surat, Baroda, Jhansi, and Belgaum, along with Mumbai airport. From Mumbai airport, the boxes further went to Goa, Lucknow, Chandigarh, and Kochin, on Wednesday morning.The vaccines were delivered to Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Shillong, Vijaywada, Guwahati, Bhubaneswar, by air. Of the nine flights which carry the load from Pune, eight left in the morning while one left in the evening in six-passenger and two cargo flights.The vials were carried to the airport in three trucks that left Serum at 5am. Two trucks belonged to SII while one belonged to a company to which the major road transport has been outsourced.The trucks in the company’s fleet are of various sizes - ten feet containers which can carry around 40 boxes, 14 feet which can carry 60 boxes, 20 feet containers which can carry 120-130 boxes, 24 feet containers which can carry 200 boxes and 28 feet container which can carry around 250 and 32 feet containers which can carry 400 boxes, according to Agarwal.“The company, on behalf of SII, is currently catering to 48 government depots across the country,” he added.“Later in the evening, six more trucks left from Serum for Mumbai city, Mumbai airport, Surat, Baroda, Jhansi, and Belgaum,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/next-consignment-of-covishield-vaccine-over-next-five-days-101610552183269.html
13-01-2021||Other||City transports over 10 million Covid vaccine doses across country within 24 hrs||PUNE At 4:55 am, after performing a symbolic “puja”, a truckload of Covishield vaccine doses left Serum Institute of India’s Hadapsar unit on Tuesday. This was the first of many trucks that would send out about 10.10 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine across the country. By 10 am, more than five million doses of the vaccine were dispatched to various corners of the country. The transport, by trucks to airport and other locations, was in coordination with Pune-based transporter Kool-Ex Cold Chain Ltd transporter and traffic and police departments. Pune authorities, along with the Centre and the state, carried out a mammoth task on Tuesday when close to 11 million doses were sent via road and air to various locations, including as far as northeast regions, in less than 24 hours. The authorities successfully carried out the challenge of supplying perishable vaccines in the shortest possible time with the help of multiple agencies to various places across the country. A senior official from Serum Institute of India requesting anonymity said, “We at Serum Institute are used to supplying close to 6.1 billion doses across the world for the past six years. We have even transported large number of doses in short span of time like in the case of measles, mumps and rubella when school children aged 9-5 years had to be vaccinated. “During the past nine months since we began the production of Covishield, there have been certain departments, including fermentation, where employees were working round the clock in three shifts all seven days. We were fully prepared and only awaiting information on date and timing of transport. “We had to choose early morning for transport because of the scheduled flight timings as the first flight left at 8 am. As soon as the purchase order was finalised, we contacted the cold van transporter and we have our own fleet of cold vans. Prior to the dispatch, everyone was sensitised by the central government which ensured smooth transportation of the vaccine. Once the last truck left the premises on Tuesday, it was a sense of price and fulfilment, a fruitful result of the efforts we invested since the past nine to ten months. No Covid-19 case was reported from our premises even as we were working in full scale even during the strict lockdown phase.” The official said, “As of Tuesday morning, all the 11 million doses, as per the purchase order from the government, except 90 vials which is 90,000 doses are pending. These are reserved for Lakshadweep and the five states in the northeast. While doses for Lakshadweep are arranged, the quota for northeast states will be leaving Wednesday. Help from the aviation ministry is appreciated. By Wednesday, all 11 million doses would be transported.” Pune police played a pivotal role in the transportation and escort of cold vans carrying the doses from the institute to the airport. Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone-5, said, “We provided escort to trucks till the airport and city-limits from Tuesday morning till late night. We found that morning time is good for smooth traffic. It appears that now there is no need for police escort as routine movements have begun. Therefore, unless the company asks for it, we will not be accompanying the vehicles.” Senior airport authorities were conspicuous by their absence when the trucks reached the airport for unloading around 5:30am. The vials from trucks were received by cargo officials of the four airlines. Information of the transport of doses from the airport to other locations could not be properly gathered because of the absence of senior airport officials flow from the staff to the media personnel was also apparent. “There is a small cold storage facility at the Pune airport too. The boxes are kept there if not loaded onto the flights directly,” said Kunal Agarwal, co-founder of Kool-Ex Cold Chain Ltd which provided road transport support to Serum institute. After the early morning movement of trucks to airport, the cargo movement started at night and between 9:30 and 10 pm around seven trucks left the city for nearby states, including Gujarat and Karnataka. Seven trucks left the city for various destinations, including Surat, Baroda, Belgaum, Jhansi, Silvassa, Mumbai airport and Mumbai city between 9:30 and 10 pm. 74 boxes of vaccine transported on Wednesday The vaccine transportation continued on Wednesday as over 74 boxes with Covishield vaccine left for other cities. According to a SpiceJet spokesperson, on January 13, 34 boxes were sent to Delhi. A GoAir flight with three boxes left for Chennai from Pune with Covishield and another Air Asia flight left from Pune to Jaipur with 37 boxes. Indigo also shipped doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, from Hyderabad to the city via flight number 6E 6516.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-transports-over-10-million-covid-vaccine-doses-across-country-within-24-hrs-101610552182860.html
13-01-2021||Other||Residents avoid Katraj–Dehu road bypass highway for fear of accidents||Pune: The series of accidents and fatalities on the Katraj–Dehu road bypass highway has left the residents in the neighbourhood to avoid the deadly stretch — the highway and its service roads — to travel. They are now taking long routes to travel to their workplace and other destinations. Three persons died in a recent accident near the Navale bridge on the slope where two trucks collided with each other. In another accident, a speeding truck hit a police vehicle on this stretch. Several accidents have been reported on the Katraj to Navale bridge chowk and New Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge chowk stretch. It has become a “death stretch” leaving those who use these roads to avoid the service roads and the highway. “It is a regular thing for us to see damaged vehicles or hear news of fatality on the highway. The accidents cause traffic jams. The residents of our residential society are shocked by the recent accidents involving trucks. We have decided to avoid taking the stretch. Instead, we now travel from Dattanagar chowk road and Satara road to our workplace and for other purposes. While this route is longer by around 2 to 3 kms, it is better to get late or drive a longer distance than risking our lives,” said Nimish Choudhary, resident of a housing society in Ambegaon Budruk located near the highway. Residents of Narhe, Dhayari, Vadgaon Budruk and Warje areas have also started avoiding the bypass highway to travel. “I use the highway to travel to my office. Sometimes, my six-year-old daughter also rides with me on the bike on this stretch. I had slipped on the highway during the rainy season a couple of years ago, but it was not a major accident. Since the last few months, I have been purposely avoiding the highway because of the increasing number of accidents on this stretch,” said Kamna Bhate, a resident of Narhe area. Resident groups have been demanding separate lanes on service roads for regular traffic and ban on heavy vehicles during peak hours. Ramesh Vidhate, secretary of Sinhagad Road Residents Forum, said, “Many citizens from our area travel through the bypass highway on bikes and cars for work, towards Hinjewadi, Chinchwad or other connecting places as it is convenient and saves time. With many mishaps on this stretch being reported and people losing their lives on the highway, we have demanded separate lanes should be kept on the service road for two-wheelers and heavy vehicles should not be allowed to pass during peak hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-avoid-katraj-dehu-road-bypass-highway-for-fear-of-accidents-101610551702720.html
13-01-2021||Other||2 held at Chennai airport with gold in paste form concealed in rectum: Official||Customs department sleuths seized gold, i-phones, cigarettes and liquor worth ₹85 lakh at the airport in Chennai and arrested two persons in this connection, a senior official said on Wednesday.Customs officials recovered the gold which was in paste form concealed in the rectum of two passengers who arrived from Sharjah today.They also recovered gold cut bits and chains concealed in the pant pockets of the two passengers, a release from the Commissioner of Customs Rajan Chowdhry said.As many as 44 cartons of cigarettes, 11 i- phones, eight laptops and eight liquor bottles were also seized from them.The value of the seized goods was estimated at ₹85 lakh and the two were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-held-at-chennai-airport-with-gold-in-paste-form-concealed-in-rectum-official-101610550589081.html
13-01-2021||Pune||PMC seeks list of items purchased for Covid centres, present status of equipment||The Pune Municipal Corporation has sought a report regarding the present status of materials purchased during the Covid-19 pandemic. In the initial phase of the pandemic, the civic body created institutional quarantine centres, Covid care centres and dedicated health centres which had a lot of equipment too. Currently, most of them are either closed or only partially functioning and hence, the equipment is lying unused.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Jagtap, said, “As most of the Covid-19 care centres have closed, the equipment purchased for it like bedsheets, beds, fans, TV sets, electrical equipment and buckets, among other items all are lying unused. I have instructed all the departments concerned to submit the present status of these materials to the store department.”Jagtap said, “After getting the report, the PMC can chalk out a plan for its reuse. I have even instructed the store department to undertake its maintenance till it is reused.”PMC store department head Sunil Indalkar, said, “The additional commissioner has given instructions to all the departments and ward offices to submit a list of items purchased during Covid-19 pandemic and their present status. We are waiting for the lists from all the departments.”Electrical department head Srinivas Kandul, said, “Our department has prepared the list of the materials purchased during the Covid-19 pandemic. We installed TV sets, fans, water purifiers and lighting systems at the temporary Covid care centres. The list will be submitted to the store department soon.”PMC had purchased more than 80,000 bedsheets, thousands of buckets for toilets and other daily essential items for these Covid centres.Indalkar said, “We can reuse many of these items. Bedsheets can be used for PMC-owned hospitals and other materials can be reused at other PMC offices. Once the list is finalised, we will chalk out a plan.”Civic activist Vijay Kumbhar, said, “The PMC should have ideally done this work much before. I am doubtful that all the material is at right place as at many places in the state it has been stolen. PMC must make a proper list and publish it on its website. It is the duty of the officials to reuse it immediately at other places instead of keeping it idle.”Opposition party leader in PMC Deepali Dhumal, said, “The material which was used during Covid-19 should be reused. Municipal commissioner and the administration took a call on purchasing this material. It is their responsibility to ensure that it remains in good condition and is utilised at proper places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-seeks-list-of-items-purchased-for-covid-centres-present-status-of-equipment-101610550082690.html
13-01-2021||Other||Rear view mirror violations: Pune police fine 6,248 two-wheeler riders, collect ₹12, 49,600 fine in 13 days||Pune: The city traffic police from the beginning of this month have intensified its action against residents found riding or driving without rear view mirrors. As per the traffic police authorities, challans have been issued against 6,248 vehicles and ₹12, 49,600 fine has been collected between January 1 and January 13. As per Sections 5 and 7 of the Central Motor Vehicles Act, all vehicles should have rear view mirrors. There is a fine of ₹200 for rear view mirror violation, according to the traffic police. “This is a not a special drive against violators of the rule. We are identifying such violators just like other violations of traffic rules. The move is only to ensure traffic discipline and reduce accidents. A majority of riders are unaware that riding without mirrors is a violation of traffic rules,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) for the city’s traffic division. “The number of two-wheelers in the city has increased and so is the figure of road mishaps involving two-wheelers. People should be made aware about road safety,” Shrirame said. Experts think that the human behavioural patterns behind such violations should be examined and road safety awareness campaign should be done from school level. “I have observed that many people think mirrors are not necessary while driving in the city. Some feel that a vehicle without mirrors looks stylish. Such tendencies lead to carelessness,” said Tanmay Pendse, a road safety activist. “Mirrors are essential as they improve visibility of road and judgment of the driver. It is also essential that the proper angle of mirrors is maintained,” said Pendse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rear-view-mirror-violations-pune-police-fine-6-248-two-wheeler-riders-collect-rs-12-49-600-fine-in-13-days-101610549962631.html
13-01-2021||Other||On eve of Lohri, inspiring daughters honoured in Dhuri||SANGRUR The festival of Lohri celebrates achievement and brings warmth as people bond around a bonfire. To honour this spirit and to celebrate daughters of the state, 12 women, whose life has the power to inspire others were presented the ‘Dhee Punjab Di’ award by Malwa Friends Welfare Society, an NGO, at Dhuri on the eve of Lohri, on Tuesday. Dhuri SDM Latif Ahmed, DSP Paramjeet Singh and writer Om Parkash Gaso attended the function. Krishna Devi, 45, of Bathinda is a mason, who worked as a labourer, before separating from her husband. “I am running my business of construction work independently. My son is in ITI,” said Devi.Kusum, 15, fought two bike-borne men, who tried to snatch her phone in Jalandhar in September 2020, was also honoured. She suffered a wrist injury in the incident and the accused were later arrested. Amandeep Kaur, 14, of Longowal village in Sangrur was in the van, which caught fire in Longowal and claimed four lives (a boy and three girls (of 3-6 years) who were burnt alive in February 2020. Amandeep smashed the windowpanes of the bus and rescued herself and four other children.Manpreet Kaur, 27, of Theri Shahpur near Moonak was attacked by an auto-rickshaw driver with a screw driver, when she was pursuing a Masters degree in Patiala in 2013. The driver had tried to rob her and assaulted her when she resisted. She remained in hospital for a year, but survived. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh also honoured her for her tenacity. “We should not give up, fight for our dreams and conquer our fears. I am now working as a teacher in Mohali,” said Manpreet Kaur. Shinder Kaur, of Changali Wala village near Lehra of Sangrur, grows vegetables on 1.5 acre panchayat land with nine other women of the village in a cooperative model. The organically grown vegetables are sold to passersby. Devi Dayal, a government school teacher and one of the organisers, said they have honoured 12 women from the state, including girls, for bravery, skills, culture and sporting achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/on-eve-of-lohri-inspiring-daughters-honoured-in-dhuri-101610546782488.html
13-01-2021||Kolkata||Fire breaks out at a slum in Kolkata's Baghbazar area, 20 fire tenders rushed to the spot||A fire broke out at a slum located in Kolkata's Baghbazar area on Wednesday, according to news agency. As many as 20 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. No casualties have been reported so far. Police officials said that the blaze engulfed several houses in the slum on Kshirode Vidyavinode Avenue beside the Bagbazar Women's College near Chitpore Lock Gate Bridge. "The reason for the fire is not known. The firemen are fighting it tooth and nail and hopefully, it will soon be under control," a senior officer of the Kolkata Police was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Meanwhile, the slum dwellers had alleged that the tenders arrived late. They furtwent on to stage an agitation on the main road and also stopped the media from moving towards the slum. This is the second fire incident reported in the capital city of West Bengal today. Earlier, a fire broke out at a go-down in the Manicktala area with five fire tenders rushed to the spot. Police said that there were no casualties or injuries due to the mishap adding that the fire was extinguished in an hour. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/fire-breaks-out-at-a-colony-in-kolkata-s-baghbazar-area-101610546400283.html
13-01-2021||Other||Paid leave for PMC staff admitted to de-addiction centres||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will give paid leave to employees admitted into de-addiction centres and will also bear the cost of treatment. The PMC’s women and child development committee signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Muktangan deaddiction centre, outlining the same. Committee president Madhuri Sahastrabuddhe said, “With the help of Muktangan, PMC is organising six workshops for employees for de-addiction. The committee already passed the resolution to give paid leave and bear the cost of treatment for de-addiction.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and Mukangan director Mukta Puntambekar were present at the first workshop held on Wednesday. The addiction ratio is high among class four employees, mainly from the solid waste management and sewage departments.Sahastrabuddhe said, “Due to addiction, employees and their families suffer. It even creates health issues. So the committee decided to execute the programme with the Muktangan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paid-leave-for-pmc-staff-admitted-to-de-addiction-centres-101610546422456.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport delivers 2,72,400 doses of Covishield vaccine to 22 cities||The Mumbai airport on Wednesday said it is facilitating the delivery of about 2,72,400 doses of the Covishield vaccine to 22 domestic destinations on the first of commencement of flights carrying Covid-19 vaccines from the city.Earlier in the day, the country's second busiest airport commenced transportation of the vaccines with low-cost carrier GoAir's first flight to Goa.This came a day after a massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 was set in process with more than 56 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across the country.The vaccinations are scheduled to begin on January 16.As part of the momentous mission, CSMIA will facilitate the distribution of a total of 227 boxes containing about 2,72,400 doses of the vaccine, the private airport operator said in a statement on Wednesday.These shipments are being carried out by SpiceJet, IndiGo, GoAir and Vistara. These will be delivered to Goa, Bagdogra, Rajkot, Ranchi, Imphal, Agartala, Cochin, Bhopal, Kanpur, Jammu, Srinagar, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Gorakhpur, Raipur, Dehradun, Varanasi, Indore, Trivandrum and Jabalpur, it said.The first vaccine shipment departed from the airport at 5:20 am to Goa through GoAir carrying two boxes of the vaccine, followed by a flight to Rajkot at 6:00 am, which carried seven boxes of the vaccines and was operated by SpiceJet, CSMIA said.The Mumbai airport has facilities such as Asia's largest temperature-controlled export pharma excellence centre and pharma-dedicated import cold zone, and a first-of-its-kind 'cooltainer' facility, it said.Additionally, it has an exclusive station dealing with storage and maintenance of both e-type, and t-type active containers that help facilitate the seamless distribution of vaccines across India.The airport has placed a well-defined process for the faster turnaround of Covid-19 vaccine EXIM and transhipment movements, CSMIA said.It added that the standard operating procedures (SOPs) implemented by the airport in anticipation of the vaccine distribution saw the terminal register a cargo processing time of just seven minutes, right from goods acceptance to dispatch at ramp, it added.Besides, the airport has deployed a dedicated Covid-19 task force in order to reduce dwell time and facilitate advanced planning and collaboration between the airport and all stakeholders in this process, said the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-delivers-2-72-400-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-to-22-cities-101610545542804.html
13-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan receives 20,000 doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin||Rajasthan on Wednesday received 20,000 doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Narottam Sharma said.He said about 4.5 lakh doses of Covishield by Serum Institute of India, Pune will arrive in the state on Wednesday evening.Sharma said the vaccine would be first administered to 80,000 healthcare workers.He said 238 centres have been identified in Jaipur for vaccination.Soon after getting instructions from the government, vaccines will be sent to these centres.He said the doses have been kept at two to eight degrees Celsius temperature at a state-level vaccine store here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-receives-20-000-doses-of-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-101610545197502.html
13-01-2021||Kolkata||Deputy Election Commissioner oversees poll preparedness in Bengal||Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain on Wednesday held discussions with district officials of West Bengal to review the preparedness for the Assembly polls, due in April-May.Jain, who is on a two-day visit to Bengal, interacted with senior police officials of Kolkata Police, district magistrates (DMs) and superintendents of police (SPs) of central and southern parts of the state in the first half of the day, a senior official at the CEO's office said.In the second half, Jain met the DMs and SPs of north Bengal districts, he said.Jain is scheduled to meet Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Home Secretary HK Dwivedi and Director General of Police (DGP) Virendra on Thursday, the official said."Though it is not yet scheduled, Jain may also meet representatives of different political parties on Thursday," the official said. This is Jain's second visit to West Bengal to take stock of the preparations for the Assembly elections. A team of the poll panel, led by Jain, had visited West Bengal last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/deputy-election-commissioner-oversees-poll-preparedness-in-bengal-101610544804697.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu: Maharashtra sees 238 bird deaths, higher than Tuesday; toll nearing 2,100||The animal husbandry department of Maharashtra said that 238 bird deaths were reported in the state on Wednesday adding that the samples have been sent for testing. “Total 2,096 bird deaths reported in the state from 8 January till now,” the department said. Wednesday’s toll is higher than that of Tuesday, when 218 bird deaths were added to the state's toll of which 200 were from Yavatmal, 11 from Amravati and seven from Akola, according to an official quoted by new agency PTI. Avian influenza has been confirmed in Parbhani, Mumbai, Thane, Beed and Dapoli districts till now.Amid the increasing spread of the virus, Maharashtra’s animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar had said on Tuesday that the state government was on alert in order to deal with any situation in the coming days. He added that culling had begun in the Parbhani district after bird flu was identified as the reason for the death of nearly 800 hens over the past few days at a poultry farm there.Also Read| Bird flu scare: Uttar Pradesh bans import of birds, poultry till January 24“We had a meeting with chief minister with all the district collectors. The forest department and animal husbandry departments are working together with the district administration. We are having a close watch on all the development in this regard,” the minister said while speaking to reporters.Earlier, 4,000 birds were culled in Latur with the district administration issuing a prohibitory order which stopped the transportation of poultry products, birds, animal feed and manure. Vehicles have also been banned from entering the bird-flu hit areas in the district. The order further added that entrance and the premises of the affected poultry should be disinfected with Potassium Permanganate or Sodium Hydroxide.Also Read| Delhi: NDMC bans sale, storage of poultry or processed chicken due to bird fluMeanwhile, Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar ordered the forest department to pay attention towards wetland areas for migration of birds in the district. “Seven rapid response teams have been deployed in the district and a control room has been activated to monitor the bird flu situation,” the collector had said on Tuesday. He added that stringent action would be taken against those who circulated fake news about the virus and urged residents to not pay heed to any such misinformation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-maha-sees-238-bird-deaths-higher-than-yesterday-toll-nearing-2100-101610541839430.html
13-01-2021||Other||Covid-19 vaccine for general public in Maharashtra after 6 months||Even as the state received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield on Tuesday, the authorities expect the first two phases of vaccination, which will cover around 25 lakh healthcare and frontline workers, to be completed by the end of March, after which the third and largest phase of the vulnerable group is expected to begin. The general population is expected to get the dose after it, which means the wait for them ranges between three and six months. Of the three crore people to be inoculated across the country in the two phases, 25 lakh, including eight lakh healthcare workers, will be from Maharashtra. The state machinery expects the first round for healthcare workers to be completed by the end of January and the second round for frontline workers to begin in the first week of February. “The data of the healthcare workers is being registered by Tuesday midnight, while the registration of frontline workers will be completed by the midnight of January 25. With around 40,000-50,000 people being vaccinated daily, the first lot of health workers is expected to be completed in two weeks. The immunisation of the first two phases is expected to be completed by early March,” said an official from the health department, on condition of anonymity. The official said the third phase, in which the vulnerable population of comorbid people and those over 50 years is being covered, may take longer, as it will have more than 2.5 crore people in Maharashtra. “Decisions on the cost of the vaccine for the third phase, timeline for the vaccine to people outside the prioritised groups are to be taken by the Centre. Once 60% of the vaccination in the first two phases is completed, the Centre would take a call on the drive for the third phase. The Centre expects more vaccines to throng the market and clinical trials for some of the vaccines to be completed. The Centre also expects commercial sale of the vaccine by then, reducing the demand for inoculation from the public healthcare chain,” the official said. “The Central government has adopted a step-by-step approach on vaccination. The three phases are covering most vulnerable groups currently and the availability for the common population will be decided in next three to six months. It all depends on multiple factors, including clinical trials, availability of the vaccines, supply, among others. Currently, the approvals are for emergency use of the vaccines and they are expected to be available for commercial use only after the general approval to them,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, leading endocrinologist and member of the state-appointed task force for vaccination. The state government has its own chain of 3,135 cold chain systems, including one at state level, nine at divisional levels, 34 in districts and 27 in municipal corporations. “The transportation of the vaccine will be handled by outsourced agencies, which are empanelled for the vaccination drive undertaken by the state government for years,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccine-for-general-public-in-maharashtra-after-6-months-101610542283531.html
13-01-2021||Other||Father Mundu tasked with upkeep of British-era cemetery in Ambala||Almost two months after the Hindustan Times reported on the battle for possession of the British-era European Christian Cemetery in Ambala Cantonment between two parties, the administration finally handed over the keys to father Patras Mundu and father C Anthony on Tuesday.The British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh, had last month in an official order given the maintenance and upkeep rights of the cemetery to Mundu and Anthony with its office at Holy Redeemer Church.The cemetery was handed over on the orders of the sub-divisional magistrate of Ambala Cantonment, Mamta Sharma, after which a duty magistrate was appointed, who in the presence of Ambala police broke the old locks whose keys were with bishop Shaukatt Masih Bhatti of Alexandra Road. The gates were locked again using new chains with the keys with Mundu, who is the secretary and treasurer of the committee.‘We served two notices to bishop’Sharma said, “We served two notices to the other party (bishop Bhatti) to hand over the keys, but they didn’t respond. They even said that they would hand over the keys, but later they went untraceable. Today, we forcefully took the cemetery under our custody and handed it over to the first party (Mundu) as per the decision of the British High Commission.”After the decision, Mundu said, “We will start the maintenance and repair work of the boundary wall from tomorrow. We will take up the cleaning work and repairing of the graves in a phased manner.”Anthony said, “For the last couple of years, he (bishop Bhatti) started claiming that he is the owner of the cemetery. On the pretext of cleaning the burial ground, he took the keys and never returned. Some graves had been damaged by a demolition machine while he was cleaning the land to sell it.”Cemetery lay in dilapidated conditionBecause of the dispute, the cemetery could not be cleaned and was in a state of neglect, and the place was covered with long wild grass, some spots inundated by sewer water, gamblers and drug addicts, with its historical importance forgotten.The HT had reported thrice on the sorry state of affairs of over 2 lakh graves spread across 20.54 acres of land, including those of around 66 World War I (1914-1918) soldiers, 20 Anglo-Boer War (1899-1902) prisoners who fought in South Africa and those of Britons dating back to pre-independence.Teams from Commonwealth War Graves (CWGC), British High Commission, and Haryana Archaeology department had visited the site several times. The place is also a state-protected site where illegal encroachments have come up along the boundary wall that were inspected by an official from the archaeology department in November.Former Union tourism minister and Rajya Sabha MP from Kerala KJ Alphons had in November written to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and principal secretary to the state government (archaeology and museums department) Ashok Khemka highlighting the “obstruction” created by Bhatti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/father-mundu-tasked-with-upkeep-of-british-era-cemetery-in-ambala-101610542043055.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, hospital births fall by 18% in Mumbai||At 3am on May 12, 2020, Ishita Koli, a resident of a 170 sq ft chawl in South Mumbai’s Bhendi Bazaar, went into labour and started to bleed. With all nearby nursing homes closed, Sunil Mohan, her 32-year-old husband decided to rush her to Prince Aly Khan hospital, less than three km away in Mazagaon. But due to the lockdown, they could not find a vehicle to take here there. “We tried calling an ambulance, but they told us that we’d have to wait for more than an hour. Private taxis were also unavailable. By 5am, my wife’s condition had deteriorated, so we decided to take the help of a midwife,” Mohan said. By 7am, the Kolis were parents to a healthy baby whom they named Rekha, delivered by a retired auxiliary nurse midwife. Around the city, women like Ishita were forced to deliver at home on account of the lockdown and lack of access to medical facilities. Not everyone was as lucky as Ishita, who suffered blood loss and managed to get treatment at Cama Hospital (though it took five hours to find a cab that agreed to ferry her for over four times the normal fare). According to data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), institutional deliveries dropped by almost 18% between March and November 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. The number of childbirths registered in public and private hospitals between March and November 2019 stood at 111,411. During the same period in 2020, this dropped to 91,618; the lowest institutional child deliveries in March and April. “By March, thousands of women had gotten pregnant. Their deliveries were scheduled over the next nine months till November. The drop in hospital deliveries therefore doesn’t indicate a fall in the pregnancy rate during the pandemic,” said Dr Jaideep Malhotra, president, Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India. Medical experts and doctors point towards two major reasons behind the drop in the registration of institutional deliveries in these nine months— rise in home births and mass migration during the lockdown when thousands of people lost their jobs. Lakhs of people lost their jobs at the start of the lockdown, leading to a mass exodus of daily wage earners from Mumbai, which had, by mid-May, turned into an epicenter of the Covid-19 disease. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, sexual and reproductive health and rights took a back seat. Overnight, as a precautionary measure, tertiary care hospitals were converted into dedicated Covid care centres. During an emergency, when pregnant women were rushed to the hospital for delivery, they were referred to another hospital. In the initial stages of the pandemic, there was too much confusion among the public,” said Subarna Ghosh, co-founder, ReRight Foundation, a non-government organisation (NGO) that works for safe child births. Health experts discourage home births because it can lead to complications and fatality. Doctors said that even though midwives are experienced in internal examination and vaginal deliveries, they may not possess the expertise — or, indeed, access to medical equipment — to deal with complications like blood pressure fluctuations, obstructed labour, and resuscitation among others. “Home deliveries involve extended labour hours and prolonged internal examination which may increase the chances of septic foetus. Rushing to the hospital after a failed home delivery may invite further risk to the life of mother and baby. Most hospitals like us ensure complete isolation from Covid-19 patients and staffers. So, it is recommended to choose deliveries in hospitals rather than homes,” said Dr Gayatri Deshpande, senior consultant, obstetrics and gynaecology, Nanavati Hospital, Vile Parle. But during the pandemic, as the city came to a standstill, this was not an option for pregnant women. Society for Nutrition Education and Health Action (Sneha), an NGO that works on public health issues conducted a survey among 436 women (during their pregnancy and postpartum period) between April and August. Their findings revealed that institutional deliveries during the pandemic varied from place to place depending on the availability of healthcare facilities. “We saw that areas with better accessibility to hospitals have recorded almost 100% institutional deliveries. Whereas, the number dropped to 75-65% in areas with fewer medical facilities,” said chief executive officer Vanessa D’Souza. During the initial days of the pandemic when families lacked knowledge about Covid and non-Covid hospitals, the NGO received several calls seeking guidance. “We then procured a list of hospitals across Mumbai with bifurcations, and started guiding callers to their nearest hospitals for deliveries.” Taking note of the safety of pregnant women, BMC did not convert civic-run maternity hospitals into Covid centres. In addition to lack of facilities, many pregnant women avoided giving birth at hospitals due to fear of contracting the virus. “Though there were no reports of vertical transmission of the virus from mothers to the new-borns during delivery, pregnant women were still worried of contracting the virus in hospitals. Thus, they opted for home births with the help of experienced women or midwives,” said Malhotra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-hospital-births-fall-by-18-in-mumbai-101610541742884.html
13-01-2021||Patna||Nothing like a government in Bihar, no expectations from the administration: RJD||Bihar's main opposition party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) reacted sharply to the murder of Indigo's airport manager Rupesh Kumar in Patna on Wednesday.Talking to ANI, RJD MP Manoj Jha said that the Government has no shame and this is the real state of affairs in Bihar."You repeatedly ask questions about the law and order situation in Bihar, again and again, and we keep saying that there is no such thing as shame in this government. The earlier Deputy CM, who is now sitting in Delhi, bowed before the criminals," said Jha."In Bihar law and order is not a priority for the head and deputy head. They cannot even say two words of condolence in the midst of a barrage of bullets to control criminals. What can be expected of them? What can be expected from the law and order machinery?" he asked.Speaking about the role of Governor, Jha said, "Just think about how people are living in different parts of Bihar in such a situation. Governors are very active in different states, a message should be sent to the Center by the Governor about Bihar."Referring to the rule of RJD being termed as 'Jungle Raj' by the ruling JD(U)-BJP, Jha said, "Those who remind us of the previous Jungle Raj are not looking in the mirror today. Aren't they aware of the reality? What is this? Jungle Raj is a very small metaphor. There is still some system in a forest, there is complete anarachy here.""It should be noted that Rupesh Kumar Singh, a manager with IndiGo Airlines deployed at the Patna Airport was shot dead by criminals outside his residence. Miscreants fired six rounds at him. Rupesh Kumar was returning home when the incident took place." Jha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nothing-like-a-government-in-bihar-no-expectations-from-the-administration-rjd-101610538137998.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||At makeshift Singhu border gurudwara, protesters honour those who died||The farmers' protest at the borders of the national capital against the Centre's farm laws entered its 49th day on Wednesday amid biting cold weather across the region.A temporary Gurudwara has been set up at the Singhu border, where the farmers are protesting. According to Charanjeet Singh, a member of the Gurudwara, the Gurudwara has been set up for six days and many people are coming to pray for the souls who lost their lives during the protest."We are doing an 'Akhand path' (ritual worship) to honor the souls of the people who have died. This will be set up for about six days so that people can continue to pray. We want to honour not just those farmers who died here, but also across Maharashtra, UP and other states," Singh told ANI.At Coimbatore, farmers from Pollachi in Coimbatore celebrated Bhogi Pongal by burning copies of the farm laws.Largely celebrated in the states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana, Bhogi marks the beginning of the four-day Pongal festival in which useless household articles are put in a bonfire.Meanwhile, a group of men protesting at the Tikri (Delhi-Haryana) border were seen raising slogans without their shirts, braving the cold weather condition prevailing over this part of the country.They raised slogans of 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan', and 'Sadda haq, aithe rakh,' (It's our right, keep it here), and held up signboards saying 'No farmers, no food'.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of three farm laws and asked the committee formed by it concerning the three farm laws to submit its report within two months.The court said the first sitting of the committee, formed to listen to the grievances of farmers and views of the government, should be held within 10 days.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-makeshift-singhu-border-gurudwara-protesters-honour-those-who-died-101610530692928.html
13-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan reels under bitter cold, near-freezing temperature in Ganganagar||Intense cold conditions prevailed in parts of Rajasthan, where Ganganagar was recorded as the coldest place at 0.2 degree Celsius, the Meteorological Department here said on Wednesday.Sikar, Bhilwara, Churu, Pilani, Chittorgarh and Ajmer recorded their respective lows of 1.5, 1.8, 2.2, 2.9, 3.5 and 4.8 degrees Celsius, while the day temperature at other places was between 5 and 9 degrees Celsius, the MeT department said.The department has predicted cold wave to severe cold wave conditions in Alwar, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Jhunjhunu and Sikar districts for the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-reels-under-bitter-cold-near-freezing-temperature-in-ganganagar-101610530286175.html
13-01-2021||Kolkata||No e-passes needed in Kolkata Metro from Monday, weekday services to increase||Passengers will not be required to book e-passes for riding the Kolkata Metro from January 18, an official said here on Wednesday.The metro will also increase the frequency of its weekday services on the North-South Line from 228 to 240, the official said."No e-passes will be required for anyone," Kolkata Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said.The city's metro railway services resumed from September 14 after remaining closed for several months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic-related lockdown.E-passes had been made mandatory for boarding the metro trains after the resumption of services. It had been relaxed gradually with exemptions for specific age categories in pre-fixed time slots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/no-e-passes-needed-in-kolkata-metro-from-monday-weekday-services-to-increase-101610532808254.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC bans sale, storage of poultry or processed chicken due to bird flu||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) on Wednesday banned the sale, storage of poultry or processed chicken due to the bird flu outbreak in areas which fall under its jurisdiction. The Delhi government had earlier imposed a ban on the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the national capital after testing samples of crows and ducks had confirmed the virus.“All meat and poultry shops and meat processing units in areas under the NDMC, are prohibited to sell, store poultry or processed or packaged chicken meat with immediate effect, till further orders,” an order issued by the civic body stated.The order also added that owners of restaurants and hotels would face action if egg-based or poultry-based or other such products were served to customers.Also Read| Bird flu scare: Uttar Pradesh bans import of birds, poultry till January 24“All meat and poultry shops and meat processing units in areas under the NDMC, are prohibited to sell, store poultry or processed or packaged chicken meat with immediate effect, till further orders,” it said.Apart from the NDMC order, the Delhi government too issued an advisory and urged people to not panic and consume poultry-based products cooked at high temperatures.“H5N8 is highly pathogenic in birds but the pathogenicity in humans as well as the likelihood of human infection with avian influenza (AH5N8) virus is low,” the advisory issued by the directorate general of health services (DGHS) of Delhi had said.The advisory added that people should only consume eggs and other poultry products after they have been cooked at 70 degrees for half an hour. “Do not consume half-cooked chicken or bird or half-boiled and half-fried eggs,” it said.People were also cautioned to not touch dead birds with naked hands and contact the control room at (23890318) instead if any bird was found dead. The advisory also pointed out that raw meat should not be kept near cooked meat and one should wash hands frequently while handling raw meat. “Take due care of personal hygiene and maintain cleanliness in surroundings,” it said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bird-flu-sale-storage-of-poultry-or-processed-chicken-banned-in-delhi-101610532049188.html
13-01-2021||Other||Words written on the wind||Lahore never left the minds and hearts of people who were forced to leave it with the drawing of the Radcliffe Line with the Partition of 1947. So was the case with Anuradha Kumar Jain, who grew up hearing the Lahore lore from her extended family for whom it had been home.Older to this writer by a decade or more, this is how one grew up listening to the tales of grandeur of the capital of undivided Punjab that was once hailed as the ‘Paris of the East’.It was the cosmopolitan cultural capital where people of different faiths, caste and creed co-existed in harmony. It was the city of poets, writers, artists, actors and singers who built their lives the Sufi way, humming the verses of Lahore’s patron Sufi poet Shah Hussain.What makes Anuradha’s novel ‘Written on the Wind’ singular is that it captures the times that perhaps seem to belong to some fairytale. Equally significant is her way of weaving the stories of women of those times, more so those who came of age in the period of India’s freedom struggle.Thus the telling tales are of two girls who blossom into youth in this coveted city. One protagonist is Harjeet from a landlord Sikh family married to a lawyer of an elite Hindu family searching for her dreams of passion with a Muslim lover. While the second protagonist is Amiya, born out of wedlock to a Brahmin girl and a British army officer, who rejected and scorned, struggles to become a writer. Amiya finds support from a warm and liberal Parsi family living in Lahore.“I grew up listening to legends of Lahore from my large extended family which was a merry mix of Hindus and Sikhs. The Lahore lore that I was raised on lived with me and finally took the shape of this novel even though geography and not literature was my subject of higher studies,” says Anuradha.Well, this is perhaps the reason for her etching out so beautifully the social geography of the city where the drama of human relationships is played out. The glimpses of cultural life and vignettes of freedom struggle with martyr Bhagat Singh’s trial as a point of reference enhances the narrative.The author has done copious research and one waits for more stories from her in times to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/words-written-on-the-wind-101610531782353.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Don't panic, eat poultry product cooked at high temp: Delhi govt advisory||The Delhi Health Department on Wednesday issued an advisory in view of bird flu cases in the city, asking people not to panic and follow a set of dos and don'ts, including not consuming half-cooked chicken, half-boiled or half-fried eggs.Several ducks at Sanjay Lake and a large number of crows across various city parks have been found dead in the last one week.The revenue department has deployed teams of volunteers at the city's borders to prevent unauthorised entry of livestock, and canned and processed chicken from outside.The advisory issued by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) of Delhi on Wednesday stated, "H5N8 is highly pathogenic in birds but the pathogenicity in humans as well as the likelihood of human infection with avian influenza (AH5N8) virus is low."The health department, while issuing the dos and don'ts, asked people to observe precaution and not panic."Avoid contact and prevent exposure from sick-looking sluggish chicken. Avoid direct contact with bird secretions and droppings," the advisory states, adding that bowls used for feeding birds, and their cages should be washed properly with soap or detergent.All slaughter waste must be disposed of properly, the DGHS authorities said.The advisory also cautioned people to not touch dead birds with naked hands. If any bird is found dead, control room should be informed at phone number 23890318."Eat only completely cooked eggs and poultry products cooked at 70 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes. Do not consume half-cooked chicken or bird or half-boiled and half-fried eggs," the advisory said.Do not keep raw poultry meat near cooked meat. Wash hands frequently at the time of handling raw poultry products. Take due care of personal hygiene and maintain cleanliness in surrounding, it cautioned.Reports of over 50 bird deaths were received on a helpline of the Delhi government's animal husbandry unit, and 18 samples from different parts of the city were sent for avian flu testing on Tuesday, officials had said.Testing of samples of crows and ducks had confirmed bird flu cases in the national capital on Monday, prompting the city government to impose a ban on sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city.The Ghazipur poultry market has also also closed by authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-panic-eat-poultry-product-cooked-at-high-temp-delhi-govt-advisory-101610531063271.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhandara fire: Guv to give ₹2 lakh each to kin of deceased infants||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday announced an assistance of ₹2 lakh each to the families of 10 infants who died in the fire at Bhandara district hospital last week.As many as 10 infants were killed and seven rescued from the fire that erupted at a sick newborn care unit of the Bhandara District Hospital in the early hours of January 9.During a visit to the hospital on Wednesday, the governor said the fire incident was hurtful, and directed the authorities to take appropriate measures to prevent such accidents in the future, a release stated.Koshyari also visited the ward where the seven rescued babies were kept and met their mothers, the release said.The governor announced an assistance of ₹2 lakh each from his discretionary grant to the families of 10 infants who lost their lives in the incident, it was stated.The governor was accompanied by Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Nana Patole, Bhandara MP Sunil Mendhe and other officials for the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhandara-fire-guv-to-give-rs-2-lakh-each-to-kin-of-deceased-infants-101610529988130.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt will provide free Covid vaccine if Centre doesn't: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said he has appealed to the Central government that Covid-19 vaccination should be provided free of cost to all, adding the Delhi government would do it if Centre does not."I request everyone to not spread misinformation about Covid vaccine. I had appealed to Central government that Covid vaccination should be provided free of cost to all. If Centre does not do it and a need arises, the vaccine will be provided for free to people of Delhi," Kejriwal said.Kejriwal was on a visit to the family of Dr Hitesh Gupta who lost his life in the line of Covid-19 duty."We had started a scheme to encourage corona warriors and under it, I have come to provide help of ₹1 cr to the family. His wife is educated and we will recruit her in Delhi government," he said.India's tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 10,495,147 on Wednesday after the Union health ministry reported that the country had logged a total of 15,968 new infections in the preceding 24 hours. 17,817 new recoveries took the total number of recovered cases to 10,129,111, the ministry's dashboard showed.There were 202 new deaths in the last 24 hours, the dashboard showed, taking the death toll to 151,529. Active cases, meanwhile, slumped by 2,051 and are at 214,507, as per the data. Recovered cases, active cases and deaths contribute 96.49%, 2.07% and 1.44% respectively of the country's total cases.This comes at a time when pan-India vaccination delivery is taking place, with the world's largest immunisation drive scheduled to begin on January 16.On Tuesday, day one of the vaccine delivery, a total of 5.65 million vaccine doses were transported from Pune to various cities in the country, including Delhi. In his virtual interaction with chief ministers of Monday, prime minister Narendra Modi had said a total of 30 million frontline workers would be vaccinated first, with total 300 million citizens to be vaccinated in the next few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-will-provide-free-covid-vaccine-if-centre-doesn-t-arvind-kejriwal-101610525708650.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Decision on Mumbai locals' resumption for all likely today: All you need to know||The Maharashtra government is likely to decide today on reopening Mumbai’s local train services to the general public as officials have confirmed that the matter would be taken up for discussion in the state cabinet. An official from the Railways department said, “We are currently operating local train services... We do not have any problem and are waiting for the state government directive regarding permitting the general public. A decision on the permission is expected soon.”After its initial shutdown in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the suburban train services have been partially resumed, allowing only essential workers and some sections of people to travel in them.Also read: Local train services likely to resume for public in MumbaiHere is all you need to know about the timeline for resumption of the local trains in Mumbai -1. Considered to be the ‘lifeline of Mumbai’ for its coverage and vast number of people transported, local services in Mumbai came to a grinding halt after a country-wide lockdown was imposed in India in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 disease.2. On June 15, 2020, services resumed partially, only for essential service providers, with close to 300 trains being run on all lines. Strict social-distancing norms were enforced for travel.3. After gradual reduction in Covid-19 cases in the city, women were allowed in local trains in October 2020. However, travel time was restricted from 11am to 3pm and from 7pm until the final train.4. Also, lawyers were allowed to avail the local train services in October but weren’t allowed to board the trains during peak hours in the morning and evening. However, practicing lawyers and clerks were allowed to take the trains only in December 2020.5. The services were thrown open by the Maharashtra government to all teachers and non teaching staff in November 2020.Since December 2020, authorities have hinted at the services being resumed completely for all general public. However, no decision has been announced yet. Maharashtra has been the most affected state by Covid-19 in India, in terms of number of cases reported and fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/decision-on-mumbai-locals-resumption-for-all-likely-today-all-you-need-to-know-101610524476043.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Amid power outages, rural Maharashtra looks for alternatives||With only a few days left for the mass immunisation process against Covid-19, health activists and social workers have raised concerns about the frequent occurrences of load shedding in rural Maharashtra. However, state authorities claimed that they are finding alternatives to ensure uninterrupted power supply to vaccine centres.“Maintaining the cold chain of the vaccine will be a real struggle for authorities. To reach the grass-root level, the health department has to rely on primary health centres. However, many don’t have reliable electricity supply,” said health activist Dr Abhijit More.During the vaccination process, the health department will rely heavily on electronics for data maintenance on the Co-WIN app to get the details of the beneficiaries. “It’s quite impressive that the government has developed a centralised system to maintain all the data, but they will need uninterrupted flow of electricity to charge the electronics,” said Sudhir Tupe from Lokkalyan Charitable Trust, a non-governmental organisation in Satara.While replying to a question asked by Lok Sabha member Janardan Singh Sigriwal on the floor of the house on November 22, 2019, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan shared data of the infrastructure of the primary health centres (PHC) across the country. According to the data, Maharashtra has 1,823 functional PHCs, of which, 1.9% (35) centres did not have electricity. The data also showed that 19% of the centres did not have computers, and almost 32% centres are without telephones.District health officers (DHOs) however, said they are taking several steps to ensure electricity supply is not affected. “We have directed the power board to ensure uninterrupted flow of electricity at the vaccination centres. We also installed additional generators in case of power outage for long hours. To ensure the generators run for long, we have kept extra petrol ready,” said Dr GG Paraghe, district health officer, Latur.Districts such as Gadchiroli are keeping their solar power system ready as an alternative in case of an electricity crisis. “Recently, we serviced the whole system and have kept it on stand-by,” said Dr SC Shanbharkar, DHO, Gadchiroli.Health officials believe power outages are unlikely to be a problem as the vaccine freezers can maintain the required temperature for a maximum of 72 hours without electricity. “All rural and district hospitals have the infrastructure to preserve the vaccines. So we won’t have a problem even if there are power cuts,” said state immunisation officer Dr D Patil.“Unlike Pfizer, which requires a minus 70 degree Celsius storage facility, both the vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) can be stored in 2-8 degree Celsius. All rural and district hospitals have the infrastructure to preserve the vaccines which are being used under the immunisation programme for years. So, we won't have a problem even if some hospitals face power cuts,” said state immunisation officer Dr D Patil.District health officials said they will formulate further plans once the immunisation programme reaches the second level, where primary health centres will be included as vaccination points.“As the drive reaches the second stage where the number of beneficiaries will be larger, we will formulate more detailed plans to address the issue of power shortages focusing on the PHCs. We will mostly hold a meeting next week over the issue,” said Dr Ajay Dahale, DHO, Wardha.The state health department has been working for months to channelise the vaccination process in the state. In the first phase, around 7.72 lakh healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activists) and anganwadi workers will be vaccinated at rural and district hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-power-outages-rural-maharashtra-looks-for-alternatives-101610518507293.html
13-01-2021||Employment||Vacancy at the top in several Bihar varsities||Several universities in Bihar have once again slipped under ad hoc arrangement at the top. There are at least five universities, which don’t have regular vice chancellors for months, while another will have vacancy in the next couple of months.Aryabhatt Knowledge University (AKU), set up in 2010 to regulate all technical institutions by bringing them under one umbrella, has been without a regular VC since September 20, 2020, when the term of Arun Kumar Agarwal ended. Since then, AKU Pro-VC Syed Mohammad Karim has been holding the additional charge of VC by the order of Governor-cum-Chancellor Phagu Chouhan.The Raj Bhawan had invited applications for the appointment of full-fledged VC at the AKU before the Assembly election, but the process is likely to be delayed. According to sources, the application might be invited afresh for the post of VC. The screening committee meeting was also cancelled. The term of the present P-VC is will also end in the next four months and that vacancy may also be advertised soon.Bihar Agriculture University (BAU), Sabour is also set to slip under ad hoc arrangement after the term of its VC Dr Ajoy Kumar Singh ends on January 14. Dr Ravindra Kumar Sohane, director, extension education, BAU has been asked by the Chancellor to perform the duty of the VC in addition to his own duty from January 15 till further orders.Two universities in Patna are also under additional charge. Following the resignation of Pataliputra University VC Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal earlier this month, the additional charge was handed over to the Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga VC Surendra Pratap Singh. Pataliputra University does not have a Pro-VC.In Nalanda Open University, BRA Bihar University (Muzaffarpur) VC Hanuman Prasad Pandey was handed over the additional charge following the resignation of former VC HN Prasad in November. Though NOU has a full-fledged P-VC, he was not given the charge.In September last year, Purnea University VC Rajesh Singh had also resigned to assume his assignment as VC in Gorakhpur (UP), while the VC of TM Bhagalpur University, Neelima Gupta, did not join and ad hoc arrangement was later made there. TNB College (Bhagalpur) principal Sanjay Kumar Choudhary was made the acting VC in November, but only for carrying out routine matters.He has been directed by the Chancellor not to take any policy decisions, including convening of meetings of selection committee or promotion committee, senate, syndicate or academic council meetings, process related to recruitment and matters having financial implications. TMBU has been under additional charge for nearly a year.Munger University VC RK Verma has also been restrained from taking any policy decisions by the Raj Bhawan, as his tenure is also nearing end.A senior official of the Raj Bhawan said that the applications had been invited for short listing the candidates through the search committee. “Some VCs have resigned, some have completed their terms while the term of one VC will end in a couple of months. The process is on for new incumbents,” he added.Days ahead of Election Commission notification for Bihar assembly election, the Governor had appointed six vice chancellors and eight Pro-VCs in the state universities.“Ad hocism is the bane of institutions of higher learning in Bihar and unfortunately it has become a pattern. It was after the Supreme Court intervention that the provision of search committee for appointment of VCs and P-VCs was made in the state, but the system is yet to properly evolve. Ad hocism at the top hampers the institutions,” said former head, department of economics, Prof NK Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/competitive-exams/upsc-civil-services-pt-exam-2021-heading-for-stiff-competition-this-year-101610510044661.html
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana meets 2020 sex-ratio target in pandemic year: Data||Haryana managed to largely meet its sex-ratio at birth (SRB) targets in 2020 despite the Covid-19 pandemic posing challenges to the government’s flagship programmes to encourage women’s education and stop female foeticide, showed official data released on Tuesday.Data showed that SRB, a critical indicator of gender equality, stood at 922 female births per 1,000 males in 2020, only slightly lower than 923 registered in 2019, which was also the highest figure recorded in a decade.SRB numbers have steadily improved in the state, from 833 in 2011 to 876 in 2015, 900 in 2016, 914 in 2017 and 923 in 2019. A total 537,996 births were registered in 2020 which included 279,869 male births and 258,127 female births.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who monitors the government’s flagship Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao programme, said Haryana registering 922 SRB was an outstanding achievement in view of the limitations Covid-19 had posed.He also set the set a target of 935+ SRB in 2021.According to Rakesh Gupta, nodal officer of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, government teams cracked down hard on the touts offering sex-selection facilities.“The state government started an informer incentive scheme wherein a reward of one lakh was given to the informer providing information about the sex determination in any part of the state, which helped in exposing the gangs of criminals involved in this crime,” Gupta said. As many as 100 FIRs were registered in 2020 as compared to 77 during 2019.Sirsa district led the state with an SRB of 949, while Karnal slipped to 900. In 2019 Sirsa’s SRB was 920 and that of Karnal was 908.In 2020, Panchkula and Nuh were tied at the second spot with an SRB of 939, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad both recorded 938, Panipat 935, Sonepat 932, Ambala 931, Yamunanagar 928, Kaithal and Hisar 922, Gurugram and Rewari 921, Bhiwani 920, Faridabad 915, Rohtak 912, Palwal 910, Jind 904, Mahendragarh 902, Karnal 900, Jhajjar 892 and Charkhi Dadri 891.At least 10 districts such as Sirsa, Nuh, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Sonepat, Kaithal, Gurugram, Rewari, Bhiwani, and Rohtak improved their SRB in comparison to 2019. The SRB of rest of the districts decreased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-meets-2020-sex-ratio-target-in-pandemic-year-data-101610501704093.html
13-01-2021||Patna||IndiGo's Patna airport manager shot dead||IndiGo's airport manager in Patna was shot dead by unidentified gunmen outside his home on Tuesday evening, said aviation industry sources.The airline confirmed the incident and said it is "extremely saddened by the demise of our Patna airport manager"."Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones. We are in contact with his family and providing them our full support, while cooperating with the relevant authorities in the ongoing investigation," it added in its statement.The aviation industry sources said Rupesh Singh was shot multiple times outside his home in Patna when he returned from his duty on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/indigos-patna-airport-manager-shot-dead-101610498775701.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers say copies of new laws will be burnt on Lohri||On Tuesday, farmers protesting at Delhi borders were seen preparing for festival of Lohri, which will be celebrated on Wednesday.“Lohri marks the beginning of the new harvest season. We pray for the good harvest by burning bonfires and singing songs and dancing around it. This year, we will be singing the songs of resistance by burning copies of the three new laws.” said Gurpreet Kaur, 58, a farmer from Tarn Taran, protesting at the Singhu border.Several farmers said their family members are also travelling to Delhi on Wednesday to celebrate Lohri with them. Devinder Singh, a member of the main stage committee at Singhu, said, “My parents asked me if I was coming home for Lohri. When I told them that I can’t come in the middle of the agitation, they decided to join me here. Parents and family members of many other protesters are arriving in Delhi on Wednesday to celebrate the festival.”Farmer leaders also said that their ongoing agitation is not going to conclude on Republic Day. “There are many rumours about our January 26 plan. There have been attempts to propagate false propaganda that farmers will gherao Parliament or take over the Red Fort on Republic Day. Our programme will be very peaceful. We will announce the complete plan after January 15. We want to request farmers coming from parts of the country to participate in the January 26 plan to remain peaceful. We will never tolerate violence and any irresponsible behaviour,” Rajewal said.The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered 48th day on Tuesday.Farmer unions on Tuesday rejected the committee formed by the Supreme Court to resolve the stand-off over the three farm laws and termed it as a “proxy committee” of the government. The apex court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of three new contentious farm laws and constituted a four-member committee to hear all objections and report to the court.The farmer unions said they will not hold any discussion with the committee and alleged that all the four-members of the committee are pro-reforms. Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border on Tuesday evening, Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rajewal, said, “All the four members of the committee have been openly justifying the three new farm laws. How can we expect them to take a rational stand on the matter? We had been saying that the farm unions will not accept any committee, forget about a committee like this… We never went to the Supreme Court demanding a committee. It’s the government who was trying to form a committee through the court.”Jagmohan Singh, secretary of BKU (Dakaunda), said farmers will reject any committee even if its members are changed.“The idea behind setting up committees is to divert the attention of people from the real issues. The government is trying to end our movement. We want to tell the government that this is an indefinite movement and we will not go anywhere till the three new farm laws are repealed.”“The committee has been constituted to find out the drawbacks in the three laws. We don’t want to know that. We want to complete the revocation of these laws. The Supreme Court can help us by taking suo moto cognisance and repealing these laws. We do not want any committee. We want to negotiate with the government,” said another farmer leader Raminder Singh Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-say-copies-of-new-laws-will-be-burnt-on-lohri-101610494951176.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Icy winds from Himalayas make Delhi shiver at 4.3°C||Icy winds that made the winter seem more frigid than it actually was, made residents of northwest India, including the capital, shiver in bitter cold on Tuesday, and the weather is expected to worsen over at least the next three days, the Regional Meteorological Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The minimum temperature in Delhi fell to 4.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The air quality also deteriorated marginally and is likely to get worse in the coming days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.On Tuesday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 4.3 degree Celsius, three degrees below the season’s normal. The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 17.6 degree Celsius, which was also two degrees lower than the normal for this time of the year.IMD scientists said the so-called feels-like temperature may be 2 degrees Celsius lower than the actual temperature recorded because of cold winds blowing in from the Himalayas at 15 to 25 kmph.“There is uplifted fog and cloud cover in many parts of NW India because of which the day temperatures are falling, nights are also very cold. This is because an intense western disturbance has passed on January 8 and northwesterly winds are blowing from the direction of the snow-clad Himalayas,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.IMD scientists said that while at the Safdarjung observatory “cold wave-like” conditions were observed on Tuesday, the minimum temperature over the coming few days is expected to remain around 4 degree Celsius.Even after the impact of two back-to-back western disturbances, the temperatures over Delhi have been above the season’s normal in the last 10 days.“After the western disturbance passed over Delhi, the wind direction changed to north-westerly,” said Srivastava.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that on Tuesday, the overall air quality index of Delhi was 293, in the ‘poor’ zone. This was a marginal deterioration from Monday’s 243.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), that the ventilation condition will worsen and wind speeds will drop from Wednesday afternoon.“The AQI is likely to slip in the ‘poor’ to the lower end of ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/icy-winds-from-himalayas-make-delhi-shiver-at-43c-101610493761999.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Healthy and young to get the shot first||Younger healthcare workers without comorbidities will be the first to receive the shots against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on January 16, when the nationwide roll-out of the inoculation drive begins, several officials from Delhi involved in the process confirmed on Tuesday, requesting anonymity.Those between 20 and 49 years without comorbidities have to be selected in the list of 100 beneficiaries for each of the 89 centres that will kick-start the vaccination drive in Delhi, according to a communication from the state team to the district administrations.The districts have also been asked to focus on vaccinating safai karmacharis, ambulance staff, and ward boys in addition to the doctors and nurses, the district officials said.“This will help us monitor and better manage adverse reactions, if any. We have to put our best foot forward and instill confidence among people in the vaccines,” said a senior official from the South-West district.A senior official from New Delhi district said: “As a matter of utmost precaution, we will be selecting young and healthy volunteers for the first few days of the vaccination drive.”Senior North and West districts officials confirmed this.“All districts are currently conducting a sort of internal dry run to see everything runs smooth on the CoWIN platform on Saturday. The list of beneficiaries who will be vaccinated on that day will be finalised tomorrow,” said a senior official from Central district, refrying to the app that will facilitate the drive.Delhi has nearly 300,000 health care workers– doctors, nurses, paramedics, safai karmacharis, security personnel, and administrative personnel in health care facilities – who will receive the vaccine first.An estimated 600,000 frontline workers and 4.2 million people above the age of 50 will follow. The government is yet to prepare a list of those below 50 with comorbidities who will be eligible for the vaccine.The Delhi government did not respond to queries.So far, the city has received 264,000 doses of Covishield -- Indian variation of Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India.Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a member of the state task force on Covid-19 vaccination, said: “The hospitals will focus on staff other than the doctors and nurses, with many ward boys and other staff receiving the shot on the first day. The beneficiary list is yet to be finalised, but the decision to select young and healthy people is in line with the Centre’s mandate that those with co-morbidities receive the vaccine a little later.”She added: “The compliance is likely to be better among the younger people. Also, it is the young doctors, nurses and staff – those below the age of 50 – who have been working in the Covid-19 wards and it is important to protect them first.” She said a vaccination rate – those who actually get the vaccine among those identified as beneficiaries -- of 75% to 80% would be considered a success.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “The chances of any adverse event happening or the adverse event being dangerous is lower among the young and healthy people for vaccines in general. This could be the rationale behind selecting such beneficiaries early on.”He added: “In case of this vaccine, the decision could also have been based on the safety data that has been provided by the companies to the drug controller. The current analysis of safety is based on those between the ages of 18 and 50 and even though older volunteers have been included in the phase III trials, the sub-group analysis of the data is awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/healthy-and-young-to-get-the-shot-first-101610492291259.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Shots in store, Delhi set for vaccine roll-out||Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in east Delhi’s Tahirpur received 264,000 doses of Covishield -- the Indian variation of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) – as India on Tuesday began the massive task of transporting the Covid-19 vaccine to all parts of the country ahead of the January 16 start of the immunisation drive against the coronavirus disease.In Delhi, the vaccination drive will be launched at 89 centres – which are part of the 5,000 sites approved by the Centre across the country – with healthcare workers being the first ones to get the jab. In Delhi, the drive is scheduled to be formally launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at Lok Nayak hospital, a senior government official said.“Delhi is fully prepared and all preparations are in place,” said Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain.The 89 locations approved so far include – 49 private hospitals and 40 public healthcare facilities. They include hospitals such as Lok Nayak, AIIMS, BLK Super Speciality Hospital, Sir Gangaram Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Fortis, Indraprastha Apollo, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality (Cancer), Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality (Tahirpur), ILBS, Venkateshwar Hospital (Dwarka), Madan Mohan Malviya (Malviya Nagar), Moolchand Hospital and St Stephen’s Hospital.Preparations at the 89 selected vaccination locations were on a full swing on Tuesday, with district officials taking note of any last-minute requirements. “We, the district officials, are just going to the sites and taking note of any last-minute additions or logistics that needs to be taken care of,” said a second government official.On the first day, one booth or vaccination site each will be there at 89 centres. However, over the next week, the government has planned to increase the total number of booths to at least 225, by setting up multiple vaccination sites in some of the locations, said a senior government official.The official added, “We have set up teams that have assessed the 89 vaccination locations. Several of them are capable of accommodating more than one vaccination site.”The teams have so far identified several hospitals that include Lok Nayak and AIIMS as locations that can have three or more vaccination sites, said the official. “At each site, there has to be space not only for vaccination but also for verification of candidates, and rooms where they can rest while being monitored for at least 30 minutes after taking the shot,” he said.Each booth will administer a maximum of 100 vaccine shots a day and run by six to eight staff.A health department official said, “There are 621 functional cold chain points. Each cold chain point will be connected to four to five vaccination sites. This means, most of the big hospitals will have more than one vaccination sites as they would need to quickly vaccinate all their own staff, before moving on to others from smaller centres,” said a health department official.With time, the government aims to increase both vaccination locations and vaccination sites. “We had sent a list of more than 600 locations, of which 89 have been approved by the central government so far. In the coming days, more locations are likely to get approved. Eventually, we have plans to increase vaccinations sites to 1,000 in several phases,” the official added.On Tuesday morning, 22 boxes containing 1,200 vials each of the vaccine was brought to Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital’s utility block that has been retrofitted with 90 deep freezers which can store 4.1 million doses of the vaccine. “Each of the vials contains ten doses of the vaccine. So far, Delhi has received 264,000 vaccine doses that will be almost enough for the healthcare workers in the city,” said another senior government official.“There are three levels of security that will be in place – first there are CCTV cameras installed within and outside the building, second there are hospital guards stationed at the vaccine store round the clock, and police personnel deployed outside the store,” said Dr Chavvi Gupta, spokesperson for the hospital.The Delhi has pegged the number of healthcare workers at 300,000, of which around 225,000 have already been registered. The government has planned to finish giving them the vaccine shots by the end of this month, said another official.Next in line would be frontline workers – a wide range of people including police, teachers, sanitation, and civil defence volunteers. Their total number has been estimated at 600,000 and registration process for them is underway.The third category that would include people aged over 50 years and those with serious comorbidities irrespective of age. The government has roughly pegged the number at 4.2 million for these categories taken together but, senior officials said, it is likely to witness increase. Registration for this category is yet to begin.While the government has prepared a draft list of people over 50 years through electoral data, those with comorbidities are yet to be identified, the official said.“We are committed to ensuring that the vaccination goes smoothly for people who are vaccinated as well as officials and workers involved in the process,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and advisor to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shots-in-store-delhi-set-for-vaccine-rollout-101610491814388.html
13-01-2021||Other||Attack on Mumbai Police cop: Main accused on the run, 2 minors let off after warning||Two out of the three persons who allegedly assaulted a constable from Powai police station outside a mall at Hiranandani Gardens on Monday afternoon in a road rage incident are minors. They were let off after a warning after their parents reached Powai police station on Monday night, said senior inspector Vijay Dalvi.According to the Powai police, the main accused, identified as Deepu Tiwari, is a youth wing member of the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) and a resident of Vikhroli. He is on the run. “We are on the look for him who assaulted constable Nitin Khairmode with rods and a steel bangle he was wearing around his wrist,” said Dalvi, adding that Khairmode sustained internal injuries in the attack and a deep cut on his lip, but his condition was stable. Police officers investigating the case said the Tiwari and the two minors were riding triple seat on a motorcycle and rammed into a car which was being driven by a doctor. The trio started arguing with the doctor who confronted them about breaking traffic rules, said the police. Khairmode, who was on patrolling duty, intervened in the fight. As he was about to cuff the accused and make them sit in a rickshaw to take them to the police station, Tiwari allegedly hit him with the handcuffs and the steel bangle and leaving Khairmode injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/attack-on-mumbai-police-cop-main-accused-on-the-run-2-minors-let-off-after-warning-101610482099110.html
13-01-2021||Other||Owner of south Mumbai’s Muchchad Panwala held in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Ramkumar Tiwari, one of the owners of city’s famous paan vendor Muchchad Panwala, on Tuesday morning after 500 grams of curated marijuana was allegedly found at his warehouse. NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the development. Tiwari was later produced in the court and remanded to judicial custody. His name cropped up after NCB questioned British national Karan Sejnani, who was arrested for allegedly storing around 195kg of marijuana at his home. NCB officers said that Sejnani had provided Tiwari with curated marijuana, by claiming stating that it was a herbal product. After arresting Sejnani, the NCB officers also raided the home of two sisters, Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala, and seized 5kg of marijuana and arrested them. A local court has remanded Sejnani and Furniturewala to NCB’s custody till Wednesay, while Shaista is out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/owner-of-south-mumbai-s-muchchad-panwala-held-in-drugs-case-101610481439084.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu: 200 more birds found dead in Maharashtra; tally touches 1,839 in 5 days||With a growing number of bird deaths being reported in Maharashtra, the risk of avian influenza, or bird flu, spreading across the state is also rising. On Tuesday, over 200 birds were found dead in the state, taking the tally of dead birds to 1,839 in the past five days.As of Monday, confirmed cases of bird flu cases have been recorded in Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Beed, Parbhani and Latur districts.Late on Tuesday evening, Bhandara district in Vidarbha region reported the death of poultry birds. State animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh said the exact number of deaths is yet to be ascertained, but if the number was large, the administration would not wait for official confirmation from ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal, the nodal body for testing bird flu cases. Instead, the local administration would treat the deaths as sign of a bird flu outbreak by enforcing a containment plan.“If the number of deaths is in large numbers at one location then it means it is a case of bird flu. Confirmation from the laboratory in such cases is just a formality because bird flu is virulent and thus, we have decided to immediately impose a containment plan in the concerned area, except culling of birds. We start culling only in case of laboratory confirmation,” said the commissioner.On Friday, over 200 chickens died in Yavatmal district of Vidarbha while 11 and three birds died in Amravati and Akola districts respectively. Akola has also reported the death of four crows in the past 24 hours. However, the state has not received any new reports of confirmed cases of bird flu from NIHSAD.Singh clarified that the state has not imposed any ban on supply, sale and purchase of poultry birds in Maharashtra. As a precautionary measure, sale and purchase of poultry birds is suspended only in a 10-kilometre radius from confirmed bird flu cases. The commissioner said the Centre is not in favour of enforcing a ban because it believes this would cause panic rather than serving any practical purpose.Following a confirmation of the H variant of avian influenza from Pune’s Western Regional Disease Diagnostic laboratory (WRDDL) in samples collected from Latur, the local administration started culling poultry birds and enacting other preventive measures in the district. The Centre has authorized the state government to impose a containment plan in case WRDDL finds the H variant of bird flu in order to contain the infection at the earliest. According to guidelines issued by the Central government, in case of confirmed cases of bird flu, the local administration must cull poultry birds within a one-km radius of the particular poultry farm where bird deaths due to avian influenza have been found. A surveillance zone must be set up in a 10-km radius within which no birds may be sold or purchased. The particular village where the affected poultry farm is situated will be declared a prohibited area, which means no one can enter or exit its boundaries. A medical team will be set up to carry out examinations of locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-200-more-birds-found-dead-in-maharashtra-tally-touches-1-839-in-5-days-101610481199288.html
13-01-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt likely to decide on starting Mumbai locals for all citizens today||The state cabinet is likely to take a decision over allowing all commuters to travel by local trains during non-peak hours on Wednesday, officials said. The state government has been planning to allow restricted entry to all commuters between 10pm and 7am. Railway officials said they have not received any directions from the state government so far on allowing all the passengers. “We have not received any directions from the higher authorities yet. Passengers will be allowed to commute by local trains only after directives from the Maharashtra government and approval by the railway ministry,” said a senior railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-likely-to-decide-on-starting-mumbai-locals-for-all-citizens-today-101610480779069.html
13-01-2021||Other||Nallasopara man tries to pass off wife’s murder as suicide, arrested||Dattaram Kashiram Tambe, 24, has been arrested by Tulinj police for allegedly murdering his wife, Diya, 28, on Sunday and lying to the police that the victim had died by suicide. Tambe worked at a private firm in Mumbai and had married Diya in December 2020, and they stayed at Ambedkarnagar -Alkapuri, Nallasopara (East). The couple would fight over trivial issues, said Shahuraj Ranaware, assistant inspector, Tulinj police station.“On Sunday, around 4am, Tambe and Diya got into a fight following which Diya went to sleep. Tambe then allegedly used a nylon rope to strangle her to death. He later informed police that Diya had died by suicide and we registered a case of accidental death. We sent the body for a post-mortem,” said Ranaware.However, the interim post-mortem report revealed that the cause of death was strangulation of the victim. During questioning, Tambe confessed to murdering his wife, and he was arrested for murder based on a complaint by his brother-in-law Yogesh Nawle, 34, who suspected foul play in the death of his sister. The Vasai court on Monday remanded Tambe in police custody for five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nallasopara-man-tries-to-pass-off-wife-s-murder-as-suicide-arrested-101610480720421.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||At 35.3°C, Mumbai sees hottest January day of 2021||With mercury touching 35.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the city recorded its hottest January day, so far this year. The maximum temperature has already crossed last year’s highest maximum temperature in January of 34.5 degrees Celsius. The maximum the temperature at Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius, which was 5.1 degrees above normal. This was higher than Monday’s 34.5 degrees Celsius. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 32.8 degrees Celsius, which was 3.3 degrees above normal. Minimum temperatures, too, remained high on Tuesday, albeit slightly lower than Monday’s record high. Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 22.5 degrees Celsius, a good 5.6 degrees above normal and 0.5 degrees below Monday’s temperature. At Colaba, the minimum temperature was 23.4 degrees Celsius, only 0.1 degrees below Monday’s record and 5.4 degrees above normal. “Usually, cold wave in the state and city is because of the cold wind coming in from north India. This year, however, there is a change in wind patterns. Warm easterly winds from Telangana and Tamil Nadu are causing temperatures to rise,” said a senior official from IMD, western region. Meanwhile, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), with days becoming hotter, pollution levels have dipped further. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator— of 218 was measured on Tuesday. Although the air quality remains in the poor category, it has improved from Monday’s 256 and Sunday’s 301 (very poor). Navi Mumbai recorded the poorest air of the 10 locations with an AQI of 319 (very poor). This was followed by Colaba with an AQI of 306, also very poor. At Bandra Kurla Complex, an AQI of 300 was measured. “The air quality of Mumbai is in the poor category which is likely to further improve marginally by Wednesday. However, it may continue to remain in the poor category and desired relief is not expected for the next three days due to calm wind and relatively colder conditions,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-35-3-c-mumbai-sees-hottest-january-day-of-2021-101610480719463.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Churchgate station to undergo ₹2.4 crore repair work||The Western Railway (WR) has decided to undertake strengthening and improvement work of the Churchgate suburban railway station building at a cost of ₹2.4 crore.Structural repairs to the external part of the building, along with waterproofing and weatherproofing will be done. Repair of the external plasters of the station building and internal structures will also be undertaken.Improvement of the building facade and strengthening work is likely to be completed by October 2021.“Audit of the building structure was conducted, and minor strengthening and improvement work was being undertaken since long. However, now major exterior work to the building structure and minor structural improvements to the internal portion of the building will be done,” said a senior WR official. WR undertook a structural audit along with a third-party audit of the Churchgate station building in 2019 after six aluminium panels placed outside the building on the east facade fell, resulting in the death of a passenger.The six aluminium panels, which were part of the Mahatma Gandhi mural, fell on a 63-year-old commuter after strong winds and rainfall owing to Cyclone Vayu lashed the city in 2019.Three commuters were also injured in the incident. The panels were placed on the station building in 2012 and had a mural of Mahatma Gandhi painted by Brazilian artist Eduardo Kobra, under a corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/churchgate-station-to-undergo-2-4-crore-repair-work-101610480540078.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||23-year-old Mumbai man gets 10 years rigorous imprisonment for eloping with minor niece||The special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court on Monday sentenced a 23-year-old man to 10 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) for eloping and committing aggravated sexual assault on his 16-year-old niece. The girl in her testimony had admitted that the two were in a relationship. While convicting the accused the court pointed out that despite being her maternal uncle, instead of counselling the victim and talking with her parents, he eloped with her. The court hence convicted him for kidnapping and rape, observing, “He had sexual relations with the victim on more than one occasion and therefore he has committed aggravated sexual assault.” The court has also imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on the accused, of which ₹15,000 is to be paid to the victim’s family as compensation. As per the prosecution’s case, the mother of the girl alleged that on September 23, 2016, the 16-year-old was upset after being scolded for waking up late. The girl later went to college but did not return home. Her phone too was switched off. The family filed a missing person complaint on September 24, 2016. During the probe, the mother disclosed that the accused and the girl were in a relationship and the accused is a maternal uncle of the girl. After this, police started looking for the two and they were found them staying together in Pune. The victim in her statement claimed that they had eloped in Pune and were staying as a married couple. The victim claimed that after leaving from home, she went to Bandra Bandstand and called the accused. She told him that she was under a lot of pressure because of her studies and did not want to continue her education. She further deposed that she asked the accused to take her to Pune where they could settle down. She claimed that they stayed in Pune for almost a month after getting married. “The accused is the maternal uncle of the victim. He has taken undue advantage of the disturbed mental state of the victim. He kidnapped her and took her to Pune where he committed penetrative sexual assault upon her, knowing fully well that she was minor and that he was her maternal uncle. The marriage between the accused and the victim is prohibited as per the Hindu Marriage Act,” the prosecution argued in court. The defence argued that the victim has categorically deposed that she left the house on her own and that she was in a romantic relationship with the accused. “There were consensual sexual relations between them. The victim has further deposed that she had completed 18 years of age at the time of marriage to the accused,” said the accused’s lawyer. The prosecution, however, proved that the girl was 16-years, 11-months-old at the time of the marriage. The court accepted the prosecution’s case and found the accused guilty of kidnapping and sexually assaulting the minor girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/23yearold-mumbai-man-gets-10-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-eloping-with-minor-niece-101610480358888.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Cut down Class 10 syllabus by 50%, principals urge state board||With schools in the city still operating online, several principals have urged the state board to cut down the syllabus of Class 10 students by a total of 50%, in light of the Covid-19 outbreak and resultant lockdown. This year, the state education department announced a 25% reduction in the syllabus for state board students of Classes 1 to 12. The decision will be applicable for the current academic year 2020-21 and has been taken considering the loss of teaching hours as physical schools are yet to reopen due to the pandemic. In a letter addressed to the board, the Brihanmumbai Association of Heads of Secondary (higher secondary) Schools requested a reduction in the Class 10 syllabus by 50% for the current academic year. “As of now, schools and junior colleges in the city remain shut and there is no clarity on when they will be able to reopen fully. While the education department has already reduced the syllabus by 25%, completing 75% syllabus and preparing for it will be tough for students. We, thus, hope for a further reduction of 25%,” said Prashant Redij, secretary of the association. Principals said they were worried about students suffering in the board exams if a concession is not given during the current situation. “The paper pattern for these students is the same the as last year and so is the difficulty level of the papers. This would push a lot of weak students further on the verge of losing a year,” said the principal of a school in the eastern suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cut-down-class-10-syllabus-by-50-principals-urge-state-board-101610480243071.html
13-01-2021||Other||40-year-old sentenced to 6 months in prison for sexually assaulting stray dog in Mumbai||The judicial magistrate court sentenced a 40-year-old man to six months’ imprisonment for sexually assaulting a stray dog at Thane last year. The court also imposed a fine of ₹1,000 on the accused, Vijay Mahadev Chalke. Chalke, a resident of Hajuri Goan in Wagale Estate, is unemployed. On July 21, a resident named Sagar Gupta, 21, saw the accused having unnatural sex with the dog on the skywalk at Wagale Estate. He then approached Shrinagar police to file a complaint against Chalke. The police then booked Chalke under section 377 (unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. When the case came on board after six months, the accused was convicted and sentenced. “After registering the case, we gathered evidences and witnesses in the case and the charge sheet was submitted on September 1. The judicial magistrate court heard all the witnesses and verified the evidences and sentenced the accused to six years’ imprisonment with a fine of ₹1,000. The accused will serve 10 additional days of imprisonment along with ₹50 fine if he does not pay the ₹1,000 fine,” said Vijay Shinde, senior inspector, Shrinagar police station. Shinde said that the efforts of the entire team led to the accused’s speedy trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40yearold-sentenced-to-6-months-in-prison-for-sexually-assaulting-stray-dog-in-mumbai-101610480118888.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||We will get north Indian voters back, says Mumbai Congress chief||Newly-appointed Mumbai Congress chief Ashok alias Bhai Jagtap said the city unit was putting in all its the efforts to woo the north Indian voters by bringing back the community leaders to the party. Jagtap said that the ‘Hyderabad pattern of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’ would not have any bearing in Mumbai, during the civic polls.Jagtap, who was appointed as Mumbai Congress president three weeks ago, said that his emphasis would be on weeding out the factionalism in the city unit. “We are well aware that the north Indian voters have shifted away from Congress in the last few years. We have begun the process of winning them back. I have met a few leaders who have an influence on the community. Besides them, a few leaders who have joined BJP in the last few years will soon rejoin Congress and the voters too will come back to us,” he said.Key north Indian leaders including Kripashankar Singh, Rajhans Singh have defected from the party, while its former president Sanjay Nirupam is sulking from the party affairs. Jagtap said that there are a number of leaders who are ready to return to the party. “I would not take names, but there would be ‘gharwapsi’ of leaders in the near future. Secondly, there would be no room for the factionalism in the party. Soon after, becoming the chief of the city unit, I met all the prominent party leaders from the city. There may be camps in the city, but I want to assure you that there is no ‘Bhai Jagtap’ camp in the unit,” he said.Jagtap, while talking to a group of a select journalist on Tuesday, said that BJP’s Hyderabad pattern would not have any bearing in BMC elections. “There may be similar attempts by the party, but we are ready to face it. We will have our own Mumbai-pattern to counter it. If the national leadership of the BJP participated in the civic polls, we will attack their failure in controlling the prices of diesel, petrol and high rate of unemployment. The culture of two cities is different,” he said.Jagtap said that they are demanding delimitation of wards on the basis of 2021 census and reservation of the wards to be announced for 10 years, instead of current reservation of five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/we-will-get-north-indian-voters-back-says-mumbai-congress-chief-101610479998797.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Six arrested in Mumbai for duping people by offering bogus work visas, fake employment contracts of Russian firms||The Mumbai crime branch raided an office at Malad (West) and arrested six accused for allegedly duping people by illegally offering them jobs abroad. Police have seized a total of 41 passports, bogus Russian visas and fake employment contracts of Russian companies during the raid. After the preliminary inquiry, police learnt that the accused had cheated several people with the same modus operandi in Kolkata, and a case had been registered against them in Bhavanipur police station. The arrested accused have been identified as Abdul Hasim Shaikh Ajadul Islam, 33; Shaikh Mainuddin Shaikh Musuruddin, 44; Saforid Shaikh Shamsuddin Shaikh, 34; Moinoddin Goldar Aminoddin Goldar, 34; Jayantkumar Panchanan Mandal, 38, and Tarak Manoranjan Mondal, 32. They all are residents of West Bengal and came to Mumbai in September last year with the intention to dupe people.The accused set up an office in November 2020 at Evershine Mall in Malad (West). Saforid Shaikh, a native of West Bengal who lives in Mumbai, provided the accused with data of people who were looking for jobs abroad, said Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police, crime branch. “The accused contacted the victims on the phone and asked them to send their passports and other documents through courier. They charged between ₹80,000 to ₹1 lakh and then sent fake visas and bogus employment contracts with Russian companies to the job seekers,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police. “After scrutinising the seized passports, it appears that the accused had targeted people from other states so they could not register complaints against them once they were cheated,” added Pathan.Follow a tip-off, police inspector Sanjeev Gavade and his team of unit 8 raided the accused’s office on Monday. Six accused were arrested, and during the search, police seized 41 passports, bogus Russian visas and employment contracts of Russian companies. “The accused had accepted the payments through bank transactions as well as cash from the victims,” said Gavade.The accused have been charged for forgery and cheating under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/six-arrested-in-mumbai-for-duping-people-by-offering-bogus-work-visas-fake-employment-contracts-of-russian-firms-101610479939410.html
13-01-2021||Other||Bird flu: Two pond herons found dead in Kalyan, near Mumbai||Two Indian pond herons were found dead at Gauripada in Kalyan (West) on Tuesday afternoon, near Guru Atman Circle. A team from the health department of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) reached the spot and informed the animal husbandry department. The birds were then picked up from the spot and sent for further testing. The KDMC health department team who reached the spot surveyed the areas and questioned the locals. “In the wake of the current spread of bird flu, it is necessary to test the dead birds,” said Chaya Suryavanshi, medical officer, Chikanghar health post of KDMC. “As of now there is no clarity on whether the cause of the death is the bird flu,” he added. Naresh Bhangar, assistant commissioner, animal husbandry department, Kalyan taluka said, “We have taken the two birds for preliminary investigation, and if there is suspicion of bird flu, we will send them to Pune’s disease investigation section. This will confirm if it is a case of bird flu.” A bird rescuer from Kalyan, Mahesh Bankar, said, “The Gauripada area has several birds, we saw dead birds at the same spot five days ago.”The Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar said action would be taken against those spreading rumors related to the bird flu. He also urged people to not panic. “The health and animal husbandry department is taking all the measures related to the bird flu and people do not have to panic. In case of someone spreads rumors related to bird flu we will take strict action,” said Narvekar in a a meeting held for bird flu measures in Thane district on Tuesday. In the entire district total seven rapid response team has been set up. These teams will complete the survey in district on priority basis. Along with the animal husbandry department, the grampanchayat and forest department are also on alert. A district level control room has been set up under the Thane district animal husbandry. The control room will look after complaints received related to the bird flu . Individuals who come across dead birds in their vicinity are requested to inform the district control room 022-25603311 or the nearby animal husbandry department or call the toll free number 18002330418. Citizen should not deal with the dead birds and go into its contact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-two-pond-herons-found-dead-in-kalyan-near-mumbai-101610479819149.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||4 Mumbai youths, including two minors, held for sexually assaulting 17-year-old girl for over a year||Kalachowki police on Sunday arrested four youths, including two minor boys, for allegedly sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl on different occasions. Police have also booked a woman friend of the victim for blackmailing the victim with sensitive videos of her. She has not been arrested yet.The complainant and the four arrested accused are college students. According to police, the two minors, aged 17, are residents of Worli and Kalachowki, respectively. The third accused is a 19-year-old Ghodapdeo resident while the wanted woman is a resident of Bhoiwada, Parel.The fifth accused is the victim’s 18-year-old boyfriend from Tardeo. He has been arrested for engaging in sexual relations with a minor and is not involved in the blackmail scheme the others have been accused of participating in.All five accused have been booked under sections 376 (rape), 34 (common intention), 4 (committing penetrative sexual assault), 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (committing sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (Pocso) Act. However, police have not invoked section 67A (publishing or transmitting sexually explicit material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act. More sections may be added in the case as more details surface during the investigation.According to police, the complainant minor girl is a resident of NM Joshi Marg. In the first information report (FIR), the girl stated that the accused woman had previously shared a room with her [in a paying guest facility]. During this time, the accused woman had taken semi-naked videos of the complainant while she was changing clothes. She also filmed the girl while she was engaged in sexual relations with her boyfriend.“The accused woman blackmailed the victim by threatening to tell her parents about the videos. The woman forced the minor girl to engage in sexual relations with her three friends, including the two minors,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.“The arrested accused sexually assaulted the teen on multiple occasions between September 9, 2019, and January 9, 2021,” another officer said.The matter was first reported to Bhoiwada police station, and a Zero FIR was registered on the evening of January 9. The case was then transferred to Kalachowki police station, as the girl was first exploited in a room at a residential society in Abhyudaya Nagar, Kalachowki.Police immediately swung into action and arrested the four accused. The two minor boys have been sent to the Dongri Child Correction Home while the other two are in police custody. The accused woman is yet to be arrested. Police said that she is the main accused and investigators are probing to find out if she accepted favours from her three friends for helping them take advantage of the victim.The accused’s phone call records, location details of the past year, their social media accounts and other online activities are being scrutinised for collection of evidence. Police have seized their cell phones as part of the evidence pertaining to the offence.Gokulsinh Patil, senior inspector of Kalachowki police station confirmed the registration of the case but refused to divulge any details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-mumbai-youths-including-two-minors-held-for-sexually-assaulting-17-year-old-girl-for-over-a-year-101610479759057.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Dr Anand Teltumbde moves bail plea before NIA court||Dr Anand Teltumbde, arrested in connection with violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018, has moved a bail application running into 65 pages, before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court. The special court has now asked the prosecution to file a reply on the same and scheduled the matter for hearing on January 27.Teltumbde, an engineer and Indian Institute of Management (IIM) graduate who used to teach at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, and the Goa Institute of Management, was arrested after the Supreme Court (SC) refused to grant him protection. On April 14, Teltumbde surrendered before NIA in Mumbai. The agency had said it needed to probe Teltumbde’s alleged links with the banned outfit, Communist Party of India (CPI, Maoist).In the bail plea filed on Tuesday, Teltumbde’s legal team has denied all the allegations of his involvement in the case and his connection with activities of the banned organisation.NIA in their supplementary charge-sheet against Teltumbde and others on October 9 last year, claimed that Teltumbde is a senior member of the CPI (Maoist) group and was working in urban areas. The agency claimed that he was in contact with all the arrested accused.The agency claimed that Teltumbde was one of the conveners of the Elgar Parishad incident and was present at Shaniwar Wada when the event took place. “To further the activities of CPI (Maoist) on an international level, he used to attend international conferences under the guise of academic visits to Canada, Pakistan, USA, France, etc. In the said conferences, Teltumbde used to exchange literature on ideology, training and working strategy of the CPI (Maoist) with international communist organisations,” NIA claimed in its charge-sheet.The agency has also claimed that Teltumbde is the elder brother to wanted accused Milind Teltumbde, central committee member (CCM) and secretary of Maharashtra – Madhya Pradesh Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone of CPI (Maoist).“Milind alias Deepak is expanding the Naxal movement of Maoist in urban areas with the help of his elder brother Anand Teltumbde on the international level and took guidance from him. Milind was inspired by his brother to join the CPI (Maoist) movement,” reads the NIA charge-sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-dr-anand-teltumbde-moves-bail-plea-before-nia-court-101610479638405.html
13-01-2021||Other||Got Covid-19 vaccine? You’ll get QR code certificate on phone||All vaccine beneficiaries in Maharashtra will be given a vaccination certificate with unique QR (quick response) code as proof of their Covid-19 immunisation.From January 16 (Saturday), the mass immunisation process against coronavirus is set to commence across the country. So far, 7.72 lakh healthcare workers have registered on Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) — an online app for planning, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of the immunisation process.As per a new feature on Co-WIN , the unique QR code-based vaccination certificate can be saved on mobile phones. The certificate will act as a ‘vaccine passport’ for international travellers and also help curb the cases of fake claims of immunisation.“The unique QR code generation for each beneficiary will act as proof that the person has received the vaccine,” said state immunisation officer Dr D Patil. “As everything will be centralised, the code will contain all the requisite information about the individual. So if anyone provides a fake vaccination certificate, the authorities can easily nab the person,” he added.As per protocol, interchanging different types of vaccines is not allowed and a person should take both the shots of a single vaccine. The second shot is administered 28 days after the first dose. Beneficiaries may develop minor side effects such as fever and body ache. The Maharashtra health department has trained its vaccinators to also address the problem of side effects.“People with weaker immunity such as cancer patients or those suffering from diabetes, need to take the vaccine, as they fall into the category of high-risk groups. They should take at least a 30-minute rest after taking the shot,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/got-covid-19-vaccine-you-ll-get-qr-code-certificate-on-phone-101610479579084.html
13-01-2021||Other||Two open fire on homemaker in Bhiwandi||Narpoli police have booked two people for firing two rounds on a 38-year-old homemaker in Kalher village, Bhiwandi on Tuesday. The woman suffered bullet injuries on her head and is receiving treatment at a private hospital. Police are checking CCTV footage from the area to identify the accused. According to police, the victim Jayshree Dhede is a resident of Jai Durga Society in Kalher. Her husband Shivram Dhede is in the transport business and had left the house early for work. They live with their son, 17, on the ground floor of the building. Yogesh Chavan, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Bhiwandi, said, “The incident took place on Tuesday at 9.30am. Shivram left for work while their son went out to meet his friends. Two persons entered the victim’s house and got into an argument with Dhede. Her son came home on hearing raised voices, but the two accused fired two rounds at Dhede and escaped. One of the bullets hit her head. She is undergoing treatment at SS Hospital in Bhiwandi,” said a police officer. Chavan said that the motive behind the attack is not yet established. “The two accused fled from the building after the firing. We came to know that they are not locals and stayed at a lodge in the area,” he said. Narpoli police have registered a case of attempt murder and use of firearms. “Police are further investigating to establish if the attack is over any local body election issue or something else. The crime branch has also started a parallel investigation in the matter,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-open-fire-on-homemaker-in-bhiwandi-101610479278644.html
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu: 8 samples test negative, 13 dead birds found in Chandigarh||All eight samples of dead birds sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, on January 6 and 7 have tested negative for bird flu, the UT forest and wildlife department confirmed on Tuesday.UT chief conservator Debendra Dalai said, “We are still concerned about the 13 samples sent on Monday, since they were found in the same spot. Their results will come in the next few days.”Meanwhile, the department on Tuesday found 13 more dead birds, including eight crows and five pigeons, in Sectors 27, 29, 35, 38 and 39, among others. With this, the total count of birds found dead over the past few days has reached 48.Dalai added that the fact that dead crows were being found was concerning. “Even in other states, where the avian influenza was confirmed, dead crows were found in high numbers,” he said.Poultry distributors allege they are going out of businessMeanwhile, poultry distributors, who get chickens from farmers and supply them to retailers, say they are the worst hit in the wake of detection of bird flu in Panchkula.Deepak from Jagatpura, who supplies chicken to eight shops in the city said, “The government is providing compensation to the poultry farmers for each bird culled, but distributors have been left to fend for ourselves. I would sell up to 1,000 birds a day, but on Monday I had no sale.”Deepak said the price of live birds had dropped from ₹120 to ₹70, and if this continues, he would be unable to pay the salaries of his workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bird-flu-8-samples-test-negative-13-dead-birds-found-in-chandigarh-101610478978110.html
13-01-2021||Other||Bird culling: Panchkula admn trims down list of affected farms||Two poultry farms have been removed from the list of five farms falling in the “infected zone”, identified after bird flu was confirmed at two farms in Barwala belt of Panchkula district on January 8.“The area was measured again and it was found that two farms fall beyond the 1km radius of the infected farms. Hence, culling will not take place there,” deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said.After the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, had confirmed bird flu in samples taken from Siddharth poultry farm, Kheri, and Nature poultry farm, Dandlawar, Ganauli, the Haryana government had announced the area within a kilometre of the two epicentres as “infected zone” and 1-10km as “surveillance zone.”As such, the Haryana animal husbandry and dairying department had announced culling of 1.66 lakh birds at five affected farms - Siddharth, Narender, Naveen and Sunil in Kheri village and Nature in Dhandalwar, Ganauli.However, on measuring the area again, Sunil and Naveen farms were found outside the boundary of 1km radius, which leaves one farm – Narender – in the “infected zone”.With this, the number of birds to be culled down will come down. As of Tuesday, over 29,000 birds have been culled, including 9,000 at Narender poultry farm, and another 40,000 will be put down.The administration also collected samples from 10 more farms on Tuesday and sent them to NIHSAD.Over 4.37 lakh birds have died in the Barwala belt over the past month.Key figuresTotal farms in Barwala belt: 121Workforce: Over 15,000Avian influenza confirmed at: 2 farmsFarms falling in the infected zone (within 1 km): 1Total birds culled: Over 29,000Total birds left to be culled: Over 40,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-culling-panchkula-admn-trims-down-list-of-affected-farms-101610478859896.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||72 birds found dead in city since January 5, says Mumbai civic body||In the last six days, the disaster control management cell of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received 32 complaints of 72 death of birds between January 5-11, amid the outbreak of bird flu in the city.However, not all of these deaths are due to bird flu. In Mumbai, till now at least nine deaths of crows have been reported due to bird flu.According to BMC officials, till now deaths have been only reported in crows so far.An BMC’s disaster management cell said, “We have received 32 complaints between January 5 and 11, of which, death of 72 birds was reported. As per the protocol, we inform the animal husbandry department and local ward offices of BMC.”The BMC official added, “Till now, whatever deaths have been reported are of crows or migratory birds. Bird flu reports for only two dead birds have been tested positive yet.”On Tuesday, a day after BMC appealed to citizens to report about deaths of birds on its helpline 1916, the BMC got over 50 calls till evening.The BMC, starting Tuesday, has undertaken a drive to visit all the poultry retailers and shopkeepers to check on cleanliness and hygiene being followed by them. Manish Valanju, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s L ward that covers Kurla area said, “Our market department is visiting shops of chicken and mutton, and inspecting for cleanliness and hygiene.”Valanju added, “We are informing shop owners to report deaths to us, in case of any deaths reported in their shops. We are also attending calls from citizens about bird deaths. On Tuesday, we have attended around five calls for the L ward area.”Further, the BMC in a circular issued on Monday had directed its officials that before burying dead birds, they will have to inform rapid response team formed by the state government to tackle the spread of bird flu.The BMC is also going to conduct citizen awareness programmes on how the spread of bird flu takes place. This comes in the backdrop of retailers selling eggs and chicken, citing that their business has gone down owing to fear of bird flu.Vasant Kumar Shetty, president of Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association in Maharashtra said, “We have witnessed a drop of 10-15% in sales of chicken in the last few days. However, from time to time we as an association and the government have promoted that it is safe to consume chicken if it is cooked properly. We expect the demand to gather pace in another 10 days.”Shetty added, “I feel that from next week the fear will die down, and people will come back to eating chicken, considering it is a very affordable form of non-vegetarian food. There will be few who have migrated to mutton for now, but that will not be feasible for a longer period, owing to its cost.”Meanwhile, the animal husbandry department of the state in a statement issued on Monday had appealed citizens to not spread unscientific information about bird flu adding that it is safe to consume eggs and poultry meat if cooked above 70 degree Celsius for 30 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/72-birds-found-dead-in-city-since-january-5-says-mumbai-civic-body-101610478858867.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray reviews Virar, Versova sea link projects, demands work be completed faster||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday reviewed the progress of two important projects for the city – the Bandra-Versova sea link (BVSL) and its extension till Virar in the metropolitan region – and directed that work on both the projects be expedited. According to the presentation made to the chief minister, the ₹7,000-crore BVSL is expected to be completed by 2025. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is executing both the projects, has also completed the pre-feasibility study for the Versova-Virar sea link. The 43-km sea link is expected to be completed in two phases. The first phase will be between Versova and Vasai and the second between Vasai and Virar, a statement issued by the chief minister’s office said. According to MSRDC, the construction of the sea bridge will not deter the daily routine of fishermen. “Navigation spans will be provided at four locations to facilitate movement. A detailed project report will now be made on the project,” a senior official from MSRDC said. HT had earlier reported that the 4+4 lane main bridge will connect Versova to Virar with 3+3 lane connectors at four locations. With the coastal road, the Bandra-Worli sea link, Bandra-Versova sea link and the Virar extension, the state is looking at reducing the travel distance from Nariman Point in south Mumbai to Virar (almost 30km from Borivli) from the current three hours to one hour by car. The chief minister, in the past few weeks, has reviewed the progress of the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway, the Mumbai Metro projects and the Mumbai-Pune missing link project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-reviews-virar-versova-sea-link-projects-demands-work-be-completed-faster-101610478798908.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||35-60% seats in Maharashtra vacant in private dental colleges: Report||Days after the Central government extended the admissions deadline for undergraduate medical and dental seats until January 15 to fill up all vacant seats across the country, the Dental Council of India (DCI) through its latest circular has extended admissions deadline for Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) course until January 31. The step comes after several states showed as many as 35-60% vacant seats in private dental colleges.According to information shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell, almost 35% seats - 852 seats out of 2,400 seats - in private dental colleges in Maharashtra remain vacant as of January 8, post three common admission rounds and two mop-up rounds. Last year, 1,028 seats out of 2,350 seats in private dental colleges had gone vacant after three common admission rounds and the same figure stood at 622 in 2018.“In the last two rounds, admission withdrawals were higher than the number of seat confirmations, which could be because more students got a betterment option in a government or private medical college in Maharashtra or any other state,” said a senior official from the CET cell. He added that the extension in admissions deadline might not change the situation, especially since many colleges have already started lectures for their first-year batches.The rise in vacancy in dental institutes has been the trend for some years now, especially in states like Karnataka, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, forcing more and more state governments to seek permission from the central government to lower the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) percentile score for eligibility.An aspirant needs to score at least 50 percentile in NEET to be eligible for admission to a dental institute, however, the state of Karnataka has sought that this eligibility score is lowered to 20 percentile after almost 60% of their seats in private dental colleges remained vacant even after two rounds of admission.Experts have time and again pointed at the issues of unemployment prevailing in this sector for BDS graduates, as well as the high financial back-up to set up a private practice as the main reason for the decline in demand for the course. “Dentists don’t get absorbed into the system as the MBBS graduates do, and if they want to set up their practice they need financial backing which is very difficult for most people,” said Muzaffar Khan, a Thane-based medical education counsellor. He added that this has led to poor demand for the course in most rural parts of the country.Recently, HT had reported how deemed dental institutes in the state have witnessed a 163% increase in seat vacancy under the management and NRI quotas, compared to last year. As per information shared by the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS) recently, close to 318 seats are vacant under the management as well as NRI quotas this year, after three common admission and two mop-up rounds.The deputy dean of a private dental institute in the state said that the constant delay in admissions and insistence of the state government to conduct several common admission rounds is the main reason for discouraging dental aspirants. “Until three years ago, no dental institute complained of seat vacancy but ever since 85% seats of the private dental institutes are being filled up by the state CET cell, more and more dental institutes are bearing the brunt of high seat vacancy in the course,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3560-seats-in-maharashtra-vacant-in-private-dental-colleges-report-101610478678880.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra social justice minister and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde denies rape claims, says woman is blackmailing him||Senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and social justice minister Dhananjay Munde has found himself in the centre of a controversy after a woman accused him of rape on the promise of marriage and other favours. The woman alleged that the police are not accepting her written complaint against the minister and her life is under threat. Munde, however, claimed that the woman is trying to defame and blackmail him.The woman accusing the minister is the sister of a woman with whom Munde had a prior relationship. In a copy of a complaint uploaded on her Twitter handle, the woman mentioned that Munde made sexual advances towards her without her consent since 2006. “He (Munde) has promised to get me launched as a singer in Bollywood,” the complaint states.Following the post, Munde issued a public clarification on his social media account and said that the victim and her sister with whom he was in a relationship, were blackmailing him since 2019. Her brother is also involved in the alleged conspiracy. “On November 12, 2020, I filed a police complaint, and a case was filed in the Bombay high court. The court has prohibited the woman (with whom he was in a relationship) from posting objectionable posts on social media,” the clarification said.“The allegations made against me by her sister are false and unfounded. They want to blackmail me, and thus [are] making baseless allegations. I have the text messages with me as proof in which she has demanded crores,” Munde added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-social-justice-minister-and-ncp-leader-dhananjay-munde-denies-rape-claims-says-woman-is-blackmailing-him-101610478501595.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Will Maharashtra’s MVA government revive the ambitious Konkan coastal road project?||The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is reviving the plan to construct a coastal road through three districts of Konkan. The project is expected to give a boost to tourism and industry in the coastal region. Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has chalked out a plan for the development of the 444-km coastal road between Revas in Raigad and Patradevi in Sindhudurg, at an estimated cost of ₹9,573 crore.In a presentation made by MSRDC to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, the corporation proposed the construction of the road to connect ports, industrial nodes, religious places and tourist destinations.It has also proposed the construction of connecting roads and beautification of 27 places along the route.The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has already given in-principal approval for the two- and four-lane highway, and consultants have been appointed for four packages of the project. The packages have been segregated between Revas-Bankot in Raigad, Bankot-Jaigad in Ratnagiri, Jaigad-Devgad in Sindhudurg and Devgad-Aronda in Sindhudurg. MSRDC informed the CM that the project reports of these packages have also been prepared.The coastal road assumes importance for the MVA government as the Thackeray-led state government has been focussing on infrastructure development of coastal districts. “The Shiv Sena has its voter base in coastal regions, and in the last one year, the government has concentrated on major projects in this region. The development of the coastal road could be in response to the previous government’s pet project Samruddhi Expressway between Mumbai and Nagpur,” said an official from the state public works department.The Konkan coastal road project was put on the backburner for more than two decades owing to multiple issues, including land acquisition, high cost and priority given to widening of the Mumbai-Goa highway.“The coastal highway will provide a major boost to tourism in the Konkan belt, which has a variety of beaches, forts, and religious places. The proposed plan has nine bridges over creeks and cross-sections at 28 places. It has proposed townships at an average distance of 30km,” said an official from MSRDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-maharashtra-s-mva-government-revive-the-ambitious-konkan-coastal-road-project-101610478259219.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Fort building collapse: Mumbai Police book owner for negligence||MRA Marg police have booked the owner of the century-old Bhanushali building at Fort in south Mumbai that had partially collapsed in July 2020, killing 10 people and injuring several others. A case under section 304A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the owner of the building,” said Chaitanya Siriprolu, Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (operation). On July 16, around 4.43pm, a large portion of the rear corner of the ground-plus-six storey structure collapsed in Fort. There were 27 residential and 31 non-residential apartments in the building, with 30 people staying in the building at the time of the incident. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had vacated the building before monsoon 2020. Due to the dangerous condition of the building, some tenants had moved out but later decided to return. As it is a cessed building, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) had issued a no-objection certificate to the tenants for repairs at their own cost. Tenants of the building had then said that they were prepared to repair the building with the required permissions, however, the plan got delayed due to the pandemic. “During the investigation, negligence surfaced on the building owner’s part, and hence he has been booked, and further investigation is on. We are yet to receive reports from Mhada and the fire brigade department,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fort-building-collapse-mumbai-police-book-owner-for-negligence-101610478078883.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai set to get its vaccine doses today||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will on January 16 start its coronavirus vaccination drive at nine centres across Mumbai with the official launch at Cooper Hospital in Juhu. Mumbai will receive its vaccine vials on Wednesday, even as it waits for intimation from the state on how many doses it will get in the first phase of the drive. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the government has received 963,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine from Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune.Earlier on Tuesday, a massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 — the world’s biggest — was set in motion with the Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across the country, four days before vaccination is scheduled to begin on Saturday.In the first phase of the drive, health workers will be vaccinated, with BMC already registering 125,000 lakh health workers on the Cowin app — an automated system launched by the Central government to systematically administer vaccine shots across the country. The vaccine doses will be stored at a temporary cold storage facility set up on the ground floor of the F-South ward office in Parel, until the civic body prepares the regional vaccine storage (RVS) five-storey Parivar building at Kanjurmarg, which has been identified as the centre for storing doses.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal confirmed to HT that Mumbai will receive its vaccine doses from the state on Wednesday and that the vaccination drive will start as scheduled on January 16.The nine vaccination centres in Mumbai are: The four major hospitals — KEM Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper Hospital and Sion Hospital; four peripheral hospitals — Bhabha Hospital in Bandra, VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli; and the Covid-19 facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex.The centres have a total of 72 booths for vaccination, and each booth will be handled by a team of five vaccinators.Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said, “The nine vaccination centres with a total of 72 booths have a capacity to vaccinate 14,000 people a day. Once the drive is launched on January 16, it will continue every day until the beneficiaries shortlisted for the first phase are vaccinated. We have not received information on when the second phase will start. We are also yet to receive information on how many doses we will get in the first lot on Wednesday.”Swapnaja Kshirsagar, assistant commissioner, F-South ward, where the doses will be stored temporarily, said, “We have vacated a room on the ground floor of the ward office building and handed it over to the civic health department for storing vaccine doses. All logistics thereafter are being handled by the health department.”The storage facility at F-South ward has a total of 10 ice-lined refrigerators with a capacity to store up to 600,000 vaccine doses at a time, according to Dr Gomare.The distribution mechanism already existing under the routine immunisation programme shall be implemented for Covid-19 vaccine. Additional vehicles will be deployed for transporting the vaccine from the Kanjurmarg facility to the vaccine centres with the help of police. Deans and medical superintendents of the hospitals will identify dedicated persons (pharmacists or cold chain handlers) for maintaining the inventory of Covid -19 vaccine when it is made available from the central storage. Dr Gomare said, “We will inform the police that the vaccines are being distributed to the vaccination centres.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of the public health department, said, “The BMC has to pick up the vaccine doses from the manufacturer. We have already sent vehicles to Pune and they have reached the manufacturer. Hopefully they will pack and leave by tonight [Tuesday night] itself.” Regarding the storage facility at F-South ward office, Kakani said, “Even though the Kanjurmarg storage facility is ready, it is large and in the first phase we are going to get fewer doses in comparison. So we have not activated the facility yet. The F-South ward office is centrally located, so it will also be easier to transport the doses to all centres from here, instead of from Kanjurmarg. Once the facility at F-South office is full, we will begin to store at Kanjurmarg.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-set-to-get-its-vaccine-doses-today-101610477604884.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccine in Maharashtra: 1st batch of vials in hand, state to inoculate 800K people in two months||Starting from January 16, the state is expecting to complete vaccination of 800,000 health workers in the next two months. The state received 963,000 vials of the Covishield vaccine, of the 1 million to be provided by the Centre in the first lot, at its facility in Pune on Tuesday evening and said it will start the distribution process once it receives a list from the Centre. However, each person is required to take two doses and the stock provided is inadequate. To that, officials have said the gap between two doses is 28 days and thus they have sufficient time to get another stock of vials from the Centre.The Centre is providing both vaccines — Covishield of Serum Institute of India (SII) and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech — approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) for Covid-19, irrespective of the demand made by the state government for providing only one type of vaccine to avoid confusion.“We have received first stock of 963,000 vials from the Centre and following the guidelines, they will be distributed to 511 vaccination centres, covering all districts and cities in the state. We have also developed 3,135 cold chains to be used for storing vaccines,” said health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday.Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare and director, National Health Mission, said the state has got the stock from SII in Pune. “The central government has communicated to provide 963,000 vials of Covishield (SII) and 20,000 vials of Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). We have received SII stock directly from Pune, from where it is going to be distributed in refrigerated trucks,” he said.However, the Centre will decide how many vials are going to be distributed to a particular region. This led to a delay in dispatching the stock to the respective regions as the state did not receive the distribution list, at least till the time of going to press.“We have received the vaccine stock at the Pune facility and are waiting for the distribution list from the Centre to start the process. The Centre is deciding which region will get how many vials. The vaccines are ready to be transported by road in refrigerated trucks and they will start moving as soon as we get the approval. We are hoping to get the nod in the next few hours, following which trucks for regions like Nagpur that are far-off will be released immediately so that we can cover districts like Gadchiroli by January 14,” said Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer.“We have planned the distribution of vaccines by road and a delay of every hour would make the task difficult for us considering the distance. Health is a state subject and at least it should be given the powers to decide the distribution plan, but Centre has said that since registration of all healthcare providers was done at Co-WIN app and since they know which areas has how many health workers, we will take the decision,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The state has planned to cover around 30 million people in the first three phases, which are likely to be completed in six months, the officials said.“According to the priority groups created by the Centre, healthcare providers are going to be provided the vaccination in the first phase, frontline workers in the second phase and people above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities below the age of 50 will be given vaccine shots in the third phase of the drive,” the health ministerThe healthcare workers, include public as well as private workers, who are again divided into nine categories. Of around 800,000 healthcare providers, registration of 784,000 has been completed and the rest can register on the Co-WIN app, developed by the Centre, by Tuesday midnight.The state government has trained 17,749 vaccinators to administer shots to the beneficiaries. It has also developed 3,135 cold chains, covering one state-level cold storage, nine regional-level cold storages, 34 district-level cold storages and 27 municipal corporation-level cold storages. In addition, 21 walk-in-coolers, four walk-in-freezers, 4,153 ice-lined refrigerators and 3,937 deep freezers are going to be used for the drive. The Centre has also provided 1,200 vaccine carriers that have also been distributed among districts, Tope informed.Of the total 511 vaccination camps set up across the state, each will be covering 100 beneficiaries in a day. Each centre will have a team of five with one vaccinator and four supporting staff, who will confirm a person’s identity, ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour has been followed at the centre, make entries on the mobile application (Co-WIN) and follow the Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) protocol in case a person starts facing health complication or side effects post vaccination,” the health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccine-in-maharashtra-1st-batch-of-vials-in-hand-state-to-inoculate-800k-people-in-two-months-101610477178663.html
13-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body gives nod for schools to hold offline exams||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has allowed city schools under the Cambridge board to conduct exams for Classes 9 to 12 offline, with all precautions as prescribed by the civic body, while schools of all other boards will be allowed to conduct board exams for Classes 10 and 12. As per a circular issued by the civic body late on Tuesday, schools under all boards such as the state, ICSE, CBSE etc shall be allowed to conduct all exams announced or to be announced by the respective boards for Class 10 and 12 in the offline format. “Schools under the Cambridge board can conduct preliminary exams or preboard exams as per their schedules offline while those under all the other boards can also conduct exams prescribed by the respective boards for Classes 10 and 12,” stated the circular. The circular comes a few days after the Members of International Schools’ Association (MISA) requested the civic body to allow reopening of schools for the conduct of prelim exams especially for students of Classes 10 and 12. This year, Cambridge International has scheduled its board exams from the last week of January. Francis Joseph, who represented MISA in the matter said schools were now hoping to get permission to reopen for classes too. “We hope that schools are allowed to reopen from January 18 with all the precautions in place,” he added. Due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, there was a lot of uncertainty about the conduct of exams in schools across various boards. While the CBSE has announced that its board exams will be held in May, the Maharashtra state board has recently said that the exams will be held in April and May for Class 12 and 10 respectively. The state board is yet to announce a timetable for its exams. As per the guidelines issued by the BMC in December, schools in the city shall remain closed at least until January 15. In other parts of the state, schools for Classes 9 to 12 have reopened since November 23 with the necessary precautions. Schools under consulates and embassies in Mumbai are allowed to reopen from January 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-gives-nod-for-schools-to-hold-offline-exams-101610476699295.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||DDA approves construction of Ravidas temple in Jahanpanah forest||Two years after its demolition, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Tuesday gave final nod for the construction of Ravidas temple in Jahanpanah City forest in South Delhi’s Tughlaqabad.The proposal will now be sent to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for final notification after which the land will be handed over to the devotees.The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday, in which the DDA also approved the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) policy and other major decisions for the city’s development.A senior DDA official said, “The land use of a 400 sqm plot, site where the temple existed, in the city forest has been changed from recreational to public and semi-public. We have got all the necessary permission from various departments for this. Once notified by the HUA ministry, we will initiate the process to transfer the land to the trustees for construction of the temple.”A proposal to allot 400 sqm land parcel in the city forest for the construction of the temple was approved by the DDA in October last year.In August last year, the DDA had demolished the temple following a Supreme Court order. The demolition had led to a protests by the devotees of Guru Ravidas in Delhi and several parts of north India. In November 2019, the Supreme Court had allowed construction of the temple at the same location.The revised TOD policy, which has been hanging fire for the past five years, will now be sent to the ministry for final notification. The DDA will now develop the Sanjay Lake complex in Trilokpuri based on the new policy.“Considering the carrying capacity of Delhi in terms of infrastructure requirement, the TOD policy for Delhi was revised and notified by the ministry in December 2019… However, it required certain corrections in the corresponding chapters to enable the revised TOD policy to be implemented on the ground,” said the official.It was also decided to set up CNG/electric vehicle fuel stations in community centres located on roads with right of way of 24m. “As per the existing provision, a minimum 30 metres RoW is needed. This will facilitate setting up CNG-cum-electric vehicle stations in the developed areas where there is no scope of road widening. CNG-cum-EV fuel stations are completely green fuel retail outlets which are the priority for environment and the need of the hour,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-approves-construction-of-ravidas-temple-in-jahanpanah-forest-101610475677782.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Special prosecutors appointed by us not binding on Delhi govt, police tells HC||The Delhi police on Tuesday told the Delhi High Court that the appointment of Special Public Prosecutors (SPPs) for the north-east Delhi riots was not “binding” on the state government.The police, in an affidavit, told Justice Pratibha M Singh that it had merely sent a recommendation for the appointment of the SPPs under law but the decision was taken by the Delhi government using its constitutional power. The investigating agency said that it would not want to interfere in the internal matters of the city government.“…the police does not have the authority to appoint Special Public Prosecutors and it falls within the domain of the Delhi government. Delhi police being an investigating agency had recommended the name of the prosecutors who were met the criteria and had vast professional experience as practicing lawyers in criminal matters.“However, such recommendations are not binding and the Delhi government, subject to the constitutional limitations, is empowered to appoint such SPPs,” the Delhi police said, while responding to a plea by the Delhi Prosecutors Welfare Association (DPWA) challenging appointment of the SPPs in the riots cases.The police, in response, also said that an investigation is taken to its logical conclusion by prosecution and Delhi Police has consistently recommended the appointment of certain counsels as SPPs.During the hearing, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, Gautam Narayan told the court that the list sent by the police was initially rejected by the Delhi government, which had forwarded its own list of SPPs.However, the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) intervened in the matter and did not agree with the Delhi government’s list and in view of the difference of opinion, the matter was referred to the President of India who approved the list sent by the police.“The Delhi government only issued the notification informing about the appointment of the SPPs and it has not appointed them,” he added.Justice Singh, after the brief hearing, was of the view that the petition appeared to be in the nature of a PIL and directed the high court registry to list it before the appropriate bench on March 15.The plea filed through advocates Kushal Kumar and Akashdeep Gupta has questioned how SPPs can be appointed at the behest of the police. It has contended that the prosecution has to be independent and insulated from the police and therefore, the SPPs cannot be appointed at the behest of the investigating agency.The petition has sought quashing of Delhi government’s June 24, 2020 notification appointing the SPPs, including Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, on the grounds that it was issued on police recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ne-delhi-riots-special-prosecutors-appointed-by-us-not-binding-on-delhi-govt-police-tells-hc-101610475618305.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||4,000 suspects scrutinised, 220 questioned to arrest molester||A scrutiny of 4,000 men released recently from jail, analysis of dossiers of 140 criminals, footage from 160 CCTV cameras and interrogation of 220 suspects led the police to arrest a man who had molested and robbed a 17-year-old girl in a forested area near a prominent hotel in Chanakyapuri neighbourhood late last month, the police said Tuesday.The suspect, identified as Neetu Lal, had allegedly robbed the girl at knifepoint, tore off her clothes and molested her before a fightback by the girl forced him to flee.The girl had been living with her aunt in Bihar and her parents live in Old Delhi. “She did not want to stay with her aunt and had escaped from that home with her belongings and documents. She had caught a train and reached New Delhi railway station on December 24,” said a senior police officer, not authorised to speak to the media.As she waited at the New Delhi railway station to catch a train to Old Delhi railway station, Lal allegedly approached her and offered her help to board a local bus that would take her home quicker than a train.The girl agreed, but the man made her alight from the bus at Sardar Patel Marg bus stop near Taj Hotel in Chanakyapuri, said the officer. “Thereafter, he led the girl to the forested area nearby where he robbed her of her bag at knifepoint, tore off her clothes and molested her,” the officer said.The girl, however, fought back. “She picked up stones and threw them at Lal and began screaming for help. That forced Lal to take her belongings and flee,” the officer said.Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), said after escaping from Lal, the girl contacted the police upon which a case of robbery, molestation, kidnapping and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered.“We formed four teams to find the suspect. The teams pursued over 4,000 potential suspects even as the survivor helped with a sketch of the assailant. The breakthrough came in the form of CCTV footage that showed the suspect getting off the bus with the girl,” the DCP said.Thereafter, the police showed the CCTV footage to hundreds of people along the route the suspect had taken.“We finally found a street vendor near the crime spot. He said he had seen the suspect around that area in the past. We asked him to alert us the next time he was seen around. On Saturday, the vendor alerted us and we caught the suspect,” the other officer said.Lal is unemployed and hails from Dholpur in Rajasthan. While there are no previous criminal cases against him, the police are probing if he had targeted others the way he did the girl.The police have recovered much of the stolen items, the knife allegedly used in the crime and the girl’s clothes from the crime spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4000-suspects-scrutinised-220-questioned-to-arrest-man-who-molested-minor-in-chanakayapuri-101610475617856.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||MCD strike cloud on Covid vaccination drive in Delhi||As Delhi moves towards commencing a mega vaccination drive in its battle against Covid, an ongoing strike by civic body employees to demand outstanding wages is likely to throw a spanner in the works.The vaccination programme will start in the city from January 16, with municipal employees — such as primary health workers, nursing staff and teachers — likely to be roped-in for the programme.Nurses, paramedic staff, ward boys, primary teachers along with the employees of other departments in civic bodies, majorly from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, have been on strike since January 7 against non-payment of pending salaries for the last 3-5 months.The agitating employees, especially those from health and education departments of the civic bodies, have said they will “not cooperate” in the vaccination drive until their salaries are cleared.AP Khan, convener Confederation of MCD Employees Union, said that nurses, paramedic staff, sanitation staff and teachers will be engaged in the vaccination process from the three civic bodies, but it has been decided that there will be “complete non-cooperation”.“We have communicated to the concerned heads of the health and education departments of the civic bodies regarding our non-cooperation in the vaccination drive. It is a matter of our survival and we cannot keep working without salaries for eternity. It has been over three months since nurses and paramedic staff in north corporation received their salaries. The teachers have not been paid since July 2020,” Khan said.According to details, nearly 3,500 employees of the three municipalities are likely to be roped-in during the massive vaccination programme, which will be conducted in different phases.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has 64 vaccination centres including at its three hospital — Hindu Rao, Kasturba and Girdhar Lal. Nearly 1,000 employees of north corporation were imparted training for vaccination programme. Similarly, the number of vaccination centres in South Delhi Municipal Corporation is 58 and nearly 800 workers have been trained for the drive. Officials of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) said that they have made 32 centres for vaccination programme and have imparted training to over 250 employees.Officials in the state health department said that once the vaccination drive begins in full swing with 1,000 (vaccination) centres, the government has estimated it would need a total 3,500 trained personnel to run these booths.“Of the 3,500 personnel, around 1,750 will be workers from the municipal corporations (MCDs). These personnel will run vaccination booths and include doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and even teachers,” a senior official said.Government officials said the strike by MCD employees will not immediately impact the drive. “But, if the stalemate doesn’t end by the end of this month, we may face some serious manpower crunch once the main vaccination programme is rolled out,” a second senior official said.“The first phase is starting with just 89 centres in Delhi. So, the strike will not have much of an impact.None of the 89 centres are in any MCD facility. We have calculated the manpower requirement and found that only around 50-60 MCD workers will be needed in the first phase,” the official said.Civic authorities said that they are reaching out to agitating employees and have appealed them to “not create hinderance” . They say that if the deadlock does not end, then action — such as invoking the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) — may be taken.Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said that vaccination programme is a national campaign and employees would have to participate in the drive.“I have appealed all the employees, whose duty has been assigned for the vaccination programme, to return to work . Issue of salaries and vaccination drive should not mix and we are making efforts to release pending salaries as soon as possible,” he said.Responding to this, convenor of the Confederation, Khan, said that agitating employees are “ready to face any action”.Nirmal Jain, mayor EDMC, said, “There is no significant strike in the EDMC so the chances of impact on vaccination drive is bleak. We have made all preparations and are ready to start the mega campaign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcd-strike-cloud-on-covid-vaccination-drive-in-delhi-101610475557778.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Claps, cheers greet arrival of vaccine at Rajiv Gandhi super speciality hospital||Local residents and those who work at the nearby chemist shops clapped and cheered as a truck carrying a consignment of 264,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine entered the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital in east Delhi’s Tahirpur on Tuesday afternoon.Several people who had gathered near the hospital gate said they knew by the heavy police deployment that the “corona vaccine is coming”. As the truck entered the hospital building with four police vans escorting it, many of those who were waiting on the road, clicked photos on their mobile phones.Several hospital staff also clicked selfies when the vaccine was taken from the truck to the storage facility.Hospital authorities said they received 22 boxes of Covidshield, Indian variant of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Each box has 1,200 vials and each vial has 10 doses. The hospital authorities are expecting a consignment of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Wednesday morning.As the boxes were kept inside the facility, Delhi police placed barricades to stop outsiders from going inside. Police then formed a two-layer security ring to guard the vaccine -- one on gate number 3, which is the main gate of the hospital (near the storage facility) and another outside the facility where the vaccine was stored. At both the layers, police placed barriers to restrict movement of unauthorised persons. Within minutes of the vaccine reaching the hospital-- outside the facility but within the hospital complex -- there were several relatives of Covid-19 patients who had come to see the vaccine.A gate (connected to the main road) used by outsiders until recently has also been closed so that there is no movement of outsiders near the facility.“There is a temple and two churches outside the hospital. I saw many locals and patients of relatives praying once they saw the vaccine. This is what everyone was waiting for, “said Ramnishkit, 40, who runs a chemist outside the hospital.A quick response team (QRT) of the Delhi police was also parked outside the hospital gate before the vaccine reached the hospital. Police officers posted at the spot said the QRT and other officers would be present at the hospital premises round-the-clock. As the quantity of vaccines increase, more police personnel will be posted, a police officer at the spot said.Hospital director, professor Dr BL Sherwal said they are treating the vaccine like “gold”.“We are treating the vaccine like gold. For its safety and security, we also informed Delhi police. The security here is round-the-clock. Our officers check temperature at the storage twice a day and note the findings. This is done to ensure that the temperature remains between 2-8 degree Celsius and that there is no fluctuation. There are CCTV cameras at every point. The building is also cut off from the other facilities inside the hospital to keep off outsiders,” Sherwal said.Dr Chhavi Gupta, spokesperson of the hospital, said the freezers have an alarm system. “If the temperature falls or rises beyond a specific temperature, the alarm will go off. The vaccine will be transferred to another freezer within no time. It is monitored round-the-clock,” she said.The first batch of transfer from the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital to over 80 storage points identified by the government is likely to start on Thursday. Officials said they are waiting for more vaccine doses to come.Dr Sherwal added, “The storage unit has been specially chosen for its location. When vehicles come to deliver or take the vaccine, it can come or leave without getting caught in traffic on the road or having to manoeuvre to other parts of the hospital . Every part of the storage facility is visible and well-lit for security purposes. It is in safe hands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/local-clap-and-cheer-the-arrival-of-vaccine-at-rajiv-gandhi-super-speciality-hospital-101610475497772.html
13-01-2021||Delhi||Hopes up as maiden flight carrying Covishield reaches Delhi||The very first flight carrying 672,000 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, reached the national capital on Tuesday morning. The SpiceJet flight SG8937 departed the Pune airport at 8.05 am landed at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport around 10.15am.The consignment of 56 boxes of vaccine Covishield, having 12,000 doses in each, was later transported to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Delhi’s Tahirpur and also to Karnal in Haryana, ahead of the nationwide inoculation drive, starting January 16.During the course of Tuesday, eight other flights carried a total of 565,000 lakh vaccine doses out of Pune to 12 other cities, including Chandigarh, Patna, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Chennai and Lucknow.At the Delhi airport, a team comprising officials of the Airports Authority of India, ministry of civil aviation, health ministry, Delhi airport operator and Central Industrial Security Force received the vaccines and shifted them to the cargo terminal, where they are being stored in temperature controlled units.Officials aware of the developments said around noon, the process to load the vaccines into two temperature controlled container trucks started. “At 1.15pm one of the trucks, carrying 34 boxes, left for Karnal. An hour later, the second truck left the airport with 22 boxes of vaccine for the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur. Each of these boxes contained 12,000 doses,” said a senior official from the Delhi airport, requesting anonymity.The Central Industrial Security Force, that secures the Delhi airport, ensured that the vaccines were duly packed and checked the certification forms of the consignment before both the trucks were dispatched to their respective destinations.Deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajiv Ranjan, said they had ensured adequate deployment outside the cargo terminals to ensure law and order. “The trucks were escorted by Delhi Police vehicles for a smooth passage as traffic police kept the route clear. The truck headed to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital through a dedicated corridor,” Ranjan said.Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, said the airline on Tuesday carried the country’s first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune to Delhi. “This was followed by multiple flights to different cities as SpiceJet transported close to four million Covishield vaccine doses weighing around 11 tonnes on the very first day of shipment,” Singh said.The airline also carried vaccine consignments to the cities of Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna and Vijayawada on Tuesday, Singh said.An official from the ministry of civil aviation, who wished not to be named, said the first two flights operated by SpiceJet and Indigo from Pune went to Delhi and Chennai on Tuesday morning. “Air India, SpiceJet, GoAir and Indigo operated nine flights from Pune carrying 56.5 lakh doses to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow and Chandigarh, on Tuesday,” the official confirmed.In days to come, the Delhi airport is expected to receive many more flights carrying Covid-19 vaccines. CEO of the Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said the temperature-controlled facilities, the temperature ranging from -20 degrees centigrade to 25 degrees centigrade, at the two cargo terminals at Delhi airport can safely handle these vaccines. “We have cool chambers and cool dollies to maintain the temperature required for these vaccines at the terminal and during transit between aircraft and terminal or vice versa. Our both terminals can handle around 5.7 million vials a day,” Jaipuriar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hopes-up-as-maiden-flight-carrying-covishield-reaches-delhi-101610475437766.html
13-01-2021||Gurugram||How farmers at Haryana border have made the protest site their home||Hundreds of farmers from Haryana and Rajasthan arrived at Shahjahanpur on National Highway-8 on December 12 last year with the intent of proceeding towards Delhi. Stopped by the Rewari Police from entering Haryana, the farmers hunkered down and started a sit-in protest, which has evolved into a mass movement of sorts over the past month. With their tractors, trolleys and makeshift tarpaulin tents, the highway has become the new home, say the protesting farmers.Around 25- 30 farmer groups and organisations have been protesting at the Haryana border. Farmer groups from different states also visit the site to extend support. Groups of farmers from Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Orissa joined the ongoing agitation on Monday. Earlier, farmers from Jammu and Kashmir joined their ranks. Farmers from Maharashtra and Gujarat too camped at the protest site for several weeks. While it is difficult to give an estimate of the total number of farmers at the site, farmer leaders said that presently, there are no less than 5,000 protesters and the number is increasing on a daily basis.Sohni Singh Punia, a 58-year-old farmer from Sikar in Rajasthan, is among the women protesting at the border since December. “We are used to working in our farms under harsh conditions — be it summer or winter. If the laws are not repealed, we will move towards Delhi, but won’t go home,” said Punia, who was sitting on a 24-hour hunger strike along with 10 others on Monday.She added that the livelihood of farmers like her was dependent on the removal of the new laws. “I have three sons and daughters, who are looking after the farms and the children back home. By next week, all but one will join the agitation here. Our lives depend on the removal of these laws,” said Punia, who sat in front of a row of police barricades on one carriageway of the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway.What the farmers wantLike their counterparts agitating on the Delhi borders, farmers here have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them vulnerable to exploitation by corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops by reducing the scope of the state-run market yards, known as the agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) or the so-called mandis. While the government has assured farmers that both the MSP and AMPCs will continue, farmers have stuck to their demands and want the laws to be repealed.Baldev Singh Mann, a 62-year-old farmer from Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, said that farmers were prepared for the long haul and won’t back down. “We will return only after convincing the government. The government should kill us directly if it wants. If these laws are implemented, we will die anyway,” said Mann. He said that farmers had sustained the protest for nearly a month and could do so for several more months or years, if required. “If the Modi government doesn’t relent, we will make our homes here,” said Mann.Managing essentialsAn informal network of sorts connects the protesting farmers with their families back home, which ensures that supplies are replenished from time to time. These supplies keep the multiple langars or community kitchens running at the site.Manjeet Singh, a young farmer, who reached the protest site with a truck of supplies from Patiala on Monday, has made six such trips during the past month. The current batch of supplies had been bought from contributions made by residents of three villages in Patiala, Singh said, while unloading packs of bottled water. “Everyone in the village contributes towards the supply. NRIs from our villages also crowdfund towards the supplies,” he said.Farmers from nearly all states protesting here have set up a mechanism for the supply of essentials. While trips from Punjab are weekly or fortnightly, farmers from Haryana and Rajasthan get supplies after a day or two. The nature of crowdsourcing also differs from village to village.“Back home in our village, containers have been placed at every crossing. Every house contributes 2-4 litres of milk and lassi depending on their capacity. Once the collections are combined, they are dispatched here. Every alternate day, we receive 500 litres of milk and lassi each,” said Mintu Ram, a farmer from Bhiwani in Haryana, who has been at the site since the past month. Other supplies such as vegetables, cooking oil and spices are sent after every 15 days.Ram said that the movement will not end until the government repeals the laws or makes multiple amendments that completely negate the damaging provisions of the laws. “Rich corporates will exploit us if these laws are implemented. If farmers start selling their produce to corporates, the poor farmers will have nowhere to go. They will sell our produce at four times the price whereas we will get a pittance,” he said.Countering government allegationsBrushing aside the claims of government representatives, Ram said that farmers from Haryana were united in the struggle against the three laws. In the past, Haryana government has claimed that farmers from Haryana were not participating in the movement in big numbers. The BJP-led government in the state has also raked up the issue of the construction of SYL (Sutlej-Yamuna Link) canal— a bone of contention between Punjab and Haryana. Ram and his fellow farmers from Haryana said that they could see through the intentions of the government.“The BJP government has been in power for the past six years. In all these years, they did nothing to resolve the SYL impasse. They are now trying to create differences between farmers but they will not succeed. What will we do with water if our land is not safe? We will talk to our brothers in Punjab ourselves,” he said. His friend, Raj Kumar, nodded in agreement.Kumar has been at the site since December 18 and shares a truck with Ram. “We will die but we won’t go home. When the time comes, even the SYL dispute will be resolved,” said Kumar, while smoking from a hookah. The duo has a quintal of tobacco at their disposal. “We have one quintal of tobacco with us. It can easily last us six months, if used judiciously. We can always ask our families to send more,” said Kumar.When asked about the concerns of the farmers, Jawahar Yadav, BJP spokesperson, said that the three laws were for the betterment of farmers and the party would continue to take steps in the interests of farmers. “The work that we are doing for the betterment of farmers will continue. The BJP will continue to make efforts to make farmers understand the various benefits of the three farm laws,” said Yadav, adding that the party is presently deliberating on the recent Supreme Court’s decision to put the implementation of the farm laws on hold.Daily choresBesides food supplies, farmers also send back their unwashed clothes on alternate days. While there’s a washing machine at the site, it’s not enough to meet the requirements for the hundreds camping at the site. “Along with the supplies, we return our unwashed clothes and get a set of washed clothes,” said Kumar.Other concerns pertaining to electricity and sanitation facilities are also being met. The Rajasthan government has set up mobile toilets at the site besides providing an electricity connection, farmers said. A team of volunteers maintains a vigil at night for security.“There is a team of volunteers who ensure that all of us stay safe at night. We don’t face many difficulties here,” said Sheetal Kanwar, a 17-year-old, who is protesting at the site with her family. A native of Bawadi tehsil in Jodhpur, Kanwar joined the protest on December 29.“Our friends back home call and ask us about the protest here. We have told them that we will sit here till the laws are rolled back,” Kanwar, adding that she didn’t miss home. “We have forged many relationships here. Even this place has begun to feel like home,” she said.The protesting farmers plan to proceed towards Delhi on Republic Day. They said that the Supreme Court’s decision of staying the laws will not have any impact on their plans and that the agitation will continue until the government repeals the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/how-farmers-at-haryana-border-have-made-the-protest-site-their-home-101610473098034.html
