14-01-2021||Other||Water supply to be disrupted in south Delhi today and tomorrow||Due to a repair work at south Delhi’s Greater Kailash, water supply to some of the localities in that area will be affected on Friday and Saturday, the Delhi Jal Board informed on Thursday. “Due to some miscellaneous work, the evening water supply on January 15 and the morning water supply on January 16 will not be available in South Delhi areas, which receive water from the Sonia Vihar water treatment plant,” the DJB said.The areas that will be affected by the repair work are Sarai Kale Khan, Jal Vihar, Kailash Nagar, Moolchand Hospital, Lajpat Nagar, GK, Vasant Kunj, Deoli, Ambedkar Nagar, Kotla Mubarakpur, Sarita Vihar, Dakshinpuri, Shahpur Jat, Panchsheel Park, Sidharth Nagar, Malviya Nagar, Sriniwaspuri and Chattarpur. The DJB said that the shutdown period will be of 15 hours, from 10am on Friday to 1am on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/water-supply-to-be-disrupted-in-south-delhi-today-and-tomorrow-101610647951968.html
14-01-2021||Other||Fed up of paying extortion, vegetable vendor kills man in Subhash Place||A 25-year-old vegetable vendor, fed up of having to hand over a substantial portion of his daily earnings to a local extortionist, in north Delhi’s Subhash Place hacked the alleged criminal to death, Delhi Police said on Thursday. The suspect, Ravi Singh, was caught by Delhi Police’s crime branch on Wednesday, three days after he hacked Vijay Sahil to death. According to Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (crime), Singh operated a vegetable cart in Subhash Place with which he supported his family. “But he was being forced to come to cough up a substantial portion of that earning to the local criminal, Vijay Sahil,” said the DCP. Sahil had nearly two dozen criminal cases against him, ranging from theft to murder across Delhi. He lived in the same neighbourhood as Singh. On Sunday evening, Sahil again visited Singh’s vegetable stall, allegedly to collect his daily extortion money.But Singh this time refused to pay, said the DCP. That led to a heated exchange between them, during which Sahil allegedly threatened Singh, who responded by using a knife to hack the alleged extortionist to death. While Singh fled the crime spot and went into hiding, Sahil’s body lay at the spot until next morning when it was discovered by his family. Initially, given the background of the dead man, the local police suspected it to be a case of enmity with another criminal. But the evidence at the spot soon indicated the alleged involvement of Singh. “On Wednesday, we received a tip-off about Singh’s location and we arrested him. We have handed him over to the local police,” said DCP Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fed-up-of-paying-extortion-vegetable-vendor-kills-man-in-subhash-place-101610647892834.html
14-01-2021||Other||On Day 3 of education conference, experts suggest ways to improve teaching||On the third day of the week-long Delhi education conference, organised by the Delhi government, policy experts from the United Kingdom, Netherlands, and also from India led a panel discussion focusing on improving professional development for teachers.The panel included education experts Jelmer Evers, learning expert from the Netherlands, Subramanian Giridhar, COO of Azim Premji University, Harry Fletcher-Wood, associate dean at Ambition Institute and an expert in teacher development, and Lucy Crehan, an international education consultant.Giridhar suggested the setting up a voluntary teacher forum wherein teachers could discuss their work. “A forum where groups of 20-25 teachers take up a topic and come together periodically with a simple focus on ‘Can I teach better tomorrow?’ Administrators should also periodically engage with the local community. They should then identify subject specialists and high performing teachers and welcome them into the system,” he said.Crehan, who has studied the education model of five countries, said, “In Japan, China, Singapore, the practice of ‘lesson study’ is common. The teachers come together and produce lesson plans on how to teach a certain concept.” Fletcher, a history teacher in England, said teachers must spend time together “to work on their ideas outside of classrooms to refine their teaching plans.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said, “Ideas like focusing on quality teacher training, developing good infrastructure and offering a conducive work environment for teachers are important for our government. If we work together, we can implement all these ideas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/on-day-3-of-education-conference-experts-suggest-ways-to-improve-teaching-101610647891978.html
14-01-2021||Other||Delhi govt restructures SCERT, DIET for better teacher training opportunities||The Delhi government on Thursday announced the restructure of the State Council of Educational Research And Training (SCERT) and District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) in order to further improve the facilities for teacher training in the national capital.While SCERT works on the development of curriculum for students, promotes educational research and training of teachers and other personnel, the nine DIETs in Delhi offer elementary teacher education courses. In a statement issued on Thursday, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia’s office said the SCERT will focus on improving teacher training in Delhi government schools. “We have to prepare teachers who can inculcate an inquisitive habit in our children and empower them to ask questions in classrooms. Children should have the courage to demand truth and fill in the gaps of what they’ve learned so far. Only teachers can transform our society. It is then important to instil the right spirit in our teachers, and we can only achieve that through teacher training,” the statement said.Addressing the programme organised on the occasion of the announcement on Thursday, Sisodia said the Delhi government has also done a lot of work on teacher training over the past few years. “We have increased the posts and salaries in SCERT to instil a sense of respect for the talent that comes into the system. They’ve been given the UGC-scale salaries. Delhi is the only state which has increased the pay scale in SCERT and DIET to bring it on par with NCERT,” he said.The Government of Delhi has increased the number of academic faculty posts in SCERT and DIET from 240 to over 700. “This will make it possible for these institutions to fulfil their objectives and also perform better,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-restructures-scert-diet-for-better-teacher-training-opportunities-101610647831927.html
14-01-2021||Other||Will implement steps to ensure proper post-Covid care, govt tells HC||The Delhi government on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it was “actively considering” an expert committee’s recommendations, which included providing telemedicine assistance to those suffering from post-Covid health issuesAfter accepting the government submissions, the court disposed of the plea seeking a ramping up of testing, through which it was monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the capital for the past several months.In a status report filed before a bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rekha Palli, the Delhi government has said its committee had recommended that post Covid-care clinics -- similar to the ones that are functional in major hospitals in Delhi since mid-October 2020 -- may also be set up in other Covid designated hospitals.Advocate Satyakam, additional standing counsel, Delhi government, told the court that a decision on the suggestion would be taken at the earliest.On December 23, 2020, the court had directed the Delhi government to frame standard operating procedures (SOPs) to deal with post Covid-19 complications relating to the lungs and other vital organs.The direction was issued by the court after petitioner, advocate Rakesh Malhotra, who had sought the ramping up of testing in the city, had told the court that there should be some SOPs for managing post Covid-19 complications as well.On Thursday, while noting the government’s submission, the court said it has no doubt that the Delhi government will act in a proactive manner to deal with the pandemic as well the post-infection complications to save lives.“We have no doubt that the Delhi government will act in a proactive manner to ensure that all contingencies which arise on account of Covid and post-Covid complications would be dealt with to save the precious lives.”It also recorded the submissions made by advocate Malhotra and said, “It is thanks to the orders passed by this court and its implementation (by the Delhi government) that lives of a large number of citizens of Delhi have been saved and people were able to overcome the scourge of the pandemic.” The court, while observing that the Covid-19 cases being reported daily was substantially lower now than at the peak of the infection, disposed of the plea by Malhotra. It also said the vaccination programme was due to be rolled out from next week and “large-scale arrangements were being made to ensure a full roll-out of the vaccination process”.The court noted that all parties in the matter have participated in a non-adversarial manner and orders passed have been “received and acted upon by the authorities in the spirit in which they were intended”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-implement-steps-to-ensure-proper-post-covid-care-govt-tells-hc-101610647772473.html
14-01-2021||Other||Cold wave to continue Delhi, air quality to get worse, warn monitoring agencies||Temperatures plummeted and air pollution shot up in the national capital on Thursday when the morning was as cold as 2°C and the 24-hour average air quality index rose to 429 – conditions that are unlikely to improve till early next week, weather scientists said.The city is in the grip of its second cold wave of the winter, brought on by icy winds from the Himalayan range that are now affecting large parts of the country’s north and northwest.“Severe cold conditions are likely to continue over Delhi till January 18. After that, the wind direction will change from north-westerly to easterly. Simply put, at present Delhi is receiving icy cold winds from the snow-clad states of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh but after January 18, winds will start coming in from the landlocked states and there will be some respite,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s regional weather forecasting centre. The minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for Delhi’s weather, was 2°C. The maximum was 19.2°C, a degree below what is considered to be normal for this time of the year. At the Palam and Lodhi Road weather stations, the minimum temperatures were 4.9°C and 2.4°C respectively. This is the second time this season that Delhi residents are experiencing a sharp drop in temperatures. The last cold spell occurred around the end of 2020 when the minimum temperature on New Year’s Day dropped to 1.1°C – the lowest recorded in 14 years.IMD scientists said the minimum temperature is likely to rise, but only marginally, on Friday. It will fall again from Saturday.The fall in temperatures has also coincided with a slowing of wind speeds, trapping pollutants in the air. The AQI shot up to 429 from 354 on Wednesday. This is the third time in the last fortnight that the AQI in Delhi had crossed the severe threshold. Similar to the last very cold spell, the last time pollution was this high was on January 1, when the AQI was 441. It stayed almost at the same level (rising by a notch) on January 2 – both these days had similar weather conditions: low temperatures and calm winds. “The average wind speed on Thursday was less than 6kmph. This, along with the moisture content in the air, is not letting pollutants to disperse properly. Similar conditions will prevail till January 18,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), warned that the coming week could be the “first extended extreme air pollution event for 2021”. “The AQI is forecasted to deteriorate rapidly in the next three days. The combination of dense fog formation leading to secondary particulate formation under congenial conditions of high humidity, extremely low ventilation and shallow boundary layer height is a major reason for the predicted smog episode in the coming days,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cold-wave-to-continue-delhi-air-quality-to-get-worse-warn-monitoring-agencies-101610647231911.html
14-01-2021||Other||Delhi extends quarantine orders for UK returnees||The Delhi government on Thursday extended the seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine rule for those returning from the United Kingdom (UK) till January 31, in the wake of a new variant of the novel coronavirus being detected among people in that country.The extension of the order comes nearly a week after the government on January 8 announced that all UK returnees, even if they test negative for Covid-19 at the airport, will have to mandatorily undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven more days of home isolation. The protocol, as per the January 8 order, was to be strictly followed in Delhi on a trial basis for a week, till January 14.“All those arriving from the UK, who test positive will be isolated and sent to an isolation facility. Those negative for Covid will be taken to a quarantine facility for seven days followed by seven days of home quarantine,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had tweeted.He had further said this has been done “to protect Delhi residents from exposure to the virus from the UK”. The number of people infected with the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India has crossed 100 and reached 102 at present, the Union health ministry confirmed on Wednesday. The presence of the new UK variant of the coronavirus has been reported by several countries, including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-extends-quarantine-orders-for-uk-returnees-101610647111867.html
14-01-2021||Other||High Court: 11 in-person benches from Jan 18||The Delhi High Court will have eleven benches to physically hear the cases from January 18. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the high court is presently functioning with physical hearing by two to three benches, on a rotation basis. Monday onwards, 11 benches -- two division benches of two judges each and nine single-judge benches shall conduct physical proceedings while rest of the judges would hear the cases via video conferencing. The high court registrar general has also issued directions to the Principal District and Sessions Judges and Principal Judge, Family Court to prepare a roster of all the subordinate courts in such a manner that the physical proceedings are held on alternate day basis, stated the office order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-11-in-person-benches-from-jan-18-101610647051932.html
14-01-2021||Other||20K Covaxin doses dispatched to six cities including Pune||PUNE The state has been allotted 20,000 Covaxin doses produced by Bharat Biotech which will be used at six centres in Maharashtra including Pune. Each centre will get 2,000 doses, said officials.According to state health officials, these doses of Covaxin will be given on the first day (January 16) in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Amravati and Satara. There will however be dedicated vaccination centres like one in Aundh in Pune where Covaxin shots will be given to healthcare staff.“As per the information shared by the government of India, doses have been sent to District Hospital Pune, Government Medical College Solapur, Government Medical College Aurangabad, Government Medical College Nagpur, Grant Medical College and JJ Hospital Mumbai and District Hospital Amaravati,” said Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer.He further added that more details will be shared by the Centre tomorrow (Friday).Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) Covishield, along with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, were approved for restricted emergency use by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) on January 3.The vaccine dose to each health care worker has to be given in two rounds within 28 days.According to Patil, the state has received 9.83 lakh doses in total out of which 9.63 lakh doses are of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin.“Compared to 9.83 lakh doses, there are around 7.86 lakh healthcare staff from government, private and Armed Forces medical facilities registered for the inoculation though so far no one has come forward saying that he or she does not want to take the jab amid apprehensions by few about efficacy, “said Patil.Due to short supply of vials to Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday complained about the fewer vials, saying that with the given stock, only 500,000 health workers will be inoculated, down from the earlier target of 800,000.“The first people who will be given priority will be health care workers. And the consent for the same is compulsory from the healthcare professionals,” added Patil.The Centre has already made it clear that registered healthcare workers will not have any choice between two vaccines.“To take the vaccine is optional but beneficiaries will have no option to choose between two vaccines. Whichever vaccine is available at the centre, will be administered,” said Patil.He added that the vaccination is planned at 285 places in the state on the first day and by Friday, the far off locations will also get their consignments of Covishield vaccine.The state health department has also established a mechanism to deal with the situation if there is any adverse reaction during vaccination. As part of the post-vaccination mechanism, the health department has kept oxygen cylinders and medical staff ready at every centre.He added that if there is any adverse event there are set mechanism to deal with such a situation. “We have kept ready oxygen cylinders and medical staff to tackle any adverse effect,” he said.First phase of vaccinationThere will be three rooms reserved for vaccination. The first room is for checking identity proofs and completing other formalities, the second room is secured for vaccination and the third room is for rest and to check if there’s any adverse reaction.The vaccination drive will be carried between 9 am to 6 pm, according to civic officials.Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister may remain present at Kamala Nehru hospital or BJ Medical hospital. However, it has not been confirmed yet.After the state government’s green signal to conduct vaccination, PMC has finalised eight hospitals for vaccination. Now, the corporation has started preparation to put up posters and other necessary notices at all these centres.PMC kick-starts recruitment drive for medical collegePune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started the process to appoint medical staff for the long-pending Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College.After completing formation trust, the municipal corporation has published advertisements for teaching posts which includes dean, medical superintendent, professors, associate professors, tutors, senior resident and junior resident. All recruitment will be on a temporary basis.According to PMC health officials, central norms had been followed to set up the college.Hired doctors will be paid on par their counterparts in civic hospitals. It will be in accordance with Sixth Pay Commission recommendations.A total of 120 teachers and 144 non-teaching staffers will be hired for the college.The applicants will have to file an online application from January 16 to 21 between 11 am and 5 pm.First phase of vaccinationThere will be three rooms reserved for vaccination. The first room is for checking identity proofs and completing other formalities, the second room is secured for vaccination and the third room is for rest and to check if there’s any adverse reaction.The vaccination drive will be carried between 9 am to 6 pm, according to civic officials.Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister may remain present at Kamala Nehru hospital or BJ Medical hospital. However, it has not been confirmed yet.After the state government’s green signal to conduct vaccination, PMC has finalised eight hospitals for vaccination. Now, the corporation has started preparation to put up posters and other necessary notices at all these centres.PMC kick-starts recruitment drive for medical collegePune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started the process to appoint medical staff for the long-pending Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College.After completing formation trust, the municipal corporation has published advertisements for teaching posts which includes dean, medical superintendent, professors, associate professors, tutors, senior resident and junior resident. All recruitment will be on a temporary basis.According to PMC health officials, central norms had been followed to set up the college.Hired doctors will be paid on par their counterparts in civic hospitals. It will be in accordance with Sixth Pay Commission recommendations.A total of 120 teachers and 144 non-teaching staffers will be hired for the college.The applicants will have to file an online application from January 16 to 21 between 11 am and 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20k-covaxin-doses-dispatched-to-six-cities-including-pune-101610645672368.html
14-01-2021||Other||Few city doctors unwilling to take Covid vaccine; experts say it’s the only way forward||PUNE The frontline workers, including doctors are the top priority for access to Covid-19 vaccine, but some of them have expressed reluctance over taking the shots even as experts say vaccination is the only way forward.Medical professionals noted that the vaccine against Covid-19 cannot be made in less than a year hinting towards the questions about its efficacy and possible side-effects.Dr Chandrashekhar Sathaye, an orthopaedic surgeon who voluntarily worked as incharge of the Covid Care Centre in Alibaug said that his family and he, himself will not take the vaccination.“Covid has shown us that we are not prepared for a health emergency. Initially, a few medicines like Hydroxychloroquine were administered to patients which later proved to be more harmful. It is similar to the vaccine also. There is no safety proven for these vaccines,” he said.“In the United States and Europe, patients are strictly observed after the vaccine is administered, but in India, there is no such provision,” said Sathaye.He further added that there is no pathogen challenge. “There should be a follow-up after the vaccination to make sure that those who are administered with it are safe,” he said.Sharing similar views, Dr Nitin Bhagali, a city-based orthopaedic doctor said that he is confused whether he should take the vaccine or not.“I am confused if I should take the vaccine myself as this is the record time ever that any vaccine is introduced for a new viral disease. There is definite apprehension if adequate trials have been properly conducted and safety issues are ensured. Disasters following a number of vaccinations for different diseases are on record in various parts of the world in the recent past,” he said.He added that reports of narcolepsy that is excessive sleep after swine flu vaccination, severe reactions after HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccination in Japan and antibody-dependent disease enhancement after dengue vaccine in the Philippines are some examples of grievous nature.“I am in a dilemma if I should trust my own immunity or vaccine as there is a high chance of being already exposed to the virus as I have been practising even during the lockdown and my branch has the highest risk because of aerosol generation,” he said.However, other experts differ in opinion. Speaking during an online discussion about the vaccine, Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said that vaccines are a good way to secure a vulnerable population.“In a country like Israel, where the population is less. The government has managed to give vaccination to around 22 per cent of the total population. India has to make similar efforts. We can do that with the government and people’s acceptance. We have to vaccinate vulnerable population. This will help in the reduction in mortality and transmission. There is the issue of side effects, but they can be effectively managed by regular follow-ups of the patient,” he said.Dr Amit Shah, Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) immunisation officer, said that the vaccination will start from January 16 for healthcare staff and later frontline workers like the police force among others.“Vaccines will be administered at eight sites across the city and around 800 people will receive the vaccination on day 1. In the first week, we will reach 24,000 people,” said Dr Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/few-city-doctors-unwilling-to-take-covid-vaccine-experts-say-it-s-the-only-way-forward-101610645671796.html
14-01-2021||Gurugram||Bird samples suspected positive for avian flu, sent for further testing||The Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab (RDDL) in Jalandhar has sent the bird carcass samples from Gurugram to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal for additional tests, as they have been marked “suspected positive” for bird flu, officials said on Thursday.Two bird carcasses obtained from Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park in Sector 56 were sent to the RDDL last week.Meanwhile, samples from three other districts — Hisar, Jind and Rohtak — where unusual mortality of wild birds was suspected, were declared negative for avian influenza by the RDDL on Wednesday.Confirming the developments, Rajesh Chahal, district wildlife inspector, said, “We have received a report from Jalandhar saying that the samples from Gurugram are suspected to be positive for bird flu. A second round of tests is being done so that we can be completely sure. Until then, we are monitoring all wetland areas for any excess or unusual bird deaths. So far, we have found none.”Dr Punita Gahlot, deputy director with the district animal husbandry department, declined to comment without reviewing the final lab reports. Dr Mohinder Pal Singh, joint director at the RDDL in Jalandhar, could not be reached on Thursday despite multiple attempts.The district animal husbandry department on Thursday also convened a meeting of various line departments, whose involvement will be required in case a containment operation needs to be launched at poultry farms.A senior veterinarian with the department, who was present at the meeting, said, “We have gone over the standard action plan to be followed in case there is an unusual mortality among poultry. No specific tasks have yet been assigned. But everyone from the police to the health department has been apprised of their role and told to be prepared.”However, a containment operation will only be required if poultry is affected, the official pointed out, adding that there is no evidence yet to suggest this. They pointed to the reopening of poultry markets in Delhi’s Ghazipur area, where the sale and transport of poultry had been restricted after wild bird samples from Delhi tested positive for avian influenza. However, after 100 poultry samples from Ghazipur tested negative on Thursday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal removed these restrictions, allowing the sale and transport of poultry to resume.In case the wild bird samples test positive, the animal husbandry department will send 39 chicken samples from an area where poultry density is the highest. “The state will decide the next steps based on those results,” said the senior veterinarian cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bird-samples-suspected-positive-for-avian-flu-sent-for-further-testing-101610644771684.html
14-01-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccine doses arrive at Pataudi store||The first batch of over 84,630 doses of Covishield vaccine arrived at the regional vaccine storage facility in Pataudi on Thursday. Another consignment of 11,400 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine also arrived late night, confirmed district health department officials.Of the total supply, 44,950 Covishield doses and at least 4,200 doses from the Covaxin stock have been allocated for Gurugram. The district has received the maximum doses of the 22 districts in the state due to the highest number of Covid-19 cases being reported from the district.The remaining stock of Covishield at the Pataudi storage unit has been allocated for nearby districts of Nuh (7,120 doses), Faridabad (21,770 doses), Palwal (5,090 doses) and Rewari (5,700 doses). In case of Covaxin, at least 3,000 doses will be given to Palwal and 4,200 to Faridabad.Around 1pm on Thursday, the consignment of the Covishield vaccine arrived from the state vaccine store of Kurukshetra in a vaccine van. On entering Pataudi, two police vans escorted the vaccine van to ensure the secure delivery of the vaccine to the regional vaccine storage at the Pataudi Civil Hospital.According to Pawan Kumar, the driver of the vaccine van, the consignment was collected from the state storage facility in Kurukshetra around 3.30am on Thursday. Cold boxes, in which vaccines were kept, were loaded onto the van and they left for Gurugram at 8:30am. On arrival, at least nine cold boxes were shifted straight to the walk-in room of the cold storage unit at the Pataudi hospital, he said.A technician at the site said that each cold box contains 12,000 doses of the vaccine. From the cold box, they were shifted to the ice-lined refrigerator, to store them at the optimal temperature of 5 degrees Celsius. The technician, requesting anonymity, said the stock allocated for neighbouring districts was collected by the respective health teams in the evening and the stock for Gurugram left at the storage facility.On the day of vaccination, the vaccines will be distributed to cold chain points and further to six session sites in the city through vaccine carriers, which will have ice packs conditioned at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius.“Gurugram is the first district in the state to collect the vaccine from the state store. Vigilance has been increased to protect against any sort of pilferage or theft,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. He said that the storage facility has a 24-hour power backup.Officials said that continuous temperature monitoring will be done at the cold storage unit as there cannot be temperature excursion beyond 30 minutes. Any temperature fluctuation would affect the efficacy of the vaccine. The storage temperature has to be recorded twice a day through the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN).For security purposes, four police personnel have been deployed at the site.Karan Singh, the superintendent of police, Pataudi, said, “Our teams will be deployed 24x7 until we receive further orders from the police department. The teams will work in two shifts to prevent any unregulated movement.”Yadav said that the distribution of Covaxin and Covishield to the vaccine sites will have to be decided. “Persons who will get the first vaccine jab at each of the six sites are yet to be confirmed.” He said that the district can finalise the list once the access of the Co-WIN platform is given to the district by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccine-doses-arrive-at-pataudi-store-101610644714714.html
14-01-2021||Gurugram||Interstate car thief arrested, stole over 200 SUVs: Police||An interstate gang of vehicle lifters from Nagaland was busted on Wednesday, said police. The kingpin of the gang has been arrested and two SUVs worth ₹70 lakh recovered from his possession.The police said the suspect, identified as Kikheto Achuri of Dimapur in Nagaland, used to replace the chassis and engine numbers of stolen cars and sell them in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Mizoram and Haryana. His two close aides were arrested last December from Sector 29 while they were allegedly trying to steal an SUV. The police said Achuri confessed to having stolen more than 200 SUVs from Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida in the last two years. The police said that the gang used to take less than three minutes to steal a car and they used to steal at least two vehicles a day. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they have recovered four high-security number plates of the Arunachal Pradesh authority. “We have recovered a hi-tech gadget that can hack into security systems of cars with advanced lock mechanisms. They unlocked cars by using the device to hack the vehicles’ engine control module. The thieves use the device to break into cars by unlocking it without breaking windows,” he said. The gang bought the gadget for ₹2 lakh, said Sangwan, adding that they targeted posh areas of the city and sold each SUV for ₹5 lakh.Sangwan said the gang used to meet second-hand car dealers in different cities and offer them good margins to sell these cars. “The stolen vehicles were sold with new identities along with original looking documents in Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Hisar, Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Rajasthan,” he said. The police said that all gang members are repeat offenders. The police said the suspects were wanted by Meghalaya, Kolkata, Haryana and Manipur police for the last one year. “We are questioning the suspect to know all details of people involved in sale and purchase of these stolen vehicles,” said KK Rao, the commissioner of police. Rao said the suspects used to steal cars from Delhi-NCR and travel to other places. They had all documents handy due to which they went under the radar and were allowed to cross interstate borders.The police said the suspects used to do the rounds of the city to identify their targets in the day and steal vehicles using a master key in the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/interstate-car-thief-arrested-stole-over-200-suvs-police-101610644713660.html
14-01-2021||Gurugram||Air quality deteriorates, experts point to low temperatures, slow winds||Air quality in the city deteriorated to the very poor category on Thursday, recording an air quality index (AQI) reading of 354, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air bulletin.The AQI fell sharply from a score of 276 the previous day, which indicated poor air and had marked Gurugram’s worst AQI reading this year. Officials and experts attributed the surge in pollution to low wind speeds, lack of sunlight and colder temperatures that began setting in earlier this week.The minimum temperature in Gurugram rose marginally to settle at 4.9 degrees Celsius on Thursday morning, up from 4.6 degrees Celsius a day prior. The maximum temperature increased significantly, touching 18.2 degrees Celsius, up from 15.2 degrees Celsius a day prior.The weather readings are according to the data from the India Meteorological Department’s automatic weather station in Delhi’s Palam area, which borders the city. Gurugram’s weather system has not been recording the temperature readings for several days now.Experts pointed out that the increase in temperature hasn’t been able to stave off a deterioration in air quality, due to the lack of clear skies and wind speeds. “Conditions, right now, are extremely unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants. This is not surprising since we have witnessed a western disturbance earlier this month. After the passage of a weather system, there is a stagnation period where winds slow down and the temperature falls, allowing dust to accumulate and remain suspended very close to the earth. There was some change in daytime temperature today, but not enough to get the winds moving again,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist.While two of the city’s four air quality monitors — at Teri Gram and in Sector 51 — did not record sufficient data to compute the AQI on Thursday, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11 recorded an AQI of 410 (indicating severe air), while another monitor on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road recorded an AQI of 354 (indicating very poor air). The average daily concentration of finer particulate matter (PM2.5) at Vikas Sadan stood at 410ug/m3, up from 331ug/m3 on Wednesday and almost seven times the permissible limit of 60ug/m3.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “The air quality is likely to deteriorate and crossover from the upper end of very poor to the severe category on 15.01.2021. The air quality is likely to remain in the severe category on 16.01.2021. A slight improvement is expected on 17.01.2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-deteriorates-experts-point-to-low-temperatures-slow-winds-101610644712608.html
14-01-2021||Gurugram||Mewat farmers start sit-in near Punhana||Farmers from Mewat on Thursday started a sit-in protest at Sunhera-Jurehra, near Punhana at the Rajasthan-Haryana border. The farmers decided to start the protest after they were prevented from proceeding towards Delhi. Around 300 people are currently participating in the sit-in that has received support from farmer leaders at other protest sites in the region, protesters said.This is the third such sit-in protest taking place in the region. Farmers from different states have been camping at Jaisinghpur Khera, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for over a month now, while another set of farmers are camping at Dharuhera in Rewari. “Today is the third day of our protest. Farmers from Haryana and Rajasthan came together on Tuesday and we decided to walk towards Delhi to join the farmers’ movement. The Haryana police didn’t allow us to proceed ahead so we started a sit-in protest,” said Maulana Arshad Meel, a native of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, who is spearheading the protest. Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new agriculture laws that were passed in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Meel said that the laws are against the interest of farmers and would adversely affect the region, since a major chunk of the region’s population is dependent on farming for sustenance. He said that the Haryana-Rajasthan Mewati Kisan Andalon (movement) will continue till the three laws are repealed. “The majority of the people in Mewat are into farming. While some have land holdings, others work as labourers in the fields. These laws could disfranchise farmers of their land and make them vulnerable to exploitation,” said Meel. He said that farmers from Nuh, Palwal, Alwar and Faridabad had extended support to their agitation. “We will continue to support the farmers’ agitation till the three laws are repealed. Regardless of harsh weather conditions or pressure from the police, we will persist with our protest,” said Meel. Siddique Ahmed Meo, a social activist from Nuh, said that the protest had been initiated by farmers in Rajasthan and Haryana. He said that outreach efforts are being carried out in villages to increase awareness about the new farm laws and their consequences. “We are making efforts to make farmers aware of the dangers posed by these laws. A sense of awakening and understanding of the laws is developing gradually,” said Meo. He said that around 85% of the population in Nuh was associated with farming. “Some people have smaller landholdings, while some have bigger landholdings. However, bigger landowners such as the ones in Punjab or other parts of Haryana are not found here,” said Meo. Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Jawahar Yadav said that farmers should go home and understand that the implementation of the three laws had been stayed by the Supreme Court. “Currently, the laws have been stayed. Farmers should go home and reflect on the various aspects of the laws till the committee formed does its job,” said Yadav, maintaining that the laws were in the interest of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mewat-farmers-start-sit-in-near-punhana-101610644713253.html
14-01-2021||Gurugram||Private hospitals serving as session sites ready for Covid-19 inoculations||Two private hospitals of the district, designated as Covid-19 vaccination sites for January 16 drive, have trained their health staff as vaccinators and data entry operators to smoothly conduct the drive. Each facility will have at least two vaccinators to administer the vaccine jab, according to the medical officers of the hospitals.Out of the six sites — Medanta Hospital in Sector 39 and SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera — are the only private facilities, while the remaining sessions sites are at government primary schools in Wazirabad and Daulatabad, Chauma urban primary health centre and Bhangrola primary health centre.Medanta Hospital, which has almost 6,800 healthcare workers, will set up two vaccination counters, with each handling 50 persons. “A mock drill was conducted in the hospital on Wednesday. About 25 vaccinators from our facility have already been trained. They can be either on stand-by in case there is a vaccinator from the health department or else they would administer the vaccine,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, who looks after clinical and operational management for Medanta. She said at least 25 data entry operators from the hospital were trained by the district administration last week. “They will be doing the verification and data entry on the Co-WIN platform. Overall, at least 10 people from our facility will be stationed on the first floor of the hospital, where the vaccination will be conducted.”Likewise, the staff of SGT hospital will have their own data entry operators. Dr Umesh Lamba, deputy medical superintendent, SGT Hospital, said, “At least 14 people were trained last week to handle Co-WIN platform. As per the plan, there will be two vaccinators at the site, one from the government set-up and an other from our facility. It will be decided later who would do the inoculation.”Both the hospitals have included nurses, housekeeping staff, lab technicians and doctors as vaccine beneficiaries. Kataria said, “Of the 100 people, health workers who had duty at Covid-19 wards are first on the list. Others, like housekeeping staff and doctors, are also included.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/private-hospitals-serving-as-session-sites-ready-for-covid-19-inoculations-101610644711774.html
14-01-2021||Other||Sena seeks change in proposal of PPP model to develop roads, bridges in Pune||Pune: The Shiv Sena has demanded the Pune Municipal Corporation rethink its proposal to pursue the public private partnership (PPP) model to develop roads and bridges.Recently, the PMC’s standing committee approved a proposal to develop 12 roads and one bridge using the PPP model. Several elected members have raised their voices against it.Against this background, Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar had submitted a letter to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and the standing committee, demanding the PPP proposal be revised.Sutar said, “While using the PPP model, the administration must ensure that roads be selected in the interest of citizens and not in favour of developers. Administration must ensure that roads are selected which create end-to-end connectivity and not just for a few projects.”Along with the Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress have also opposed the PPP model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sena-seeks-change-in-proposal-of-ppp-model-to-develop-roads-bridges-in-pune-101610641891459.html
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Avian influenza: 13 samples from Chandigarh test negative, 14 birds dead||As many as 13 samples collected from 12 crows and a pigeon on January 11 have tested negative for bird flu, the UT department of forests and wildlife confirmed on Thursday.Stating that it was a great relief that all 21 samples of dead birds sent for testing so far had tested negative, UT chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said, “We were concerned about these samples, as eight crows were found near the Chandigarh railway station, which appeared suspicious.”Dalai said he took a tour of Sukhna Lake on Thursday to observe the behaviour of migratory birds. “The birds seem fine, but we will maintain constant vigil.”Joint director of the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department, Dr Kanwarjit Singh said rapid response teams had been formed for surveillance in the city that had been divided into four zones. “Around 40 veterinary and para-veterinary officials are present on the field to monitor the behaviour of birds everyday,” he added.10 crows among 14 birds found deadA total of 14 dead birds were recovered in the city on Thursday. Among these 10 crows were recovered in Manimajra, the railway station and Kalagram, while a woodpecker, a pigeon, a koyal and a jungle babbler were found at the railway station, Sector 20, Sector 3 and Sector 42, respectively. According to wildlife officials, more crows were being recovered near the Chandigarh-Panchkula boundary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/avian-influenza-13-samples-from-chandigarh-test-negative-14-birds-dead-101610638891107.html
14-01-2021||Other||PMC earns less revenue from building permission||PUNE: Though the Inspector-General of Registration and Controller of Stamps, Pune (IGR) office registered record property registrations in 2020, the building permission department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has collected less revenue as compared to previous fiscal till December 2020.“PMC has received Rs150 crore till December 2020 as against ₹700 crore in the previous year (2019-20). PMC building permission department expects to collect an additional Rs100 crore till March end,” said an official from the building permission department requesting anonymity.PMC city engineer Prashant Waghmare said, “We received very few proposals for building permission this year because of the Covid situation. The lockdown imposed in March last year put a stop on construction activity and many labourers left for their hometown. Developers were planning to submit proposals after seeing a rise in demand for flats, but the former have decided to present fresh new proposals after the state government published notification for unified development control rules (DCR).” The new DCR notification permits plot holders below 1,500 square feet to erect the construction without submitting the plan to local bodies.“As developers are revising building plans as per the new unified DCR rules, we expect many proposals in the next few months and PMC may collect record revenue from building permission,” Waghmare said.During September to December 2020, over 12 lakh propoerties got registered in the state. Omprakash Deshmukh IGR said, “After the announcing the discount in stamp duty by three percentage, property registration increased substantially. It shows that buying and selling sentiments has increased in the realty sector.”Credai India’s national president Satish Magar said, “People brought flats taking advantage of stamp duty discount and the real estate sector got a boost after lockdown.”A builder on condition of anonymity said, “Many builders who had ready-to-move flats sold it post stamp duty discount. As developers are focussing on selling their existing projects than launching new ones, they are not seeking building permission from authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-earns-less-revenue-from-building-permission-101610637691090.html
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Nothing short of repeal of farm laws will resolve crisis: Punjab cabinet||The Punjab cabinet on Thursday asserted that nothing short of a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws would break the deadlock between the Union government and protesting farmers in the matter.It also said that the Congress-led Punjab government would take all measures to protect the interests of the state and farmers.“The central government is out of touch with the ground realities,” Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said at a meeting of the state cabinet.The members of the cabinet said repeal of the farm laws was the only way out of the current imbroglio, according to a government statement.The council of ministers also demanded that the Centre make minimum support price (MSP) a statutory right of farmers, who had been "getting extremely low prices for their produce" for the past several days despite being responsible for feeding the nation.The state cabinet also observed a two-minute silence in the memory of farmers who have died during the agitation against the farm laws. An estimated 78 farmers have so far lost their lives.Stressing the need for an early resolution to the agitation to prevent further loss of life, the cabinet said the matter has already been debated and discussed in eight rounds of negotiations held between the protesting farmers and the Union government.Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar was also present in the meeting.The cabinet noted that the Centre should not stand on “prestige and ego” in the matter, which, if unresolved, could lead to “devastating repercussions” for the country for decades to come.“If the Centre can make sweeping amendments to the laws, then this adamancy about not revoking the legislations is inexplicable,” it said.The council of ministers also mentioned the Supreme Court's acknowledgement of the concerns of the protesting farmers.The apex court had on Monday rapped the Centre over the prolonged impasse with the protesting farmers demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws, saying it was “extremely disappointed” with the negotiation process.In a formal resolution, the Punjab cabinet reiterated its commitment to the resolutions passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on August 28 and October 20 last year, stressing that all the genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted.It urged the Centre to “repeal the farm laws as agriculture is a state subject under the Constitution of India, and to make MSP a statutory right”.The state cabinet also welcomed the Supreme Court order staying the central legislations as “acknowledgement” of the concerns of the farmers of Punjab who are protesting against the farm laws, and “recognition” of their pain and anguish. “There is need for broad-based dialogue and proper consultation with all stakeholders as these legislations impact the future of millions of farmers across the country, and all genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted,” said the resolution.The cabinet also appreciated the peaceful protest by the farmers, which has also been taken note of by the Supreme Court, in keeping with the best of the democratic practices. The cabinet meeting was convened by CM Singh with the sole agenda of discussing the issue in the light of the apex court orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nothing-short-of-repeal-of-farm-laws-will-resolve-crisis-punjab-cabinet-101610636832207.html
14-01-2021||Other||Arrest of 2 leads to recovery of 26 stolen phones, 3 bikes||PUNE The arrest of two men has led to recovery of 26 stolen mobile phones and three stolen two-wheelers, collectively worth ₹4.2 lakh, according to a statement issued by the Pimpri Chinchwad police crime branch.The two have been identified as Sagar Mohan Savle (22) a resident of More Vasti in Chikhali; and Nilesh Devanand Bhalerao (19), a resident of Nevale Vasti in Chikhali.Of the cases detected by the police, three are registered at the Pimpri police station, three at two at MIDC Bhosari and one at the Shirval police station, in the past year. Of the total recovery, the phones cost ₹2,42,000, while the motorbikes are worth ₹1,70,000, according to police.They were arrested in a case of bike theft which was under investigation by the local police. The police found a stolen Honda bike from them.The police have started the process to trace the owners of the remaining bikes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arrest-of-2-leads-to-recovery-of-26-stolen-phones-3-bikes-101610636850869.html
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Heritage furniture: Panjab University asks depts to install CCTV cameras to prevent theft||With an aim to prevent theft of heritage furniture, Panjab University has asked departments concerned to immediately install CCTV cameras on their premises.A circular regarding this was issued by varsity’s dean university instruction (DUI) on Thursday.The move comes after the sociology department in November reported that 48 of its heritage chairs had gone missing. After the theft was reported, a special panel headed by then senator Navdeep Goyal had asked for verification of heritage furniture by experts from PU’s architecture office. Among suggestions for preservation of the heritage furniture, the panel had advised installation of CCTV cameras.“All those departments/centres where heritage furniture is available should immediately install CCTV cameras on their premises. For this purpose, the heads of the departments/centres/institutes may request the office of the finance and development officer to provide appropriate ‘budget head’,” reads the communication issued by the DUI office.It adds that any complaint about missing/stolen furniture should be looked into by the office of the chief of university security.Chief of university security Ashwani Koul said, “CCTV cameras are always required at critical points and entrances of departments. We welcome the step, as it will be helpful in curbing such incidents at the university.”According to a list compiled by the Chandigarh Heritage Inventory Committee in 2012, there are 12,793 heritage items, of which a large number are in the possession of the Government Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10. Besides, a huge stock of chairs and tables are at the Punjab and Haryana civil secretariats, Vidhan Sabha and the Punjab and Haryana high court. Panjab University, too, owns a number of such items.The physical verification of these items has yet to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heritage-furniture-panjab-university-asks-depts-to-install-cctv-cameras-to-prevent-theft-101610635291736.html
14-01-2021||Jaipur||Coronavirus claims two more lives as 281 news cases surface in Rajasthan||Rajasthan health authorities on Thursday reported two more coronavirus deaths and 281 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the total numbers to 2,744 fatalities and 3,14,372 infections in the state.According to a Health Department bulletin, 2,744 people have died from the infection in the state so far.So far, 509 deaths have died in Jaipur, 299 in Jodhpur, 221 in Ajmer, 168 in Kota, 167 in Bikaner, 120 in Bharatpur, 112 in Udaipur, 109 in Pali and 100 in Sikar.On Thursday, Rajasthan recorded 281 new cases, including 36 each in Jaipur and Jodhpur, 26 in Kota, 25 in Udaipur, 24 in Bhilwara and 22 in Ajmer.Currently, 5,675 people are under treatment in the state, the bulletin said.According to it, 3,05,953 people have been discharged after treatment till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/coronavirus-claims-two-more-lives-as-281-news-cases-surface-in-rajasthan-101610635140398.html
14-01-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 563 fresh Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths in 24 hours||Pune district on Thursday reported a total of 563 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection with 11 deaths in the last 24 hours. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 1,95,038 Covid-19 cases and 4,448 deaths till Thursday. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 95,347 cases so far and a total of 1,295 deaths due to Covid-19 infection.Pune rural has reported 90,246 total cases so far and 2,105 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 3,80,631 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 3,57,145 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 7,848 deaths in the district. At present, there are 15,601 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 3,309 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 18,77,588 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.75%.Across Maharashtra, 3,576 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 70 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.54%.The state health department stated that of 1,36,23,298 laboratory samples, 19,81,623 have tested positive for Covid-19 till Thursday, which is 14.55% patients.Currently 1,96,829 people are in home quarantine and 2,403 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-563-fresh-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-in-24-hours-101610635230748.html
14-01-2021||Other||Ex-employee, husband, friend in police custody for allegedly stealing data from woman’s former employer||PUNE A former employee of an IT company, her husband, and their friend have been remanded to police custody by a local court in Pune on Thursday for allegedly stealing data from the woman’s former employer.A complaint in the matter was lodged by advocate Sadikali Sayyed representing the complainant company, which is represented by advocate Shriram Pingle in court. While only the woman has software qualifications, the other accused in the case do not have any software qualifications, according to the police. A case is registered under Sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master), 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66 (C) (D), 72, and 72-A of Information Technology Act at Pune rural cyber police station on December 22, 2020.“We have to investigate how the woman stole the data and uploaded it on another drive. She then shared the data with her husband and others and created a mutual link for benefits. The complainant company employed multiple software engineers and professionals and took years together to come up with a product while one of the accused launched 20 products within three months of launching a company. How is that possible?” said senior police inspector Audumbar Patil of the cyber police station of Pune rural police. “If each cyber crime is detected with utmost care and urgency the accused would be nailed faster. The police need to be equipped with adequate infrastructure and experts from IT,” said advocate Pingle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exemployee-husband-friend-in-police-custody-for-allegedly-stealing-data-from-woman-s-former-employer-101610633490412.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt releases ₹938 crore to pay salaries of MCD staff||Delhi minister Satyendra Jain on Thursday announced that the Delhi government will release ₹938 crore to pay salaries of employees of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD).Jain also pointed out that in the process of disbursing the salaries the Delhi government had to reduce the budget of the Delhi government’s other departments. “After reducing the budget of several departments of Delhi govt, we are releasing ₹938 crores to pay for the salaries of MCD employees,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia lashed out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for mishandling Delhi MCD’s funds. Sisodia alleged that the BJP has left the MCD bankrupt.“North and East municipal corporations are bankrupt, they have ₹12 crores & ₹99 lakh in their bank accounts respectively. They have a loan amount of ₹6,276 crores to be paid to the Delhi govt. BJP has left the MCDs bankrupt,” Sisodia was quoted as saying by ANI.Sisodia also said that even BJP leaders have accepted that MCD is facing issues due to corruption. “In 14 years of corrupt rule, BJP has sucked the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) dry. The municipal corporations are not in a state to pay the salaries of their employees. Even BJP leaders have agreed that corruption is at its peak in MCD,” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said.MCD workers also announced that they will not resume their duties if they do not receive their salaries. These workers have been sitting on an indefinite strike since January 7 demanding that their pending salaries be cleared immediately.The AAP and the BJP on previous occassions have hotly debated the issue concerning the municipal corporations in Delhi. In December, several BJP mayors held protests outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence demanding dues of ₹13,000 crore from the AAP government in order to pay the salaries of MCD workers. The AAP government had then alleged misappropriation of funds in North Delhi MCD and ordered a probe against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-releases-rs-938-crores-to-pay-salaries-of-mcd-staff-101610632119424.html
14-01-2021||Other||State tells civic bodies to execute TOD policy approved before unified DC rules in place||The Maharashtra government has instructed the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations to execute the transfer-oriented development (TOD) policy approved before the passing of the unified development control rules for the cities. Recently, the state government had approved the development control rules for the state and it was mandatory to all urban bodies to follow the same. While approving the Unified DC rules, it did not mention anything about the TOD policy. PMC and some political leaders raised doubts asked for clarification over the issue. The Urban Development Department has now sent a letter to the corporation and instructed it to execute the TOD policy approved before the Unified DC rules. PMC, PCMC and PMRDA are executing metro projects. To increase population density along the metro corridor, additional construction is needed under the TOD policy. City engineer Prashant Waghmare said, “We got the instruction from the state government to execute the TOD policy which was approved earlier.” BJP leader Ujwal Keskar said, “Under the Unified DC rules, there is less construction allowed under existing TOD policy. PMC needs to rectify this and take approval from the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-tells-civic-bodies-to-execute-tod-policy-approved-before-unified-dc-rules-in-place-101610632290305.html
14-01-2021||Other||Bird flu scare: Pune eateries see dip in sale of chicken items; state officials say it is safe for consumption||Pune: The bird flu scare has seen a dip in sale of chicken products in some restaurants and café across the city. As of Thursday, Pune district has zero bird flu cases and the samples of 13 poultry birds sent for examination have tested negative. Even as the state animal husbandry department has advised people that there is no harm in consuming poultry products and cooking it at home, many residents have decided to avoid chicken-based food. Good Luck Café at Fergusson College road, known for its popular butter chicken delicacy, has noticed a dip in orders. “The demand for chicken and egg-based dishes has gone down since last week. The sale of food items made of mutton has increased and many are ordering it in place of chicken,” said Abbas Ali, manager, Good Luck Café. “The major impact of bird flu has been noticed in sale of backyard poultry birds. The price fluctuation of chicken in the organised sector is normal, so there is nothing to panic. We are yet to check the sale figure after the bird flu outbreak to know the impact,” said PG Pedgaonkar, general secretary, Venky’s (India) Limited. Shalaka Ranade, manager at restobar Culture Pune on Fergusson College road said, “We are yet to receive any order from the government regarding non-sale of chicken and egg products. Those customers who inquire are told that our products are from Venky’s certified poultry farms, they agree to place the order. There is no fall in the demand for chicken-based items.” Some cafes have noticed demand for paneer (cottage cheese) and mushrooms food items from customers who preferred chicken-based dishes. “The demand for veg items, especially paneer and mushrooms, has been on the rise since last one week. The fall in egg price has been more than chicken,” said Sarvesh Jadhav, owner of Austin40 Café house, Bhandarkar road. “People are opting for vegetarian foods instead of chicken and eggs, though vendors say that there is no impact of bird flu on sale in Pune district,” said Pawan Shrivastav, owner of Perks and Brews Café, Vimannagar. “For dine-in and parcel service we are getting orders like normal days. Customers are not inquiring about bird flu,” said Ravish Shetty, manager, Sadanand Resorts in Baner. Shyam Bhagat, Pune president, National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC) said, “Though the price of eggs has fallen from ₹560 (100 eggs) to ₹390, no major difference in sale has been noticed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-scare-pune-eateries-see-dip-in-sale-of-chicken-items-state-officials-say-it-is-safe-for-consumption-101610631630313.html
14-01-2021||Other||Daily flight between Chandigarh and Hisar launched||A daily flight between Chandigarh and Hisar was inaugurated by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar at the Chandigarh International Airport on Thursday.Launched under regional connectivity scheme UDAN, the flight will be operated by M/s Air Taxi against a fare of ₹1,755. “A twin-engine aircraft with three-seat capacity is being used for the flight. Bookings can be done through www.flyairtaxi.in,” said Air Taxi CEO and director Capt Varun Suhag, adding that they also planned to soon introduce a flight to connect Dehradun with Dharamshala. After the inauguration ceremony, the chief minister (CM) examined development works underway at the airport. Airport CEO Ajay Kumar apprised him of the recently introduced baggage screening system (ILBS), parking bays at apron and ongoing construction of southern taxi track to decongest the runway.AK Singh, principal secretary, town and country planning, Haryana, and senior BJP leader Subash Barala accompanied the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/daily-flight-between-chandigarh-and-hisar-launched-101610631510208.html
14-01-2021||Other||Forest dept issues SOPs to guards as regards bird flu in wetlands||PUNE The forest department of Maharashtra has drawn up a list of standard operating procedures (SOP) for its officials to prevent the spread of birdflu within the forests.“We have identified wetlands and waterbodies in the forest area. We have also appointed forest guards to guard these wetlands and water bodies, whereupon s/he will report to the division as well as the animal husbandry department if s/he comes across any dead bird or a sick bird,” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests.He added that all range forest officers across all 10 talukas will work in continuous co-ordination with team from the animal husbandry department.“We are urging people that if they come across or find sick or dead bird in the forest area, they are to inform the department and avoid touching the bird,’’ said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-issues-sops-to-guards-as-regards-bird-flu-in-wetlands-101610630850062.html
14-01-2021||Other||PMC to survey unauthorised constructions in 23 villages merged||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun preparations to take action against unauthorised constructions in the 23 villages merged into the civic limits recently. In 2017, the state took a decision to merge 11 villages in which the corporation found 10,000 unauthorised constructions. PMRDA served 5,000 notices in the 11 merged villages.Rubal Agrawal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The PMC has decided to conduct a survey to know the unauthorised constructions in the 23 villages.”Meanwhile, the PMC has issued a tender to demolish unauthorised constructions in its existing limits, as well as the newly merged villages. Rajendra Raut, superintendent engineer, Building permission and construction department, said, “We have demolished more than 100 structures in the 11 merged villages so far and more than 1 lakh squre feet of area of construction. In the 23 villages, after PMRDA hands over the record of building permission, we will be able to decide the course of action on unauthorised constructions.”“At present, we have floated a tender to demolish unauthorised construction within PMC limits, ‘’ he said.Suhas Divase, chief executive officer of the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA), said, “During the corona pandemic the authority didn’t take any action or service notices to unauthorised constructions. Now, we will initiate action.”Last month, the State government issued a notification and appealed to citizens to register suggestions and objections on the merger of villages. The last date of submission of suggestions and objections is January 24, 2021. After that, state government will issue a final order to merge the 23 villages in the PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-survey-unauthorised-constructions-in-23-villages-merged-101610630250113.html
14-01-2021||Other||Woman sarpanch’s son, ex-sarpanch killed in group clash in Gurdaspur village||A former sarpanch was among two people killed in firing between two groups of Congress supporters over the development of a cremation ground at Maccharwal village in Dera Baba Nanak sub division of Gurdaspur district on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Hardial Singh, 42, a former sarpanch, and Manjit Singh, 40, whose mother Gurmeet Kaur is the sarpanch of the village. Police said the incident took place at 9.30am when construction work was on at the village cremation ground. Dera Baba Nanak deputy superintendent of police Surinderpal Singh said both the victims are related and had been at loggerheads. He said one of the groups had started the construction at the cremation ground, while the other was opposed it. Sources said members of both groups opened indiscriminate fire that left Hardial and Manjit injured. Superintendent of police, investigation, Tejbir Singh said the two were rushed to hospitals in Amritsar where they died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-sarpanch-s-son-ex-sarpanch-killed-in-group-clash-in-gurdaspur-village-101610623527270.html
14-01-2021||Other||36 rescued donkeys find a new home in TN||At least 36 donkeys rescued during action against sand mafias in Pandharpur have found safe refuge at the India Project for Animals and Nature (IPAN), Tamil Nadu.The centre located in Masinagudi, a tourist place in Nilgiri district, Tamil Nadu, houses rescued and abandoned animals.Vikram Kadam, sub-division police officer, Pandhapur division, said, “The rescued animals have been sent to the rehabilitation centre on Tuesday after the court order.” The donkeys were taken to the centre in a tempo.Earlier this month, a major operation was launched against the illegal sand trade in the area adjacent to the Bhima riverbed in the tehsil. During the operation, police seized 36 donkeys used as carriers to transport sand illegally. Pandharpur judicial magistrate first class on Monday ordered the animals to be sent to India Project for Animals and Nature (IPAN), Tamil Nadu. Following the order, preparations were undertaken to transport the donkeys to the concerned destination. There are more than 5,000 donkeys employed in the illegal sand mafia trade wherein ₹5,000 and ₹10,000 is paid per day for their services, said police.Santosh Kumar, animal rights activist, said, “The action taken by the authorities is a big step in the protection of donkeys as they are being rehabilitated as per court order.”The donkeys were kept at a Sangli-based NGO Animal Rahat after they were rescued, informed police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/36-rescued-donkeys-find-a-new-home-in-tn-101610621667204.html
14-01-2021||Other||Pune’s badminton star Varun Kapur ranked World No. 2 in U-19 singles||Anger, overthinking and losing cool were one of many personality traits 17-year-old Varun Kapur carried with him two years ago while playing badminton. Now ranked world no. 2, Kapur says he has shred them to be a contrast version of himself from two years ago. In the Badminton World Federation (BWF) rankings released on Tuesday, Kapur secured the world no. 2 ranking in the under-19 boys’ single category.For Kapur, it is his best achievement so far. “One of the main things on which I was improving on was my speed on the court. I guess three things – speed, patience, and strength. I am not very strong, I am agile so I have to focus lot on my strength training so I have been training with the fitness coach Kaifi Afzal and mental fitness coach Gayatri Vartak,” Kapur said. In the year 2020, Kapur stayed inside the top five rankings during most of months, only in December, he was dropped to six as he was not able to play many tournaments due to the pandemic. A trainee from Nikhil Kanetkar Badminton Academy (NKBA) at the Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex in Balewadi, Kapur has improved by leaps and bounds in the last six years since he started training in Pune. A prodigy of Nikhil Kanetkar and Mayank Gole, Kapur kept improving year by year and now he aims to transfer the same performance in the senior level tournament. “The main thing while switching from junior to senior will be motivation. Keeping yourself motivated is tough since you might not get results straight away. It’s all about having belief and self-confidence which is required the most,” added Kapur who will be turning 18 in March this year. Even though 2020 was marred by the Covid-19 pandemic globally, Kapur managed to play three tournaments. He played the first two in February – Hungarian International Junior Championship where he finished a runner up then in the same month, Kapur played the Dutch Junior International where he could not make it to final and then the Portuguese International Junior where he emerged champion. “I went to Denmark at the start of October and that was the reason I was allowed to travel to Portugal for the tournament because I was already in Europe. After a long time I was playing the tournament (after February 2020) so in the first round I was very nervous but after a few points you get used to it,” Kapur said. Exposure to playing tournaments overseas is helping Kapur develop his game and build a unique style of his own. “It makes you deal with different situations because the game style is different abroad. You have to adopt the game style and it helps you improve your game,” added Kapur who is sponsored by Kanetkar Sports Foundation (KSF), Li-Ning and the Virat Kohli Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-badminton-star-varun-kapur-ranked-world-no-2-in-u-19-singles-101610621427409.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||Authorities seize 550 sacks of rice from SP leader Fahimuddin's warehouse in UP||A truck-load of government ration was seized from the warehouse of a Samajwadi Party leader in Alapur area here following a joint raid by a team of the revenue and food and civil supply departments, an official said on Thursday.The administration had received inputs about foodgrains meant to be distributed under the public distribution system being diverted to the black market, District Supply Officer Raman Pratap Singh said.The raid was carried out on Wednesday following a directive from District Magistrate Kumar Prashant and we seized 550 sacks of rice, Singh added.Fahimuddin, the SP leader, failed to provide a convincing answer when asked about the presence of government ration in his warehouse, he said, adding that the same amount of foodgrains were found missing from a neighbouring ration shop.An FIR would be lodged against the ration shop owner and SP leader, he said.Fahimuddin is the district secretary of the SP, Prem Pal Singh Yadav, the party’s district unit president said.According to Yadav, he had no information about government ration being recovered from Fahimuddin’s warehouse and said that he was waiting to get an “authentic report” on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/authorities-seize-550-sacks-of-rice-from-sp-leader-fahimuddin-s-warehouse-in-up-101610620459149.html
14-01-2021||Other||Samples of 13 poultry birds from Pune sent for testing||Pune district which has zero bird flu cases saw deaths of 13 poultry birds in the city and four crows in rural areas on Wednesday. “The samples have been sent to the disease investigation section, Aundh. The reports of these samples are not yet declared,” said Sachindra Pratap Singh, state animal husbandry commissioner. A total of 218 poultry birds have been found dead in the state of which 18 from Latur, three from Beed, three from Akola, 86 in Yavatmal district, seven in Ahmednagar, 79 in Bhandara and nine in Solapur district. A total of 11 crows have also been found dead, four in Beed, one each in Ratnagiri, Satara and Ahmednagar. Overall, a total of 238 birds died on January 13. A total of 2,096 deaths of various birds have been recorded in the state since January 8. “The number of poultry bird deaths recorded in Pune is a very small number. Generally, when H5N1 or H5N8 type of virus attacks birds, the deaths occur in large numbers so there is nothing to panic and the samples are given for testing under routine surveillance,” said said Dr Shitalkumar Mukane, Pune district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry who is heading the team of rapid response team at the district level. “No fresh orders on culling of birds have been issued at any places on Wednesday,” said Singh. So far the culling of birds has happened in Ahmedpur, Latur district and in Parbhani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/samples-of-13-poultry-birds-from-pune-sent-for-testing-101610621188549.html
14-01-2021||Other||Gradual drop in temperature this week in Pune: IMD forecast||The day and night temperature in Pune is likely to witness a gradual drop this week, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, there won’t be a drastic drop in temperature and the sky is likely to remain clear in the next few weeks. On Wednesday, the day temperature was reported to be 31.4 degrees Celsius and the night temperature was 15.9 degrees Celsius. The day temperature was two degrees warmer than normal. And the night temperature was five degrees warmer than normal. IMD officials said that day temperature may see a drop to as low as 28 degrees Celsius. “The day temperature is likely to reduce gradually. The day temperature will continue to be around 28 degrees Celsius. And the night temperature will be around 11 degrees Celsius and the sky will remain clear,” said IMD officials. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was 35.8 degrees Celsius at Ratnagiri on Wednesday whereas the lowest minimum temperature was reported at Gondia at 11 degrees Celsius. The IMD noted that the weather in Maharashtra will remain dry until January 17. “No large change in minimum temperatures over central India, including Maharashtra until January 14. After this, the minimum temperature is likely to rise by two to four degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gradual-drop-in-temperature-this-week-in-pune-imd-forecast-101610620947282.html
14-01-2021||Other||Tunnel project: PMC appointed consultant blacklisted for delaying feasibility report||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to re-tender the ambitious tunnel project of Pashan-Panchavati-Kothrud after the hired consultant failed to submit a feasibility report of the project for more than a year. The project was announced in 2017 to ease the traffic problem of Paud road, Senapati Bapat road and Shivajinagar.Almost a year ago, the PMC had given a tender to CV Kand consultant Pvt limited to conduct and submit a feasibility report, topographical survey and an aerial survey. However, it was not completed by the consultant.Now, the PMC project department has blacklisted the consultant and have begun retendering. Last week, the corporation floated a tender to appoint project management consultants for pre- and post-tender activities for the construction of the tunnel connecting Pashan-Panchavati to Kothrud.The Pashan-Panchavati area with the Kothrud tunnel project is a long pending one. The project was introduced in 2017 in the PMC annual budget and the PMC administration had appointed a consultant in 2019 for the project. The total estimated cost was ₹224 crore.The project consists of two tunnels, Kothrud-Panchvati and Panchvati-Gokhalenagar which will connect each other. It will help reduce the distance of Pashan to Kothrud by half.Indrabhan Randive, executive engineer of the project department said, “Last week, the corporation floated a tender to appoint consultant for the Pashan-Panchavati to Kothrud tunnel work. The previous consultant could not submit a feasibility report to the civic body for more than a year. The previous consultant only conducted a topographical survey. Therefore, we floated a new tender for feasibility report work.”In September 2020, deputy chief Minister Ajit Pawar had instructed all government institutes from where the tunnel is going to pass to cooperate with the PMC. After that, state forest department, Automotive Research Association of India Research Institute (ARAI), the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) and the Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE) gave a no-objection certificate to the PMC to conduct geological surveys on their premises.The PMC proposed two tunnels under the development plan for the old city limits. The common endpoint of both these tunnels opens at Panchavati society where there is a hilly area behind the residential complexes. According to the plan, the vehicles coming from both Gokhalenagar and Kothrud will come out of the tunnel at Panchavati and through the society; these vehicles will head towards Pashan, Balewadi and Aundh area.On the other side, residents of Panchavati had registered opposition to the proposal saying that the proposed plan will not only fail in addressing traffic problems, but it will also destroy the rich biodiversity in the area.The residents of Panchavati, Pashan area claimed that the proposed tunnels are 100 feet wide, but the roads in Panchavati are only 40 feet wide, so they will not be able to take the volume of the traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tunnel-project-pmc-appointed-consultant-blacklisted-for-delaying-feasibility-report-101610620648257.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar terms rape allegation against Munde as 'serious'||Terming the rape claim by a woman against Maharashtra Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde as serious, NCP president Sharad Pawar on Thursday said the party will discuss the issue and decide on it "as soon as possible.Pawar also referred to the NCBs arrest of the son- in-law of another NCP minister Nawab Malik in a drug case and said people concerned should cooperate with the agency.The NCP chief said there is no personal allegation against Malik.Pawar told reporters that Munde met him on Wednesday and explained the details in connection with the allegation."I think the allegation against him (Munde) is serious. Naturally, we will have to discuss the issue as a party. I will discuss the same in detail with my key colleagues and take them into confidence," Pawar said."Further steps will be taken after knowing their views. We will do this as soon as possible, he added.Munde told reporters that Pawar and other leaders of the party will take a call on the issue of his resignation.The 37-year-old woman, an aspiring singer, had said she wrote to Mumbai police commissioner on January 10, stating that Munde repeatedly raped her in 2006. She also claimed that she approached Oshiwara police here earlier but her complaint was ignored.Munde, NCP leader from Beed district, has denied the allegations, claiming he is being blackmailed by the woman and her sister.Munde (45) said the woman's claims were part of a conspiracy to blackmail him. He, however, acknowledged that he was in a relationship with the woman's sister and has two children with her.In a statement issued on Tuesday, Munde said his wife, family and friends were aware of this relationship, adding the two kids have been accepted by his family.He said the woman with whom he was in a relationship had been blackmailing him since 2019 and he had filed a police complaint and also moved the Bombay High Court seeking a stay on distribution of defamatory content against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allegations-against-ncp-minister-serious-says-sharad-pawar-101610619749572.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||Bird flu: Delhi government orders opening of poultry market after samples from Ghazipur test negative||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal ordered the poultry markets in Delhi to open after samples taken from there tested negative for bird flu. He also withdrew order to restrict trade and import of chicken stocks."Samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to Bird Flu. Have directed to open the poultry market & withdraw the orders to restrict trade & import of chicken stocks," he tweeted.Samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to Bird Flu.Have directed to open the poultry market & withdraw the orders to restrict trade & import of chicken stocks.As many as 100 samples were collected from poultry from the wholesale market in Ghazipur - which accounts for at least 70 per cent of the total supply across Delhi - before the market was closed by the Delhi government as a preventive measure against the bird flu.So far, some ducks and crows have tested positive for the bird flu in Delhi, triggering panic among authorities and civic agencies who shut down several parks in the city and imposed restrictions on sale of chicken.Also Watch | Bird flu: Threat to humans, precautions, & how to cook chicken | Explained"Test results of 104 samples arrived on Wednesday evening. Of these, 100 samples were collected from 35 poultry birds in the Ghazipur market. All samples have tested negative for bird flu," director of Delhi government's animal husbandry department Rakesh Singh said."It means there is no spread of avian influenza in poultry birds in Delhi," he said.The official further said that around 850 bird deaths have been reported from various parts of the city since January 6. The situation is being monitored strictly and samples are being collected regularly, he added.A drive to cull ducks was conducted on Monday at the famous Sanjay Lake, where several of these birds were found dead.Authorities had on Saturday closed three recreational parks at Hauz Khas, Dwarka Sector 9 and Hastsal and Sanjay Lake as a precautionary measure.The three municipal corporations of the city had on Wednesday warned establishments such as restaurants and shops of strict action, including cancellation of their licence, if they fail to comply with the ban on meat.The order came two days after Union minister of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying Giriraj Singh said that there is no need to be scared and urged people to eat poultry items after cooking them properly at a particular temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bird-flu-delhi-orders-opening-of-poultry-market-resumption-of-chicken-trade-101610619615594.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||Mercury dips in several places across UP||Cold wave conditions prevailed at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh which also witnessed dense fog in many areas, the MET office said on Thursday.Day temperatures dipped in Moradabad, Gorakhpur, Ayodhya and Agra divisions.Lucknow, Bareilly, Agra and Meerut divisions also saw the mercury settling below normal.The lowest temperature in the state was recorded in Churk at 2.5 degrees Celsius, while the highest temperature at 24.6 degrees Celsius was recorded at Jhansi.The weather office forecast severe cold conditions at isolated places in the state on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mercury-dips-in-several-places-across-up-101610619478286.html
14-01-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19 vaccine reaches all 24 districts of Jharkhand||Around 1.62 lakh Covid-19 vaccine has reached all the 24 districts of Jharkhand for the scheduled first phase of the vaccination drive on January 16, a top Health department official said on Thursday.In the first phase of the vaccination drive, the vaccines will be administered to state healthcare workers in 129 vaccination centres, the official said.Principal Secretary, Health, Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni told PTI that 1.62 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine sent from the state Health department warehouse at Namkum have reached all the 24 districts this morning.He said the Union Health Ministry has allowed 129 vaccination centers for Jharkhand in the first phase of the vaccination drive.Kulkarni said the vaccination drive in Jharkhand will start on January 16 and healthcare workers and military personnel will be administered vaccine in the first phase of the vaccination campaign.He said that the vaccines will be given to those whose names and details will be obtained sequentially from the app created by the Union Ministry of Health to decide who is eligible for vaccination.The principal secretary said that 1.23 lakh healthcare workers and military personnel in the state will be vaccinated in the first phase of the vaccination campaign.In the second phase of the vaccination drive about 2.5 lakh frontline workers will be given the vaccine, he said.Kulkarni said in the third phase a plan has been prepared to give the vaccine to about 70 lakh people above the age of 50 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-vaccine-reaches-all-24-districts-of-jharkhand-101610618716558.html
14-01-2021||Bhopal||'Covaxin, Covishield properly tested and are safe': Madhya Pradesh CM||Two days ahead of the nationwide coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday that Covaxin and Covishield vaccines are safe. He also said that both these vaccines have been properly tested and there is no difference between them.On January 3, the country’s drug regulatory authority had approved the above vaccines for emergency restricted use. Covaxin is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) while the Serum Institute of India (SII) has developed Covishield.Chouhan said that both the vaccines would help build immunity and antibodies against Covid-19 but pointed out that the antibodies would not develop immediately after the vaccination. “The second dose will be administered 28 days after the first dose and 14 days after it the antibodies will develop. Two doses are necessary,” the MP chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read| All you need to know about SII vaccine 'Covishield'| 10 pointsMadhya Pradesh on Wednesday had received the first consignment of nearly 94,000 Covishiled doses. The supplies arrived at Bhopal’s Raja Bhoj Airport in a scheduled flight from Mumbai, an official of the public relations department told news agency PTI. “These doses would be dispatched to eight districts from Bhopal under the supervision of officials,” he added. Authorities would administer doses to nearly 500,000 healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase of the pan-India vaccination drive that would begin from January 16.Madhya Pradesh’s coronavirus tally crossed the 250,000-mark on Wednesday after 456 fresh cases and six more deaths were reported. The death toll has climbed 3,732 while nearly 239,000 people have recovered so far. As many as 24,280 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Wednesday which pushed the total testing figures to more than 4.9 million.But the antibodies will not develop immediately after vaccination. The second dose will be administered 28 days after the first dose and 14 days after it the antibodies will develop. Two doses are necessary: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan https://t.co/PxsfvAJexQMeanwhile, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday that the initial procurement of Covaxin and Covishield had been allocated to all the states and Union Territories (UTs). “Full initial procurement amount of 1.65 cr doses of #Covishield & #Covaxin vaccines have been allocated to all States/UTs in proportion of Health Care Workers database,” the ministry had tweeted.It also said that there had been no bias in distributing the two vaccines to all states and UTs adding that the doses were allocated on the basis of the priority list. This clarification of the Union health ministry came after Maharashtra's health minister Rajesh Tope alleged that the state received less vaccines. “The state has received only 9.63 vials of Covishield vaccine from the Serum Institute of India and “merely” 20,000 vials from the Bharat Biotech of its indigenously-made vaccine,” Tope had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covaxin-covishield-properly-tested-and-are-safe-madhya-pradesh-cm-101610617832696.html
14-01-2021||Other||BKU president Bhupinder Singh Mann recuses from SC panel to resolve deadlock over farm laws||Bhupinder Singh Mann, the Bharti Kisan Union national president and All India Kisan Coordination Committee chairman, on Thursday recused himself from the four-member committee constituted by the Supreme Court earlier this week to resolve the standoff between agitating farmers, predominantly from Punjab, and the Centre on the three farm laws. “I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab,” Mann said in an unsigned statement tweeted by the BKU. He was one of the four members and the only farmer leader to be appointed by the apex court to resolve the nearly two-month-long farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders. Earlier the BKU tweeted, “Bhupinder Singh Mann, ex-MP and national president of BKU and chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee has recused himself from the four-member committee constituted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court.” It was followed by a statement attributed to Mann that read: “I am thankful to the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India for nominating me in the four-member committee to start dialogue with kisan unions on the three laws brought in by the central government. As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions among the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country.” Mann’s son Gurpartap Singh Mann, who is a Punjab Public Service Commission member, confirmed that his father had written the letter but declined further comment.The other members of the court-appointed committee are economists Ashok Gulati, Dr Pramod Kumar Joshi and farmer leader Anil Ghanwat. The committee has been asked by the Supreme Court to submit its report in two months.The farmers have been protesting at borders of Delhi against the farm legislation enacted by Parliament in September last year. So far, eight rounds of talks have taken place between the government and farmers but have failed to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-president-bhupinder-singh-mann-recuses-from-sc-panel-to-resolve-deadlock-over-farm-laws-101610618006838.html
14-01-2021||Other||Civic Sanskriti: Let’s re-create Pune’s cycling culture!||The bicycle is the most civilized conveyance known to man. Other forms of transport grow daily more nightmarish. Only the bicycle remains pure in heart,” says a fictional character in a novel by Iris Murdoch, set in 1916.This sentiment has come full circle in a century.The cycle elegantly combines individual mobility, health, economy and cool lifestyle with care for the city and the planet.Cycling has been an important commute/travel mode in Pune. Old timers recall the sound of bells as factory workers cycled down the old Bombay-Poona road. Hundreds of cycles were available for rent from cycle shops in the core city, near Swargate, and Khadki and Pune railway stations. As recently as about 10 years ago, about 9 per cent of work trips were by cycle.Given the importance of cycles for transport, the 1987 development plan had included cycle routes. Unfortunately, these were not implemented. Over time, conditions for cycling have deteriorated greatly, while motorised traffic increased manifold.Sujit Patwardhan, Founder Trustee of the NGO Parisar, recalls cycling as a child with his cousins and friends from Prabhat Road to Vitthalwadi, Chatushringi and Pune Railway Station.. “Parents did not worry about road safety if children were out cycling,” says Sujit.Pune is no longer a city where children can enjoy carefree cycling.The last few months of lockdown saw some resurgence in cycling. Now, it’s almost business as usual with air pollution, fast moving traffic and unsafe road conditions – a danger to existing cyclists and a big barrier for many who wish to start (or restart) cycling.What can be done?The Comprehensive Bicycle Master Plan, prepared through a highly participatory process involving both cyclists and non-cyclists, approved by the city in 2017 must be implemented on priority. The plan has provisions and design guidelines for building safe, convenient and comfortable bicycle tracks as a city-wide network.It recognises that a few tracks here and there do not help people shift to cycling. Municipal authorities are expected to prepare a regulation plan with the Traffic Police to prevent motor-vehicles driving and parking on cycle tracks.An excellent, safe cycling network would be welcomed by students, women and elderly, who are more dependent on cycling as a flexible and affordable transport mode. As would non-cyclists – studies show that over fifty percent non-cyclists would like to cycle if safe facilities are created.App-based bicycle rental systems launched by various companies had placed nearly 8000 cycles for rent in Pune in 2018. Sadly, they pulled out in the absence of safe infrastructure. A new workable model to provide affordable rental cycles across the city needs to be developed.It is commendable that the municipal road department now has responsibilities allocated to implement the bicycle plan, and a non-motorised transport committee.This is in line with the cycle plan’s provisions to increase PMC’s institutional capacity to implement the plan. We hope this arrangement will work effectively in the coming months to develop the required high quality cycling infrastructure. Philanthropists and corporates can help.“We give good quality cycles as performance awards,” says Ulhas Joshi, who runs an engineering services company, and is an avid cyclist himself.Companies can set up cycling clubs, set up changing rooms for employees, gift cycles to employees, students, women workers, and adopt an area in discussion with the municipal corporation to develop cycling infrastructure.Individuals can help by asking corporators for cycle plan implementation. Those who drive can be respectful towards cyclists (and others too!).Of course, try leaving behind the motorbike or car and enjoy cycling, whenever possible.Let’s re-create Pune’s cycling culture!After all, fast cars, flyovers and wide roads for motor vehicles do not make cities great.Instead, excellent walking, cycling and public transport facilities help cities be safe, humane, inclusive, and truly modern.Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education.She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@​gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-sanskriti-let-s-re-create-pune-s-cycling-culture-101610617287827.html
14-01-2021||Other||Devotees brave cold to take holy dip at Golden Temple on Maghi||Devotees braved the freezing cold to pay obeisance at Golden Temple and gurdwaras across Punjab on the occasion of Maghi or Makar Sankranti on Thursday. Amritsar recorded a minimum temperature of 6 degrees Celsius but that did not deter devotees from taking the Maghi isnaan (holy bath) early in the morning. “Today is the first day of the traditional Punjabi month of Maghi and I feel blessed to have started it by taking a dip in the sarovar,” said a devotee, requesting anonymity. Some enthusiastic devotees even stayed on the Golden Temple premises overnight to take the dip in the wee hours. Langars (community kitchens) were organised to mark the day. Though Maghi is celebrated with fervour in Muktsar district, many consider taking the holy dip in the Golden Temple sarovar as significant. In Muktsar, people gather on the occasion to commemorate the martyrdom of the 40 Sikhs (chalis mukte) who had once deserted the 10th Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh, at Anandpur Sahib, but later rejoined and died while fighting the Mughal army in 1705. Sikhs make a pilgrimage to the battle site and take a dip in the sacred water tanks of Muktsar. A fair (mela) is held at Muktsar Sahib every year called Maghi Mela in memory of the 40 Sikh martyrs. Besides Golden Temple, people took a holy dip in the historic gurdwaras of the Majha region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/devotees-brave-cold-to-take-holy-dip-at-golden-temple-on-maghi-101610615607736.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||Gujarat IAS officer's voluntary retirement creates buzz over role in UP politics||Voluntary retirement of senior Gujarat cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Arvind Kumar Sharma, considered a close aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has led to speculations if he will play a role in Uttar Pradesh politics as the state heads towards the 2022 Assembly elections.A 1988-batch IAS officer, Sharma hails from the Mau district in eastern UP. The central government accepted his voluntary retirement plea on Monday, when the BJP state unit was busy finalising names of candidates for the biennial election to 12 seats in the UP Legislative Council. The quick acceptance of his application for voluntary retirement has started a buzz in the BJP circles that Sharma may be sent to the Legislative Council.BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh said Sharma will join the BJP on Thursday.Even while senior BJP leaders are maintaining a silence over Sharma’s candidature for the council, those privy to the developments on the issue said, he may be made the deputy chief minister in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet. Another view on his role suggests he may be given a key assignment at the Centre.A senior leader, who did not wish to be named, said Sharma was from the upper caste Bhumihar community, whereas, the party was working on a strategy to win the support of Dalits and other backward castes (OBCs) to retain power in the 2022 Assembly election.The BJP strategists wanted the elevation of a Dalit leader in the state cabinet to send a message before the elections, he said.Another leader said that Sharma held top positions in the Gujarat government when Narendra Modi was the state’s chief minister. Later, he moved to the Prime Minister’s Office after Modi became the Prime Minister in 2014. Before taking voluntary retirement, he was handling affairs in MSME (micro small and medium enterprises), a crucial department that was working on PM Modi’s plan for revival of the economy post Covid lockdown.Rather than state politics, Sharma may be given an important position in the central government, he said.A postgraduate in political science from Allahabad University, Sharma is a native of Kajha Khurd village in Muhammadabad Gohna tehsil in Mau district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gujarat-ias-officer-s-voluntary-retirement-creates-buzz-over-role-in-up-politics-101610614480943.html
14-01-2021||Kolkata||First consignment of Covishield vaccine reaches West Bengal's Siliguri||The first consignment of Covishield vaccine reached Siliguri in West Bengal on Wednesday night, a health official confirmed."One truck carrying Covishield vaccine for Covid-19 arrived at Siliguri on Wednesday. The vaccines have been stored at the principal storage point at the required temperature at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. Those will be dispatched from the cold chain points to the vaccination facilities in the Darjeeling district and other districts of north Bengal," Darjeeling district Chief Medical Officer of Health, Dr Pralay Acharya told ANI.Acharya also said 18,000 doses have been allotted for the district.The Home Department of West Bengal government on January 12 had tweeted, "The first consignment of 6.89 lakh Covishield vaccines arrived today in our state at 2:30 PM by a special cargo flight of Spicejet at Kolkata airport.""These vaccines shall be stored at our Central Vaccines Store at Baghbazar and will be then transported to different districts for vaccination of health care eorkers as per priority," the tweet added.The Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin on January 16.Earlier, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said the central government is having close collaboration with states and Union Territories for vaccine roll-out."All preparations are on track for vaccine roll-out from January 16," he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/first-consignment-of-covishield-vaccine-reaches-west-bengal-s-siliguri-101610613749630.html
14-01-2021||Patna||1st bird festival at Nagi- Nakti bird sanctuaries in Bihar to start from Jan 15||Bihar’s first state-level bird festival ‘Kalrav’ will be held at the world famous Nagi-Nakti bird sanctuaries in the Jamui district from January 15. The three –day event is expected to draw experts and bird lovers from all over the country.Hosted by the department of forest, environment and climate change, the event is intended to create awareness about conservation of birds and their habitat, the wetlands. And to discuss these issues, the department has invited experts from different parts of the country to explain how to identify rare species of birds and protect them. Scores of other activities like a quiz on the topic, a marathon, walk and a cycle rally have also been planned at the festival to encourage people’s participation in the bird conservation programme.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the event on January 16. He will also launch the logo of the bird festival and also release a coffee table book on the birds available at the sanctuaries. Tarkishore Prasad, the deputy chief minister, who also holds the portfolio of forest, will preside over the function.The Nagi- Nakti Bird Sanctuaries have been the home of a wide variety of indigenous species of birds and of migratory birds that turn up during the winters from places like Eurasia, Central Asia, the Arctic Circle, Russia and Northern China.Over 136 species of birds have been spotted at these sanctuaries. Not just that, around 1,600 bar-headed geese, which is about 3% of the global population of this variety, have been seen here, as per a report of the Wetlands International and because of this rare phenomenon, the Birdlife International, a global body, has held the Nagi Dam Bird Sanctuary to be globally important for conservation of birds' population and has declared it as an important bird area."A wide variety of migratory birds come to this area during winters and till February –March they can be seen here. To draw the attention of bird lovers and experts, we planned a bird festival here," Tarkishore Prasad, deputy chief minister said.Birds form an important part of the ecology and need to be protected and conserved. “It makes one aware about any natural disaster. Those who are familiar with bird behavior must have noticed that it sends a signal of any impending natural calamity,” he said. Prasad added that the state government has been serious about the conservation of the birds and wetlands and has taken many steps in this direction.Deepak Kumar Singh, principal secretary, department of forests, environment and climate change, said, the bird festival is a part of the government initiatives.“We selected Nagi-Nakti bird sanctuary for this event because of its uniqueness. Apart from the dense deciduous forests, moram land and variety of birds and animals, there’s unique rock formation, tor in Jamui area. In our country, this rock formation is available only in Hampi in Karnataka,” the principal secretary said.The chief minister will visit the site during his visit to Jamui for the bird festival, he added. “People who may visit the site may witness its beauty. We planned the bird festival to promote the Natural beauty of the wetlands,” he said.The official said that the state bird festival will be held here every year. “But at other wetlands also, the department will hold these kinds of events at a smaller level,” he said.Deepak Kumar Singh said that conservation of birds and the development of wetlands and their fauna and flora has been on the priority list of the government. “It will be done in different phases. In the first phase an action plan for 133 wetlands, which are of over 100 acre land area, will be created,” he said.As a part of the bird conservation plan, the forest department has developed a bird ringing station at Bhagalpur, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/1st-bird-festival-at-nagi-nakti-bird-sanctuaries-in-bihar-to-start-from-january-101610613205676.html
14-01-2021||Patna||Branded liquor worth ₹90 lakh, smuggled to Bihar as mustard oil, seized||A truck loaded with branded liquor bottles estimated to be worth ₹90 lakh was seized in Patna district and two persons were arrested in this connection. Police said the liquor was headed to Muzaffarpur town. Sale and purchase of liquor is prohibited in Bihar.The station house officer (SHO) of Vikram police station, Rituraj said that a police team launched a vehicle checking drive at Khoretha glombar under Vikram police station acting on a tip off. “During the drive, the police signalled a truck to stop for checking. The police searched the truck and were shocked to see that over 500 cartons of branded liquor were being smuggled under the name of mustard oil brands,” he added.The SHO said that the police arrested two persons identified as Dilbagh Singh, the truck owner and cleaner Sukhraj Singh of Punjab. “During interrogation, the arrested persons told the police that they printed mustard oil labels and put them on the liquor bottles in New Delhi to mislead the cops. The smuggled liquor was to be delivered to Muzaffarpur,” Rituraj added.Police said the suspects were arrested and brought to the police station for further inquiry. “The police are also trying to find out the identity of those behind the smuggling and its supply. The two suspects will be sent to the jail after they are produced before the excise court at Patna civil court," he added.Sale and purchase of liquor is prohibited in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/branded-liquor-worth-rs-90-lakh-smuggled-to-bihar-as-mustard-oil-seized-101610611415676.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||Fly anywhere in a seaplane: Yogi Adityanath has a vision for hometown Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday announced that seaplane services will be launched soon in Ramgarh Tal area of Gorakhpur.“The main specialty of the seaplane is that it can land in water apart from on land at the airport,” said the CM, while also promising to strengthen the road and air connectivity in his hometown.He was speaking at the closing ceremony of the two-day Gorakhpur Mahotsav.While currently nine domestic flights operate from Gorakhpur to all major cities of the country, an international flight from the newly-constructed Kushinagar airport will also commence soon, said the CM.“The people should get the benefit of the modern infrastructure and the development projects. With the start of the seaplane service, one can catch a plane from the Circuit House located near Ramgarh Tal to reach any destination in the country,” the CM said.He also said that Gorakhpur will be developed as a readymade garment hub.“One of the best zoos in the state is also coming up in the city. Chauri Chaura centenary year programme will be organised from February 4 this year to February 4 next year. UP Diwas will be observed on January 24,” he said.Earlier, the CM unfurled the tallest national flag in the state, installed in the Ramgarh Tal area.The 246-feet high tricolor is the 10th highest national flag in the country.It will be visible from a distance of 15 kilometers.The CM also inaugurated two gateways, Naya Savera and the Buddha Gate, constructed near Padleganj locality. He also distributed motorized tricycle among 100 specially-abled persons.The chief minister felicitated famous bhajan singer Nandu Mishra, chief warden of Civil Defence Sanjeev Gulati, ophthalmologist Dr Narendra Mohan Seth, scientist Meenakshi Narayan, agriculture expert Ramchet Chaudhary, Olympian Ali Saeed, Arjun Award winner Prem Maya, international wrestler Amarnath Yadav and entrepreneur Jyoti Maskara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fly-anywhere-in-a-seaplane-yogi-adityanath-has-a-vision-for-hometown-gorakhpur-101610609752516.html
14-01-2021||Other||In one of its biggest drug hauls, Himachal Pradesh Police seize 111kg of charas in Kullu||In one of the biggest drug hauls in Himachal Pradesh, the Kullu police have seized 111 kg of charas in an operation against the drug mafia. In an official statement issued in Shimla on Thursday, state director general of police Sanjay Kundu said, “This is one of the highest seizures in the history of the state so far. The operation is ongoing and more details will be made available later.” He said the state police have stepped up its anti-narcotics drive this year and it has yielded results. Before the latest recovery, the total seizures of charas in the state this year was of 33.2 kg. Of them, four cases were of seizures of more than 2 kg each, while 10 recoveries were of more than 1kg each. The Himachal Pradesh Police have changed their policy to break organised criminals in the illicit drug trafficking racket rather than pursuing street-level peddlers, Kundu said. The police are investigating the source and destination of these consignments along with financial investigations so that the properties of the key accused can be impounded, the DGP added. Charas, called bhang in Himachal, is the resin obtained from a species or strain of the cannabis plant, which grows naturally in the Kullu valley and is also cultivated illegally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-one-of-its-biggest-drug-hauls-himachal-pradesh-police-seize-111kg-of-charas-in-kullu-101610607686612.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||1.85L Covid vaccine doses reach Varanasi, 64k vials reach Kanpur||A consignment of 1.85 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine arrived in Varanasi on Wednesday to be used for the vaccination drive in four divisions spanning 14 districts and a batch of 6,400 vials or 64,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine reached Kanpur on the same day, officials saidIn Varanasi, a consignment of the Covid-19 vaccines was sent to the divisional storehouse after arrival, district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said.Additional director medical and health services, Varanasi division, Dr SK Upadhyay said that the 1.85 lakh doses of vaccines, stored in the warehouse, were meant for the first phase of vaccination drive in the four divisions of Varanasi, Azamgarh, Mirzapur and Prayagraj. These four divisions include 14 districts of eastern UP. Out of these, roughly 20,980 doses of the Covishield vaccine were for Varanasi district alone, said district immunisation officer Dr VS Rai.Varanasi’s chief medical officer Dr VB Singh confirmed that all arrangements were in place for the first phase of the drive, scheduled at the vaccination centres in Kashi, on January 16.He added that proper arrangements had been made to maintain the cold chain along with the deployment of security personnel at the vaccine storage centre.A health officer, who did not wish to be named, said vaccination would be done at 12 centres, including at eight government primary health centres (PHCs), Sir Sunderlal Hospital- BHU, government women’s hospital-Kabir Chaura, Heritage Medical College and the government district hospital here. Hundred people each would be vaccinated at these vaccination centres, said the officer.The first batch of the Covid-19 vaccines arrived by a special plane at Chakeri airport in Kanpur on Wednesday. As many as 6,400 vials of Covishield, the vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India (SII), were transported in a special vehicle to the storage facility at the Kanshiram trauma centre under tight security.The vaccination in Kanpur, too, would begin with the first phase on January 16, said district magistrate Alok Tiwari. A total of 1,400 people would get the first vaccine shot at 14 centres in the district on Saturday. In the first phase, the vaccine would be administered to over 20,000 frontline workers in Kanpur over a period of three days — Saturday, Monday and Friday.Thereafter, the vaccine would be given at 67 centres. Among them, the biggest is the Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College, where 7,000 people would be given the vaccine. The second dose would be administered after 28 days.Chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra said vaccine recipients would be observed for 30 minutes after getting the first shot.Anyone showing adverse symptoms would be shifted to a hospital. A team of doctors would monitor the person’s health and interact with him/her every three hours.“The treatment will be free and necessary orders have been issued to this effect,” Mishra said, adding, he expected a total of 22,000 vaccines to be given in Kanpur.Each vial of vaccine contains 10 doses—each person would get 0.5 ml of the vaccine as the first shot. Each centre, where 100 people would be vaccinated, would be given 100 vials. Once a vial is opened, the doses would have to be given within a period of four hours, sad GK Mishra, additional director, health, Kanpur division.The batch that arrived on Wednesday would be moved on Thursday to 21 centres where ice-lined refrigerators have been arranged. Apart from the medical college here, the vaccine would be made available to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital ward 3 centre, Kanshiram centre, Dufferin Hospital, UHM Hospital, Gwaltoli Urban Community Health Centre (CHC), Sarsaul, Bhitargaon, Patara, Ghatampur, Kalyanpur, Shivrajpur, Chaubeypur and Bilhaur CHCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/185l-covid-vaccine-doses-reach-varanasi-64k-vials-reach-kanpur-101610604149200.html
14-01-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata allocated highest number of Covid vaccines in Bengal||Kolkata has been allocated the highest number of Covid vaccines in West Bengal, at 93,500, for the first phase of the vaccination drive scheduled to begin on January 16, a senior health official said on Thursday.North 24 Parganas district has been allocated the second-highest number of Covid vaccines at 47,000, followed by Murshidabad at 37,500, he said."All necessary preparations are on the track for the vaccine rollout. The district-wise allocation has been made as per data uploaded on CoWIN portal as on January 12, 9.45 am for the first dose of COVID vaccination of health workers and personnel of armed forces," the Health Department said in a communication to the CMOHs in all the districts.West Bengal has been allocated 6,44,500 vaccines for the first phase of the drive.The state government has allowed the use of private hospitals as Covid vaccination centres after a meeting with authorities of such medical establishments.West Bengal has so far registered 5,62,795 coronavirus cases, including 9,993 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-allocated-highest-number-of-covid-vaccines-in-bengal-101610603047105.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||Minimum temperature dips to 2 degrees Celsius in Delhi||Parts of Delhi reeled under a "severe" cold wave and witnessed "dense" fog on Thursday as the minimum temperature dropped to 2 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Visibility levels dropped to 100 metres at Palam and 201 metres at Safdarjung due to "dense" to "moderate" fog in the morning, an IMD official said. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal, as against 3.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday.The weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ridge recorded a minimum of 2.4 and 3.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barreling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. On January 1, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, lowest for the month in 15 years. Delhi had been registering above-normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances.However, the temperature started dropping with the commencement of cold northwesterly winds after the withdrawal of the latest WD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minimum-temperature-dips-to-2-degrees-celsius-in-delhi-101610600335036.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||Congress revival bid gets reality check with video of leader abusing party brass||Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu’s decision to stay the four-day old appointment to a top party post in a west UP district has brought to the fore the internal rift within the party when it is attempting to strengthen the organisation at the grassroots level with the ‘Sangthan Srajan’ campaign.Under the ‘Sangthan Srajan’ campaign, the Congress leaders, including All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretaries and UPCC president, are camping in different districts from January 3 to 25, to set up the party organisation across the state.Lallu was in Lucknow on Tuesday when a video, showing party leader Tauquir Ali hurling abuses on party’s top brass, was brought to his notice. Lallu had ordered the appointment of Tauquir Ali as the Bulandshahr city party unit chief on January 8 this year.“Kunwar Tauquir Ali was appointed as city Congress committee president in Bulandshahr on January 8, 2021. A video from reliable sources has come to the notice. After seeing the video, this does not seem to be a pardonable act. This appointment is hereby stayed with immediate effect,” said Lallu, in a letter dated January 12, sent to All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, AICC secretaries and other senior leaders.In the video, Ali is shown using abusive words against top Congress leadership. Questions are now being raised over the manner in which appointments are being made on various posts in the Congress in Uttar Pradesh.“This video is four to five years old and how can anybody verify the use of such obscene language? We have taken action after this video was brought to our notice,” Lallu said in an effort to contain the damage.Calls are now being made to review such appointments made in the state. “Those making appointments in the state have no experience of working in the Congress organization. This is why the party is appointing such leaders in top positions in various party units,” said a party office-bearer.The UPCC’s style of functioning has been questioned in the past too. Action has been taken against the party men who have raised questions over the manner in which the party has been functioning in the state.“I have worked exclusively for the Congress organization for six years. Those working with the organization have no experience. Those making appointments are only importing people from select left wing organisations. Those loyal to the Congress are being insulted during the tenure of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as UP incharge,” said former minister Satyadev Tripathi.Tripathi was expelled from the party organization recently for allegedly indulging in anti-party activities when he and a few others voiced disagreement with the state party unit leaders on various organizational issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-revival-bid-gets-reality-check-with-video-of-leader-abusing-party-brass-101610599814366.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||When will Mumbai local trains be open for the general public?||As Mumbaikars wait impatiently for the local trains to open for all after its services were made available for essential workers in June last year, officials familiar with the development have said no directives were yet received regarding the matter from the government.Also Read: Local train services likely to resume for general public in MumbaiShut since the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak in March 2020, Mumbai's lifeline is expected to start functioning on pre-lockdown level soon. “We are currently operating local train services... We do not have any problem and are waiting for the state government directive regarding permitting the general public. A decision on the permission is expected soon,” an official said.Also Watch | Mumbai local trains resume for essential duty staff: Know rules of travelingLast month, officials had announced that normal services could resume as Covid-19 disease cases were on a decline in the state. “There has not yet been any finalisation on resumption of train services for the general public. Discussions regarding this are going on. Only after complete discussion with the state government and following coronavirus protocols, local train services will be resumed.” a senior CR official had told Hindustan Times.Also Read: When will Mumbai locals be open for all? Decision likely in coming weekCurrently, differently-abled, cancer patients, women, and lawyers are allowed to travel in the trains along with essential workers. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government in December allowed passengers who are travelling on outstation trains to travel by local trains to commute in the city, on both Central Railways and Western Railways. Similarly, those travelling by outstation trains from the city will be allowed to travel by local trains to reach the train’s originating station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/when-will-mumbai-local-trains-be-open-for-the-general-public-101610599203713.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC seeks details of phase-wise vaccination programme for UP||The Allahabad high court has directed the state and the Central government to provide a detailed, phase-wise, Covid-19 vaccination programme planned for Uttar Pradesh by the next date of hearing on January 22.The court passed the order when the time table provided for vaccination by the principal secretary of the health department of Uttar Pradesh only indicated that the vaccination drive would commence from January 16 without mentioning when the first phase would get over and the second phase begin. Further, the counsel for the Central government did not place any vaccination programme schedule before the court.The bench comprising justice Siddhartha Varma and justice Ajit Kumar passed the order in a suo motu PIL on the spread of Covid-19 in the state.During the course of hearing, the state government placed the new guidelines to contain the spread of the virus during Magh Mela in the mela area and the city of Prayagraj before the court.The court said it hoped and trusted that the guidelines placed before it will be adhered to religiously.During the last hearing, the court had directed the state and the Central governments to place before it a definite date and the intended programme detailing when and how the vaccination against Covid-19 would be done in UP.Health workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase of the drive starting January 16 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-seeks-details-of-phase-wise-vaccination-programme-for-up-101610597715177.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: 1600 health workers to get Covishield on Jan 16, 61,980 doses arrive||At least 1,600 healthcare workers will receive the Covid-19 vaccine on January 16 in Lucknow, where 6,198 vials of Covishield vaccine containing 61,980 doses were received on Wednesday, officials said.“We will run 16 vaccination centres and each centre will have one site to vaccinate 100 healthcare workers on January 16. The number may change if any further guidelines are sent to us,” said Dr MK Singh, the officer in charge of vaccination in Lucknow.“We have received 6,198 vials each of 5-ml Covishield vaccine with 10 doses in each vial. Hence, we now have 61,980 doses,” said Dr Singh. Vaccines to be used in Lucknow are kept at the Aishbagh cold chain storage point.51,000 healthcare workers have been listed in Lucknow for the vaccination drive. The health department plans to observe the vaccination process on the first day before taking a decision on extending the number of vaccination centres and sites for the second day, which is January 18.The 16 vaccination centres include King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Veerangana Avantibai Hospital, Balrampur Hospital, Lokbandhu Hospital, Community Health Centres at Mall, Indiranagar, Aliganj and Mohanlalganj. TS Mishra Medical College, Era Medical College and four private hospitals will also conduct the vaccination, officials said.Lucknow has developed the capacity to vaccinate 18,000 beneficiaries in one day at 61 vaccination centres and over 180 vaccination session sites.KGMU has the maximum 33 vaccination sites and 3,300 beneficiaries can be vaccinated in one day (100 at each vaccination site) at this medical university, said officials.Dr Singh said 0.5-ml dose will be administered to healthcare workers in the first phase.The stock of vaccine was shifted to the district cold storage point in Aishbagh on Wednesday evening. Vaccines arrived in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday and were kept at the state cold storage point made at the urban health centre at Chowk.Beneficiaries to be vaccinated will soon be sent an SMS via the Co-Win portal, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-1600-health-workers-to-get-covishield-on-jan-16-61-980-doses-arrive-101610596756303.html
14-01-2021||City||FIR against Prakash jha for ‘caste discrimination’ in Ashram web series||A case has been registered at Luni police station in Jodhpur Rural against filmmaker Prakash Jha for allegedly hurting the sentiments of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and for alleged insults hurled at the community in the web series 'Aashram', produced by him.“The first episode of the first part of the Aashram web series addressed the caste-specific (term) Harijan and (used) disrespectful words while promoting caste discrimination, by classifying castes as lower and upper, during a scene of marriage. In one scene, the upper caste people are shown abusing and assaulting the people of alleged lower castes, promoting discrimination and untouchability,” said the complainant, DR Meghwal.The complainant added that due to such “poor and loathsome” portrayal through social sites and web series, incidents like molestation and lynching are taking place during the marriage processions of SC/ST communities in western Rajasthan.“The web series has spoiled mutual harmony with use of hateful words and by hurting mutual affection and brotherhood in the name of caste and religion. This is a criminal act. Such acts spread disharmony between two classes,” the complainant said in the FIR.Luni station house officer Sita Ram said that an FIR under relevant sections of the SC/ST Act had been registered and a probe into the allegations has begun.Aashram is a Hindi-language crime drama web series, directed and produced by Prakash Jha. The series stars Bobby Deol along with others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-prakash-jha-for-caste-discrimination-in-ashram-web-series-101610594733561.html
14-01-2021||Bhopal||Congress leader’s remark on girls’ reproductive age backfires, BJP seeks apology||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders demanded an unconditional apology from senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh minister Sajjan Singh Verma, over his remark on women’s reproductive age, made while responding to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s recent suggestion that the minimum marriageable age of women should be raised to 21 years.During a press conference in Bhopal, the former minister said, “15 saal ke baad hi bachchi prajanan yogya ho jati hai. Ye kya bade doctor ho gaye hain? (A girl develops the capability of reproduction after she turns 15. Has he (Shivraj Singh Chouhan) become a bigger doctor?”The Congress leader’s remark drew a sharp reaction from the ruling party, the BJP.“This showed the mindset of Congress leaders about women in the society. While chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s statement was in reference to empowerment of women by giving them equal legal status that men have in the society, the Congress leader’s remark was about women’s reproductive age,” said state BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.Continuing his attack, Agrawal said it was unfortunate that Congress leaders continue to insult women but the Congress high command remains silent despite the fact that the party is headed by a woman in Sonia Gandhi.“It was during the by-polls in the state in November last year when the state Congress president called a woman candidate of the BJP an item. Even the Election Commission of India (ECI) found his remark to be objectionable and imposed a ban on his campaign for a day. Earlier, a state Congress working president insulted women by saying five daughters- demonetisation, GST, inflation, unemployment and recession were born in anticipation of a son i.e. development.”State Congress, however, defended Verma’s remark, saying what he said was in reference to doctors’ views.During a programme in Bhopal on Monday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had called for a debate to decide if the legal minimum marriageable age of girls should be raised to bring it on par with men’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/congress-leader-s-remark-on-girls-reproductive-age-backfires-bjp-seeks-apology-101610592690938.html
14-01-2021||Dehradun||Elderly woman killed in wild boar attack in Uttarakhand’s Almora||An elderly woman was killed in a wild boar attack in Uttarakhand’s Almora district on Wednesday evening, said forest officials. A villager rushed to rescue her and attacked the boar with an axe. Though the boar was killed, the woman could not be saved.Saraswati Devi, 62, resident of Naini Dewal village in Bhaisiyachhana block of Almora district, was returning home from a nearby forest with her cattle on Wednesday evening. On the way to her home, a boar suddenly attacked her. Women, who were accompanying her, raised an alarm, but in vain.On seeing the woman being mauled by a boar, Ramnath Goswami, a labourer, rushed to the spot with an axe, in a bid to save the elderly woman and attacked the boar. While the boar succumbed to severe injuries, the woman could not be saved.Range officer of Almora Sanchita Verma rushed to the village. She took the bodies of the woman and the wild boar into possession. She said, the kin of the deceased woman would be provided with an ex-gratia relief of ₹ 3 lakh.She added that such incidents were not common. Post-mortem of the victim and the wild animal will be conducted on Thursday.Raghunath Singh Chauhan, vice-chairman of the Uttarakhand assembly, also arrived in the village after the incident. He said, “There are several herds of wild boars in the area, which are posing a threat to humans as well as agriculture. We will ensure that the forest department takes concrete steps to avoid such untoward incidents in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/elderly-woman-killed-in-wild-boar-attack-in-uttarakhand-s-almora-101610590245600.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||Metro will get 50 e-buses for feeder service by April||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will get its first batch of 50 electric buses (e-buses) for the feeder service by April this year.The feeder service, which is crucial for last-mile connectivity, has been shut since last March, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, and DMRC is planning to restart the service soon.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “DMRC is in the process of procuring 100 e-buses to further strengthen its feeder bus services. About 50 are expected to arrive by March or April and the remaining will arrive within the year.”The air-conditioned e-buses will have a carrying capacity of 22 passengers and will be fitted with CCTV cameras, GPS tracking system and display boards , Dayal said.The e-buses will run on new routes in north and east Delhi. “The e-buses will operate on 10 designated routes--five in each cluster. Two agencies have already been finalised for the running of e-buses,” he said.DMRC currently has 174 feeder buses, which are operated by private concessionaires, on around 20 routes to provide last-mile connectivity in areas such as Dwarka, Azadpur, Badarpur.With the induction of 100 new buses, DMRC will have 274 feeder buses plying on around 30 routes. The DMRC is also in the process of resuming the feeder bus service by addressing the concerns of feeder service operators.The operators say their income has dropped after the Delhi government announced free rides to women on Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses last year -- women are now giving the feeder service a miss, they claimed. Therefore, while the Metro resumed operations on September 7, 2020, after the gradual easing of the nationwide lockdown, feeder service is yet to be restarted.The operators have now asked the DMRC to provide financial assistance to offset their losses. Prasanna Patwardhan, owner of Prasanna Purple mobility solutions, a feeder operator, said, “It is not financially viable for us to provide services. Due to free travel for women on DTC buses, our income has reduced by almost 50%, as women passengers prefer DTC buses over feeder buses. In the present scenario, it is not viable to run our services. We have asked DMRC to provide financial aid to help minimise losses.”Metro users want the DMRC to resume feeder services, especially in areas such as Dwarka and Vasant Kunj where there is a lack of adequate public transport options.Amit Aggarwal, a resident of Vasant Kunj and member of URJA (an association of RWAs in Delhi), said, “Feeder buses are an important mode of transport for Metro users. In our area, a lot of people use it to reach Metro stations and we need an affordable mode of public transport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-will-get-50-e-buses-for-feeder-service-by-april-101610581800057.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||A contactless Republic Day parade in store for students||From contactless formations to compulsory masks during performances, Covid-19 pandemic has changed how school students will take part in the Republic Day Parade this year. The number of schools sending their entries for participation are down too, from around 30 in previous years to nine this year. Of these, two have dropped out after registering for the event in September.As in previous years, three groups of students will perform at Rajpath this year — Delhi Tamil Education Association (DTEA) Senior Secondary schools, Mount Abu Public School and Vidya Bharti School from Rohini, and Government Girls Senior Secondary School B-2 Yamuna Vihar.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said they had to hold sessions with parents to convince them that all safety norms would be followed. The buses provided by schools to commute to rehearsals were sanitized and the schools ensured that only one child sat on a bench.“The rehearsals began in mid-November when Covid-19 was at its peak in the capital. We had to ensure no-contact formations in the choreography and all Covid norms were followed,” she said.Arora added that the song composed by the school, which included references to the new National Education Policy and technological development was particularly significant for the 72nd Republic Day. “It was a difficult year and now the vaccine is also on its way. The performance celebrates India’s advancement in all these sectors,” she said.Class 11 student Deepti Singh, who has performed in the 2017 and 2018 parades for the school, said the experience this year was “very different.”“Earlier, we could sit in groups and chat, but we had to maintain distance this time. Performing in masks is also a little difficult. But we enjoyed this as we were all sitting at home since March,” she said.Her mother Poonam Singh, 37, a homemaker, said, “She was bored at home and going to the rehearsals has made her happy. We allowed her because such opportunities do not come often and we saw that schools were following safety protocols. Students were not even sharing lunch, as a precaution.”Additional director education (physical education) Pushpa Ratnam said, “Earlier, we used to receive entries from around 30 schools who used to be shortlisted for the first round at the Chhatrasal Stadium. This time, we received entries from nine, of which two dropped out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-contactless-republic-day-parade-in-store-for-students-101610579968026.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi shivers as 2nd cold wave sets in, lows to stay around 3-4°C: IMD||Delhi residents shivered as a biting cold set over the city for the second time this season with the minimum temperature on Wednesday dropping to 3.2 degrees Celsius, even as dense fog and low wind speed pushed the air quality into the “very poor” zone.Cold wave conditions are expected to continue in Delhi-NCR for at least the next five days, according to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), while pollution levels are likely to further worsen and may even reach the “severe” zone in the coming days.This is the second time this season that the Delhi residents are experiencing a sharp drop in temperatures, with the previous cold spell occurring around the end of 2020 in which the minimum temperature on New Year’s Day dropped to 1.1°C – the lowest temperature recorded in the city in 14 years.On Wednesday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 3.2°C, a deviation of four degrees from what is considered normal this time of the year. The maximum temperature during the day was 18.5°C, a notch below normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that on Thursday the minimum temperature is likely to stay around 3-4°C. On Friday, it will rise marginally, before falling again on Saturday.“There is intense snowfall being reported from states like Jammu Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and currently Delhi is receiving north-westerly winds from these snow-clad states. On Wednesday, there is also a forecast of dense fog, which will also impact the visibility in the early hours,” said Srivastava.On early Wednesday, dense fog conditions led to the visibility at Palam and Safdarjung observatories dropping to zero metres for a brief period. Even with the dense fog, officials at Delhi airport said there was no impact on flight operations.“Low visibility procedures were activated but no diversions or cancellations were reported due to fog,” the official said.The dense fog also led to the city’s air quality worsening. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 354, in the “very poor” zone, a deterioration from Tuesday’s 293, categorised as “poor”.VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said the AQI in Delhi is likely to deteriorate further in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-shivers-as-2nd-cold-wave-sets-in-lows-to-stay-around-3-4-c-imd-101610579644416.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||Caution, relief as kids weigh return to school||The Delhi government’s decision to allow physical classes for schools students of classes 10 and 12 from January 18 received mixed reactions from principals, teachers, parents, and students, with safety still a matter of major concern for several stakeholders.The students’ return to campuses will be “completely optional for parents”, and attendance will not be mandatory, the government said in its announcement on Wednesday. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia tweeted that students can be called only with the consent of their parents, and nobody will be forced to come.A senior official in the Delhi education department said the decision was taken in the backdrop of the CBSE announcing the schedule for its practical and board exams.“It’s too early to comment on when the government will reopen schools for other classes. Besides, it’s optional, and students will be called only if their parents allow,” the official said.Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International in Kailash Colony, said the school will start calling students back in the first week of February after taking the parents’ consent.“We will call only a few students a day to conduct practicals. Our students have already done practicals online, but we would like to give them the real experience. Some parents also want the school to conduct pre-board exams in person to give students written practice,” she said.Several principals said the decision will be vital for students who need personal attention from teachers.“The decision was essential to give students hands-on practice for the forthcoming CBSE practical exams. Some students also need more help from teachers, so it’s going to be very useful for them. Students will be able to get detailed guidelines and supervision from teachers for projects and practical files,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini.To ease the students’ return to campus, some schools have already started initiatives to provide mental health support for those who need it.Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said, “We have set up a counselling cell to provide emotional support to the students when they rejoin after a long gap. The school has also prepared a specific time table that will be sent to zonal district education officers for approval.”Several parents and students, though, said they are still apprehensive, and preferred to “avoid the risk.”Suman Sharma, a resident of Mayur Vihar and parent of a class 10 student, said, “Though the number of cases has gone down in Delhi over the last few days, it’s too early to send our children back to school. We still do not know how the schools will ensure the safety of our children. I won’t allow my son to go to school any time soon.”Darshan Ram, a class 12 student at Bluebells School International, said, “Considering that physical attendance is optional, I won’t take the risk right now. I would rather wait and see how the school has planned everything and then decide.”However, the response was decidedly different at government schools, where officials said their students would benefit significantly from the decision.Awadesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya Co-ed School in Rohini, said, “Students and parents have been keen on this for quite some time. Many could not keep up with online classes due to the lack of resources.”Parents of children in government schools said they will send their wards despite worries.Atul Kumar Yadav, a resident of Gandhi Nagar and father of a class 12 student at a government girls’ school, said, “My daughter has been anxious ever since dates for board exam were announced. Although she has a smartphone and internet connection, we could not afford to arrange home tuitions. Now, she can go back to her school and clear her doubts with teachers.”Experts said the risk of Covid-19 is low among children.Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung hospital, said, “Studies show that the risk of Covid-19 is very low among children. Not reopening schools for a long period can adversely impact students’ mental and physical health. Parents need not worry. It’s just that schools should take all the precautions prescribed by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/caution-relief-as-kids-weigh-return-to-school-101610579394160.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||City vaccine centres down to 75 from 89||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Delhi will begin across 75 locations on Saturday, each with one vaccination site, a senior government official said on Wednesday.Initially, the central government had approved 5,000 vaccination locations across India, of which 89 were in Delhi. On Wednesday, the Centre reduced the number of locations for the inaugural day (Saturday) from 5,000 to 2,934, with which the number of centres in Delhi also reduced to 75, said a senior government official.“After the second dry run (January 8), the government felt the necessity to reduce the overall workload on the first day. Hence, it was decided that 75 centres, instead of 89, would be fit for Delhi. It was communicated to the state government on Wednesday. With time, the government plans to increase the number of locations as well as the number of sites in each location. The learning experience on each day will be recorded and that shall guide the administration in further planning,” said a senior Delhi government official, on condition of anonymity.The 75 include prominent hospitals such as Lok Nayak, BL Kapoor, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, AIIMS, Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital, Fortis Escorts Institute, and Safdarjung Hospital.The 14 locations that have been removed included 12 private hospitals such as Jeewan Mala Hospital in central Delhi, Vinayak Hospital in north Delhi, Medeor Hospital in south Delhi and Satyabhama Hospital in west Delhi. The only two government hospitals removed from the inaugural day list are Delhi State Cancer Institute and Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Hospital.Each vaccination centre will have a limit of 100 shots a day. The drive will start with health care workers – their numbers are estimated at 300,000 in Delhi, of which 225,000 have registered for the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-vaccine-centres-down-to-75-from-89-101610578819421.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||20k Covaxin doses land in city; final prep underway for V-Day||The first lot of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’, was shipped to Delhi’s primary storage facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital on Wednesday, days before the inoculation drive is scheduled to begin countrywide, and were then taken to vaccination centres across the city by police and administration staff.This comes a day after 264,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, reached the Capital. The first doses will be administered on Saturday.Two flights, Air India flight AI 559 and Vistara’s UK 860, brought the Covaxin consignment into the Capital from Hyderabad on Wednesday. While the AI flight landed at the Indira Gandhi International airport with three boxes of the vaccine around 9.15am, the other, loaded with four boxes of Covaxin, arrived around 10.40am.Officials aware of the development said the boxes were shifted to a temperature-controlled facility in cargo terminals and were then shipped out. “While the vaccines brought in by Air India were dispatched for Kurukshetra, the Vistara consignment was sent to Delhi,” said an official who asked not to be named.Hospital authorities at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (RGSS) hospital said the four boxes brought there held 20,000 doses of the vaccine. Later in the day, these were shipped to different hospitals across 11 districts. The government will start the vaccination drive at hospitals on Saturday, by administering the shots to healthcare workers identified in the priority category. Later, the vaccination sites will be expanded to over 600 places across the city.According to a list that the government’s health department shared with the police, most vaccination points for Saturday are in south-east Delhi, which has 10 earmarked hospitals, followed by east and central Delhi that have nine hospitals each. The hospitals have been marked as private, district and government hospitals.The data has been shared with police districts across the city to ensure law-and-order on Saturday.Special commissioner of police (operations) Muktesh Chander confirmed that the vaccine was transported to hospitals on Wednesday. “The police provided security during the transport of the vaccine to the hospitals. Local police have been alerted and keeping secure every point where the vaccine is stored,” he said.Meanwhile, Vistara and Spice Jet continued to transport the vaccines to other parts of the country. A Vistara spokesperson said the airline carried multiple shipments of the vaccines to various routes including Mumbai to Varanasi and Hyderabad to Delhi.A SpiceJet flight also landed at Delhi airport from Pune, carrying 34 boxes of Covishield vaccines. “Of these, nine were sent to Agra, 12 to Bareilly and 13 boxes to Meerut,” the officer said.The airline in a statement said, “From Pune, SpiceJet carried 34 boxes of Covishield to Delhi. On Wednesday a total of 111 boxes of Covid-19 vaccine, weighing 3.5 tonnes were shipped by SpiceJet from Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad to 11 cities.”Delhi police vehicles escorted the vehicles carrying the vaccines to nearby states. Police said they alerted the control room of the UP police after which the vaccine was handed to the state police.Meanwhile, senior police officers said 70% of the city law enforcement’s agency data was uploaded on CoWIN portal, with the remainder due to be done by the end of Wednesday.“The Delhi Police has over 80,000 personnel. Seventy per cent of their data has been uploaded on the CoWIN portal, and the rest will be uploaded today [Wednesday]. People over 50 years of age will be given priority. They had received the date, time, and centre for their Covid-19 vaccination via SMS,” Chander told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20k-covaxin-doses-land-in-city-final-prep-underway-for-vday-101610578332685.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||Relieve us of bird flu duty, say teachers||The Delhi government has deployed school teachers besides civil defence volunteers at various borders to check and report any illegal transportation of poultry or live birds into Delhi. Teachers, however, urged deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday to withdraw the order.In a state revenue department order on Tuesday, the government constituted five surveillance teams — each led by a government school teacher and accompanied by two civil defence volunteers — to check the spread of bird flu in Delhi.The viral infection was confirmed in the city on Monday after more than 150 while birds were found dead in various parts of the capital, prompting the Delhi government to shut the Ghazipur poultry market for 10 days and ban the import of live birds without a valid health certificate and the sale of packaged or processed chicken.The teams have been asked to stay put at the borders from 8 pm to 6 am, something that has not gone down well with teachers. These teams have been deployed at Auchandi Border, Saboli border, Safiabad border, Lampur border and Muneerpur border — entry points from where most of the poultry or live birds arrive in Delhi.The government order states that the teams have to ensure that no vehicle carrying live poultry birds in Delhi is allowed to enter without a valid veterinary health certificate from an authorised veterinarian of the concerned state government, declaring the farm of origin of birds as free from any infection and contagious disease of birds. They were also asked to prevent the entry or sale of dressed, processed or canned chicken and its products in the Capital.The government school teachers’ association, (GSTA), Delhi, on Wednesday wrote to Sisodia, who is both education and development minister, to repeal the order and put their teachers back on school duty.“The revenue department has deputed government school teachers on Delhi borders to check for and to prevent the spread of bird flu under day/night duty. Moreover, teachers have been mostly assigned midnight hours of this duty,” read the letter signed by Ajay Veer Yadav, general secretary, GSTA.“Sir, the teaching community selflessly served when the government and the citizens needed them for Covid-19 prevention. But the revenue department is now taking advantage of the situation and just harassing teachers into unjustified duties... I request you to intervene and stop such deputation of teaching community...,” it stated.The Delhi government did not respond to queries regarding the teachers’ demand.A teacher deputed at the borders said there was no detailed brief on what is allowed.“As of now the order has not been taken back, so I have to report at the border and perform my duty. But I am not sure what exactly we are supposed to do. Will the vehicles even stop on our insistence? We as school teachers know nothing about a health certificate issued by a veterinarian,” the teacher said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/relieve-us-of-bird-flu-duty-say-teachers-101610577792328.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||MCDs ban sale, stocking of poultry; eateries can’t serve chicken or eggs||The three municipal corporations (MCDs) of Delhi on Wednesday imposed a blanket ban on the storage, packaging and sale of all poultry across the national capital, triggering anguish among retailers and restaurant owners who said that if the order was not reviewed immediately, the supply of chicken and eggs will come to a complete halt in Delhi.The MCDs also prohibited restaurants and hotels from serving any item containing chicken or eggs to their customers. The orders, issued separately by the three civic bodies, stated that the rules were applicable with immediate effect, and that any violation would attract penal action or cancellation of the meat trade licences.The Delhi government had on Monday confirmed the spread of avian influenza in the Capital, shut the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market for 10 days, and banned the entry of live birds into the city without proper health certification from authorised veterinarians. Later, the government also prohibited the sale of packaged or processed chicken brought from outside Delhi. But it did not completely ban the sale of chicken and eggs in the city.On Wednesday, the north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations went a step further by imposing a complete ban on any form of activity related to poultry and live birds in the areas under their jurisdiction, including prohibiting restaurants and hotels from serving any item containing chicken or eggs to their customers.The civic bodies said their decision was based on the Delhi government’s recent orders, which banned all forms of trade related to poultry.However, a Delhi government spokesperson said the orders issued by the MCDs were more stringent compared to what the city administration had done.Jai Prakash, mayor of the north Delhi municipal corporation (North MCD), said the civic body has asked those involved in the poultry business to strictly follow the prohibitory orders. “If violated, action will be taken by the deputy director (veterinary services) of all zones and their meat trade licence will also be cancelled. Owners of restaurants are being ordered not to serve food containing poultry meat and eggs otherwise penal action will be initiated against them as per the law,” he said.The east MCD also issued a similar order and said people are also being requested call on the helpline number 011-23890318, if they find any unnatural death of birds in their locality.Anurag Katriar, president of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said they will write to the MCDs requesting them to rescind the rules.“What is more surprising is that the Delhi government had actually given out newspaper advertisements today morning assuring that well-cooked meat or egg is safe to eat. Businesses are being affected due to the multiplicity of authority in the city,” he said. Health experts have also pointed out that chicken thoroughly cooked above 70 degrees Celsius is safe to consume.Restaurateur Priyank Sukhija, owner of restaurants brands such as Tamasha, Lord of the Drinks, Warehouse Café and Teddy Boy, said because of the MCD order they will have to trash cold-processed chicken worth lakhs of rupees.“Cold processed chicken has a maximum shelf-life of a month. Our current stock was to be totally used up within the next 10-15 days, but now it will have to be trashed. Also, Delhi lives on chicken, especially butter chicken. Our restaurants see a huge demand for chicken items, with that being taken off the shelves, now we are likely to see a drastic drop in customer footfall as well,” said Sukhija.Irshad Qureshi, general secretary, Delhi meat traders’ association, said of the 6,000 licensed meat shops registered under the group, nearly 2,500 shops sell only chicken. “Their businesses had dropped by nearly 60-70% in the past one week because of bird flu. Now, it has come to a complete halt,” Qureshi said.Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said people could still eat chicken, but precautions must be taken. “The virus gets killed once the chicken is thoroughly cooked above 70 degrees Celsius. People need to take precautions with the raw chicken -- they should use gloves to handle it, they should clean the surface where the uncooked chicken is kept thoroughly, and wash their hands properly,” said Dr Broor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-ban-sale-stocking-of-poultry-eateries-can-t-serve-chicken-or-eggs-101610568762501.html
14-01-2021||Delhi||Free vaccine for all residents of Delhi: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday said that the Covid-19 vaccine will be free for all residents of Delhi even if the central government does not make it free for all across the country, even as he alerted people against “misinformation” related to the vaccines.The comments by Kejriwal came three days before the vaccination drive is set to kick start across the country – with healthcare workers chosen as the first priority group, to be followed by frontline workers.Kejriwal said, “There are a lot of people who would not be able to afford the vaccine. I had appealed to the Centre to provide free vaccine to all the people of the country… If the Centre doesn’t do it, the Delhi government will provide free vaccine to all the residents of Delhi.”“I want to appeal to everyone to not spread any misinformation on the vaccine. I believe that the Central government along with the scientists have followed all protocols and safeguards before bringing this vaccine. There should be no doubt regarding it,” said Kejriwal on the sidelines of his visit to the residence of a doctor who died of Covid-19 while on duty.The Delhi government provided ₹1 crore in financial assistance to the family of Dr Hitesh Gupta, who was employed at the Karkardooma dispensary of Delhi government.After the first dry run of the vaccine on January 2, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said the vaccine would be free for all Delhi residents, even though Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had announced the same day that the vaccines would be free for health care workers and frontline workers.On January 9, Kejriwal had urged the Centre to consider making the vaccine free for people across India.As many as 264,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India — and 20,000 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin have so far reached the national capital.On Wednesday, the government started the process of allocating doses to each of the 11 revenue districts, said a senior government official.The doses are stored in bulk at a cold storage facility set up at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur, from where they are to be sent to cold chain points, and eventually to vaccination sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-vaccine-for-all-residents-of-delhi-kejriwal-101610568166752.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Illegal building construction in Mumbai: HC relief for actor Sonu Sood||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday reserved order on an appeal filed by actor Sonu Sood, challenging the refusal of interim relief by the city civil court at Dindoshi, for restraining the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from taking any action pursuant to the October 24, 2020 notice issued to him over purportedly illegal additions and alterations made to his Shakti Sagar building at Juhu, and illegal conversion of the building into a residential hotel.BMC had issued the notice, calling upon the actor, who owns the ground-plus-six storey structure, to either remove all unauthorised additions and alterations and restore the building to its original condition, or apply under section 44 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 for retention of the additions and alterations.Besides, the civic body had also called upon the actor to stop using tenements in the building for commercial purpose – a residential hotel and of the shops as restaurants, alleging that the change of user was without appropriate permissions.Sood’s counsel, advocate Amogh Singh, however, maintained that the actor has not made any additional constructions in the building. He said the actor took ownership of the building only in 2018-19, and the building was as it was since January 1992, when it was constructed.Singh submitted that the allegations of unauthorised additions and alterations made in the notice were vague. “Forget about the dimensions of the unauthorised work, even the floor numbers are not mentioned in the notice,” said Singh.As regards conversion of the building into a residential hotel and ground-floor shops into restaurants, Singh said no permission of the civic body was required for the change of user, but by way of abundant caution, the actor has applied for change of user, and in-principle approval had already been granted by the civic body for the same.Singh also pointed out that during the recent lockdown, Sood had made the entire building available as temporary accommodation for police personnel, and urged the court to grant an interim order in favour of the actor.Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, who represented BMC, opposed Sood’s appeal, contending that he had not come to court with clean hands, and had suppressed several vital aspects of the matter that a speaking order was passed for demolition of the unauthorised additions and alterations on February 14, 2020, and the additions and alterations were earlier demolished twice – once in November 2018 and then in February 2020, and the same has reconstructed for the third time.Sood has filed a suit before the civil court challenging the October 24 notice issued by BMC and had also applied for interim relief. He moved HC on January 5, 2021, after the civil court rejected his plea for interim relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/illegal-building-construction-in-mumbai-hc-relief-for-actor-sonu-sood-101610567844363.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Maharashtra government revives Nariman Point-Colaba sea link plan||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has revived another decade-old project of a sea bridge connecting Nariman Point to Colaba in south Mumbai. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has invited bids for appointing a consultant who would look at the technical and financial feasibility of the project.According to officials, the route will serve as an alternative to the Captain Prakash Pethe Marg which witnessed heavy traffic congestion. “Since it is the only major route along Colaba, commuters face traffic congestion. This project will be planned as a sea bridge that will also connect Cuffe Parade,” said MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev.On Wednesday, tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who took stock of the ongoing projects of MMRDA, tweeted, “Nariman Point-Cuffe Parade connector: on my humble request, the @MMRDAOfficial has put out an EoI for consultants. This connector will ease out traffic in a key business-residential area, while not obstructing the boats of fishermen. By June, we shall have a design for it.”In 2008, MMRDA had planned a 1.2-km coastal road connecting National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) to Cuffe Parade. The project was also cleared by the then chief minister of Maharashtra, Vilasrao Deshmukh. However, it was put in the back-burner as MMRDA was also planning a ₹3,500-crore redevelopment plan for Nariman Point.The state has already undertaken construction of five sea links which include the 22-km Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link, Versova-Bandra sea link, its 43-km extension till Virar and coastal road which will connect Nariman Point to the western suburbs. The Thackeray-led government has also revived the Konkan coast project connecting the three coastal districts of Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg. This mega project was also put in the back-burner for two-decades owing to various issues including land acquisition, high cost and priority given to widening of the Mumbai-Goa highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaimaharashtra-government-revives-nariman-point-colaba-sea-link-plan-101610567724175.html
14-01-2021||Other||Bird flu: Poultry farms across Thane to be checked||In the wake of the current instances of bird flu in the state, Thane district’s food and drug department will inspect all the poultry farms across the district. The officials will also check on the chicken and egg sellers, to note their source and licenses will be checked and the poultry will also be medically examined across the district.Suresh Deshmukh, joint commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, said, “Bird flu cases can be easily detected in live birds, which is under the supervision of the local bodies. Ideally, only those poultry can be slaughtered which are fit; hence all inspectors have been cautioned to find the source of the chicken and eggs in hotels.”It has come to light that apart from the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), none of the governing bodies within the district has an animal husbandry department. However, a district-level control room has been set up under the Thane district’s animal husbandry which will look after bird flu-related complaints. The helpline numbers are 022-25603311 and 18002330418.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-poultry-farms-across-thane-to-be-checked-101610567605612.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police extends deadline for private establishments to install CCTVs within two months||The Mumbai Police extended the deadline for all private and commercial establishments in the city to install CCTV cameras by two months. Shopkeepers or commercial establishment owners who refuse to abide by it despite having their shops in crime-prone areas may face legal action. Earlier the deadline for installing CCTVs was January 7.According to police, incidents of crime occur in public places as well as in the vicinity of private establishments, thus posing a threat to the safety of citizens, and thereby, disturbing peace and tranquillity. CCTVs help police to effectively check crimes and also help in building confidence and a sense of security among citizens. It also deters perpetrators from committing crime as their acts will be recorded.Therefore, the city police in November 2020 under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) directed all private establishments in the city to install CCTVs. The establishments include jewellery shops, hotels, guest houses, restaurants, bars and pubs, wine and beer shops, residential towers, banks, ATMs, financial institutions, office buildings, new and upcoming residential towers/office buildings, petrol pumps, shopping complexes, shopping malls, super markets, gyms, sports grounds, stadiums, educational institutions, multiplexes, places of worships, hospitals, trusts and other organizations.Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu, who issued the order, said the deadline for private establishments to install CCTVs has been extended by two months. “The response from private establishments is good. Since we don’t want to forcefully impose it and are expecting active participation from the public, we have extended the deadline by two months. The project is going to ultimately benefit the public and enhance their safety. Citizens understand this and are gradually installing CCTV. Policemen at the police station level are conveying to establishment owners the importance of the step and encouraging them to install CCTV,” he said.“With citizens’ active participation in installing CCTV cameras, we aim to have a dense network of nearly 300,000 virtual eyes which would cover every nook and corner of the city. The crime rate will go down drastically,” a senior IPS officer said.It is also observed that in cases where private establishments have CCTV systems installed, the direction and field of view of the cameras are such that the area outside such establishments is not covered, the camera quality is inadequate, the recording capacity is inadequate or non-existent, resulting in incidents of crime not being captured and recorded. Hence the establishment owners are directed by the police that CCTV camera must cover an area of around 50 metres from the establishment. CCTV should be of good quality and should be working at all times. It should have the recording capacity of at least 15 days with features to playback the recording and also to take a copy of the same.In Mumbai, there is already a network of around 5,000 government- operated CCTV cameras covering arterial roads, main roads, junctions. These 5,000 cameras are installed at over 1,510 sensitive locations across the city. The existing CCTV network is also used by the traffic police to maintain vehicular traffic in the city. The government would soon be adding additional 7,000 cameras to its network.The CCTV network surveillance project was imposed in Mumbai after the 26/11 terror attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-extends-deadline-for-private-establishments-to-install-cctvs-within-two-months-101610567604530.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Sudha Bharadwaj allowed access to 5 books per month from outside jail||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Tuesday allowed access to books from outside the prison, to activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj. The court has, however, asked the prison authorities to check the contents, if they are objectionable, before allowing the same.Bharadwaj along with Hany Babu and Gautam Navlakha had approached the special court for access to books and newspapers in prison. Their lawyer, on Tuesday, filed an affidavit stating that the prison authorities at Taloja did not allow to deliver books brought by lawyers as well.Bharadwaj in her petition said the books sent to her in the past few months, by post as well as those brought personally by her lawyers, have been returned repeatedly. “Applicant is a lawyer and a law professor who has spent her life reading and studying books and texts, and she cannot be denied access to books arbitrarily,” read the petition.The court has now permitted her to have five books from outside the prison. “The superintendent shall carefully examine the books and if they contain objectionable material, which preaches violence, vulgar, obscene, pornographic or the material propagating the banned organisation namely Revolutionary Democratic Front or CPI (Maoist), in that case, he shall not allow the applicant to accept such books,” the court said.Meanwhile, since the reply on the plea of Babu and Navlakha was not received from Taloja jail, it is kept pending for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-sudha-bharadwaj-allowed-access-to-5-books-per-month-from-outside-jail-101610567365361.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Petrol price soars to ₹91.07 a litre in Mumbai, diesel now at ₹81.34||Petrol prices on Wednesday touched a new high. The cost of one litre of petrol is now ₹91.07 while the cost of a litre of diesel in the city soared to ₹81.34. The fuel prices in the city have increased after seven days.On January 7, the price of one litre of petrol in the city was ₹90.83, while a litre of diesel was priced at ₹81.07. The fuel prices across metro cities soared after oil prices witnessed an increase throughout last week. In October 2018, the cost of one litre of petrol was ₹91.34 and cost of one litre of diesel was ₹80.10.Motorists in the city are irked with the increase in petrol prices. “The lockdown imposed due to the spread of coronavirus in the city has already impacted the livelihood of people. Citizens in the city are using their private vehicles to commute and undertake important work. With the increased petrol prices, the financial burden increases. The government should bring the petrol prices under control and reduce the cost of both petrol and diesel in the city,” said Aarti Singh, a Vikhroli resident. The Petrol Dealers Association have stated that they are going through unprecedented conditions. “The petrol dealers are earning a minimal commission over the sale. The issues of the dealers are also not addressed,” said M Venkatrao, president, Petrol Dealers Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-price-soars-to-91-07-a-litre-in-mumbai-diesel-now-at-8134-101610567244108.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Covid vaccination drive: Doctors on standby at 9 centres||Doctors and medical staff have been kept on standby at the nine Covid-19 vaccination centres in the city, as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) prepares to administer vaccines to healthcare workers from January 16. The BMC aims to vaccinate at least 10,000 people daily, aiming to cover a total of 130,000 medical workers within two weeks. The second phase of the dry run is expected on January 15. The nine vaccination centres in Mumbai include four major hospitals namely KEM, BYL Nair, Cooper and Sion, followed by four peripheral hospitals namely Bhabha Hospital in Bandra, VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli; and the Covid-19 facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex. At every centre, 10 to 20 doctors will be on stand-by to attend to any emergency. Overall, around 200 doctors, over 100 nurses and around 500 volunteers will participate in the drive. The vaccine centres have a total of 50 booths for vaccination, and each booth will be handled by a team of two to five vaccinators. According to BMC officials, the vaccination will be done by nurses in some centres and by doctors in some. The BMC has trained 5,000 volunteers. Dr Sheela Jagptap from the immunisation department of the BMC, said, “Each health worker who undergoes vaccination will have to wait at the centre for around 30 minutes. In this period, if the person reports any side effects, we have kept doctors, nurses and specialists on standby. They will shift the person to the intensive care unit (ICU) for further treatment. In case there is no side effect, the person will be allowed to go home with a pamphlet on what he should do in case of a side effect. The second dose has to be taken 28 days after taking the first dose.” “We won’t have a uniform number of staff at each vaccine centre. It is being worked out, as per the need. We are working on minute details,” she added. According to BMC officials, they are not expecting serious side effects, except for a fever or swelling in rare cases. All those who undergo vaccination will be given contact of their local wards where they need to report any such problem. The first shift at the centres will be from 8am to 2pm, and the second shift will be from 2pm to 8pm. Each centre will have a team of vaccinators, supervising doctors and nodal officers who will report to BMC headquarters. On Wednesday, senior BMC officials, including Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, visited the F-South ward in Parel where the vaccines are stored. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, the BMC’s standing committee meeting was adjourned as members across parties, including Shiv Sena, BJP, Congress and NCP, demanded information on how the Covid-19 vaccination drive on health care will be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-vaccination-drive-doctors-on-standby-at-9-centres-101610567125974.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai second most congested city in the world after Moscow: Report||Mumbai was the second most congested city in the world after Moscow in 2020 in terms of traffic states the latest of traffic index released by TomTom Traffic Index, which conducted a study across 416 cities across 57 countries. After ranking fourth in 2019 and 2018, Mumbai has now risen to the second spot. Two other Indian cities — Bengaluru and New Delhi — have ranked sixth and eighth most congested cities respectively in 2020. TomTom Traffic Index’s report analysed traffic data from more than 400 cities in 57 countries. Its findings show traffic congestion lessened in a number of places. Werner van Huyssteen, general manager (India), TomTom, said, “Last year, we announced that both global and India congestion levels in 2019 had increased for the ninth consecutive traffic index. In 2020, we saw a vastly different picture. From lockdowns to closed borders, people’s movement changed – and it changed very fast.” In Mumbai, traffic congestion decreased by 12%, while Bengaluru, ranked sixth, saw 51% congestion in 2020, compared to 71% congestion in 2019 and was ranked at number one. Parag Bedarkar, manager (enterprise sales) at TomTom, said congestion had decreased across the world and could be due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Bedarkar said that in Mumbai, congestion levels dipped by 18% in the morning peak hour and 17% during the evening rush hour. “Solutions offered by companies like work-from-home helped to reduce congestion after lockdown,” said Bedarkar. According to TomTom, drivers in Mumbai spend an average of 53% more travel time due to traffic congestion. Other global cities in the top 10 list for their congestion include Manila, Bogota, Moscow, Novosibirsk, Kyiv, Lima, Istanbul and Jakarta. TomTom provides real-time traffic management data along with historical traffic congestion data which could help local governments plan their infrastructure projects and initiate more public transport schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-second-most-congested-city-in-the-world-after-moscow-report-101610567124457.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||‘Patole may not be top contender for Maharashtra Congress chief’s post’||While there is a tussle among the aspirants for the post of Maharashtra Congress chief, the top contender for the same, Nana Patole, faces a major hurdle now.The Congress’ allies in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition are not keen to face an election for the post of speaker of the state Assembly, if the incumbent Patole resigns for the organisational post, in the party. The MVA allies are wary of facing instability if a few of their members of Legislative Assembly (MLA) resort to cross-voting for the BJP.Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and even some Congress leaders have reportedly conveyed this to the Congress leadership. NCP leadership also has reservations over Patole because of the strained relations between him and senior NCP leader Praful Patel. In this background, senior leaders Rajiv Satav and Vijay Wadettiwar are now emerging as two strong contenders for the post.After state in-charge of the party, HK Patil, met Congress legislators and key leaders from Maharashtra in Mumbai recently, to gauge the mood among them for the change of guard in the state unit, the lobbying for the post has intensified. Party leaders from the state have been meeting central leadership in Delhi over the last few days. Former chief minister Ashok Chavan met leaders in Delhi and reportedly batted for state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who is one of the top contenders for the post.“Patole could be an ideal face and fits in the criterion finalised by the party for the post. Party high command is expected to hand-pick a non-Maratha from Vidarbha as it wants to send out a message to the electorate. However, none of the ruling parties would want to re-election to the post of speaker. Speaker cannot hold any political post. The MVA has a thumping majority in the lower house, but cross-voting by even a few members could lead to an atmosphere of instability in the coalition. The Opposition BJP would like to grab the opportunity to let ruling alliance down,” said a senior Congress leader requesting anonymity.Another Congress minister pointed out that there is resistance from the NCP to make Patole state unit chief. “NCP’s key leader Praful Patel is bete noire of Patole, owing to the local politics in Bhandara and Gondia. He would not want Patole to hold the reign of Congress, thus NCP leadership has reportedly started to ensure that the Congress does not handpick Patole,” he said.Ashok Chavan camp has been reportedly convincing the party high command that the state unit needs an aggressive face like Wadettiwar to face other two ruling parties and Opposition BJP is pitching for Satav to be his successor.Patole, however, said, “The MVA enjoys a solid majority of about 186 members in the lower house and it has no threat. The deputy speaker was elected unopposed and it could be repeated even in choosing the new speaker if I was given another responsibility. The fear of election for the new speaker cannot prove to be a hurdle for my becoming party chief in the state. I met state-in-charge of the Congress HK Patil during his recent review meetings in Mumbai, and have told him that I was ready to obey party decisions, which are in the interest of the party at large.”Talking about the resistance from NCP, Patole said that it is good for him if other parties are afraid of him and his party should think about it.Another question being asked in the party is if any minister was made state unit chief, would he be asked to give up his ministerial berth? “Not necessary. One leader one post is an old formula and in states like Punjab party leadership has appointed ministers to head the state unit,” a senior leader said.Wadettiwar said, “It is up to the party leadership to decide on this, but I think state chief of the party gets strength if is also in the cabinet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/patole-may-not-be-top-contender-for-maharashtra-congress-chief-s-post-101610567004185.html
14-01-2021||Lucknow||Public notice for interfaith marriage not a must: HC||Public display of notices to invite objections to an interfaith marriage is not mandatory under the 1954 Special Marriage Act (SMA), the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court said on Wednesday, arguing that the contentious provision violates the rights to liberty and privacy.The order, passed by justice Vivek Chaudhury on Tuesday but made public on Wednesday, came on a petition by an interfaith couple who said the provision, under which notices are displayed at marriage offices and sometimes even sent to the houses of the applicants 30 days prior to the scheduled date, prompted social pressure in their “free choice” of marriage.“This court mandates that while giving notice under Section 5 of the (Special Marriage) Act of 1954 it shall be optional for the parties to the intended marriage to make a request in writing to the marriage officer to publish or not to publish a notice under Section 6,” the judge said in his 47-page order.“In case they do not make such a request for publication of notice in writing, while giving notice under Section 5 of the Act, the marriage officer shall not publish any such notice or entertain objections to the intended marriage and proceed with the solemnisation of the marriage,” he added.SMA, which allows solemnisation of marriages by way of registration without religious customs, regulates interfaith marriages in India.The order is not directly linked to the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which outlaws conversion by allurement, fraud, coercion or marriage.But it comes amid a swirling debate over the new law that has provisions — such as 60-day advance notice before a planned conversion and police inquiries — similar to the SMA, and a controversy over “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing groups to desribe relationships between Hindu women and Muslim men. The couple’s lawyers also told the high court that the situation was “more critical” for interfaith couples after the new ordinance was notified.Two other petitions challenging the controversial public-notice provision, which activists say puts hurdles in the way of interfaith couples and encourages vigilantes to scuttle such unions, are pending before the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court.As the case was related to protection of fundamental rights of many people, the court ordered a copy of the verdict be sent to the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh and asked him to communicate the same to all marriage officers and other authorities.“It would be cruel and unethical to force the present generation living with its current needs and expectations to follow the customs and traditions adopted by a generation living nearly 150 years back for its social needs and circumstances, which violates fundamental rights recognised by the courts of the day,” the order read.The court was hearing a habeas corpus (have the body) petition by a Hindu man who claimed that his wife, who converted from Islam to Hinduism to marry him, was being stopped from living with him by her father. During the course of the hearing, the couple told the court that they could have solemnised their union under SMA but for the public notice provision.“They expressed that any such notice would be an invasion in their privacy and would have definitely caused unnecessary social pressure/interference in their free choice with regard to their marriage.They further stated that such a challenge was being faced by a large number of similarly situated persons who desire to build a life with a partner of their own choice,” the order read.The court relied on previous apex court judgments, including the 2018 decriminalisation of homosexuality and the 2017 right to privacy verdicts, and also noted that no provision of public notices existed under personal religious laws. “There is no apparent reasonable purpose achieved by making the procedure to be more protective or obstructive under the Act of 1954, under which much less numbers of marriages are taking place, than procedure under the other personal laws, more particularly when this discrimination violates fundamental rights,” the order read.SMA mandates an elaborate process to register a marriage. First, one of the parties has to give a notice to the marriage officer of the district where at least one of the parties has resided for at least 30 days.This notice, which includes details such as names, date of birth, age, occupation, parents’ name, address, and phone number, is then entered in the marriage notice book and the officer puts it up in the office.Anybody can then raise objections on various grounds. If no objection is raised within 30 days, then the marriage can be solemnised. If objections are raised, then the officer has to inquire into the objections, and can then decide whether to solemnise the union.The high court sharply criticised this public notice provision. “In case the same...are held mandatory...they would invade in the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy, including ...freedom to choose for marriage without interference from state and non-state actors,” the judge held.The order mentioned that if an interfaith couple “by their free choice” wanted to get more information about their potential partner, they could opt for publication of the notice. The court also said the marriage officer was free to verify the identification, age and valid consent of the parties. “In case he has any doubt, it shall be open for him to ask for appropriate details/proof as per the facts of the case,” the judgment read.Activists welcomed the judgment. “The 30-day public notice provision is feared by most interfaith couples because it triggers vigilantes. Making it optional will remove a major hurdle in registering interfaith unions. But it has to be implemented quickly,” said Asif Iqbal, founder of the non-governmental organisation Dhanak that works with interfaith couples.State president of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA), Madhu Garg, said the public notices had led to hate crimes in the past, and making it optional would make people feel safe.Legal experts said the contentious provision was an intrusion on an individual’s right to privacy. “Any adult has a right to marry without interference in his privacy. This judgment has upheld this fundamental value. It is a well researched judgment,” said Desh Ratna Sinha, advocate, Lucknow high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/public-notice-for-interfaith-marriage-not-a-must-hc-101610566591456.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||NCPCR asks NIOS to address Mumbai parents’ concerns over Class 10, 12 exams||A few days after city parents whose children are registered under the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) requested the board to cancel the upcoming offline Class 10 and Class 12 exams, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has taken cognisance of the issue and has written to the board.In its letter addressed to the board on Tuesday, NCPCR asked officials to look into the request of parents who had said they did not want a physical examination and also complained about no reduction in the syllabus for the exams. With the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) allowing boards to conduct their scheduled exams in the city, parents are anxious, especially as practical exams have been scheduled from today (January 14). “We stay in Andheri (West), but the exam centre is in Mumbai Central. It will be difficult for our children to travel all the way there as they have low immunity as many are with special needs,” said the parent of a student. Officials from the board did not respond to calls and messages. An official from the Pune region of the board which overlooks centres in Maharashtra, said, “We cannot comment on this because it is a policy decision that will be decided upon by the central leadership.”Parents said that the board should mark students based on their internal assessments. Many complained about not getting study material on time. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association, who wrote to the NCPCR, said, “Exams should be conducted in the online mode, and the board should also consider promoting students on their internal assessments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncpcr-asks-nios-to-address-mumbai-parents-concerns-over-class-10-12-exams-101610566824167.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Why Covid vaccines are stored at Parel, Not Kanjurmarg||Why has the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) stored the 139,500 vaccine vials that the city got from the Serum Institute of India in Pune at the public health department’s headquarters at the F-South ward office in Parel, instead of the regional vaccine storage facility at Kanjurmarg, which is being prepared since mid-November? The Kanjurmarg facility is undergoing civil works at its premises and will be ready only after two weeks. The Kanjurmarg facility can store up to 9,000,000 vaccine vials, while the F-South ward office can store up to 600,000 vaccine doses at a time. Suresh Kakani, additional Municipal commissioner in charge of the BMC’s public health department, said on Tuesday, “The Kanjurmarg facility is ready to be activated for storage of vials, but some civil work is pending. Moreover, the capacity is more to be activated at once for a comparatively smaller unit of vaccine doses. So we got the facility at Parel ready. Once the Parel facility is used to its full capacity, we will begin to use the one at Kanjurmarg.” Moreover, logistically, it would be tedious to transport vaccine doses from the Kanjurmarg facility in the eastern suburbs to all nine vaccination centres, and hence the facility at Parel, which is centrally located, was chosen, Kakani added. The nine vaccination centres in the city are the four major hospitals, King Edward Memorial Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper Hospital and Sion Hospital; four peripheral hospitals — Bhabha at Bandra, VN Desai at Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital, Kandivli; and the Covid facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex. A room on the ground floor of the F-South ward office building was cleared and handed over to the BMC’s public health department by the ward authorities. It is equipped with 10 ice-lined refrigerators, and the vaccine doses will be transferred from here on Saturday morning. With an area of 5,000sqft, the Kanjurmarg facility in the five-storey Parivar building will have two walk-in coolers (WIC) and one walk-in freezer (WIF). The WIC will have capacity of 40 cubic metres and will maintain temperature up to -80 degrees Celsius. The WIF will have a capacity of 20 cubic metres and will maintain temperature between -15 and -250 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-why-covid-vaccines-are-stored-at-parel-not-kanjurmarg-101610566704322.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Fishermen can claim compensation only thrice a year for rescue of endangered marine life: Maharashtra fisheries department||Fishermen claiming compensation for rescuing and releasing marine life into the sea can now do so only three times a year. The state government has introduced an upper limit to the number of claims one can file and the amount that can be claimed to the compensation scheme for the fishing community.In a notification issued last week, the state fisheries department has announced a new structure for the compensation scheme for conservation practices by the fishing community. Endangered marine animals, protected under various schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, get caught in large trawler fishing nets and are rescued by cutting these nets. However, while the animals survive once the nets are cut the fishing community endures a loss due to damaged nets. Changes to the compensation scheme, which was introduced in 2018 to encourage conservation practices by fishermen, were proposed by the state mangrove cell to ensure more fishermen take advantage of it instead of the rewards going to those making multiple claims through the year. The compensation is provided once the fisherman can submit proof of the release and damage to nets.The compensation amount, which was earlier ₹25,000 for rescuing all kinds of marine life and releasing them into the sea, has been lowered for smaller species to ₹12,500.For instance, for rescuing and releasing sea turtles, such as the Olive Ridley, green sea, loggerhead and hawksbill, fishermen will receive ₹12,500 for their first claim. One fisherman can make claims only three times a year. The compensation for the second claim will be ₹10,000 and for the third will be ₹8,000.The compensation will remain ₹25,000 for the first claim for rescuing and releasing larger species such as the whale shark, Gangetic shark, Pondicherry shark, sawfish, giant guitarfish, leatherback turtle, dolphins and whales. Compensation for subsequent claims has been reduced to ₹20,000 and ₹15,000.“Since the start of the scheme, we have disbursed ₹25 lakh to fishermen for their conservation efforts. However, we have noticed that some fishermen make multiple claims throughout the year. It can’t be that all these rare species are getting trapped in the nets of only a handful of fishermen. Therefore, we had proposed an upper limit on the number of claims one can file,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell). The compensation scheme for conservation practices was launched by the mangrove cell and fisheries department on December 21, 2018, and was subsequently passed by the state cabinet. The mangrove cell had also found that the damage caused to nets by releasing smaller species was not very high, and therefore proposed to reduce the compensation, Tiwari added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fishermen-can-claim-compensation-only-thrice-a-year-for-rescue-of-endangered-marine-life-maharashtra-fisheries-department-101610566584209.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||481 more birds dead in Maharashtra, count soars to 2,395||The incidents of bird deaths are rising in Maharashtra and their count has soared to 2,395 after 481 birds were found dead on Wednesday. Of them, 455 are poultry birds. This has also increased the risk of a spread of bird flu in other districts of the state. The state has also culled close to 15,000 poultry birds till date to contain the spread of avian influenza or bird flu.In a late evening development, around eight-10 peacocks and peahens were found dead at Hinganghat in Wardha district.Further, the state government on Wednesday empowered all the district collectors for immediate implementation of a containment plan, even if they suspect deaths are due to bird flu, said state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh.The state government is also still awaiting test results of the samples from other districts sent to the ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, a nodal body for testing bird flu cases, to confirm the cause of bird deaths, he said.Of 481 deaths, 294 died in Yavatmal, 79 in Bhandara, 18 in Latur, 13 each in Akola and Pune, nine each in Nanded and Solapur, three each in Beed and Ahmednagar. In addition, 21 crows have been found dead in seven districts — Beed, Ahmednagar, Ratnagiri, Satara, Pune, Akola and Yavatmal, the officials said.On Tuesday, a total of 218 birds were found dead in different districts of the state, of them 214 were poultry birds.Till Monday, the bird flu cases were confirmed at six places that include Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Beed and Latur districts.In Parbhani and Latur where confirmed cases of avian influenza or bird flu were detected, the district administrations have culled nearly 15,000 poultry birds.Deepak Muglikar, Parbhani district collector said that they have completed culling process of 3,443 poultry birds within 1 km vicinity of the concerned poultry farm. The test reports of the people have also come negative. “Culling process of poultry birds within 1 km radius of the concerned poultry farm has been completed. We have also completed examinations of all the people in the village. We have also conducted RT-PCR tests of those 28 people working with the poultry farm and their reports have come negative,” Muglikar said.Over 800 birds were found dead in Parbhani owing to bird flu last week.Prithiviraj BP, Latur district collector said that they have culled a total 11,164 poultry birds at eleven locations in the district within one km vicinity of two villages Kendrewadi and Sukni. “We have initiated all the preventive measures following the containment plan in the district. The culling of birds has been completed and people are being examined for symptoms. A detailed report will now be sent to the state government soon,” he said.The state animal husbandry commissioner said, “Following the provisions under section 36 of the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, all the district collectors have been empowered to initiate measures of the containment plan to stop the spread of bird flu even if they suspect bird flu if the cause of death in birds in the respective districts.”This is being done to ensure the containment plan will be enforced without any delay and spread of avian influenza can be stopped. So far, the containment plan was allowed to be enforced in a district only after confirmation of a test report, he added.According to the guidelines issued by the central government, the local administration will have to cull poultry birds within 1-km radius of that particular poultry farm where bird deaths were found due to avian influenza or bird flu. A surveillance zone within a periphery of 10-km will have to be created, which means no birds will be allowed to sell or purchase in that area. The particular village, where that poultry farm is situated, will have to be declared as a prohibited area, which means no one can enter inside and no one can come out of it that include local villagers as a precaution. A medical team has to be set up for the examination of the local people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/481-more-birds-dead-in-maharashtra-count-soars-to-2395-101610566464384.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Election to two gram panchayats cancelled following allegations of post auctioning||The state election commission (SEC) has cancelled the process of election for two gram panchayats in north Maharashtra after the state machinery found substance in the reports of auctions for the post of village sarpanch and panchayat members. The election process for Umrane gram panchayat in Nashik and Khondamali gram panchayat in Nandurbar has been scrapped. Elections will be held for 14,234 gram panchayats on January 15.State election commissioner UPS Madan said that the elections to these gram panchayats have been cancelled after reports by the district collector, election observers, sub-divisional officers and the scrutiny of documents and audio clips have established that auctions had taken place for the posts of sarpanchs and members. “The commission, therefore, has decided to cancel the election process in these two village bodies. We have also directed district police authorities to initiate action against the people involved in it under section 171 (C) of the Indian Penal Code and submit a report. Police have already registered a complaint regarding the auctions,” said Madan.The commission had received several complaints after video and audio clips of the auctions in several villages went viral ahead of the filing of nominations for the posts of sarpanch and members. The commission said that such incidents are a violation of the code of conduct and fundamental principles of democracy, and hamper equal opportunity to all to contest the elections. Social activist Anna Hazare had criticised such incidents, calling them an “auction of democracy” and demanded the strictest action.Additionally, the SEC has allowed Covid-19 affected people, those in isolation centres and people with symptoms to vote in the gram panchayat elections in the concluding 30 minutes on January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-election-to-two-gram-panchayats-cancelled-following-allegations-of-post-auctioning-101610566344185.html
14-01-2021||Other||Thane receives first lot of 103,000 doses of Covid vaccine||Thane division received the first lot of 103,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from Serum Institute of India in Pune on Wednesday morning. From these, around 74,000 vaccines will be used within Thane district and the rest will be shared with Ratnagiri, Palghar and Raigad districts. The vaccination drive will start from Friday across the district. The vaccines have been stored at the office of the deputy director of health in Dharamveer Nagar, Thane in a walk-in cold storage with temperature ranging between 2 degree Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius. “We have vans with storage facilities at the desired temperature which are being used to transfer the vaccine doses to various civic bodies across the district. These arrived on Tuesday night at Thane. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation was the first to collect the vaccine doses from the cold storage. We have made provisions for power back up at the deputy director’s office so that the vaccine is kept in the desired temperature,” said Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane district. Among the 29 vaccination centres across the district, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) and Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) have four centres each while Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has five centres and Thane rural has seven centres. A total of 60,842 health and frontline workers from Thane district have registered on the Co-Win portal for the vaccine. “Keeping in mind the number of beneficiaries, we have received a few extra doses of vaccine in case of any error or wastage that could occur while administering the vaccine. Every day, 100 vaccines will be administered in each centre. There will be a team of five trained staff present at the centres,” said Dr Gauri Rathod, deputy director, Thane public health department. Of the 74,000 doses for Thane district, 21,000 are slated for NMMC; 19,000 for TMC, 11,500 for Thane rural; 6,000 for KDMC while Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation will get 5,000 doses. Similarly, BNCMC will get 3,500 and MBMC shall get 8000 d,oses of vaccine. According to the district information office, there are provisions for 190 ice-lined refrigerators (temperature controlled), 197 deep freezers, 199 cold boxes, 26,530 ice packs and 4,814 carriers. There are 846 vaccinators and 340 supervisors across the district for the smooth functioning of the vaccination process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-receives-first-lot-of-103-000-doses-of-covid-vaccine-101610566284223.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Tukaram Mundhe appointed as Maharashtra human rights commission secretary||Tukaram Mundhe, a 2005 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer known for his frequent transfers, has been appointed as secretary of Maharashtra human rights commission. He was on compulsory wait for posting after being transferred from the post of Nagpur municipal commissioner on August 26.This is Mundhe’s 17th posting in his 15 years of service. After his transfer from Nagpur Municipal Corporation, he was appointed as member secretary in Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran in September. However, the appointment was cancelled within days, keeping Mundhe on waiting for posting.Another controversial IAS officer Arvind Kumar, a 1985-batch cadre, has been appointed as additional chief secretary in cooperation, marketing and textile department. The officer was shunted out from rural development department in October after his objectionable remarks against a section of top IAS officer on a WhatsApp group of IAS officers. The messages sent at midnight were strongly opposed to by senior officers who sought action. He was then appointed as managing director of Maharashtra Petrochemicals Corporation Limited, considered as a side posting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tukaram-mundhe-appointed-as-maharashtra-human-rights-commission-secretary-101610566225774.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Particle physicist Rohini Godbole conferred with French Order of Merit||Indian physicist and Padma Shri awardee Rohini Godbole has been conferred with the Ordre National du Merite, one of the highest distinctions granted by France to honour eminent persons. Godbole, 68, a professor at the Centre for High Energy Physics in the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, has been recognised by France, not only for her contributions to the collaborations between France and India but also for her work in promoting the visibility of women in science. The announcement was made by IISc-Bangalore on Wednesday.Ordre National du Mérite is a French honour to reward “distinguished merit” order of merit with membership awarded by the President of the French Republic. Godbole has now joined the league of Indians awarded this honour, which includes Dr Indira Nath, former founder head of the department of biotechnology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, who received the Chevalier Ordre National du Merite, and Govardhan Mehta, professor, school of chemistry, University of Hyderabad, who received the Légion d’honneur.Born in Pune in 1952, Godbole completed her BSc (Physics) from the University of Pune, securing the first rank. She went on to complete her MSc from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, in 1974. Having secured the first rank again, she was the recipient of the institute’s silver medal. Godbole completed her PhD from the Stony Brook University, New York, USA.“We need more women role models in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) to normalise the concept that one’s career or opportunities do not have anything to do with gender. This message is not just to young women but young men as well. We need to build a world where the society shouldn’t intuitively think that a scientist is a man,” said Godbole, in a telephone conversation from her residence in Bengaluru. Best known for her work for CERN, the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, Godbole he has been actively involved in various policy measures to increase the visibility of women in STEM. She is the co-author of the book Lilavati’s Daughters, a collection of biographical essays on women scientists from India.Godbole is also an elected fellow at the National Academy of Sciences, India (NASI), Academy of Sciences of the Developing World, The World Academy of Sciences (TWAS) and the Indian National Science Academy. Her talks at various colleges and schools on the importance of taking up science as a profession has encouraged many women scientists to follow in her footsteps. “Congratulations to Rohini Godbole! She’s been an inspiration ever since I first met her as a graduate student in @iiscbangalore. What wonderful news!,” said Yamuna Krishnan, professor, department of Chemistry, University of Chicago, on Twitter. “This distinction has been decided ... also taking into account your commitment to promoting the enrolment of women in sciences,” tweeted Amitabh Joshi, Professor and evolutionary biologist, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/particle-physicist-rohini-godbole-conferred-with-french-order-of-merit-101610566224231.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 300,000-case mark with 675 new Covid-19 cases||Eleven months after the first Covid-19 case was reported in Mumbai, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city crossed the 300,000 mark on Wednesday. The caseload in the city stood at 300,474 on Wednesday which included 675 new cases. The death toll rose to 11,212 with 12 deaths reported on Wednesday. Of the total cases, 280,853 have recovered and been discharged from hospitals and health centres so far, bringing the city’s recovery rate to 93%. Mumbai had reached the grim mark of 100,000 cases in July 2020, four months after the first case was reported on March 11. The cases sped up to 200,000 in September. Later, the trends changed to lower Covid-19 cases and deaths. The trend of the declining Covid curve has continued since mid-November and December despite the fear of a surge in cases due to the festival season around that time. Statistics released by the state health department show that December 2020 recorded a drop of 60% and 84% as compared to the number of total Covid-19 cases in November and September, respectively. Compared to May last year, December’s caseload dropped by around 70%.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Even though we are in a better situation than what we were in May and September, strict masking and social distancing needs to be continued. Whatever we could achieve so far is because of relentless efforts of our civic staff. We have to follow Covid protocols for a bit longer. We now want to focus on vaccination and ensure that we scale up our vaccine centres for a smooth implementation.”A strict lockdown was imposed in March and the number of cases had peaked in June. Areas such as Worli and Dharavi were prime hot spots where hundreds of cases were being reported on a daily basis. The cases saw a decline in July and August, but later in September, there was a sudden surge which has been attributed to the festive season in August and lifting restrictions on public movement. By mid-November, there was a sharp decline in daily cases and active Covid cases in the city.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), active cases in Mumbai have been below 10,000 since December 15. Officials have cited this as a good sign for the city. The case fatality rate (CFR) for Covid-19 has also dropped over the month from 9.5% in March 2020 to between 2.1% and 2.5% in September and December 2020.The civic body also scaled up Covid testing exponentially even when the positivity rate declined. From 4,000-5,000 daily tests in May, BMC took the number up to 15,000 tests a day. While positivity rate had once peaked at 35-40% in May, it has now come down to 11.88% as of Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-300-000-case-mark-with-675-new-covid-19-cases-101610566104188.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP demands removal of Dhananjay Munde; NCP says let probe be completed||Following allegations of rape, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded sacking of the social justice minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Dhananjay Munde. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said they are expecting Munde’s resignation, if not, then the NCP chief Sharad Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should remove him from the ministerial council. He also said that the party will hit the streets if Munde was not removed.Munde has found himself in the centre of a controversy after a woman accused him of rape on the pretext of marriage and other favours. The woman alleged that the police are not accepting her written complaint against the minister and her life is under threat. Munde, however, claimed that the woman is trying to defame and blackmail him.“I am sure he (Munde) will resign from the ministerial council on his own. If not, then the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) or the NCP chief (Sharad Pawar) should take his resignation,” Patil told reporters on Wednesday.“The allegations of rape by another woman are serious in nature and the (Munde) doesn’t deserve to be on this (ministerial) position,” he said in his statement.Patil further said Munde admitted to having a “second wife” and two children. Going by his confession, action should be initiated against him. It is also against the ethics of politics. This information was also not mentioned in his election affidavit.“We will wait for him to be sacked and if not, we will hit the streets demanding his removal from the ministerial position,” the state BJP chief said.Following allegations, Munde went to meet party supremo Sharad Pawar at his Mumbai residence ‘Silver Oak’ and briefed him in detail about the issue on Wednesday. He also met the deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal during the day.State NCP chief Jayant Patil said that concluding before the investigation would be unfair for Munde. “It is a family matter and the case is pending before the high court. Munde has also issued a detailed clarification. Let the investigation be completed and facts come before the people. It would be unfair to reach on to a conclusion without investigation,” Patil said.In a copy of a complaint uploaded on her Twitter handle, the woman mentioned that Munde made sexual advances towards her without her consent since 2006. “He (Munde) had promised to get me launched as a singer in Bollywood,” the complaint states.Following the post, Munde issued a public clarification on his social media account and said that the victim and her sister with whom he was in a relationship with, were blackmailing him since 2019. Her brother is also involved in the alleged conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrabjp-demands-removal-of-dhananjay-munde-ncp-says-let-probe-be-completed-101610566044373.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Railway frontline workers to get Covid vaccine||As frontline workers across the country will get vaccinated, the Indian Railways has started collecting data of its frontline workers for vaccination. Motormen, guards, loco pilots, ticket checking staff, booking counter staff, cleaning staff, helpers and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel will be considered as frontline staff and get vaccinated on priority. In a letter addressed to all chief security commissioners, S Shandilya, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police of railway board which is the apex body of all zonal railways, has on Tuesday asked them to nominate a nodal officer and provide a list of frontline workers who are at a greater risk of exposure to Covid-19. “During a video conference with the ministry of health and family welfare (MoH and FW) the issue regarding inclusion of frontline workers of Indian Railways was raised. Before contacting MoH and FW, it shall be desirable the Indian Railways is able to finalise the list of its frontline workers. RPF personnel in the rank of ancillary staff fall in the category of frontline workers. You are requested to coordinate and get a list of frontline workers of RPF included in the list of frontline workers of Indian Railways for the purpose of vaccination programme against coronavirus,” mentions the letter.Senior railway officials have stated that railway personnel who have direct contact with general public and are involved in everyday train operations will also be considered to get vaccinated on priority. After approvals and discussions, the frontline workers will be vaccinated at railway hospitals across the country.“Vaccination of frontline workers in railways will be undertaken at railway hospitals across the country. The doctors and staff have already started preparing for it,” said a senior railway official who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-railway-frontline-workers-to-get-covid-vaccine-101610565924250.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Trains for all: Maharashtra government yet to take a call, wary of spike in Covid cases||Worried about a spike in Covid-19 cases, the state government has decided to wait for a few more days before taking any decision on reopening local trains for the general public. Currently, those working in essential and emergency sectors, cancer patients and differently-abled persons are allowed to travel on local trains through the day. From the third week of October, women commuters have been allowed to travel in specified hours. Earlier, there were talks of opening local trains for all during non-peak hours. The issue was discussed in the state cabinet meeting following which chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said they will deliberate with all the people concerned before taking any decision. State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said they were in favour of reopening local trains for general people and a decision will be taken in the next eight days. “The ministers are wary of the consequences of allowing lakhs of commuters to travel in suburban trains. They are of the view that permission would be like opening floodgates, which will result in a spike in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. This is the reason the government is extra cautious,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity. “The hearing on the matter in the Bombay high court is yet to be completed. The state government is also in favour of allowing all commuters to travel on suburban trains. The cabinet has discussed the issue and a decision will be taken in the next eight days,” Wadettiwar said. After its initial shutdown in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the suburban train services have been partially resumed, allowing only essential workers and some sections of people to travel in them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trains-for-all-maharashtra-government-yet-to-take-a-call-wary-of-spike-in-covid-cases-101610565864846.html
14-01-2021||Other||Kalyan Dombivli civic body to carry out Covid vaccination drive in four centres; gets 6,000 doses||Following recommendations of representatives of the World Health Organization (WHO) to conduct vaccination drive at a larger space during last week’s dry run, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has now finalised four centres for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination which is slated to take place on January 16. The civic body received 6,000 vaccine doses on Wednesday evening, while it has prepared a list of 5,143 beneficiaries. “When the vehicle carrying the vaccine arrived at the hospital, all the staffers were happy and clapped their hands welcoming the vaccine,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The centres, which are now prepared for the drive, include Rukmini Bai hospital in Kalyan (West), Shastrinagar Hospital in Dombivli (West), hall of a Shaktidham building in Kalyan (East) and DNC private school in Dombivli (East). In the last week’s dry run, WHO representatives suggested to look for larger space. “The four places that have been finalised have a capacity of vaccinating 100 beneficiaries per day. We are ready with around 600 vaccinators who can be deployed at these centres,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner. KDMC has a list of 5,200 beneficiaries in phase one which includes health workers from both civic and private hospitals and health centres. The civic body claimed to have a capacity of storing vaccines for up to a population of 200,000. “We are setting up all the four centres and I will conduct an inspection for the same. These centres are big and we have planned well for the vaccination process to go smoothly,” said Panpatil. The vaccine will initially be stored at Rukminibai Civic Hospital and later distributed to the other two centres. The civic body has also prepared an in-patient department (IPD) at its Savlaram Sports Complex in Dombivli for those who suffer from side-effects or reactions after the vaccination. Such beneficiaries can get themselves admitted in this facility, said Suryavanshi. All the centres will have medicines in case of any side effects are reported on the spot. If a beneficiary is severe he will be sent to the IPD. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kalyan has also pitched in its help to the civic body by sending expert doctors at the centres. “Our doctors will be at the centres in case of any ill-effects are reported. Also if there is a requirement, the patient can be sent to civic hospital. Our specialist doctors such as cardiologist, neurologist, physician, gynaecologist will be available. In case there is a need to send a patient to any private hospital, the major hospitals have been informed to treat them,” said Prashant Patil, president, IMA, Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-to-carry-out-covid-vaccination-drive-in-four-centres-gets-6-000-doses-101610565625333.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nawab Malik’s son-in-law arrested in drug case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Sameer Khan, son-in-law of minority affairs and skill development minister Nawab Malik, in connection with a drug case. Khan was called for questioning at NCB office on Wednesday.An official from NCB visited at Khan’s residence in Bandra at around 8:30am and summoned him for questioning. He reached the NCB office at around 10am, said an officer. However, Nawab Malik remained unavailable for comment.Khan’s name cropped up in connection with the seizure of 200 kilograms of marijuana after the agency arrested British national Karan Sejnani from Khar and two sisters Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala from Bandra on January 9.Zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the development and said, “After a detailed inquiry we arrested Sameer Khan.”NCB officers said that during the interrogation of Sejnani, it was found that ₹20,000 was exchanged between Khan and Sejnani. However, NCB did not clarify the reason behind the transaction.Earlier, Sejnani was arrested following a specific input, after officers seized around 340 grams of marijuana from three parcels, during raids at the office of a courier company in Bandra. After arresting Sejnani, the agency also raided the home of two sisters, Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala, and seized 5kg of marijuana. Sejnani, Furniturewala and Shaista were arrested under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on January 9. The court has remanded Sejnani and Furniturewala to NCB’s custody while Shaista is out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbainawab-malik-s-son-in-law-arrested-in-drug-case-101610565624180.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body finalises 5 centres for Covid vaccination drive; gets 21,000 doses||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) will carry out the first phase of vaccination in five centres as per the government’s instructions. The centres have a capacity of handling 100 people a day. The city has received around 21,000 vaccine doses, said NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar. In the first phase of vaccination, 19,085 government and private health workers, who have been registered with the civic body, would be vaccinated. An official from NMMC said, “In the second phase of vaccination, frontline employees such as police, security, sanitation and other municipal employees involved in Covid control activities will be vaccinated and the planning for the same would be done in advance.” The vaccine would be given in the order registered on the CoWIN app. After vaccination, the beneficiary would be given a handbill of four important messages in the observation room, said the official. NMMC has identified five hospitals that would be used for the vaccination drive — civic body-run Vashi and Airoli hospitals, DY Patil Hospital in Nerul, Apollo Hospital in Belapur and Reliance Hospital in Khairane MIDC. In addition, a total of 50 vaccination centres have been set up in the municipal area. As per the order given by the NMMC commissioner in the previous review meeting, Dr Ratnaprabha Chavan has been appointed as the in-charge of the Covid vaccination drive and three divisional nodal officers have also been appointed for the drive. These divisional nodal officers will be in charge of the immunisation programme at the centres in their respective divisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-finalises-5-centres-for-covid-vaccination-drive-gets-21-000-doses-101610564844292.html
14-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Anti-polio drive deferred, but no need to worry, say doctors||Health workers were relieved on Wednesday as the Union health ministry deferred the National Pulse Polio vaccination drive indefinitely in view of the upcoming large-scale Covid-19 vaccination drive. Polio or poliomyelitis is a disabling and life-threatening disease caused by the poliovirus which spreads from person to person and can infect a person’s spinal cord, causing paralysis. Though doctors assured that the decision will not lead to resurgence of polio, a section of medical experts warned that further gaps in polio immunisation may diminish the herd immunity in society.The upcoming mass Covid-19 immunisation programme was clashing with the anti-polio drive which would have put additional pressure on already overworked health workers. Taking note of this, a decision to defer the polio vaccination was taken, providing some breathing space to health workers. “From Saturday, around 130,000 healthcare workers will start Covid-19 vaccination. Along with this, managing polio vaccination would have been troublesome and would have led to improper and incomplete door-to-door immunisation,” said an officer from BMC’s immunisation programme. “So, it’s better to wait rather than doing shoddy work,” he added.Even last year, the programme got affected due to the outbreak of the pandemic. “When the pandemic started, a large number of migrants returned home and there were restrictions on movement of people. As a result, many children missed their polio doses,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of Mumbai civic body.While skipping polio dose is likely to raise concern among parents about the safety of their infants, doctors said the vaccine given in the polio programme is just an additional shot to maintain herd immunity in the society. “Presently, we are in the mop up phase of the polio disease after announcing the eradication in 2014...The door-to-door polio vaccination programme is deferred due to the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive. But the resurgence of polio is extremely unlikely as a reasonable amount of children may have already gained herd immunity,” said Dr Hemalata Arora, senior consultant, internal medicine and infectious diseases, Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital, Vile Parle.Dr Bela Verma, head of the department of paediatric medicine at Sir JJ Hospital, said that every child till the age of five years is given five doses of polio vaccine. The dose given during the immunisation programme is an additional one to maintain herd immunity in the society. “This is one dose is given as an extra other than the routine immunisation. So it will not have any impact if children miss this,” she added.Doctors also said that the primary concern should be Covid-19 vaccination. “This is the time to prioritise the immediate impacts. Covid-19 has put the world at a standstill. We need to focus on it first as we already have polio under control. With the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination, the government will start with polio immunisation,” said Dr Paras Kothari, head of the paediatric surgery department at Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital.However, doctors also warn that any further delays might wear off the herd immunity which has been attained after years of hard work. “Reinstating the programme (polio vaccination) is of utmost importance as the herd immunity levels may diminish if the polio vaccine remains unavailable for a long duration,” said Arora.Dr Verma also said that during the ongoing pandemic, all forms of immunisation have been badly affected due to the lockdown. “Finally, with the relaxation of lockdown, we have started getting children for immunisation and after months, things are getting back on track,” she added.Every year, during National Immunisation Day (NID) commonly known as Pulse Polio Immunisation programme which was scheduled for January 17, vaccinators immunise children between the age group of 0 and 5 years in their door-to-door survey. Mumbai civic body vaccinates around 800,000 children during the five days of the national immunisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiantipolio-drive-deferred-but-no-need-to-worry-say-doctors-101610564546119.html
14-01-2021||Other||Suicide in Ludhiana school: Probe team records statements of victim’s teachers, friends||A day after a 17-year-old girl was found dead in the biology laboratory of Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Gill village, a two-member inquiry team visited the school on Wednesday for further investigation.The team, comprising the principals of government senior secondary schools of Basti Jodhewal and Ayali Khurd, recorded the statements of the teen girl’s two classmates, biology teacher, class teacher and other subject teachers. They also quizzed the school in-charge and girl’s parents. They remained in the school for over six hours to record the statements. Sources said that all the teachers, in a written statement, have stated that the girl was a bright student and had scored above 80% in the Class-12 December exams.The two classmates, whose statements were recorded, told the inquiry officers that the girl had attended the school for the first time after lockdown on Monday. Both said that after the classes ended at 3pm, the girl had told them that her parents were to pick her up and that she would wait for them in the school. In closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage of the school, the girl was seen coming out of the classroom at 3pm and entering the biology laboratory at 3.10pm. The footage also shows that the school’s watchman closed the door of the laboratory and locked a few classrooms at 3.45pm. The girl’s parents had also visited the school around 5.40pm and checked two rooms, but had not found her. They had later lodged a complaint with the police. As per the suicide note recovered by the police, the girl wanted to study further but her parents were planning to marry her off, which is why had resorted to the extreme step. She had, however, also written in the note that she did not blame anyone for her suicide.The parents have confirmed that the handwriting in the note was their daughter’s. The parents, in their statement, also stated that their daughter had never complained about any teacher. District education officer, elementary-cum-secondary, Rajinder Kaur, said, “The inquiry team members have recorded the statements and I will be able to comment only after receiving their report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suicide-in-ludhiana-school-probe-team-records-statements-of-victim-s-teachers-friends-101610560825121.html
14-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Drug convict stabs fellow inmate for ‘staring at him’||A drug peddling convict lodged at the Ludhiana central jail allegedly stabbed another jail inmate with a kitchen knife following a verbal spat.The incident took place on Sunday and the victim is currently undergoing treatment at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.The accused has been identified as Lucky, a resident of the slums near Durga Mata Mandir, who was convicted in a drug peddling case.The victim, Suresh Kumar, 36, is also a drug convict. Kumar, in his complaint, stated that the spat took place over a minor issue. Lucky had allegedly walked up to Kumar and started abusing him for ‘staring’ at him. “I told Lucky that there must have been some misunderstanding as I was not staring at him. But Lucky started abusing me, prompting the other inmates to intervene. After some time, Lucky came back with a kitchen knife and stabbed me in the stomach,” said Kumar in his statement. A case under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Division Number 7 police station. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Paramjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said the victim has not suffered serious injuries and that the accused will be brought for questioning on production warrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-drug-convict-stabs-fellow-inmate-for-staring-at-him-101610560823946.html
