16-01-2021||Patna||62% turnout on day 1 of vaccination drive in Bihar, tepid response to Covaxin||Bihar achieved 62 per cent of its vaccination target on the inaugural day of the pan-India launch of the vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday. Majority of beneficiaries showed reluctance to receive shots of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which is still in phase 3 trials.As many as 18,122 beneficiaries out of a target of 29,240 across 301 session sites got the first dose of the vaccine in Bihar on Saturday.However, only 49 per cent of those enrolled turned up at the six session sites (vaccination centres) where Covaxin was being administered. As against 600 beneficiaries, only 265 turned up to receive the Covaxin shots.AIIMS-Patna, Patna Medical College College, Nalanda Medical College, Sri Krishna Medical College (Muzaffarpur), Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (Bhagalpur) and Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College in Gaya were among the six session sites selected to administer Covaxin.AIIMS-Patna director Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh was among those to have taken the Covaxin shot, said a communique from the institute.At NMCH, for instance, 31 out of 100 beneficiaries turned up to take the Covaxin shot.Also read: Maharashtra suspends Covid-19 vaccine drive till Jan 18 due to CoWIN app glitchThe response to Serum Institute’s Covishield was better with 17,857 of the targeted 28,640 beneficiaries taking it on day one — an acceptance of 62 per cent. Serum Institute’s Covishield was administered to beneficiaries at 295 session sites in Bihar.“There is no question of forcing anyone to take the vaccine shots. Taking the vaccine is desirable, not mandatory,” said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit.The state had planned to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries across each session site. However, it could not cobble up the required number as some session sites at private health facilities had less than 100 beneficiaries, said executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar (SHSB), Manoj Kumar, who is also the nodal officer for vaccination in the state.In the case of both vaccines, recipients will get two doses four weeks apart and the effects will start showing 14 days after the second dose.Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, excluding holidays, have been identified as vaccination days in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/62-turnout-on-day-1-of-vaccination-drive-in-bihar-tepid-response-to-covaxin-101610820552982.html
16-01-2021||Other||Koli gets twelfth death penalty in another Nithari killing case||Ghaziabad: A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Ghaziabad on Saturday awarded death penalty to Surinder Koli, the prime accused in the Nithari murders, for brutal murder, attempted rape and abduction of a 20-year-old woman in November, 2006. It was the 12th case related to the murders in Nithari village of Noida and Koli faced capital punishment in all the cases. On Friday, the CBI court had held Koli guilty but acquitted his employer Moninder Singh Pandher in the case.The victim in the case was a domestic help who was lured by Koli at his employer’s house on November 12, 2006 and he later strangled her before attempting rape, said a public prosecutor. “The court termed the crime as the rarest of rare and pronounced death penalty for Koli. In all twelve cases, we demanded maximum punishment and capital punishment was awarded to him in all cases at Ghaziabad. Now, four more cases are pending trial. Three of these are in advanced stages of evidence while statements of witnesses are getting recorded in one other,” said JP Sharma, special public prosecutor for CBI. Koli was facing trial in the case for IPC sections 302 (murder), 364 (abduction), 376/511 (attempted rape) and 201 (destruction of evidence). The court on Saturday awarded him death penalty under IPC section 302, life imprisonment under section 364, five years rigorous punishment under section 376/511 and seven years imprisonment under section 201. “Besides, the court also levied penalties under different sections which amount to ₹1.10 lakh. During the arguments for sentencing, we said that the act was a barbaric and the accused does not deserve any sympathy,” Sharma added. Koli’s employer Pandher was also a co-accused in the case. However, Pandher was acquitted of all charges in the case by the court. The infamous Nithari murders were believed to be committed between 2005 and 2006. In December 2006, skeletons were found in a drain near to a house in Nithari, which led to the discovery of the crime. Pandher is the owner of the house and Koli was his domestic help.The CBI, which investigated the case from 2007, registered 16 cases, charge sheeting Koli in all of them for murder, abduction, rape, besides destruction of evidence, and Pandher in one for immoral trafficking. The Ghaziabad court, however, summoned Pandher in five other cases after several victims’ families approached it.In 11 previous cases, the court had found Koli guilty in all and had awarded the death sentence all of which are now pending appeal in higher courts. With Friday’s ruling, Pandher has been acquitted in two cases.The first case related to the Nithari killings was decided at Ghaziabad on February 13, 2009, when both Koli and Pandher were awarded death penalty. Following an appeal, the Allahabad high court acquitted Pandher of all charges while Koli’s punishment was upheld. Following a petition later, Koli’s sentence was commuted to life imprisonment by the high court in January, 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/koli-gets-twelfth-death-penalty-in-another-nithari-killing-case-101610820111187.html
16-01-2021||Bhopal||10 students test positive for Covid-19 at a girls' school in MP's Betul||At least 10 girl students of a government-run school have tested positive for coronavirus infection in Madhya Pradesh's Betul district, an official said on Saturday.The local administration has decided to shut the school for a week, after the infections were detected among Class 12 students.Swab samples of 10 students from Government Girls Excellence School in Shahpur, about 36 km from the district headquarters, were collected for testing on January 13, school principal Virendra Namdeo said.The reports of these students came out positive for the infection on Saturday, he said, adding that reports of 25 more students are awaited.In accordance with the state government's directives, the school had reopened for students from Classes 9 to 12 on December 18 and classes were being conducted with 50 per cent capacity for each class on alternate days, Namdeo said.The infected students have been told to isolate themselves at home, a health department official said.Meanwhile, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Shahpur, Anil Soni said the school will remain shut for seven days and the premises have been sanitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/10-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-a-girls-school-in-mp-s-betul-101610812423115.html
16-01-2021||Other||Three, including home guard jawan, held in connection with 30kg silver robbery||Noida: A home guard jawan attached with the Noida police was among three persons nabbed by the Sector 39 police from Meerut on Saturday, for allegedly stealing 30 kilograms of silver from a trader.The incident had taken place on January 13 around 7am, when the driver of an Agra-based businessman was robbed by two men in police uniform near Sector 93. The driver was on his way back with seven silver ingots, of which one was stolen allegedly by the suspects, claiming an “official investigation” of the goods. A case of cheating had been registered at the Sector 39 police station in this regard.The suspects were identified as Vikrant Singh, Shaukinder Kumar and Dharmendra, residents of Bulandshahr, Meerut and Ghaziabad, respectively. Police officers said that Vikrant, a home guard jawan, was deployed with the Sector 20 police station but had been away from work for the past five to six months. Shaukinder was a jeweller who was allegedly going to buy the stolen silver, while Dharmendra was allegedly the mediator between the robbers and the jeweller, and worked on commission. They had all allegedly known each other for the past few years, said the police.“Vikrant, along with another person, who is also a home guard jawan and is currently absconding, had intercepted the driver on January 13. They pretended to be from a government department and while claiming that the silver should be collected from a police station, they fled the spot with the goods,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police traced the suspects to a jeweller in Meerut where the precious metal was allegedly about to be sold.“All three suspects were apprehended from the jewellery shop along with the stolen goods which they were about to sell. The KTM motorcycle used in the incident was also recovered,” said the ADCP.Police, however, did not reveal how the suspects were traced.Officers said the suspects were allegedly small-time extortionists who used to extort money from auto drivers on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway. They said police are looking at other cases in which they may have been involved. A search is on for the other home guard jawan involved in the incident.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-including-home-guard-jawan-held-in-connection-with-30kg-silver-robbery-101610819995450.html
16-01-2021||Other||Witerati: Munch ado about masked living||Pandemic season has seen Tweeple putting plenty of foot in the mouth. Who can forget controversy’s children, Donald Trump to Kangana Ranaut? Ah, but have you spotted Pandemic’s populace putting the mouth in the foot? If you’ve been at the receiving end of the Battle of the Mask VS Mouthful of Morsel, you’ll have an inkling of the drift of things.Masks may have spawned species and subtle artistry that could give Sri Sri Ravi Shankar’s ‘Art of Living’ stiff (oops, stuff) competition – Art of Licking.The Vaccine may make masks a thing of history, but masks ‘breathe’ their last not without teaching us a thing or two about tweaking the geography of anatomy. Whilst the Vax has injected sure-shot sense of security among the populace, the wait for it has been ‘driving’ new challenges – masked misadventures on the go. The big challenge for those riding to work and elsewhere is how to get a meal-on-the-go into the masked mouth. The catch – without being caught on CCTV cameras at crossings and inviting challans.Some lessons in New Normal’s ‘Art of Licking’.Battle of Mask Vs MorselIn pandemic times, even as not only drugs but also dregs of news are often hard to swallow, masked life’s morsels on the go dish out their own food for thought. By virtue of being tossed unceremoniously left, right and centre, anywhere but into the mouth. The other day, a friend’s mother fished out her water bottle to savour a sip. Her parched throat behind the stifling mask heaved with relief as if it was a whiff of fresh air. Only to realise that the whiff of air flowed from the lowered car window, wherein peered a potbellied pasha of Haryana constabulary at the crossing, looking cross. And full of airs. Like a belligerent bulldog who’s spied a spaniel crunching on a coveted bone in his territory.“Yo toh challan banta hai, madamji”.“Look, I’m wearing it, just slipped it down to have water …” she stuttered sundry explanations for that fraction of a mask-less moment, flailing the mask dangling from her chin as detached from the ‘muh’ as most Netas profess to be from Moh ‘n’ Maya (or Mayawati).“Art of Licking” Lesson One – This episode served to spotlight simple tricks for Masked Life’s Eat, Drink and Be Ferry.First, train the throat to survive without hydrogen oxide till you are off the road. Better still, carry straws that can be thrust into the mouth under the mask without dislodging the latter. Best is, take the road less travelled – carry hookahs that serve as stylised straws and also lend a look of ‘Arabian Nights’ exotica, like Pandemic’s variant of ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’!The curious case of surviving the long arm of the law by hook(ah) or crook.Tu Cheese Badi Hai Mask MaskAnother time, Yours Truly was trying to smuggle in bites of breakfast on the go behind the partially dismantled mask when the gulping met grunting from the driver’s seat, “Mask, mask”.Realising that traffic lights with CCTVs were being navigated, I ducked out of view. Only to realise I had stooped so low in life that what I was shoving into my mouth was not a footlong, but my (un-pedicured) foot. Almost.“Art of Licking” Lesson 2 – Advisable for Lockdown’s Lollitas & Co, if they want to escape not only cross constabulary but also scowling significant half Lamba ji or Lally ji, is to practise Baba Ramdev’s ‘Adho Mukha Svanasana’ with the mask on. That is, if what Lollitas, Lamba jis & Co are seeking is not Chicken Soup for the Soul, but Chicken Soup on the Stroll.The curious case of ‘Who Moved My Mask’s Strip-tease’!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/witerati-munch-ado-about-masked-living-101610819991996.html
16-01-2021||Other||In Ghaziabad, first beneficiaries lead by example, motivate others for Covid vaccine||Ghaziabad: Thirty-five-year-old Livesh Ram is a lab assistant at the government community health centre (CHC) in Dasna who, along with his wife and five-year-old son had tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 two months ago. His active involvement in fighting the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, such as testing people since the first case arrived in March in the district, put him and his family at a greater risk.On Saturday, he was the first person at the Dasna CHC to receive the vaccine against the virus.Ram said he was eager to get the shot in order to carry on the fight against the coronavirus. “People here were apprehensive and also afraid. So I decided to take the first vaccine shot. Once I came out after spending 30 minutes in the observation room, my colleagues surrounded me to know how I felt. Later, they also took the vaccine as they saw that I was okay,” he said. “I know how it feels when I, as well as my family members, was down with the coronavirus. Having gone through something like that, I had no fear left now in taking the vaccine. Our scientists worked so hard to ready the vaccine and I had a positive mindset about it,” he added. Shameem Saifi, a 43-year-old Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker with the Dasna CHC, was ecstatic about getting the vaccine shot, saying she has set an example for others in her village, Bhikkhanpur.“My family did not listen to any critics or rumours about the vaccine. In fact, my husband Ishtiyak Ahmad came to drop me to the CHC when he came to know that I will get the vaccine shot. I felt very normal after the vaccine and shared my experience with other colleagues,” she said.“He was also happy and asked me to see if he too can get the shot. I told him that beneficiaries will be selected as per specified category. Hum gareeb parivar se hain, par ghar pe sab sehmat hain (I am from a poor family but everyone at home has shown acceptance to the vaccine),” she added.About 10 kms away, 65-year-old Dr Tripta Bhagat, vice chancellor of Santosh University, was present throughout the day at her college’s vaccination centre at Santosh Hospital in Vijay Nagar. “Being a senior citizen, I got the shot in the morning. Initially, there was some anxiety factor in everybody’s mind. So I came forward and took the shot. There were no physical reactions in anybody after getting the shot and I was present at our centre the entire day. Even my son who is a cardiologist took the vaccine,” she said. “During the morning hours, the turnout was less and we had to counsel people. Thereafter, the listed beneficiaries arrived and took shots. The inaugural event went on smoothly,” she added.In all, the inaugural vaccination drive was taken up at four centres in Ghaziabad, where a list of 100 beneficiaries each were to take the shots on Saturday.The Ghaziabad district had received a batch of 2,741 vials of the Covishield vaccine, each having 10 doses. These had been delivered to the four vaccination centres on Friday. “I was the first to take the vaccine at our centre and thereafter, I was in the observation room for 30 minutes. I faced no issues and I felt normal. Before I arrived to get the vaccine, there was a lot of discussion in my family about it. There was a sense of fear even among the staff at the hospital. So I took rounds of different departments and tried to clear doubts of my staff,” said Dr Sangita Goel, chief medical superintendent of the district women’s hospital. Under directions from the Uttar Pradesh government, the staff and doctors in the healthcare sector are to get the vaccine shots first. At the fourth centre in Ghaziabad – Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi – Dr RK Mani, director of the hospital’s Covid-19 management and strategy wing, registered first and was given the first vaccine shot. “We are now taking final steps to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. I am doing my duty by getting the vaccine first of all, as doctors have to lead the society by examples. When we doctors get vaccinated, people around us will feel safe in doing the same,” Dr Mani said in a statement issued by the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-ghaziabad-first-beneficiaries-lead-by-example-motivate-others-for-covid-vaccine-101610819931641.html
16-01-2021||Other||Random Forays: Test Cricket is a reflection of life||The highs and lows of life are eminently encapsulated in cricket Test matches, if one follows them with a keen eye. Of course it is fashionable nowadays to denigrate five day cricket as being far too slow and excessively stretched. But then, life too is a long journey, even if it seems like a short sojourn in some ways.The razzmatazz of modern day life and the fleeting nature of jobs, relationships, conversations and pursuits often give us the inherent impression that life is meant to be lived in a state of tizzy. We unwittingly chase intangible dreams all year long, seldom pausing to reflect and ponder.In this era of T20 Cricket and even T10 cricket, as well as short feature films and speed dating apps, one could be forgiven for believing that one has to somehow ‘take off’ in each moment of life and propel oneself into the unfathomable unknown!Yet, when one looks carefully at the growth pattern of a tree, or the unhurried sleepiness of a dog basking in the sun, or at the testing war of attrition that Test cricket usually is, one realises that such bastions of stability are still in evidence around us.Life throws up challenges at us all the time and we require a certain amount of doughtiness within to extricate ourselves from the quagmire that such situations present before us. Hanuma Vihari and Ravi Ashwin were the unlikely saviours for Team India at Sydney in the third Test Match versus Australia. The sheer grit, guts and resilience that they displayed while stonewalling everything thrown at them by an impressive bowling attack, was utterly remarkable. Both were injured and in pain while batting. Both had hitherto been underwhelming with the bat in the series. Yet, they hung on like leeches and refused to budge even in the face of a daunting, highly charged up opposition, thirsty for their blood in their own backyard.Test cricket has, over the decades, brought to light the toughest of customers like Rahul Dravid, Jacques Kallis, Shivnarine Chanderpaul and Cheteshwar Pujara, who have eschewed their considerable repertoire of strokes for the sake of the nation and their team, to grind their way to century after century. Yet, when the occasion has demanded that they unleash their armoury of shots, they have never been found wanting.Great batsmen like Brian Lara, Sachin Tendulkar, Steve Smith and Virat Kohli have, for long periods, refused to be tied down by any opposition, and we admire them more for their all- conquering ways, than for playing a ‘wall’ like innings, most supremely exemplified by the likes of Dravid. But it takes all kinds of batsmen to win a Test match. Dashers like Virender Sehwag and Adam Gilchrist are needed too. It is the potent combination of artists, diehards and blasters that makes for a winning cocktail in a Test team. And if we somehow imaginatively transpose these attributes to the qualities which each individual needs to succeed in life itself, we get some answers to the quandaries we perennially face.Each of us has to possess and reflect such all round qualities to find some degree of success and inner peace in this earthly journey of ours. And not just cricket, if we seek inspiration from any sport: Athletics, soccer, tennis, badminton, or golf, we will find plenty of motivational ammunition to keep us surging ahead.A WhatsApp group, titled Glorious Cricket, comprises of former cricketers, writers, experts and afficionados, and I am forever amazed at the passion and depth of understanding that the members have for the game.Many a discussion on the group showcases not only what is right and wrong with cricket and other sports, but also highlights the fantastic diversity of human personas in a microcosm.So, there’s much to learn from sports, dear friends. One learns to take the rough with the smooth, and to ride the tide. One also learns from heroes like Ashwin and Vihari that the limits of human fortitude should never be underestimated.By backing our own inner strength to the core and by taking bouncers on the chest at times, we can win most of life’s battles.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/random-forays-test-cricket-is-a-reflection-of-life-101610819931314.html
16-01-2021||Other||Roundabout: Daughters of the soil challenge stereotypes at farmers’ protests||One of the pictures going viral during the farmers’ protest was that of feisty rural woman Manjit Kaur, all of 62, in her usual village attire, dupatta covering her head, driving a jeep, taking her female friends from Patiala to the Singhu border to participate in the farmers’ protests. Pictures of several women driving tractors to reach the protest sites followed.Gender benderThere has been no dearth of stories from Punjab and Haryana about rural and urban women, old and young as well as lettered and unlettered, assuming leadership roles during the ongoing season of dissent against the contentious farm laws. Not only have they defied the voyeuristic male gaze in popular culture that denigrates them as sex objects, they have also shown exceptional skills in management, activism and resilience. This may come as a surprise in a society used to feudal prejudices of a patriarchal society which led to killing the girl child in the foetus, with modern age ushering in sex-determination tests to carry out the murders. In these times when these regions still have a dismal sex ratio; there is this tremendous evidence of the strength of the second sex, not just for mere survival but as a show of endurance in the harshest of conditions.Heartwarming presenceIt was heartwarming indeed to see pictures and news reports of male farmers of Haryana summoning drivers to give lessons to women drive tractors on the national highway on Republic Day, reportedly involving 500 women who will lead a tractor procession which is likely to be a never-seen-before spectacle in the country. Women have also taken the responsibility of farming and looking after their families while their men remain at the protest sites. Not just this, as many as 100 protest sites in the state are being managed by women to keep the momentum alive.Mention of these facts are now being made by not just women writers but men too reporting from the Delhi borders. Writer-journalist Sukant Deepak, who has been virtually camping at the protest sites for days, says: “It has been an amazing experience to see young women in command like the petite Kanupriya, the 24-year-old who broke the male bastion to be the first woman president of the Panjab University Campus Students Council two years ago. Now just farmers twice and even thrice her age listen to her intently”.At the Tikri border one finds Navkiran Natt, 29, a dentist by profession and daughter of well-known left-wing activists, who has founded the Bhagat Singh Library at the protest site and also happens to be the curator of the much talked-about newspaper of the protest tellingly called the Trolley Times as tractor trolleys have also been the makeshift homes of the protesting farmers and families during the agitation.A note was made in the newspaper of the female-male role reversal when a farmer serving langar to the young women volunteers exclaimed that it was a ‘revolution’ of sorts as men were running the kitchen and serving food to women. It was Mata Khivi, wife of Guru Angad Dev, who carried the tenet of Guru Nanak of ‘sanjha jhakko’ (share and eat) by establishing the tradition of Guru da langar or community kitchen in which both men and women cooked and served meals. In many homes even now, however, women are still keepers of the hearth with men taking care of the fields. Only time will tell if the visibility of empowerment of women will continue after the protest. But for the moment it is something to look at with joy. However, one must not forget that the women’s movement for gender equality which spread all over the country, starting in the International Women’s Year in 1975 had not taken root in Punjab or for that matter in the interiors of Haryana. I recall going to a Punjab village not too far away from Chandigarh with a photographer working on a story on violence against women at home. Trying to talk to women had proved to be a no-no because they literally shooed us away asking us how we dared to try and find out what was going on in their homes. This had reminded me of the classic ‘Ik Chaadar Maili Si’ (Translated by Khushwant Singh as ‘I Take This Woman’) in which the protagonist Rano is being beaten up by her husband and when a neighbour intervenes, Rano chides him. Well, he is beating his own wife, not yours, so stay away, says Rano.Making a difference“This is not the first time that women have been in prominence in a movement,” says historian Kamlesh Mohan, who has done extensive research on the role of women in the freedom struggle against British colonial rule. Mohan says that Punjabi women played a major and visible role in the Kirti Kisan movement of 1928 as well as the struggle for freedom which led to Independence in 1947.That, however, did not lead to role assignment and empowerment for the women, Mohan says, adding that in an interview with Congress freedom fighter Savitri Krishan, wife of Ram Kishan, a former chief minister of Punjab in the 1960s, she was told that while men draw women in protests and struggles they rarely share power with them. True, some of the well-known names of the times are referred to as the forgotten women of the struggle of Independence. However, the journey to empowerment is a long and slow process but every step forward does make a difference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/roundabout-daughters-of-the-soil-challenge-stereotypes-at-farmers-protests-101610819871987.html
16-01-2021||Gurugram||Three held for murder of husband of sarpanch||The police arrested three suspected criminals, who had allegedly shot dead a 37-year-old man, who was the husband of the sarpanch of Alipur village, in Sohna on July 15, 2020. The police said they have confessed to killing the victim to avenge the murder of their close aide Ashok Rathi — a dreaded gangster, who was shot dead in his village on November 15, 2019. The police allegedly recovered five pistols, four countrymade pistols, 36 live cartridges, two mobile phones and one Wi-Fi dongle from their possession. The police had announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for any information leading to arrest of each of the suspects, said the police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that these they had formed three crime teams to investigate the case. On early Saturday morning, they received a tip-off and raided a few locations on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, leading to their arrests. “The suspects revealed that they suspected the role of the victim, Manoj Kumar Dagar, in Ashok Rathi’s murder. They wanted to take revenge. They followed Dagar and shot him dead,” he said. The suspects were identified as Bharat Kumar (20) of Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, Mohit Singh (27) of Faridabad and Puneet Singh (24) of Farukhnagar in Gurugram. Sangwan said Bharat Kumar was the one who had fired bullets, following which the victim had collapsed. The other two were present with him at the spot. They were ready with loaded guns so that the could shoot at the victim, if he tried to escape, The suspects are involved in more than two dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, kidnapping, loot, robbery and snatching in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi, said the police. The police said suspects had helped Rathi escape from the UP police custody while they were on their way to produce him before the Gururgam court in 2014. Earlier, the police had arrested four suspects, who were also members of this gang, in connection of the murder. The shooting took place on July 15, around 4pm. Manoj Dagar was shot dead when he had gone to a private hospital with his nine-year-old daughter, who was suffering from mild fever. He had parked his SUV outside the hospital in Sohna. The police said after the check-up, he and his daughter got back into the car, when the suspect shot at him through the car’s window pane from the driver’s side. Dagar, who was seated behind the wheel, was shot in the neck while his daughter was unharmed. Dagar died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital on August 12 night, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-held-for-murder-of-husband-of-sarpanch-101610819691602.html
16-01-2021||Gurugram||Some health workers reluctant of getting vaccines, claim pressure from superiors||Even as most healthcare workers were elated following inoculations on Saturday, some of them struck a slightly discordant note, with a section refusing to take the jabs and others claiming pressure from superiors to undergo vaccinations. A female anganwadi worker, at the session site at government primary school in Daulatabad, requesting anonymity, said, “They are forcing us to get the vaccine dose. I don’t want to get the vaccine. Will they ensure that our treatment costs are taken care of if something happens to us? We are poor people. No one will take any guarantee and get us treated if there is any fallout due to the vaccine,” said the woman. While some of them eventually refused the vaccine on health grounds, some others returned without getting the jabs. A health worker from the ESIC dispensary in Daulatabad, who got the vaccine shot, said that her colleague came to the session site but returned without taking the shot. “Scientists have worked on the vaccine for a long time and I trust their expertise. However, some people still have doubts. One of my colleagues went back because she was wary of getting the vaccine,” she said. A health worker, who recovered from a bacterial infection nearly 10 days ago, said that she was not taking the vaccine on account of weakness incurred from the illness.Speaking on condition of anonymity, she said, “I am still recovering from an illness. There is a lot of weakness. I told my senior that I was sick but she insisted that I visit the site. I would have taken the vaccine if I was healthy.”At the Bhangrola primary health centre (PHC), one computer assistant refused to take the vaccine jab, but officials said that people could opt out and are under no pressure. Doctors at the facility said that while they had set a target of 100, they were able to inoculate 53 people till 5pm. “Some women were lactating, others had fever or allergies. One worker, a computer operator, refused to get the vaccine. We tried to counsel him and explain the importance of the vaccine but he didn’t get vaccinated. We didn’t force him,” said Dr Shalu Vashisht, medical officer in charge of the session site at Bhangrola PHC. She said that beneficiaries were within their right to decline a vaccine and there was no pressure to get vaccinated. “It’s their right to not get vaccinated if they are not willing. We cannot force them,” said Vashisht. She added that some people might have had apprehensions since it was the first day and confidence in the vaccine would greatly increase by next week. “By Monday, people will get reports about the efficacy of the vaccine. I’m sure all their doubts will be put to rest since the drive went well today. Vaccine hesitancy should refuse in the coming days,” said Vashisht.Besides those who had reservations, there were those who got vaccinated but were not aware of the name of the vaccine or the next steps involved in the process. Ruby, 35, an anganwadi worker, who goes only by her first name, said, “I got the vaccine and faced no issues whatsoever. I don’t know the name of the vaccine but there were no issues and I didn’t experience any pain.” She said she was unaware of the timeline of the next dose of the vaccine. Vimla, a health worker, who goes by her first name, said that she had received the first dose of the vaccine but didn’t know the name. “I am feeling well. When the madam calls us again, we will get the second dose,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/some-health-workers-reluctant-of-getting-vaccines-claim-pressure-from-superiors-101610819691080.html
16-01-2021||Gurugram||Technical glitches hamper functioning of Co-WIN application||Technical glitches somewhat hampered the functioning of Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) — an application developed by the Central government to monitor and track inoculation — on the first day of the nationwide mass vaccination programme in the district. The digital platform has been developed by the Union health ministry and will be used by the government to facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries.Due to initial technical hiccups, however, the data-feeding process was affected on Saturday at some places. Health department workers helming the Co-WIN platform faced delays in corroborating and marking the vaccination status of registered beneficiaries due to technical glitches. Further, data recorded manually will have to be uploaded separately, said health workers. Ajay Chauhan, information assistant at the session site at a government primary school in Daulatabad, said that the Co-WIN platform was not showing the list of beneficiaries due to a technical glitch. “The list of beneficiaries could not be accessed. It was not visible. At 10:30am, when the vaccination started, I saw the list for three seconds, after which it stopped working,” said Chauhan. He said that the platform started working around 2pm. He said that it took 5-10 minutes to find and corroborate information on the platform and 3-5 minutes to check things physically as the platform was down. “We don’t know the exact reason behind the glitch. The verification process was a little delayed but we were able to carry out the vaccination process since we had printouts of the details of the beneficiaries,” said Chauhan. Monika, data entry operator at Wazirabad site, said, “The Co-WIN platform has been down since the vaccination started. Therefore, the data is being maintained manually. Those who received the first dose of vaccine were not shown as partially vaccinated on the Co-WIN portal. Based on the status, an SMS for the second dose after 28 days is supposed to be delivered to the beneficiary. If the portal had worked, the status of those who were inoculated with the first dose would have appeared as partially vaccinated. A black dot beside their name would have changed into orange colour which did not happen due to the glitch. Once the digital platform gets active, we will immediately feed the data.” Likewise, at the Chauma centre in Palam Vihar, the platform was non-functional until 3pm. Dr Shalu Vashisht, in-charge of the session site at Bhangrola PHC, said that the Co-WIN platform had some issues in the morning but recovered by 12:30pm. “Towards the afternoon, the platform was working fine for us. We were able to see the vaccination status of the beneficiaries in the afternoon,” said Vashisht. The platform had faced issues for a short duration on Friday as well due to which the message delivery system was affected. As a result, some registered health workers received information about their vaccination centre and timing only around 2am on Saturday. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said that due to issues on Co-WIN on Friday, messages couldn’t reach some health workers during the day. However, most of them had received messages late at night on Friday. “The technical aspects of Co-WIN is not being handled by the health department. All the issues will be resolved by the technical team soon,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/technical-glitches-hamper-functioning-of-co-win-application-101610819631998.html
16-01-2021||Noida||393 people vaccinated on Day 1 in Noida||Lok Sabha member from Gautam Budh Nagar Dr Mahesh Sharma was among the first parliamentarians to be vaccinated on Saturday, even as a little more than half (393) of the 600 people scheduled to get their jabs on Day One turned up at vaccination centres . “I have received the vaccine as a health worker and not as an MP,” said the parliamentarian who is also a qualified doctor and owner of Kailash Group of hospitals. “Everybody should get the vaccine as responsible citizens. The vaccine has been developed by seasoned scientists after sufficient trials and it is safe for use. It has been around one hour after I got vaccinated and I have not faced any side effects. I am continuing work as per my routine.” The district chief medical officer (CMO) said the people who missed Saturday’s inoculation did not give a reason for their absence, but they would be given another chance at getting vaccinated in the next phase.The vaccination drive began at 11am, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address, and continued till around 5.30pm.CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said 221 males and 172 females were vaccinated at the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Sharda Hospital, Kailash Hospital and at the community health centres (CHCs) at Bhangel and Bisrakh.One health worker each at SSPHPGTI and CHC Bhangel had complained of headache and nausea after the shots. “They were kept in observation and then discharged. There were no side effects of the vaccine on Saturday,” the CMO said. “Since there is no side effect, we hope more and more people will come forward now.”GIMS director Brig (retd) Dr Rakesh Gupta, Sharda University’s dental college dean Dr M Siddhartha, SSPHPGTI’s chief medical superintendent (CMS) Dr DK Singh also got vaccinated on Day One. They said that they have observed no side effects of the vaccine and urged people to register for vaccines. Suhas LY, district magistrate GB Nagar, said that the vaccination drive went smoothly at six locations. “The details of health workers were noted and also uploaded on Co-Win app. The health officials are well trained to conduct this exercise,” he said. In the first phase, 24,453 health workers will be vaccinated, he said. Replying to a question on when he would be vaccinated, the DM said he expected it second phase when police personnel, district administration staff and officials, revenue department officials, among others will get the shots. Shamim, a lab technician at the SSPHPGTI received the first vaccine dose of Covishield. “I first reached the registration counter where they checked my Aadhaar card and made an entry. It was like a normal injection administered in one minute,” he said. He said that he did not feel any pain or abnormalities in his shoulder or body after the vaccination. After the vaccination, he was kept for observation for 30 minutes where doctors monitored him and then he was discharged. The hospital issued a vaccination card which mentions patient’s serial number, name, phone number, date of first dose and date of second dose. The people vaccinated on Saturday have been asked to come for a second dose on February 15. GB Nagar’s immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said the administration will soon share the details about the next phase of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/393-people-vaccinated-on-day-1-in-noida-101610819631110.html
16-01-2021||Gurugram||Wazirabad housekeeping staffer becomes the first recipient of Covid-19 vaccine in Gurugram||Radha Chaudhary, a housekeeping staff member of Wazirabad urban primary health centre (UPHC), became the first recipient of the Covishield vaccine in Gurugram on Saturday. However, until January 15, a night before the nationwide launch of the two Covid-19 vaccines, Chaudhary had no idea that she would be the first one to be vaccinated. On Saturday, as she received the injection in her arm at a vaccination site in government primary school in Wazirabad, Chaudhary suddenly realised that she had to lead by example. “I didn’t feel anything at the time of vaccination — no pain or fear,” said Chaudhary, seated in a brown plastic chair inside the observation room. “For the last one year, many doctors have been working day and night to save lives of people infected with Covid-19. It is only through vaccination that we can bring the disease to an end and save lives,” she said, without flinching for a moment.For the last two years, Chaudhary has been working as a cleaner at the Wazirabad UPHC. Before that, she worked in a private school in Sector 9. Since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, she has been assigned the task of collecting and disposing of the waste generated during Covid-19 sample collection. She has even assisted the rapid response teams during testing camps. “I was never scared of Covid-19 duties,” she said.For the 47-year-old, the speech given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conference before the launch further boosted her confidence. She was administered the vaccine soon after the launch. “Vaccination wasn’t scary as senior doctors at our UPHC also got vaccinated along with us. But what the PM said about the vaccine being a protective shield against the virus made me feel more positive,” she said. Chaudhary was not aware of the name of the vaccine being given to her. After waiting in the observation room for 30 minutes, Chaudhary came out brimming with confidence. “It feels normal. There is no itchiness or redness at the injection site,” she said.Chaudhary said her name was initially on the 38th spot in the list of beneficiaries. But the sanitation staffer was given priority on Saturday. “Before coming for the vaccination, I have heard that many people were sceptical about taking the vaccine. I simply knew that I had to take an injection. But now I feel that people should come forward and get vaccinated, without a shadow of doubt. My husband, who also works as a housekeeping staff at Civil Hospital, Sector 10, said to me that I was lucky to get vaccinated,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wazirabad-housekeeping-staffer-becomes-the-first-recipient-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-gurugram-101610819572152.html
16-01-2021||Gurugram||Only 39 of 100 turn up for Covaxin jab in Gurugram||Only 39 front-line healthcare workers of the targeted 100 in the city received Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin at the vaccination site in Palam Vihar on Saturday, according to health department officials. Also, those waiting to get inoculated at the site were unaware of a consent form to be signed for receiving the Covaxin jab and said that they were not informed of the vaccine allotted to them.This accounted for only 6.4% of the 608, who received the inoculations on the day of the vaccine launch. The rest received Serum Institute’s Covishield.The vaccination site set up at a private school in Palam Vihar by the health team of Chauma urban primary health centre had minimum footfall since morning. According to the vaccination officers deployed at the site, healthcare workers from three primary health centres — Chauma, Laxman Vihar and Rajeev Nagar — had been allotted the Palam Vihar site for vaccination.“None of the health staff from Laxman Vihar, except for a senior medical officer, turned up for the vaccination. Most of them who got the inoculation had been from Chauma and a few from Rajeev Nagar. Only 39 people were inoculated throughout the day,” said a vaccination officer at the site. When HT reached the site and interacted with the staff waiting for vaccination, they seemed unaware of the consent form that had to be signed for taking the Covaxin jab.“We only know that a coronavirus vaccine will be injected. They haven’t told us the name of the vaccine,” said an anganwadi worker. During the inoculation, she seemed unaware of the second dose that had to be administered. Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “Due to delay in message delivery for vaccination, many workers did not reach the site timely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/only-39-of-100-turn-up-for-covaxin-jab-in-gurugram-101610819571581.html
16-01-2021||Gurugram||608 health workers receive Covid-19 vaccines in Gurugram||Over 608 front-line healthcare workers in Gurugram took the Covid-19 vaccine jab on Saturday amid the scepticism regarding the vaccine safety, said officials. On the day of a nationwide roll-out of the coronavirus vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — the district witnessed only a 60% footfall among the listed beneficiaries on the first day of the process. Workers who were set for vaccination on January 18 were called in to achieve the 100% target, senior officials’ privy to the matter said.Of the 600 registered healthcare workers to be vaccinated on Saturday, only 408 turned up for the vaccination till 4.30pm. “Due to less footfall after 4pm, it was decided to extend the list and call other healthcare workers who were enlisted to get vaccinated from January 18,” said a senior health official preferring anonymity. The official said, “At several sites, the vaccination had to be continued till 7pm to get an overall coverage of 600 vaccine beneficiaries at six sites.” Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer, said, “Despite some challenges, we managed to achieve a 100% coverage. We had targeted to inoculate 600 persons and our teams managed to cover 608 healthcare workers. There has been no instance of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) in the district. Across the state, 13 AEFI instances have been reported.”The senior official cited above said that apprehension among the beneficiaries and poor functioning of the Co-WIN platform for fewer vaccinations in the initial hours. Live streaming of the vaccine launch was carried out at the six sites, in order to assuage concerns and appeal to the beneficiaries to take their jabs January 18 onwards.The first inoculation on Saturday came at a time when the district has reported more than 57,000 cases of Covid-19 and at least 349 deaths till now. Both are the highest in Haryana.Doses were administered to Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and anganwadi workers at four government session sites under the Chauma, Wazirabad, Daulatabad and Bhangrola urban primary health centres. At the private hospital session sites — Medanta and SGT Medical College — doses were administered to health workers directly dealing with Covid-19 patients at Covid wards and emergency ward. The Covishield vaccine was administered at five sites, except at Chauma in Palam Vihar, where the Covaxin vaccine was administered. For getting the Covaxin jab, workers had to sign a consent form.Healthcare staffer Radha Chowdhary, 47, was the first to take the vaccine jab in Gurugram, followed by senior doctors of the health department. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer, Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer and medical officers of Urban Primary Health Centres. At private hospitals, senior doctors, nurses and sanitation staff were inoculated. With healthcare workers being the priority group in the central government’s plan, the health department plans to inoculate almost 43,000 workers in 28 days. The immunisation programme will be extended to other session sites in the coming weeks, for a wider reach as well as to cover workers in private set-ups. The district administration and health department will try to cover 4,600 healthcare workers at 46 vaccination sites every day, starting January 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/608-health-workers-receive-covid-19-vaccines-in-gurugram-101610819571088.html
16-01-2021||Other||Ghaziabad achieves 94.75% turnout for inaugural vaccination, none reports any immediate side effects||Of the 400 people scheduled to be vaccinated in Ghaziabad on Saturday, 379 were inoculated and none showed any signs of discomfort, the health department said.The district had four vaccination centres --- district women hospital, Santosh Hospital at Vijay Nagar, community health centre at Dasna and Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi -- each scheduled to inoculate 100 people.“The 21 who did not attend the drive included lactating women or others who were pregnant. Some were on leave while few had health issues like fever,” said Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer, who himself got the shot on Saturday. “After I got the shot, I felt a psychological pressure had lifted. Overall, none of the beneficiaries at the four centres were referred to the adverse event following immunization (AEFI) room which were prepared to take up any emergency which may have resulted.” Of the 379 beneficiaries who turned up, 182 were women and 197 men. In the first phase, health care workers from both government and private sector turned up.“The inaugural vaccination went on smoothly and healthcare workers took active participation in making it successful. The turnout on Saturday will also instil confidence in other beneficiaries and we hope to make the overall vaccination drive a success,” said district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey.Some glitchesBeneficiaries were supposed to receive a text message on Friday informing them of their vaccination date, time and centre. “During the last dry-run on January 11 we received the SMS but this time, there was none. We were instead informed by staff that we were scheduled for getting the shot. My husband (working in Delhi) and I are doctors and we have in-laws who are aged over 70 years. So, it was important that both of us get the vaccine,” said Dr Garima, who goes by single name and a medical officer with the health department. She received her shot at the Dasna community health centre. Dr Bharat Bhushan, the in-charge of the Dasna CHC, said: “We had some issues with the system because of which the alert could not be sent to a few beneficiaries. As soon as we got to know of this, we had our staff call them up and inform them.” Dr NK Gupta confirmed issues with the Co-WIN portal, which was developed by the central government, and that they had backup to deal with the issue. Dr Rekha Singh, senior consultant at district women hospital, said that the initial slow turnout for the vaccination was due to fear and apprehensions among the beneficiaries. “There were rounds of rumours going around over the social media and people were also apprehensive about the first shots. My family and especially my husband motivated me a lot. When I took the vaccine i suffered no side effects or any reactions. Even I got calls from my children and they were eager to know how I felt after getting the shot,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-achieves-94-75-turnout-for-inaugural-vaccination-none-reports-any-immediate-side-effects-101610819511720.html
16-01-2021||Other||Delhi zoo reports first bird flu death, doubles down on safety measures||Delhi Zoo on Saturday confirmed its first case of bird flu, after samples taken from an owl that was found dead on its premises on Monday, came out to positive. Senior zoo officials said that all safety protocol laid down by the Centre was being followed. Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park, said, “The zoo witnessed the death of a brown fish owl in its captivity. Its cloacal, tracheal and ocular swabs were sent to the animal husbandry unit of the Delhi government for serological examination, which returned positive for H5N8 avian influenza.” “As per standard protocol and guidelines issued by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), ministry of environment forests and climate change (MoEFCC) and the animal husbandry department of Delhi government, sanitation and surveillance drills have been intensified in the zoo and all possible preventive and prophylactic measures are being taken,” he added. Environment ministry officials confirmed that with the positive case at Delhi zoo, safety protocol at the premises had been intensified. The only solace this time, as compared to the last avian flu breakout at the zoo in 2016, is that this time the zoo is already closed for the general public. This will make managing the flu among the inhabitants a lot easier, according to officials. “Two barn owls, which were next to the enclosure of the owl that tested positive, have been isolated. A close watch is being kept on the migratory birds, who may be carriers. Zoo staff have been distributed special drapers and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. They are following our advisory and are in constant touch with the ministry of animal husbandry. The zoo is closed, so there is no fear of transmission to people,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, environment ministry’s additional director-general. In a statement issued, the ministry also said that the zoo authorities have been directed to use disinfectant spray of lime juice, Virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite, and foot bath of potassium permanganate is being done at regular intervals. “Chicken feed to raptors and entry of vehicles inside the zoo had already been stopped. This is being further reinforced and intensified. Movement of staff and workers in zoo is also being restricted and regulated keeping in view the animal influenza threats,” the ministry statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-zoo-reports-first-bird-flu-death-doubles-down-on-safety-measures-101610819452504.html
16-01-2021||Other||One small jab for Manish, one giant, leap for Delhi: Sanitation worker is first to be vaccinated in Delhi||New Delhi: While 34-year-old Manish Kumar, a sanitation worker at Delhi’s AIIMS, was vying to be among the first to receive a Covid-19 vaccine, his mother, Laxmi Rani, was dead against it. She didn’t want him to even be in the first batch to receive the jab. She even offered to trade places with him, given that she is employed as a sanitation worker at the same hospital.But in the end, Rani relented. At 11.10am on Saturday, Kumar became the first resident of the national capital to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease. Kumar on Saturday emerged as the face of a months-long global effort against time to develop an inoculation against the infection that has killed over two million people. He said he always believed in the efficacy and safety of the vaccine.“I have narrated my experience to over 50 journalists so far. Do you see any adverse impact on me?” Kumar said it wasn’t a coincidence that he was a part of the first batch of frontline staffers at the premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to be vaccinated, all of whom received a jab of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. “When I found out that members of my team were to be vaccinated, I volunteered to be on that list. My immediate supervisor wasn’t very excited about my confidence, but I wanted to serve as an example to my family and colleagues,” said Kumar, who has been a machine operator in AIIMS’ sanitation department for eight years now.And when Kumar received a confirmatory text message on Friday, he approached his boss once again, with another request. “I urged my supervisor to let me be the first person from AIIMS to receive the vaccine, though I didn’t think I would be obliged,” he said. Among those he encouraged to take the vaccine shot was his childhood friend Shaukat Ali, also a sanitation worker at the hospital. “I have had three surgeries and was very scared to take the vaccine,” Ali said, even as he stood on his toes to record a video of Kumar getting the jab. In fact, like Laxmi Rani, Ali too urged him against taking the shot till as late as 9am on Saturday, for fear of any potential adverse effects. But like Laxmi Rani, Ali relented too.“I told him to watch me receive the vaccine and get inspired,” said Kumar.Early on Saturday, Ali became one of the recipients of the Covid-19 vaccine as well.Kumar said he hid the vaccination plan from his family till Wednesday, when his announcement met with mixed responses. Apart from his mother, his wife also took some cajoling to give in to his plan. “Eventually, she said she would stand on the sidelines and watch me receive the vaccine,” said Kumar. However, they changed their minds later, and decided she would worry too much if she came to the vaccination centre. Kumar’s Saturday began like any other working day over the past eight years. He caught a bus from Najafagarh, where he lives with his family, and arrived at AIIMS for the vaccination, as well as his regular duties. He didn’t know that within hours though, he would be making news and even trending on Twitter. His mother, too, was unaware of the fanfare that would eventually surround his vaccination. While Kumar was flanked by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, his mother continued with her housekeeping work at the hospital. Kumar kept himself masked while he was administered a dose of Covaxin, even as the gathering around him cheered. Soon after, he was whisked away to a room, away from the media’s glare and questions. “There were three doctors around me for 30 minutes after the injection. They kept asking me about any reactions I might have been having.” He was confident the vaccine was safe. But, he said, he knew the media’s glare would keep him in good stead.“I knew the media was there. The Prime Minister was live just minutes before my vaccination. And the health minister was by my side. Even if a problem were to occur, they would ensure I was taken care of.” He said him volunteering to be among the first to get the jab should dispel fears about the vaccine. “There are rumours on social media about the vaccine. I am fortunate to play a part in dispelling those rumours. There are no rashes on my body, no nausea, no pain, nothing.” Despite Kumar and his mother working at AIIMS, and more relatives working at different hospitals in the city, neither he, nor anyone in his family, was touched by the virus. “But the fear of the virus was always there. We had witnessed deaths by this disease,” said Kumar.Now, Kumar will go back to his daily duties at the hospital, even as several more get vaccinated there, as in the rest of the country. He will be back for the second and final dose of the vaccine 28 days later, at which point, doctors said, he can breathe easy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-small-jab-for-manish-one-giant-leap-for-delhi-sanitation-worker-is-first-to-be-vaccinated-in-delhi-101610819452953.html
16-01-2021||Other||Fog cover precipitates to flush pollutants, rescue Delhi’s air||An unexpected weather phenomenon, which washed off pollutants hanging in the air, along with improved wind speeds, came to Delhi’s rescue once again on Saturday, saving the city from what was supposed to have been a severely polluted day. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Saturday was 407, in the ‘severe’ zone, as against the 460 recorded on Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on Friday forecasted that the air quality of Delhi was on its way to sliding into the ‘severe plus’ or ‘emergency’ levels on Saturday. Even though till 10am on Saturday, Delhi was engulfed in a thick blanket of fog, as the day progressed this fog condensed and melted the pollutants that had accumulated. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said that on Saturday morning the fog cover over Delhi condensed and precipitated, washing the accumulated pollution particles with it. “Even though dense fog conditions usually leads to a rise in pollution levels, sometimes the fog condenses and precipitates. In simpler words, when the moisture level in the air increases beyond a point, it flushes and clears the atmosphere. The average wind speed during the day was also around 7-8 kmph, which made conducive conditions for the air to clear off,” said Soni. IMD recordings show this phenomenon more clearly. At 8.30 am the relative humidity, which is essentially the moisture content in the air, was 100%. Soni said that from Sunday afternoon the wind direction will change from north-westerly to easterly and this will bring further relief for Delhiites. “There is also a forecast of another western disturbance impacting Delhi. Even though this western disturbance will not bring any rainfall in the plains, it will improve the wind speed in Delhi and the NCR towns, and this will lead to a further improvement in the air,” she added. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that from 1am to 10am on Saturday, Delhi experienced a prolonged fog spell, which reduced the visibility to zero metres for several hours. Despite the dense fog, the minimum temperatures in the city rose to 6.6 degrees Celsius, which was only one degree below the season’s normal. The maximum temperature recorded at Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official recording for the entire city, was 19.1 degrees Celsius. “On Sunday too, the temperature is expected to remain in the same range. However, after the wind direction changes to easterly, in the next week, the mercury will rise and even reach around 10 degrees Celsius,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fog-cover-precipitates-to-flush-pollutants-rescue-delhi-s-air-101610819451533.html
16-01-2021||Other||Traffic restrictions in New Delhi for R-Day rehearsals between Sunday and Thursday||Traffic in parts of Lutyens’ will be affected on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Thursday to facilitate Republic Day rehearsals, the traffic police department said. “The route for the rehearsals will be from Vijay Chowk to C-Hexagon via Rajpath and there will be restricted traffic crossings at Rajpath-Rafi Marg, Rajpath-Janpath, Rajpath-Mansingh Road and Rajpath-C Hexagon,” said Manish Kumar Agrawal, joint commissioner of traffic police. He said that Rajpath — from Vijay Chowk to India Gate — will also remain closed for traffic during this period. The traffic police will deploy a large number of its personnel to divert traffic in view of these restrictions. Agrawal said that motorists should expect congestion and restrictions on these routes between 9am to noon on these four days and should avoid taking these routes. On Sunday, slow down and congestion is expected in New Delhi, Central Delhi and west Delhi from morning to evening as a Nagar Kirtan on the occasion of the birth of Shri Guru Gobind Singhji is being organised by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. “Like every year, the procession will begin at 9.30am and will culminate at Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sahib in Hari Nagar,” said MS Randhawa, additional commissioner of traffic police. Buses passing through New Delhi area will be diverted from different points, the officer said and advised motorists to avoid the route being taken by the procession. Meanwhile, the police commissioner, SN Shrivastava, reviewed the Republic Day security preparations and arrangements at the farmers’ agitation in view of the law and order situation in Delhi. “He also took a stock of the pending cases of sexual crimes against children and overall offences against women. He advised the top police officers of the districts to seek help of crime teams for investigations of all serious cases,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-restrictions-in-new-delhi-for-r-day-rehearsals-between-sunday-and-thursday-101610819451993.html
16-01-2021||Other||Will set an example that the vaccine is safe, say Delhi’s 1st beneficiaries of Covid-19 jab||New Delhi: Most health care workers in the national capital who volunteered to take the first shot of the Covid-19 jab said they were doing it to set an example that the vaccine was safe, as the world’s largest immunisation programme against the coronavirus disease kicked off across the country on Saturday. From sanitation workers to hospital administration clerks, from senior doctors to ambulance drivers, those who volunteered to take the vaccine shot said they would lead the way in inspiring confidence in the antidotes by defeating the virus. Though civil defence volunteers and police personnel were posted outside Delhi’s 81 vaccination centres to manage crowds and keep intact law-and-order, there were no reports of any untoward incidents from any of these points.Until Saturday evening, 4,319 of the scheduled 8,100 persons had got vaccinated in Delhi. Hospital authorities said some who were to get the jab said they were not in the city, or cited personal reasons. Authorities said the absentees could also be attributed to a glitch in the CoWIN app, and to people either being on duty or on leave.“It could be because people wanted to wait and watch what happens. It could also be that some of them were on duty or in quarantine,” said a senior doctor from GTB hospital. A senior doctor from Lady Hardinge Medical College said that a technical snag on Friday night resulted in fewer people turning up for vaccination. At Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, many doctors said they did not want to take a Covaxin jab, which the facility had received.While only 32 workers were vaccinated at Lok Nayak hospital, 45 were given their first doses at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (RGSS) hospital. Each centre had a target of vaccinating 100 people on Saturday.Dr Ajeet Jain, nodal officer of Covid-19 and cardio surgeon at RGSS hospital, “There is vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers despite conducting multiple counselling sessions.” But those who visited the vaccination centres called the process “smooth and effective”. Those who received Covaxin doses had to sign a consent form since it is being administered under a clinical trial. At most centres, health care workers, who received the vaccine shot on the first day, were welcomed by their colleagues with gift hampers and sweets. While a gift hamper with chocolates, chips, and juice were distributed at RGSS hospital, workers at Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital were greeted with sweets.Several hospitals, including Max Hospital in Saket, decorated their premises to mark the first day of the vaccination drive. On Saturday morning, the process started with the beneficiaries showing the SMS received on their phone regarding their appointment. This was checked by the civil defence volunteers deputed at the front desk by the office of the district magistrate of Central Delhi. The process also included noting the name, phone number of the beneficiary along with an additional phone number of a person close to the person, who would be informed in case of any side-effect.Once verified with a photo identification document, beneficiaries were asked to sit in a waiting room while maintaining social distance. The beneficiaries then went inside and got the vaccine shots. After which they were sent to the observation room for 30 minutes to check on any possible symptoms. “It took around 45 minutes for the entire process to get over. I can vouch for the vaccine as I feel no discomfort even 2 hours after taking the first shot. Each person who is getting vaccinated is being informed about the type of vaccine being administered before the injection,” said Dr Abhishek Bhowmick, 32, a senior resident doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. The hospital was inspected by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, state health minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev and health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt. Kejriwal also interacted with two beneficiaries, including Atmaja Priyadarshini Nayak, a nursing officer. “I was vaccinated in the presence of the chief minister. He also asked about my wellbeing. I have not witnessed any side-effect,” the 37-year-old said. Biji Tony, a nursing officer in Lok Nayak hospital, was the first to get the Covishield vaccine at the state-run facility. At Delhi state cancer institute, 46 healthcare workers were vaccinated on the first day. Dr Pragya Shukla, the nodal officer of vaccination at the institute and Head of Department (HoD) Clinical Oncology, volunteered to take the first shot at the institute. “I decided to take the first shot in an effort to inculcate confidence among my team members,” she said.At around 12:20 am, health care and paramedical staff at Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital in Tahirpur welcomed their colleague Dr Akansha Rathore.A senior resident at the hospital, Dr Rathor had been on Covid-19 duty from the beginning of the outbreak. “I am proud and overwhelmed at the same time. I did not face any discomfort. I request people to not believe rumours and participate in the vaccination drive.”RGSS hospital saw 45 vaccinations on day one. Dr Vikas Dogra, head of department of the school of pulmonology, was the first person to get the vaccine shot there. Vinish Kumar, 30, a nursing staff complained of some discomfort after the shot. However, he was immediately shifted to the emergency room for further observation. “Immediately after taking the shot, it felt as though my blood pressure had fluctuated. I informed the doctor and they immediately examined me. After staying in observation for an hour, I feel absolutely fine now. There is no discomfort anymore,” he said.The vaccination process was smooth at Charak Palika Hospital (CPH), Moti Bagh, the only civic bodies run hospital designated for the vaccination in the first phase. Dr CK Bakshi, CMO coordination for Covid-19 activities in New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), said that the vaccines, received on January 15, were preserved on the hospital campus. “The vaccine drive commenced at 11.30 am on Saturday. One the first day we administered vaccine shots to 43 beneficiaries including doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, and other hospital staff. As many as 671 healthcare staff have volunteered to get inoculated at the hospital in the first phase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-set-an-example-that-the-vaccine-is-safe-say-delhi-s-1st-beneficiaries-of-covid-19-jab-101610819451106.html
16-01-2021||Other||Seven arrested for robbery at Pitampura jewellery showroom||New Delhi: Police on Saturday said they had arrested seven persons, including two brothers, in connection with an armed dacoity that had taken place at a jewellery showroom in northwest Delhi’s Pitampura in the early hours of Thursday. The arrested persons include five robbers and two receivers of the stolen jewellery items. At least two suspects are still absconding. This is the second ransacking at the showroom by the same gang since 2019, the police said.The police said that around 4 am on Thursday, a total of seven alleged robbers had overpowered the security guard of the showroom on gunpoint, entered the premises and looted nearly seven kilograms of gold jewellery worth nearly ₹3.5 crore. The arrest of the seven persons has resulted in the recovery of 3.4 kilograms of the stolen jewellery, while nearly half of them are still to be recovered.Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani said that a case of dacoity with attempt to cause death of grievous hurt and use of firearm was registered under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 395, 397 and Sections 25 and 27 of Arms Act at the Mauyra Enclave police station on the statement of the guard, Chandan Vinay Shukla. Several teams were formed to probe the case.Senior police officers associated with the probe said that as per Shukla’s statement, the suspects had come in a grey Honda City car. Investigators scanned CCTV cameras of the routes the suspects had taken and finally recovered the car from Rithala area, where it was abandoned in a parking lot by the suspects.“Further probe through technical surveillance and human intelligence led to the identification of the suspects. Five robbers and two receivers of the stolen gold jewellery were caught from various places in Delhi and Haryana and Jharkhand,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. The arrested persons were identified as Shankar, Suraj, Saleem alias Monu, Pitu Sheikh and his brother Mithu Sheikh, Rahul and Sanu Rehman.“The two brothers were caught at the Hazaribagh railway station from a Howrah-bound train by the railway police. They were fleeing to their hometown with their share of the booty,” the officer added.DCP Rangnani said that the interrogation of the arrested persons also led to the recovery of a stole Maruti 800 car that they had used in the crime. “All arrested persons are habitual criminals. They told us that they had committed this crime as they wanted to secure the future of their families and see some better days ahead,” she said.“Suraj and Pitu Sheikh had earlier committed a night burglary at the same jewellery showroom in 2019. They were arrested in the case with the stolen jewellery,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seven-arrested-for-robbery-at-pitampura-jewellery-showroom-101610819031049.html
16-01-2021||Other||Security guards booked for assaulting ex-resident in Greater Noida West society||Greater Noida: Police have registered a case against some security guards of a residential society in Greater Noida West for allegedly assaulting a former resident and his two friends. The incident took place in La Residentia society on Friday night, the police said.Residents said that a person named Ankur from Ithera village lived in a rented accommodation in the society. “A few days ago Ankur had left the society. On Friday night, Ankur and his two friends visited the society to take his belongings. But at the society’s entry gate, the three had some arguments with the security guards after which they were thrashed by the guards,” said Sumil Jalota, a resident of La Residentia. He said that La Residentia residents gathered at the spot and informed police. A team from Bisrakh police station reached the spot and controlled the situation. The entire incident was also captured in CCTV camera and it was widely circulated over social media. Munish Chauhan, SHO, Bisrakh police station, said that based on the complaint, a case has been registered against unnamed security guards under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult) of IPC. “We have launched an investigation into the matter. We will take action based on the investigation details,” he said. The La Residentia residents on Saturday held a meeting with the developer and demanded the security agency be replaced. The developer of La Residentia did not respond to calls for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-guards-booked-for-assaulting-ex-resident-in-greater-noida-west-society-101610818612414.html
16-01-2021||Other||Greater Noida: Juvenile gets three years for rape of 4-year-old girl||GREATER NOIDA: The Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) of Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday awarded three years in a remand home to a 15-year-old boy for raping a 4-year-old girl in May 2018 at a construction site in Greater Noida.Amit Uppal, prosecution officer at JJB, said that an FIR was lodged at Bisrakh police station under IPC section 376 AB and sections 5/6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Later a charge sheet was filed, he said. In the FIR, the victim’s father, a labourer, had stated that on May 3, 2018, the accused took his 4-year-old daughter to a nearby vacant room and raped her. The accused was caught by the father and his neighbours, the FIR said. “The Juvenile Justice Board comprising principal magistrate Viresh Chandra and member Aneet Kumar Bhagel passed an order and awarded him punishment. I had pleaded for maximum punishment as it will act as deterrent for others,” said Uppal.The juvenile accused told JJB that he would not do any wrong act in future. He has been lodged at the juvenile remand home since May 4, 2018.“Today, the victim’s counsel gave application of confession of the accused who has confessed to the crime and pleaded minimum punishment. The accused and his guardians were present at the JJB court. On April 1, 2019, JJB had declared him a juvenile,” JJB member Bhagel said on Friday.“JJB has awarded three years’ imprisonment under IPC section 376 and three years under POCSO Act, along with a fine of ₹5,000 each in both sections. These punishments will go concurrently. He will be sent to the special remand home for juvenile convicts at Etawah,” said Bhagel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-juvenile-gets-three-years-for-rape-of-4-year-old-girl-101610818431411.html
16-01-2021||Other||Nursing, paramedic staff of Kasturba hospital join protest to demand pending wages||As health care staff at government and private hospitals in Delhi launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, the nursing and paramedic staff at Kasturba Hospital — which is run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation — started an indefinite strike against non-payment of salaries pending for the last four months.The staff at Hindu Rao and Rajan Babu hospitals had gone on strike on January 7 along with employees of other departments of north civic body to demand pending wages. Those from Kasturba hospital joined them on Saturday.“We stopped work from today and launched an indefinite strike as our salaries are pending for the last four months. We were last paid in September. We have also refused to take part in the Covid vaccination programme,” BL Sharma, president Kasturba Hospital Nurses’ Union, said.There are nearly 250 nursing and paramedical employees at Kasturba Hospital, while at Hindu Rao Hospital, the number of nursing and paramedical staff is around 350. Nearly 180 paramedic and nursing employees work at Rajan Babu TB Hospital.Sharma said that none of the hospital, dispensary or maternity and child welfare centre was included in the list of facilities where vaccination for Covid-19 was to start in the first phase on Saturday, as authorities were mindful of the ongoing strike.“We had clearly said that the nursing and paramedic staff will not support the Covid vaccination programme till pending salaries are paid. Fearing this, the government decided to do away with municipal centres as vaccination points in the first phase,” Sharma said. Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said that the civic body was making all arrangements to clear salaries and end the deadlock.He, however, hit out at the Delhi government for striking out the names of municipal facilities from the list of Ccovid vaccination centres, where the drive was to be initiated on Saturday and alleged “step-motherly” treatment.“In times such as these, the municipalities worked with the Delhi government and supported them by diligently carrying out our duties. But due to political malice, the (Arvind) Kejriwal government removed the names of municipal centres from the list where vaccinations was supposed to be started from Saturday. We had successfully conducted dry runs at all our centres and we were all prepared,” he said. He added that the government had invoked DDMA act when it had engaged municipal employees in other duties and they could have done the same during the time of vaccination. “All our employees would have participated in the vaccination drive if the Delhi government had allowed vaccination at our centres and invoked DDMA act,” Prakash said. “There are some problems in the MCDs, because the workers are on strike. Keeping in mind that the citizens of Delhi should not face any issue regarding vaccinations, we have taken this decision. The Delhi government is committed to hold successful vaccination drive and it is our responsibility to ensure that the citizens do not face any problem regarding vaccination,” the government said in response to Prakash’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nursing-paramedic-staff-of-kasturba-hospital-join-protest-to-demand-pending-wages-101610818431909.html
16-01-2021||Other||42-year-old man gets imprisonment of 10 years for raping minor||The Gautam Budh Nagar district court awarded 10 years rigorous imprisonment to a 42-year-old man accused of raping a minor. The co-accused in the case was a 15-year-old whose case is pending with the juvenile justice board.The victim in her statement had stated that she was 14 years when the crime happened in December, 2013. The accused in the case, identified by his first name as Sanjay, abducted his neighbour from her home in sector 100, Noidatook her to Fatehganj in Bareilly where he raped her. He then got her married to the co-accused and threatened her. Both Sanjay and the boy raped her several times, she said. The parents of the victim had filed a missing person complaint with the Noida police and during the course of investigation, a neighbour of the victim said they had seen the man taking her. Police said they rescued the girl in January 2014 and arrested the accused and detained the co-accused.“Additional District Judge Niranjan Kumar has held accused Sanjay guilty and awarded 10 years rigorous imprisonment under Indian Penal Code section 376 (rape) and fined him ₹20,000,”JP Bhati, Senior Public Prosecution Officer said on Saturday. “In 2015 the co-accused was declared a juvenile. and his case is pending before the juvenile justice board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/42yearold-man-gets-imprisonment-of-10-years-for-raping-minor-101610818430961.html
16-01-2021||Other||Respite likely from cold wave, dense fog||Noida: Noida and adjoining regions are likely to see slight relief from the cold and dense fog in the next two days, said weather analysts. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperatures, which are for now well below season’s average are likely to rise from Monday, January 18. “The wind direction is currently north-westerly, which is icy cold. The wind directions will start changing to the warmer easterly from Sunday night, which will have an impact on the temperature here from Monday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). The average minimum and maximum temperature for Monday is expected to hover around 9 degrees Celsius (°C) and 21°C. The weather department forecasts the mercury to rise by at least two to three notches by Monday onwards. “There is another western disturbance likely by January 22, which would further improve the harsh weather conditions as the strong easterly winds may improve the air quality and rise the mercury,” added Srivastava. On Saturday, the minimum temperature in Noida were recorded at 7.8 degrees Celsius against 8.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature for Noida was 18.3 degrees Celsius, against 19.8 degrees Celsius. The average minimum and maximum for NCR, based on Safdarjung observatory was recorded at 6.6 degrees Celsius and 19.1 degrees Celsius, both one degrees below the season’s average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/respite-likely-from-cold-wave-dense-fog-101610818311074.html
16-01-2021||Other||Four injured in vehicle pile-ups on Eastern Peripheral E-way||Noida: One person fractured his leg while three others sustained minor injuries when nine vehicles crashed into each other in separate incidents on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) Saturday morning due to dense fog in the Kasna area.The incident was reported around 9.30am from a stretch of EPE located under the Kasna police jurisdiction. Police officers, however, said there were three separate pile-ups in which a total of nine vehicles were involved.“It happened because of very low visibility due to foggy weather conditions. The incidents occurred separately at a gap of 200 to 300 metres each. A truck, a canter, a pick up and one SUV were among the nine cars pile-up which included large and small vehicles,” said Vivek Triwedi, station house officer, Kasna police station.Police said as soon as information about the pile-up was relayed to the police helpline by passersby, a team was rushed to the spot. Three people sustained minor injuries, one of whom did not even go to a hospital. However, the driver of a truck was injured seriously and one of his legs was fractured, said the police. He was rushed to a hospital nearby for treatment and is doing fine, they added.The pile-up caused traffic to slow down further on the expressway in the morning hours. The broken down vehicles were removed from the road to the shoulder of the carriageway using a crane. Police officers said traffic was restored to normal in less than an hour. No complaints in relation to the accidents have been filed with local police yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-injured-in-vehicle-pile-ups-on-eastern-peripheral-eway-101610817950881.html
16-01-2021||Other||Noida, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida top three polluted cities in country||NoidaNoida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida made it to the pinnacle of the country-wide pollution charts on Saturday, as per air quality index (AQI) figures of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Greater Noida ended up with the worst air quality in the country, followed by Noida and Ghaziabad.Oddly, this is despite a slight improve in air quality index (AQI) figures on Saturday from the day before, brought about by marginal increase in wind speed leading to better ventilation, according to data from CPCB.On Friday, Noida was the most polluted city in the country, while Ghaziabad was a close second. “The wind speed on Saturday was around 8 kilometre per hour (kmph) at its peak towards the afternoon, against 5 kmph on Friday. Weather conditions will improve further by Sunday and Monday, with winds speeds changing, leading to rise in mercury and improvement in ventilation,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). He added that due to very dense fog in the morning hours in the National Capital region (NCR), the wind speed, though slight faster on Saturday afternoon, was unable to disperse pollutants. The foggy conditions and heavy air, due to low temperatures, tend to trap particle pollutants, making it difficult for moderate or light winds to disperse them. According to CPCB, the AQI of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Saturday was 434 against Friday’s 475. The AQI of Greater Noida was 438 – highest in the country – against 464 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 423, against 458 a day earlier. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered “moderate”, between 201 and 300 is “poor”, between 301 and 400 is considered “very-poor” and above 400 is considered “severe”. Levels of the major pollutant particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in the region saw a slight improvement. The average PM2.5 for Noida on Saturday was 351.22 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3), against 425.37µg/m3 on Friday. The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 341.64µg/m3 against 402.37µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad was 404.06µg/m3 against 427.67µg/m3 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), AQI is likely to improve to the upper end of “very poor” levels.“Slight improvements in surface winds are observed; wind speed is moderate and west, north-westerly. Due to slightly better ventilation, marginal improvement in air quality is forecasted for Sunday, and the AQI likely to improve to the higher end of “very poor” category. The Safar forecast reveals that AQI will continue at the high end of the “very poor” category for January 18 (Monday). This is likely to be the first extended extreme air pollution event for 2021. Further improvement is expected on January 19 and 20,” said Safar on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-ghaziabad-greater-noida-top-three-polluted-cities-in-country-101610817890893.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra suspends Covid-19 vaccine drive till Jan 18 due to CoWIN app glitch||Against the target of vaccinating 28,500 health workers on the day of the launch of the Covid-19 drive, 64.34 per cent or 18,338 health care workers were inoculated on Saturday in Maharashtra. Technical glitches in CoWIN app triggered communication lag and concerns among the beneficiaries which led to a relatively low turnout, state health officials said. Maharashtra has decided to begin the next session on Tuesday, January 19, after a gap of two days.Barring about 10 cases of mild reaction among the beneficiaries in some of the districts, no major events of 'Adverse Effect Following Immunisation' (AEFI) were reported in the state. The state government, which has planned the immunisation drive according to the Centre allotted stock of vaccines over the next 28 days, has stated that it will demand the additional stock at the earliest.The highest number of immunisations was reported in Mumbai (1,926) against 4,000, though the percentage (48.15 per cent) was the lowest in the state. Districts that clocked high percentage of inoculation included Hingoli (100 per cent ), Beed (90.2 per cent), Buldhana (95.83 per cent).Also read: 2 Delhi health workers felt slight tightness in chest after Covid shot Official“We always expect 100 per cent turnout, but because of the technical glitches in the CoWIN app which resulted in the late alerts to the beneficiaries about their turn for inoculation, there was a drop in response. We have been sending the messages to the beneficiaries a day prior to the vaccination and it too may be the reason for a low turnout,” said Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer.According to another official from the state health department, some of the beneficiaries are in ‘wait and watch’ mindset and are expected to turn up gauging the results of the vaccination in initial days. With very few cases of Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI), we expect the remaining beneficiaries to turn up over the next few days, he added.In six districts of Nagpur division, the turnout percentage was 63, while in four districts of Latur division it was 68 per cent. “We will accommodate the beneficiaries left out today to accommodate in next few days. The response from the beneficiaries will increase from next week,” said Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, deputy director, health services, Nagpur division.Also read: Here is what health workers said after getting Covid-19 shotsThane District saw 75.65 per cent vaccination as 1,740 beneficiaries got vaccinated out of 2,300 in 23 centres. The district saw no major glitches apart from server error, while no side effects were reported. Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation was the only corporation in the city to complete the 100 per cent vaccination target, as the drive began on time and ended on time with no chaos. Mira Bhayander reported 89.33 per cent turnout, Thane city 88.25 per cent, Navi Mumbai 78 per cent, Ulhasnagar 71 per cent, Thane rural 69.40 per cent, and Bhiwandi Nizampur 61.33 per cent.Abhijeet Bangar, NMMC commissioner, said that the number is likely to increase in the coming days.Thane District Collector, Rajesh Narvekar, inaugurated the vaccination drive in the city on Saturday. "This is a day of pride and happiness, more because the vaccine will first be given to our Covid warriors who have put in a lot of hard work to keep the situation under control in the last few months," said Narvekar.Dr Patil said that barring a few minor cases of reactions such as giddiness, nausea and inflammation, no major reaction was reported in the state. “Though the vaccine is new, we have machinery in place for the vaccination. We had vaccinated 2.92 crore people during our Measle and Rubella mass vaccination drive last year. The backup machinery to take care of any reaction was ready but no beneficiary required hospitalisation,” he said.Also read: I&B ministry starts work on self-regulation law for OTT platforms, online newsMany districts faced technical glitches in the CoWIN app that resulted in a communication lag. The vaccination teams were instructed to the refer and feed the data offline. "The server slowed down leading difficulties in uploading the data at many centres in our division. In Dhule district, all four centres faced problems. We have now directed the vaccination teams to register the details offline and then upload it subsequently. We had to use hard copies of beneficiaries data as the online data was not available for reference due to the glitches," said Dr PD Gandal, deputy director, health services, Nashik Division.“The server had slowed down owing to which the messages could not be sent out. The issue was resolved by 2 am after which the messages were sent to the beneficiaries,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department.The state government has decided not to hold the vaccination drive for two days on Sunday and Monday to work on the loopholes in the system. From Tuesday, the drive will start in a full-fledged manner. One of the main reasons for halting is the dysfunctional centralised CoWIN app. The state government has provided excel sheets to districts officers to upload data but as per BMC sources, that is also not working.Dr Vyas said that the next session will be held either from Monday or Tuesday once the issues related to the CoWIN app were discussed with the Centre.The state is holding four sessions a week and is expected to vaccinate about 4.4 lakh healthcare workers in 15 sessions over 28 days. The stock of 9,83,000 vials could cover about 4.4 lakh health workers with two doses each.When asked about the short supply of the vaccines, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that it is the responsibility of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that all the states get proportionate number of vaccines. “I do not want to politicise it, but Centre should ensure that all the states get the vaccine in the proportion of the population,” he said.Thackeray, who inaugurated the drive at BKC in Mumbai at 11.30 am on Saturday, said that there is no clarity if common people will get free vaccine as the call has to be taken by the Centre. “It is the call taken by the Centre over the charges towards vaccination, quota allotted to the states etc. There are 2-3 more vaccines expected to enter the market in the next few weeks after which there would be an adequate supply of the jab. I believe that the vaccine allocated to the states would increase after that,” he said.State health minister said that there were no major incidents of Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI) reported. “People are happy to get inoculated and have been waiting for their turn. I am sure, once the prioritised groups are vaccinated in next 3-4 months, the vaccine will be available for the general public. We are also going to ask for the additional stock of the vaccines during our video conference with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan,” he said.Dr Padmaja Saraf was the first beneficiary at the Jalna district hospital. She said, “After having gone through very challenging times at the hospital when the pandemic was at the peak, I am happy that the vaccine is now available. The vaccine is very safe and everybody should go for it whenever available,” she said.Meanwhile, the state reported 2,910 cases of Covid-19 and 52 deaths on Saturday taking the tally to 1,987,678 and death toll to 50,388. Mumbai clocked 571 cases and 8 new deaths taking the total of cases to 3,02,226 and toll to 11,237.Maharashtra has 51,965 active Covid-19 patients with the highest number of patients in Pune, 15887, followed by 9,608 in Thane and 6,966 in Mumbai. State’s recovery rate stands at 94.79 per cent as 18,841,27 patients have recovered from the contagion so far. State’s case fatality rate is at 2.54 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-suspends-covid-19-vaccine-drive-till-jan-18-due-to-cowin-app-glitch-101610815929524.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||2 Delhi health workers felt slight tightness in chest after Covid-19 shot: Official||Two health workers reported mild adverse effects after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine shot at a hospital in Delhi on Saturday, a senior official of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) said. The health workers, who received the jab at Charak Palika Hospital in the afternoon, reported slight tightness in the chest during observation.“They were immediately attended by the AEFI (adverse effects following immunisation) team and kept under observation. They felt normal within half-an-hour and were discharged. There is nothing to be worried about AEFI cases as such symptoms are normal to occur after any vaccination,” the official said.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereHowever, the official did not reveal which of the two vaccines - Covishield, the Oxford University-AstraZenexa shot being manufactured by Serum Institute of India, or the indigenously-developed Covaxin - was administered to the two health workers.Thousands of healthcare workers, from doctors to hospital sanitation workers, were given shots of Covid-19 vaccine at 81 centres in Delhi, after the world's largest vaccination drive was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi across the country this morning. The jab was given to more than 4,300 health workers amid cheers and applause, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal assuring that the vaccines are safe and urging people not to fall for rumours.Also Read: Some states report hurdle in vaccination as CoWIN app develops glitchesDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the drive was successfully conducted on the first day. Against a target of 8,117 health workers, 4,319 were administered vaccines on the first day in 11 districts of Delhi, official figures showed.Although there is a target of vaccinating 100 persons at every centre daily, the numbers were low on the first day with officials citing various reasons including that the registration process took longer than expected.As many as 191,181 beneficiaries across India were vaccinated on day one of the massive immunisation drive, said the Union ministry of health and family welfare. During a press briefing earlier in the evening, the ministry had said there was no post adverse event reported after the vaccination was administered to the people.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-delhi-health-workers-felt-slight-tightness-in-chest-after-covid-19-shot-official-101610814513813.html
16-01-2021||Other||Akali Dal expels former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday expelled former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh for “anti-party activities”. Kulwant had raised the banner of revolt against the party by deciding to contest the municipal elections independently along with other former SAD councillors. The elections are scheduled on February 14.Party senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema in a statement issued on Saturday said that the party president has expelled Kulwant from its primary membership. The action, he said, was taken after recommendations from senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, who stated that Kulwant was involved in anti-party activities.Former Akali councillors back KulwantMeanwhile, all former SAD councillors came out in support of Kulwant Singh, who said that there is no going back now. “We all will contest the elections as independents. The candidates will be announced in a day or two,” he said.Former Akali councillor RP Sharma said: “We are supporting Kulwant Singh by all means, and will be tendering resignations from our posts and primary membership of the party.” Paramjeet Singh Kahlon, another former councillor, said that the party leadership held a four-hour-long meeting with them, “but failed to convince us”. “We are with Kulwant Singh and will contest the elections as independents under his leadership,” he said.In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad group (of independents) and won 10 seats. With the support of Congress, he was elected the mayor. Later, in 2017, he joined SAD. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 last year. Last week, SAD had officially declared a list of 28 candidates (all of whom were former councillors) for the upcoming elections, but on January 11, 22 of them sided with Kulwant.With the latest development, a four-cornered fight awaits the MC polls. In the fray are SAD, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Kulwant’s group. The splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has opted out of the elections and will support AAP candidates and independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akali-dal-expels-former-mohali-mayor-kulwant-singh-101610815430826.html
16-01-2021||Other||266 get Covid vaccine shots in Haryana’s Panchkula district on Day 1||As many as 266 health and frontline workers got their shot of Covid-19 vaccine in Panchkula, as the nationwide drive kicked off on Saturday.Saroj Bala, 40, a sanitation worker, was the first to get the dose in the district as well as the state. Along with her, 65 people got the jab at the government dispensary in Sector 4. Meanwhile, 100 each were vaccinated at the community health centre in Raipur Rani and Alchemist Hospital.Dr Veena Singh, additional director general, health services, who was the second to get vaccinated, said: “Even after getting vaccinated, people should continue to take precautions, such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and using sanitisers.”Congratulating the health workers, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, said in order to build confidence among citizens, health and frontline workers are getting the shots first. Every Tuesday and FridayDr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “Vaccination will be carried out at over 20 centres across the district every Tuesday and Friday.”There are over 9,000 health and frontline workers in the district. Dr Kaur said the district has received around 9,040 doses, which will cover around 4,000 people as of now, as each one has to get another jab after a gap.The civil surgeon said a helpline number has been launched for these getting vaccinated. “In case they face any health issue, they can call this number and will be attended to on priority,” she said.Meanwhile, the target of covering 282 people on the first day fell short by a few numbers. “Some Anganwadi and Asha workers were a little apprehensive about getting vaccinated. However, as doctors have come forward to get the dose, others will hopefully change their mind in the coming days,” said Dr Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/266-get-covid-vaccine-shots-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district-on-day-1-101610815371416.html
16-01-2021||Other||Only 36 vaccinated in Punjab’s Mohali district on Day 1||Only 36 health workers got the jab on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mohali district on Saturday.Although 325 beneficiaries were scheduled to get the Covishield dose on the first day at three centres, the drive was put off to Monday at the Kharar civil hospital, while at the Mohali civil hospital and community health centre in Banur, only 28 and eight health workers, respectively, were covered. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the drive could not start in Kharar as there were not enough beneficiaries. The department also faced “some limitations” in Banur, and in Mohali, “we got instructions to limit our vaccine dose”, she said, adding that the drive will begin “aggressively” from Monday. Dr Sandeep Singh, an ENT specialist at the Mohali civil hospital, was not only first one to get the jab in the district, but also in Punjab. He along with Dr Charan Kamal, Dr Dimple Dhaliwal Srivastva, computer operator Asha Yadav and Class-4 employee Surjit Singh were administered the dose in the presence of Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh at the Mohali civil hospital. The CM also gifted them saplings as a token of appreciation, and lauded their efforts.Dr Sanjeev Kamboj, an orthopaedic surgeon who got the jab, said: “We were waiting for this day. I am really elated, and urge everyone to come forward and receive the vaccine as it is safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-36-vaccinated-in-punjab-s-mohali-district-on-day-1-101610815191726.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||374 health workers get first Covishield dose in Chandigarh||Around 75% of 500 health workers to be vaccinated against Covid-19 on the first day turned up at the five designated sites in Chandigarh on Saturday.Of the 374, 109 were inoculated at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), followed by 100 at Government Multi Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and 70 at its allied civil hospital in Sector 45. At Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where two sites have been set up, only 95 of the expected 200 got the jabs.“The number will suddenly go up as many department heads and administrative officers have taken the vaccine to set an example,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH, who too got the first dose. “The exercise is voluntary and we encourage our employees to come forward. I have taken the vaccine and I am perfectly fine.” Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said: “ The health and safety of our employees is our utmost priority, and we intend to inoculate the entire workforce of over 12,000 at the institute.”A health department spokesperson said there were three minor episodes that were settled without any “active intervention”. All the beneficiaries left the sites in good health after an observation period of 30 minutes, he said.The UT administration had received 12,000 Covishield doses in the first batch. These are expected to be administered to around 5,400 health workers at the five sites till January 30.Excitement among health workersAmong cheers and claps, the first beneficiaries took the Covishield jab across the centres established for vaccination.At PGIMER, Dr Manjinder Singh Randhawa, 29, a resident posted in the paediatric emergency, received the first shot. “I urge others to have faith in science and join the drive,” he said, after coming out of the vaccination room. At GMSH, Arun, 20, who works as a sanitation attendant, took the first jab. “Being at the front line is full of dangers, and taking the vaccine will instil confidence among us,” he said.Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department, who too got vaccinated, said: “In hospitals, we see suffering and mourning every day. But I have never seen such a level of excitement among my colleagues. It may sound cliche, but it is a historic day in a true sense.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/374-health-workers-get-first-covishield-dose-in-chandigarh-101610815073201.html
16-01-2021||Other||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||V-Day festivity in the air as UT health director takes the shot The vaccination sites in Chandigarh wore a festive look on Day 1 of the vaccination drive with senior officers taking note of the health of the beneficiaries and attending to the media. Director, health services, Dr Amandeep Kang, and director-principal of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Dr Jasbinder Kaur were among senior healthcare professionals who took the shot to instill confidence among the workers. BJP leader sees many a slip between the cup and the lip Newly elected mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, who got elected after bitter internal party feud in the BJP, was in for an image boost after the Chandigarh administration announced a financial package for the municipal corporation. But not all in the party were impressed or keen to credit Sharma. At a luncheon hosted by Sharma at his official residence, a senior party functionary said, “The financial package is an annual feature. What’s so big about it? The administration makes such announcements every January but seldom delivers. There is many a slip between the cup and the lip.” Ex-SAD councillors upset with calls to contest on party symbol A former councillor of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), who has sided with former mayor Kulwant Singh to contest the Mohali municipal corporation elections independently next month, says most like him are upset with the high command for pressuring them to contest on the party symbol. One of the councillors said all former members have been getting calls repeatedly from different leaders to return to the party fold despite being told that they’ve decided to contest independently. Heartwarming gesture by Chandigarh Police Amid the severe cold wave, Chandigarh Police reached out to needy residents and distributed blankets. The police station at Mauli Jagran organised a citizen outreach programme during which blankets were distributed to 150 senior citizens on the occasion of Lohri. DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh led the police team at the event. Weather office foggy on forecasting fog The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has been accurate in warning us about severely cold days this season but its fog forecast has been more of a hit and miss. Only light to moderate fog was predicted in the city on Saturday but it ended up in dense fog. Foggy days turned out to be clear and sunny. However, in the IMD’s defence, it issues forecasts for the region with Chandigarh being a small constituent so some discrepancies can creep in. PU faculty bags award Anupreet Kaur, an assistant professor of biotechnology at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) of Panjab University, was awarded the Best Presentation Award in the Green and Sustainable Chemistry Session at the Under Catalysis Research Scholars Meet 2020. The session was organised by the Catalysis Society of India on December 19 and 20. Anupreet Kaur is working in the area of enantiopure drugs through bio catalysis in collaboration with professor Jaspreet Kaur of UIET and professor Ranju Bansal of the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-101610814891481.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mercury drops to 11.3°C due to dense fog||With dense fog descending over the city on Saturday, the day temperature plunged from Friday’s 20.8°C to 11.3°C. This was 10 notches below normal and similar foggy conditions can be expected in the coming days as well, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD officials said with the minimum temperature going down from 7.2°C to 5.8°C, Saturday was a severe cold day. Severe cold days are declared when minimum temperature drops below 10 degrees and the maximum temperature is 6.5 degrees below normal. This is the fourth such day this month.“Fog descended over the whole region due to variable and calm lower-level winds. These will continue on Sunday as well, making the morning foggy. Relief can be expected next week when relatively stronger easterlies start to blow in the region,” an official said.At 11.3°C, this is the second lowest that the maximum temperature has gone this month, after dropping to 11.1°C on January 12. In the next three days, the day and night temperatures are expected to remain around 15°C and 6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmercury-drops-to-11-3-c-due-to-dense-fog-101610812851070.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Police get time till Feb 1 to report on Javed Akhtar's defamation complaint against Kangana Ranaut||A magistrate court in Mumbai on Saturday allowed the police time till February 1 to file a report of their enquiry into a defamation complaint filed by Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar against actor Kangana Ranaut.The court had in December, 2020 directed the Juhu police to probe the matter and submit its report on January 16.However, the police on Saturday sought time to file the report, which Metropolitan Magistrate Andheri, RR Khan allowed.Akhtar had in November, 2020 filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut before the Andheri Metropolitan Magistrate, for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in television interviews.He had sought action against the actor under relevant sections of the IPC.Akhtar's lawyer had submitted that the veteran lyricist has built his reputation from scratch in the last 55 years and Kangana has made baseless comments on national television and social media against him, damaging his reputation.Akhtar in his complaint alleged that Ranaut dragged his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year.She had also claimed that Akhtar had threatened her to not speak about her alleged relationship with actor Hrithik Roshan, the complaint stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-get-time-till-feb-1-to-report-on-javed-akhtar-s-defamation-complaint-against-kangana-ranaut-101610812127644.html
16-01-2021||Kolkata||'To err is human,' says TMC as MLA’s name figures in list of vaccine recipients||At Alipurduar in north Bengal, a controversy was triggered when TMC MLA Sourav Chakraborty's name figured in the list of vaccine beneficiaries along with health care workers.Chakraborty, who holds a doctorate degree, however, backed out at the last minute after questions were raised.“There must have been a communication gap on part of the district health department as I hold a PhD degree and am also the chairman of Rogi Kalyan Samiti (patient welfare committee) in the district hospital. The moment I came to know that my name figured in the list of health workers, I contacted the district chief medical officer of health (CMOH) and refused to take the vaccine. I am at Alipurduar district hospital overseeing the vaccination program,” said Chakraborty.The BJP didn’t leave a chance to take a jibe at the ruling TMC.“The MLA must have tried to hoodwink people by getting the first vaccine as he holds a doctorate degree and is not a doctor. As the news became public, the ruling TMC and Chakraborty, in particular, have been ridiculed by common people,” said Ganga Prasad Sharma, BJP Alipurduar district committee president.Also read: Some states report hurdle in vaccination as CoWIN app develops glitchesThe TMC leadership downplayed the incident calling it an error that was being blown out of proportion.“To err is human. As if BJP leaders do not make any mistakes and are always right. The matter has ended because Chakraborty has himself dropped his name. TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee has strictly directed that only health workers should get the vaccine,” said Tapas Roy, TMC spokesperson and minister.Meanwhile, at least two legislators of the ruling Trinamool Congress received Covid-19 vaccine on the first day of nationwide vaccination drive along with thousands of healthcare workers.The two TMC legislators who received the vaccine on Saturday were Rabindranath Chatterjee, MLA of Katwa, and Subhash Mondol, MLA of Bhatar. Both are assembly constituencies in East Burdwan district in south Bengal.“I have received the vaccine. Everyone will get in turn. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will arrange the vaccine for every citizen of West Bengal,” said Mondol.Also read: In bid to meet vaccine needs of other nations, India’s neighbours to be priority“I received a message that I would be getting a vaccine. I took it because I felt that if I take it, others will shed their apprehension and come forward to take the vaccine,” said Chatterjee.Senior health officials of the district said that both Chatterjee and Mondol are chairpersons of the Rogi Kalyan Samity (patient’s welfare committee) at Katwa and Bhatar hospital. They need to regularly come to the hospital and hence their names were selected.The BJP, however, took a jibe saying that it was surprising to see only two TMC legislators taking the vaccine.“What can I say? This is TMC. But I am surprised to see that only two came,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.“I don’t know whether they have taken the vaccine. But it would be wrong to take the vaccine today as it was meant for health workers only,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/to-err-is-human-says-tmc-as-mla-s-name-figures-in-list-of-vaccine-recipients-101610811859664.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Focus is on development, says Aaditya on Aurangabad renaming debate||The development of Aurangabad is the most important aspect and a decision on renaming it 'Sambahjinagar' will be taken unanimously by the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi constituents, Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray said on Saturday.The Sena, which has been a votary of the name change, is facing opposition from its MVA ally Congress, while the BJP has been attacking the Uddhav Thackeray-led party claiming it was forsaking its old demands just to remain in power.In the city to inaugurate a garbage processing plant, command control room and cycle track built by the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited, Thackeray said "we are focusing on changing the face of Aurangabad city"."The decision of renaming the city will be taken unanimously by the MVA government in the state," he asserted.Against the backdrop of members of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the BJP, putting up 'Namaste Sambhajinagar' signboards in some places in the city, Thackeray said its former ally did nothing about the name change when they were in power in the state for five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/focus-is-on-development-says-aaditya-on-aurangabad-renaming-debate-101610807120667.html
16-01-2021||Patna||'Don’t fear, it’s safe,' says sanitary staff who gets first vaccine jab in Bihar||He normally doesn’t pray every morning but having got up early on Saturday, he said a silent prayer before stepping out of his cramped one-room rented accommodation at Raja Bazar in Patna.“There was a little scepticism amid the euphoria of being the first in the state to be inoculated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19),” said Ram Babu, 35, alias ‘Bikki’, an outsourced sanitary attendant who has been working at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) for over 15 years.Babu earns a measly amount of ₹8,500 every month to support his children Supriya Kumari (7), Vaasu (4) and Anurag (2), and wife, Soni Devi, 28. His wife, a homemaker, had contracted the virus last July. Babu was the first to receive the jab among 4.64 lakh healthcare workers in Bihar on Saturday.“I am perfectly fine. There is nothing to fear about the vaccine. I will request all to take the shot. I wish my family could also be vaccinated at this stage itself,” said Babu, holding a red rose as he sat in the observation room for over 90 minutes after vaccination. He was swarmed by shutterbugs and newshounds who were trying to take his soundbite.Also read: In bid to meet vaccine needs of other nations, India’s neighbours to be priorityThat he would acquire a celebrity status never came to Babu’s mind when he was randomly selected for the first day of the vaccination drive.“Two days prior to the vaccination, I got the first communication through my department (preventive and social medicine at IGIMS). A day later, the Bihar health minister was on phone and asked me if I could come to the State Health Society to be introduced to the media. Though I agreed, I didn’t understand till then what was happening. Today, when I look back, I feel very happy about it,” said Babu, who took the shot of Serum Institute’s Covishield in the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar.Babu’s wife was equally happy that her husband had become the cynosure of all eyes.“I wish my children and I were also vaccinated at this stage itself,” she said.With colleagues like Neeraj, 21, an electrical attendant, requesting to be photographed alongside Babu, the sanitary attendant knew that God has answered his prayers.Talking about the initiative to get an outsourced sanitary staff vaccinated first, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit said, “They are the unsung heroes. People don’t see their work. The sanitary employees have toiled day and night through the pandemic. These unsung heroes have played a vital role in controlling the spread of the contagion, and Bihar is in a much better condition today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/dont-fear-it-s-safe-says-sanitary-staff-who-gets-first-vaccine-jab-in-bihar-101610808743320.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy: Punjab enter quarters with fourth straight win||Riding high on 140-run, unbeaten opening-wicket stand between Prabhsimran Singh (73 runs) and Abhishek Sharma (59 runs), Punjab recorded a convincing 10-wicket win over Jammu and Kashmir in their Elite Group A game during the ongoing Syed Mushtaq T20 Trophy at the Alur Cricket Stadium in Bengaluru on Saturday.Adding four points to raise the tally to 16, Punjab have entered the quarter-finals. This was Punjab’s fourth straight win in the tournament.Upon winning the toss, Punjab captain Mandeep Singh opted to field. Jammu and Kashmir scored 139 runs for the loss of eight wickets in 20 overs. Shubham Pundir made 42 runs, while Qamran Iqbal scored 27 runs. Punjab bowlers did well. Medium-pacer Siddharth Kaul grabbed four wickets, giving away 33 runs. Spinner Harpreet Brar took two for 22 runs.In reply, Punjab batsmen had an easy run-chase. Openers Prabhsimran and Abhishek clobbered the Jammu and Kashmir bowlers all over the park. Both remained unbeaten. While Prabhsimran scored 73 runs, Abhishek hit 59 runs. Punjab will take on Tripura in their next league game.Scores in briefJammu & Kashmir: 139 for 8 in 20 overs (Shubham Pundir 42, Qamran Iqbal 27, Siddharth Kaul 4 for 33, Harpreet Brar 2 for 22) Punjab: 140 for no loss in 14.3 overs (Prabhsimran 73 not out, Abhishek Sharma 59 not out)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/syed-mushtaq-ali-t20-trophy-punjab-enter-quarters-with-fourth-straight-win-101610807569630.html
16-01-2021||Bangalore||Made in India vaccines bringing battle against Covid-19 to an end: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Saturday India has been able to take the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to its last stage with the help of two made in India vaccines as the country launched an inoculation drive. Shah also hailed the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for leading the battle against the disease, which has taken over 152,000 lives across the country.“It is a matter of joy for all Indians that we have been able to take this battle to its last stage with the help of two made in India vaccines,” Shah was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The home minister was addressing an event in Karnataka’s Bhadravathi where he laid the foundation stone of a campus for the newly-raised battalion of Central Reserve Police Force's (CRPF's) Rapid Action Force (RAF).“The world has been fighting the battle against Covid-19 for over a year. Several people have died and it has been the toughest battle in humankind's history. But, I am happy to say that India fought the most successful battle against Covid-19, under Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi's leadership,” Shah said.Shah highlighted that India has fought the battle against the pandemic effectively as it has a high recovery rate and less fatality rate compared to other nations. Shah also applauded the healthcare sector for preparing the infrastructure to test and treat the affected people in a short period of time.The Karnataka government allotted a 50.29-acre land for the headquarters of the 97th battalion of the RAF, the special anti-riots wing of CRPF. The campus will consist of a hospital, a Kendriya Vidyalaya, family quarters for troops, administrative building, family welfare centre, sports facilities including a stadium and swimming pool.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and Union minister Pralhad Joshi were also present along with the home minister. Shah will address a public rally in Belagavi on Sunday and inaugurate KLE Hospital's advanced simulation centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/made-in-india-vaccines-bringing-battle-against-covid-19-to-an-end-amit-shah-101610802267069.html
16-01-2021||Lucknow||A day after Mayawati's birthday, many BSP leaders join SP||A day after Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati's 65th birthday, the rival Samajwadi Party (SP) gave a jolt to the BSP on Saturday when BSP's Meerut Mayor Sunita Verma, her husband and former BSP MLA from Hastinapur and former BSP minister Yogesh Verma joined the SP. So did former BSP MLA from Bareilly constituency Vijay Pal Singh. Along with them, a former BSP MLA from Thakuardwara (Moradabad) Vijay Yadav and former UP minister Awadhesh Verma also joined the SP. Former BSP MP from Lakhimpur, Dawood Ahmed switched camps.All joined at a membership event held in the presence of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav at the party headquarters.Former BJP MLA from a Mirzapur constituency, Ram Bharti, and Gorakhpur's RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh) pracharak, Vineet Shukla too joined the SP.Also read: 'Will never allow interference in domestic politics' - Nepalese foreign ministerAlong with Sunita Verma, nearly a dozen corporators of Meerut municipal corporation among the 400 supporters of Sunita and Yogesh Verma joined the SP.On the occasion, Akhilesh Yadav said, "Regularly and continuously, a large number of leaders and supporters from different parties are joining SP. Today's joining is historical as all these leaders have mass support and a long political career."As several of these leaders were Dalit leaders, Akhilesh said, "Samajwadi Party will move forward imbibing and following the philosophies of both BR Ambedkar and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia."By joining SP, these leaders have further boosted the party's morale, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/a-day-after-mayawati-s-birthday-many-bsp-leaders-join-sp-101610801224330.html
16-01-2021||Patna||‘Helpless and tired’: Tejashwi attacks Bihar CM after he loses his cool||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday called Nitish Kumar ‘weak and tired’ and alleged that the Bihar chief minister threatened reporters when they posed questions regarding the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.“There were valid questions asked by journalists regarding the increase in incidents of crime, when will it stop and why no actions are being taken, the chief minister threatened them over this. He is saying that the police should not be demoralised. Those in power in Bihar are protecting criminals,” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Bihar is turning into the crime capital of the country. The number of incidents of crime is increasing here. It was ridiculous to see the chief minister yesterday. Nitish Kumar seemed helpless, very weak and tired,” he added.Kumar on Friday while speaking to reporters lost his cool at those who questioned him regarding the state of law and order in Bihar citing the death of IndiGo Patna station manager Rupesh Singh. A visibly irritated chief minister had asked the reporters to not mix up issues of crime and development.The government in Bihar is under pressure to solve the murder of Rupesh Singh, who was shot by unknown assailants outside his apartment in Punaichak area in Patna on Tuesday evening.Yadav has been criticising the Janata Dal(United)-led government in the state over the killing of the IndiGo employee. On Tuesday, he had said that criminals protected by powerful people killed the IndiGo station manager outside his home and criminals currently run the government in Bihar.Rupesh Singh’s brother has demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) citing delay by the state police in finding the culprits. He said that despite the chief minister’s assurance the police have failed to make an arrest in connection with his brother's murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/helpless-and-tired-tejashwi-attacks-bihar-cm-after-he-loses-his-cool-101610799792831.html
16-01-2021||Other||Foreign national hides cocaine capsules in cavity in mouth, held in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested a Nigerian national outside a five-star hotel at Juhu and allegedly recovered 10-12 cocaine-filled capsules from his mouth. He was rushed to Sir JJ Hospital where after X-ray and CT-scan, it was found that the accused was allegedly carrying more drugs. The doctors tried to eject the drug-filled capsules from his body. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said, “The accused has been arrested. He is in JJ Hospital and the doctors are trying to eject more drugs from his abdomen”. Officers are probing how the accused had entered the country and if he is staying on a valid visa or illegally and since how long has he been in the drug smuggling racket, said Wankhede. On the basis of preliminary inquiry, it appears that the accused has been smuggling cocaine into the city, said officers. He has a bracket in his mouth where he used to hid drugs (capsules filled with cocaine) and then wait outside five star hotels where customers approach him for the contraband, an NCB officer said. After a tip-off, a team from NCB laid a trap outside the Juhu hotel and nabbed the Nigerian national. During inquiry, he removed some capsules from his mouth which he was hiding in a bracket, said the officer. NCB officers said while following such a modus operandi, the smuggler does not eat anything because the movement in abdomen could rupture the capsules, leading to death. “In such cases, during preliminary inquiry, we offer them food, and if they refuse, our suspicion gets fortified. The X-ray and CT scan tests were carried out in this case, following a court order,” added the officer. This is an old modus operandi, mostly used by smugglers to avoid being caught at airports. Once drugs are smuggled into the city, the smugglers use peddlers – mostly foreigners who come on business or education visa – to approach customers. The method is used to reduce the risk of getting caught. In the illicit market, one gram cocaine is worth between Rs5,000 and Rs10,000, depending on quality of the contraband material, said the officer. In 2013, in a similar case, the Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) of Mumbai customs had arrested two Tanzanian nationals at Mumbai airport for allegedly smuggling cocaine by ingesting capsules. One of them died on the way to hospital after the capsules exploded inside his abdomen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/foreign-national-hides-cocaine-capsules-in-cavity-in-mouth-held-in-mumbai-101610799949766.html
16-01-2021||Other||Haryana cancels exam to recruit gram sachiv after paper leak reports||The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) on Saturday cancelled the written exam held on January 9 and 10 to recruit near 700 gram sachiv following allegations that the paper was leaked. “It is notified for the information of all candidates that the examination for the post of gram sachiv held on January 9 and 10 (morning and evening shifts) is hereby cancelled. The inconvenience is regretted,” the cancellation notice read. Nearly 7 lakh students took the exam across 879 centres in the state. At least 18 people, including women, have been arrested in Panipat for attempting to leak the question paper. The accused include the owner of a private school and his son. The paper leak has come as an embarrassment for the BJP-JJP coalition government with Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala seeking a judicial probe into alleged paper leak cases in the state during the past six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-cancels-exam-to-recruit-gram-sachiv-after-paper-leak-reports-101610799290023.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||State ITIs seek admission deadline extension to accommodate more students||The state association for non-government institutes of technical education (ITIs) have approached the Directorate General of Training (DGT), Delhi, seeking an extension in the admission deadline. While DGT has already pushed the deadline up to January 15, the association has sought time until January end to accommodate more students, said a statement released by the association on Friday.“Close to 3.5 lakh students had registered for admissions this year, but less than one lakh students have confirmed admissions till date. We believe the lack of public transport is discouraging more students from reaching their allotted institute to confirm admissions, and therefore, a two-week extension will be helpful,” read the statement released by the association.Pre-admission registrations to ITI courses began in August and went on till September 2020. From 2.8 lakh registrations recorded in the 2019-20 academic year, registrations stood at 3.5 lakh for the 2020-21 academic year. Many experts attributed the spike to the encouragement given by Central and state governments to skill-based learning.However, ITI college principals were also worried that the spike in registration numbers might not necessarily result in a high number of admissions. “This year, registrations to ITIs began before admissions to junior colleges had even started, so that could be one of the reasons more students registered for ITIs as a back-up plan. The same numbers don’t seem to be reflecting in classrooms at present. So with added time, institutes are hoping to attract more students to confirm admissions before they start their academic calendar,” said the principal of a city-based ITI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-itis-seek-admission-deadline-extension-to-accommodate-more-students-101610798630250.html
16-01-2021||Other||Mumbai Police’s EOW arrests director of brokerage firm in ₹450 crore cheating case||The economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police on Friday arrested Paresh Kariya, the director of brokerage firm Anugrah Stock and Broking Pvt Ltd, for allegedly cheating around 400 investors of Rs450 crore. He was arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged last year in September by Ashutosh Shah, an advertisement firm director, for alleged criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. The first information report (FIR) was registered at Juhu police station but considering the magnitude of the case, it was transferred to EOW for further investigation. During its probe, EOW officers carried out searches at various premises of the accused. EOW said that Anugrah Stock has around 30,000 clients. “Nearly 400 investors have approached us so far, alleging that Kariya had pledged their shares with the clearing house and later told them that he had suffered losses and defaulted in returning their money,” said an EOW officer. Kariya is also accused of violating Security and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) norms by guaranteeing returns to investors. In the past, he reportedly told the police that his firm suffered a loss of around Rs600 crore during the market crash in 2020. He allegedly pledged his clients’ shares worth over Rs100 crore to get margin for trading. The clearing house then squared off his pledged shares and sold it at lower prices at the time, officers said. “Kariya was produced in court on Friday and was remanded police custody for six days (January 21). The investigation is on,” inspector Rajesh Kewale said. The FIR names two more accused, but they are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-police-s-eow-arrests-director-of-brokerage-firm-in-450-crore-cheating-case-101610798570000.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Newly appointed registrar joins Mumbai university after a stand-off between VC and state government||The first day of the newly-appointed registrar of the University of Mumbai (MU), Ramdas Atram, the former director of Institute of Science, Nagpur, turned into a nightmare, as he was not allowed to take charge of his post, on Friday. The vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar awaited the clarity from the state government. The drama ended only at 5pm after the state government clarified and reaffirmed the appointment, following which, Atram officially took over the post.“Atram was at the vice-chancellor’s office on Friday at 10:30am with his relieving letter from the Institute of Science, Nagpur, and his joining letter approved by the state. Pednekar, however, had written to the state government two days prior, asking them to allow the current in-charge registrar, Baliram Gaikwad to continue on the post, and had asked Atram to go back to his previous post in Nagpur, until there’s clarity,” said a senior MU official on condition of anonymity.The state government, on January 8, had released a notification confirming the appointment of Atram for the post of the registrar for the University of Mumbai. The post had been lying vacant since July 2020, after the former registrar Ajay Deshmukh passed away. The state government notification states that Atram has been approved for the post of MU registrar for one year only.However, Pednekar had written to the state government on January 13, asking the government to rethink their decision stating that the current in-charge registrar Gaikwad “has been doing well at the post”, said the letter. “Pednekar mentioned the good work done by Gaikwad and asked for the government to consider continuing with the same in-charge registrar, instead of bringing someone from another city or university to MU in the middle of the academic year. However, Atram was already relieved of his post as director of Institute of Science (Nagpur) by then, so the government clarified that the new appointment will stay put,” said an official from the state ministry for higher and technical education.On Friday, while Pednekar waited for the government to respond to his letter, Atram had submitted his documents and the joining report to the concerned MU department as part of his joining process. Clarity on his hiring came only around 5pm.A spokesperson for the university refuted allegations of a stand-off between Pednekar and the state government. He told HT that the VC was only waiting for a response to his letter before making changes to the current office. “Atram was not asked to leave the university, he was only asked to delay the joining until the government responds to VC’s letter. Once the clarification from the state government came through, Atram immediately took over the post of registrar of MU,” said the MU spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/newly-appointed-registrar-joins-mumbai-university-after-a-stand-off-between-vc-and-state-government-101610798389687.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||Bird flu confirmed in owl found dead in Delhi zoo||A dead owl in the Delhi zoo has been found to have been infected with bird flu, officials said on Saturday."The zoo witnessed the death of a brown fish owl in its captivity. Its cloacal, tracheal and ocular swabs were sent to the animal husbandry unit of the Delhi government for serological examination," zoo Director Ramesh Pandey said.The samples were found positive for H5N8 avian influenza virus under real time RT-PCR test done by ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, on Friday, he said.As per protocols and guidelines issued by the Centre and the Delhi government, sanitisation and surveillance drills have been intensified in the zoo and all possible preventive measures are being taken, Pandey said."Birds in captivity have been isolated and are under consistent monitoring and care for their behaviour and health. Spray of lime, virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite and foot bath of potassium permanganate are being done on regular intervals every day," he said.Chicken feed to raptors and entry of vehicles inside the zoo have already been stopped. Movement of staff is also being restricted and regulated in view of the bird flu outbreak.The Delhi zoo has both captive and free-ranging birds, including local migratory waterfowls and waders, in its premises.On Monday, samples taken from crows and ducks at parks and lakes in the national capital had tested positive for the avian influenza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bird-flu-confirmed-in-owl-found-dead-in-delhi-zoo-101610797843917.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC questions validity of field testing of narcotic, psychotropic substances||In an important order, the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday questioned the validity of field testing of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances by law enforcement agencies for lack of documented standards.Justice Sandeep Shinde said in the absence of any documented standards of colour test reagents for preliminary identification of drugs seized from an accused, entire field testing of the suspect substance — as to whether the colour produced after reaction with the reagent matches with expected colour pattern for a particular drug or not — was left to the understanding of field officers, which the judge held to be “arbitrary”.The court made the observation while granting bail to 27-year-old Ulhasnagar resident Sagar Joshi, who has been booked by Kopar Khairane police station in Navi Mumbai for alleged possession of 65 grams of amphetamine, a psychotropic substance.Joshi was arrested on October 11, 2019, along with one of his colleagues at a pharmaceutical company at Ambernath. He claimed that the substance seized from them was “Ramlatan powder”.His counsel, advocate Sanjeev Kadam, submitted that the pre-trap panchanama did not show that the raiding team was carrying field testing kit which shows that no field test was conducted. He pointed out that the seizure panchanama merely mentioned that the field test indicated that the seized substance was amphetamine, but no field test reports were submitted with the charge sheet.The court found matter in his submissions. Justice Shinde said that in the case at hand, the prosecution claimed that white powder was seized from Joshi and his colleague and when tested with reagents, it produced dark brown colour, a colour pattern for amphetamine. “However, there are no documented, set standards as to which substance upon testing with reagent/s would produce which colour,” said the judge. “Thus, all and every aspect of field testing is left to the experience, knowledge and perception of the law enforcement officer,” he said.In the United States of America, the HC said, the National Institute of Justice has set standards for colour test reagents or kits for preliminary identification of drugs and has itemised particulars of final colours produced by reagents with various drugs and other substances.The court said no such document, if any issued by the ministry of home affairs, was produced by the police to prima facie ascertain and satisfy the authenticity of field test kit results.It further said standardisation of field test results was necessary in view of the fact that most of the drugs abused today are refined processed substances and are mostly circulated as white, off-white or brown powder, crystals or flakes or colourless, odourless liquids, and, therefore, it was very difficult to identify these substance unless tested with different reagents.In Joshi’s case, HC said, the police claimed that the seized substance was tested on field by using a field kit and the result matched for amphetamine. But, there was no material to prima facie accept that the substance recovered from the applicant was amphetamine except mere mentioning of the field test result in the seizure memo, and even the field test report was not annexed to the charge sheet.The HC also accepted Kadam’s argument that the charge sheet filed against Joshi was incomplete in as much as it did not contain the chemical analyser’s report about the seized substance and therefore, the accused was entitled to default bail on completion of 180 days, as contemplated under section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code.“It may not be overlooked that the chemical analyser’s report is an essential, integral and inherent part of the investigation under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 and would lay foundation for culpability of the accused, without which the magistrate would not be able to form an opinion and take cognisance of involvement of the accused in commission of offence under the Act,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-questions-validity-of-field-testing-of-narcotic-psychotropic-substances-101610797729624.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||There has been a reluctance to introduce bicycles in Mumbai: MMRDA commissioner||Hinting at bureaucratic hurdles, metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev on Saturday said that there has been a lot of reluctance towards introducing cycles in Mumbai. Rajeev said this at an event to inaugurate a public bike-sharing system at the Versova Metro station. “There has been a reluctance to introduce bicycles in Mumbai by saying that the roads are congested. There are, however, two aspects to it. We have to introduce more of these facilities and people should also start cycling more. This will create a revolution and also decongest the roads,” Rajeev said. He further said that when there are more cyclists on road, city planners will be forced to create space for them. “Create the demand and city will give you space,” he said. On Saturday, the commissioner inaugurated public bike-sharing service from Versova metro station. The service, which started at Jagruti Nagar Metro station in 2019, will further be extended to DN Nagar and Azad Nagar metro stations in another 10 days, officials said. Commuters can rent a bike for ₹2/hour or get weekly and monthly passes for ₹280 and ₹900 respectively. The bikes can be taken home and parked at the Metro stations. MyByk (which runs the services) was part of a mobility challenge launched by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd. and World Resources Institute (WRI) in 2019. Madhav Pai, director, WRI India on Saturday said, “With 337 km of Metro network in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, last-mile connectivity will be a major challenge. Commuters need to be provided with a lot of options, of which, cycling will prove to be the most attractive option.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/there-has-been-a-reluctance-to-introduce-bicycles-in-mumbai-mmrda-commissioner-101610797189664.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Maha BJP chief Patil says surprised by Pawar's statements backing Munde||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday said the statements of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar backing his party colleague and state minister Dhananjay Munde, who is facing a rape allegation, were surprising.He said Munde must resign on moral grounds.On Friday, Pawar had said the NCP would think of any action against Munde only after the police probe into the rape allegation is completed.State social justice minister Munde has been accused of rape by a Mumbai-based woman, a charge he has strongly refuted and termed as a blackmail attempt."We have sought Munde's resignation on moral grounds. But Pawar's statements on Munde are surprising. The BJP mahila morcha will protest against Munde across the state on Monday," Patil said.Patil said Munde's poll affidavit can be challenged as he has now accepted he has two children from a relationship with the complainant's sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-bjp-chief-patil-says-surprised-by-pawar-s-statements-backing-munde-101610796269586.html
16-01-2021||Lucknow||After Covid shot, KGMU dentistry junior asst gets call from daughter||LUCKNOW: Amar Bahadur, 46, a junior assistant with the dentistry department at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow, was the first to get the Covid vaccine shot at the centre on the medical university campus on Saturday.“I just got a call from my 12-year-daughter Aradhya who enquired how was I after the vaccination. I am fine and have no problem,” said Amar Bahadur, who has been working at KGMU since 1995.“My son, who is in the merchant navy, also knew that I would be among first to be vaccinated,” he said.Amar came in the morning and was examined by the staff. He went to listen to the PM’s address in a hall at the vaccination centre at the Kalam Centre building. Minutes after, he was called for the vaccination and, by 11.15am, he was out in the observation room.“The entire process went off smoothly. A simple prick and I was vaccinated. It’s safe as any other vaccination programme,” he said.Amar Bahadur waited until the doctors said he could leave the vaccination centre that had listed 100 beneficiaries to be vaccinated on the first day.Asked what he would do next, he said, “Life will be normal. I think I will have no problem despite the fact that I have uncontrolled sugar, but this vaccine will save me from Covid infection. I will now come for the second dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-covid-shot-kgmu-dentistry-junior-asst-gets-call-from-daughter-101610795505798.html
16-01-2021||Other||NIA summons farm union leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, Sikh activists for questioning in sedition case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has summoned Baldev Singh Sirsa, who heads the Lok Bhalai Insaf Welfare Society that is one of the unions taking part in the agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, besides Sikh activists in connection with a sedition case against US-based banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannu. Sirsa has been summoned to the NIA headquarters in Delhi on January 17 for questioning in the case against Pannu for conspiring to create an “atmosphere of fear and lawlessness and to cause disaffection in people and to incite them towards rising in rebellion against the Government of India”. Reacting to the summons, Sirsa, who was one of the farmers’ representatives negotiating with the government over the farm laws, said, “The government is fearing the tractor parade in Delhi on January 26 and is trying to terrorise people of Punjab by sending these notices through the NIA. The sole motive is to derail the farmer agitation. However, we will continue our struggle for the repeal of the laws.” To oppose the NIA’s move, Sirsa led supporters at the site of a protest outside a mall in Amritsar. Several Sikh activists, who had also received the notices, joined them. BID TO STIFLE VOICE OF DISSENT: SIKH ACTIVISTTalking over phone, Canada-based freelance community journalist and analyst Baltej Pannu, who also received the summons, said, “I only cover developments related to Punjab and don’t have any direct link with farmer organisations or their funding. As far as the SFJ is concerned, to which I have being linked in the notice, its functionaries hurl abuses at me. They issue threats to my family. I’m surprised to be linked with this outfit by the government.” “The government wants to tighten the noose around activists supporting the farmers’ cause. It is misuse of power to stifle the voice of dissent,” said Ranjit Singh, the senior vice-president of the Sikh Youth Federation (Bhindranwale), who has been asked to appear at the NIA headquarters on January 21. Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu and his brother Mandeep have also received the NIA notice. “I’ve been participating in the farmers’ agitation since Day 1. To demoralise me, the government has chosen to harass my family members, too. They don’t have any link with my activism,” Deep said. Those summoned by the NIA include a tourist bus operator Inderpal Singh Judge, 47, a nut bolt manufacturer, Naresh Kumar, 56, a cable TV operator, Jaspal Singh, 56, besides Sikh activists Surinder Singh Thikriwala, Nobeljit Singh from Hoshiarpur, Palwinder Singh, Pardeep Singh, Parmjit Singh Akali and Sikh writer Balwinderpal Singh Jalandhar. BJP GOVT STIFLING FARMERS’ VOICE: SGPC Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur condemned the notices, saying “The BJP-led Union government is stifling the voice of farmers. The notice is a manifestation of the dictatorial policy of the government by misusing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to suppress people associated with the agitation. Farmers are fighting for existence but the government machinery is being misused to suppress their voice which is not tolerable.” “If anyone opposes the injustice to him, is he anti-national? Is worrying for one’s future generations and fighting for one’s rights a divisive act?” she said, alleging that the Narendra Modi government is “destroying” democracy with its “ego and pride” instead of considering the demands of the farmers. NGOs Khalra Mission Organisation and the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) termed the notice a violation of human rights and desecration of democratic ethos. “This is nothing but harassing people agitating peacefully for their rights,” the joint statement by these organisations said. The case against the SFJ leader was registered under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc) of the Indian Penal Code and other sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on December 15, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-summons-farm-union-leader-baldev-singh-sirsa-sikh-activists-for-questioning-in-sedition-case-101610795269310.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Thane court grants bail to 89 people in Palghar mob lynching case||A special court in Maharashtra’s Thane granted bail to 89 people arrested in connection with the lynching case in Palghar, in which two monks and their driver were killed last year, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. According to ANI, they were granted bail on the grounds that they were simply present at the spot at the time of the incident. The accused will be released on a surety of ₹15,000 each, the court said.On Wednesday, district judge SB Bahalkar heard arguments presented by special public prosecutor Satish Maneshinde and defence counsels Amrut Adhikari and Atul Patil appearing for the arrested accused in a dozen bail pleas. Maneshinde told the court that the applicants before the court were present at the scene, but they had no active part in the crime.Of the total 165 accused lodged in jail, 90 have sought bail and the court will decide on their pleas on January 16, defence counsel Adhikari said, according to news agency PTI. The court had earlier granted bail to 105 accused and rejected the pleas of 36 others, whose role, the court stated, had been proven and hence, they did not deserve bail.The defence counsels told the court that the applicants had no role to play in the incident and the police had arrested them on mere suspicion and based their mobile tower location. The accused also questioned the validity of three FIRs being registered for the same incident.Seventy-year-old Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri and Sushilgiri Maharaj, 35), and their driver Nilesh Telgade, 30 were lynched by a mob at Gadchinchale in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, about 140km north of Mumbai, on April 16, 2020. While the two monks were heading for Gujarat in a car to attend a funeral, the mob suspected that they were child-lifters.The Criminal Investigation Department of the Maharashtra police has filed a charge sheet in the case.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-court-grants-bail-to-89-people-in-palghar-mob-lynching-case-101610794800920.html
16-01-2021||Jaipur||Blackbuck poaching case: Salman Khan fails to appear in court||Bollywood actor Salman Khan failed to appear in the district and session court at Jodhpur during a hearing of an appeal filed by him in the blackbuck poaching case on Saturday. The next date of hearing has been scheduled on February 6.Salman, through his counsel Hastimal Saraswat, filed an application before the court seeking exemption from personal appearance. The application stated that due to Covid-19 pandemic, it was risky for Salman to appear in the court.Saraswat, however, told the court that whenever it orders, the appellant will be present in person. In the earlier hearing, the court had directed Salman to appear before it.Khan has challenged the five-year sentence given to him by the trial court. On April 5, 2018, the chief judicial magistrate had sentenced Khan to five years in jail for killing two blackbucks, an endangered antelope, in 1998.The CJM court had also fined him ₹10,000, while convicting him under the Wildlife Protection Act. The District and Sessions Court in Jodhpur district suspended the sentence on April 7, 2018, and granted Salman conditional bail.The state government has filed an appeal against Salman’s acquittal in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/blackbuck-poaching-case-salman-khan-fails-to-appear-in-court-101610792734685.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||After farmers’ protest, vaccination centre shifted in Haryana’s Kaithal||Members of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) held a protest at a designated Covid-19 vaccination centre in Kaithal, Haryana, and did not allow doctors to vaccinate healthcare workers on Saturday. However, the drive went on smoothly after the vaccination process was shifted to a new location.Farmers reached one of the two vaccination centres in Kaithal, set up at a school, and demanded that the Covid-19 vaccine is first given to BJP leaders and top level officials."We are not against this vaccination but they should give this vaccine to top officials,” said Hoshiar Singh Gill, BKU (Charuni) district president.Gill said that they also came to know that the local BJP MLA, Leela Ram Gurjar, was to inaugurate the vaccination drive, and this agitated the farmers as the MLA had raised questions over the ongoing farmers' agitation against the three agriculture laws.When contacted, Kaithal superintendent of police, Lokender Singh said that some people were protesting at the vaccination centre and therefore the drive was shifted to civil hospital in Kaithal.He added that the situation was under control and the vaccination drive was now going on smoothly.Kaithal health department officials said two vaccination centres had been set up in Kaithal and 100 people at each centre will be vaccinated on the inaugural day of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-farmers-protest-vaccination-centre-shifted-in-haryana-s-kaithal-101610791254551.html
16-01-2021||Kolkata||Vaccination hits a hurdle in Bengal as Co-WIN app develops glitches on 1st day||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in West Bengal hit a hurdle on the first day after officials faced difficulties in operating the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) application, developed by the Centre to monitor and track the inoculation process.Health workers faced problems while uploading data on the app about beneficiaries receiving the vaccine across the state, as the application was reported to have slowed down hampering its operation.“There were some technical glitches and the app had slowed down since Friday. Not all messages were going to health workers who were supposed to receive the vaccine on Saturday morning. The persons concerned were individually called up and informed over the phone,” said a senior official of the state health department.On Saturday morning too, when the vaccination drive took off at 204 centres across the state, problems were encountered with the app.“The data of the beneficiaries who received the vaccine was supposed to be uploaded. But it was taking a lot of time as the app was working too slowly. Rest everything went fine,” said a doctor from Kandi sub-divisional hospital in Murshidabad district, around 200 km north of Kolkata.In another hospital in South 24 Parganas, doctors encountered the same problem and had to enter the names and details of the beneficiaries on paper.“The app was not opening. We had to log in and log out several times. It was also too slow. We were asked to enter the details manually on paper,” said a doctor from Caning sub-divisional hospital in South 24 Parganas, around 60 km south of Kolkata.Senior health department officials in Kolkata said the matter had been flagged and was being taken care of.“The app was developed by the centre. We have informed the persons concerned and the matter was being taken care of. Apart from some minor glitches everything was going fine. Not a single beneficiary had developed any complications. The drive was running smoothly across all centres,” said a top official of the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/vaccination-hits-a-hurdle-in-bengal-as-co-win-app-develops-glitches-on-1st-day-101610790136403.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||TRP scam: Ex-CEO of BARC hospitalised||Former CEO of ratings agency BARC, Partho Dasgupta, who was arrested in the alleged fake Television Ratings Point (TRP) case, has been admitted in the ICU of state-run JJ hospital in central Mumbai, an official said on Saturday.Dasgupta, a diabetic, was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai in the early hours of Saturday after his blood sugar levels went up on Friday midnight.Dasgupta was admitted to the ICU of JJ hospital and is on Oxygen support, he said.Dasgupta was arrested in the alleged TRP rigging scam by crime branch of the Mumbai Police on December 24 last year.A Mumbai court had earlier this month rejected the bail plea of Dasgupta, stating that he played a vital role in the scam.The Mumbai Police had earlier told the court that Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami had allegedly bribed Dasgupta with "lakhs of rupees" to ramp up the news channels viewership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-scam-ex-ceo-of-barc-hospitalised-101610788892380.html
16-01-2021||Bhopal||A security guard and a sanitation worker first to get Covid-19 vaccine in MP||Covid-19 inoculation drive has kicked off at 150 centres across Madhya Pradesh on Saturday with the administration of the first shots of vaccine to 53-year-old Haridev Yadav at JP Hospital in Bhopal and 55-year-old Asha Pawar at Indore district hospital.Yadav, who has been working as a security guard for the past 2.5 years at the JP hospital, said he was lucky to be chosen among the first recipients of Covid 19 vaccine in Madhya Pradesh.“On Thursday morning, health department officers and the district collector asked me to get vaccinated. Without thinking twice, I said yes. I am happy that I got an opportunity to serve the nation,” said Yadav.Yadav is a contractual employee and is the sole bread-earner of his family of four people. Yadav has shown through for his commitment while managing the crowd of patients and visitors at the hospital without taking a single leave since March 2020, said a hospital official.“I live with my wife and two sons. My family fears for my health as I have been exposed to Covid 19 patients for the past nine months. When I informed my family about the inoculation against Covid 19, they showed concern and asked about its side effects. But I convinced them that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has himself guaranteed the safety of people taking vaccines so they shouldn’t worry about it,” Yadav said.Yadav, who lives in a slum at Roshanpura Square in Bhopal, said after receiving the vaccine, his neighbours would not avoid him. “My neighbours used to avoid talking to me and to my family as I work in a Covid-19 dedicated hospital. I never felt offended. I used to take all precautions because I didn’t want to spread the infection like Dharavi in Mumbai,” he added.In Indore, Asha Pawar became the first person to get a shot of Covid 19 vaccine. A grandmother, Asha works as a sanitation worker at the district hospital. “I have volunteered for the vaccine shot. The health officials asked me to take the vaccine and I immediately agreed. My family members are happy with my decision,” said Pawar.Pawar lives in a small house with her son, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren. “I used to be really worried about the health of my family as I was working at a Covid-19 ward. Now my biggest worry will end with the vaccination.”Pawar said she faced many challenges while working at the hospital during the outbreak of Covid-19. “It was not easy for me to work wearing a PPE kit and mask for many hours in a day. When the number of Covid-19 cases increased by many times in August and September last, I stopped interacting with my family for their safety. My grandchildren used to get upset with me but I controlled my feelings,” she added.As many as 4.17 lakh healthcare workers will be administered the vaccine in the first phase of the drive in Madhya Pradesh. The state has received 506,500 doses of Covishield vaccine so far. On the first day, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and doctors will get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/a-security-guard-and-a-sanitation-worker-first-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-mp-101610788909725.html
16-01-2021||Jaipur||Kota medical college principal 1st to get vaccine after recovering from Covid-19||Principal of the Government Medical College Kota (GMCK) Dr Vijay Sardana, who was critically ill and sang songs to motivate Covid-19 patients in ICU during his hospitalization in September last year, was the first person to get a shot of Covid-19 vaccine.Vijay Sardana (58) was critically infected with Covid-19 in September 2020 and was hospitalized in Covid-19 ICU for a week but he didn’t lose courage and even motivated Covid-19 patients and Covid warriors by singing motivational songs and bhajans.After recovering from Covid-19, Dr Sardana resumed work at the Kota hospital and served several Covid patients.When asked about his experience after getting vaccinated today, he said, "It is a proud moment because this is an important milestone in the fight against Covid-19"."I am fortunate that I was the first to get Covid-19 vaccine in the district but our Covid warrior staff will also get vaccinated after working day and night to fight the disease," he said.When asked if people recovered from Covid-19 needed to be on the priority list for vaccination, he said, "Since Covid-19 antibodies do not last too long and their count goes down after a few months, so it is recommended that they get vaccinated few months after catching Covid-19".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/kota-medical-college-principal-1st-to-get-vaccine-after-recovering-from-covid19-101610784512288.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Don't want to do politics over Covid-19 vaccine, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said he does not want to politics over Covid-19 vaccine, adding that all citizens should be treated equally so that there is no question of inequality."I don't want to do politics over Covid-19 vaccination. Citizens of all states should be equal and are equal for Prime Minister Narendra Modi so that there is no question of inequality, said Thackeray.On whether Covid-19 vaccination will be for free for citizens of Maharashtra, CM Thackeray said, "Whenever we get more clarity on vaccine availablity and its charges from Centre, we will be clear on it. Once Central government gives more clarity, we will take a final call."Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched India's vaccination drive against the novel coronavirus via video conferencing.A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and union territories will be virtually connected during the launch. Around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site on the inaugural day.Billed as the world's largest vaccination program, covering the entire length and breadth of the country, the drive aims to first inoculate millions of its healthcare and frontline workers and reach an estimated 3 crore people by the end of its first phase.Meanwhile, Chief Ministers of several states attended the launch of the vaccination drive at government hospitals in their respective states.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy attended the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination programme at Government General Hospital, Vijayawada, while Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan attended the inaugural event at Gandhi Hospital in Bhopal.The drugs regulatory body of India has currently approved two vaccines. Pune-based Serum Institute of India has developed the Covishield vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University while the Covaxin has been developed by Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Medical Council of research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology.According to the Union health ministry, the full initial procurement amount of 1.65 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines against Covid-19 have been allocated to all States/UTs in the proportion of Health Care Workers database.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dont-want-to-do-politics-over-covid-19-vaccine-says-uddhav-thackeray-101610782623878.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Municipal officer 1st to get Covid vaccine in Kalyan, she has a message||The vaccination drive began at 10.50 am in Kalyan city in Thane district of Maharashtra, nearly 30 kilometers from Mumbai, with the 54-year-old medical officer of health at Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, Ashwini Patil, getting the first vaccine shot. Around 2,300 people will get vaccinated in Thane district on Saturday across 23 centres set up in the district. The district has a stock of 1.5 lakh syringes for the drive.Patil, who took the first dosage of Covishield vaccine at Rukminibai civic hospital in Kalyan, said," I took the first vaccine to give the message that there is nothing to worry. I want all the health workers to come forward and take the vaccine dose. I feel completely safe even after 30 minutes of the vaccination. This is a new beginning for all of us."Vasant Kulkarni, 45, who works as a ward boy at Rukminibai civic hospital in Kalyan, was infected by coronavirus in August and was under treatment for 12 days. He also took the vaccine at the hospital on Saturday. "I deal with accident cases in the hospital, which is a crucial responsibility. If I don't take a preventive vaccine shot, I won't be able to work tomorrow. It was not at all stressful, as a matter of fact, I feel safe now," Kulkarni said.Kulkarni waited in the observation room for 30 minutes and didn't report any adverse effects. He later resumed his work at the hospital.The drive started in the rest of Thane at around 11.50 am. Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon of the Thane civil hospital, was the first to be vaccinated there.Pawar said, "There has been a lot of apprehension among people regarding the vaccine, we would like to set an example by being the first to get the vaccine in the district. This is safe, tested and a reliable vaccine. Today health workers that include sanitation workers, ambulance drivers, doctors and nurses between the age group of 20 to 58 years will get vaccinated."The vaccinators will also be immunised later in the evening, informed Pawar.The vaccination drive has not yet started in Navi Mumbai and Panvel due to some glitches in the system. The vaccination in Thane civil hospital was stopped due to a server error after only one person was inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/municipal-officer-1st-to-get-covid-vaccine-in-kalyan-she-has-a-message-101610782132050.html
16-01-2021||Other||Choose vaccine over virus, says Himachal Pradesh’s first beneficiary||Hardeep Singh, 34, a sanitation worker at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, was the first to get the Covishield vaccine for protection against Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday morning. Hardeep is among the 3,760 health workers in the state being administered the vaccine on Day 1 of the vaccination drive. “It was a choice between the virus or the vaccine. I have chosen the vaccine and so should you,” said Hardeep, looking upbeat after taking the first shot. “People should get vaccinated as this is the only protection against coronavirus,” he said, urging others to shun rumours. VACCINATION BEING CONDUCTED AT 45 LOCATIONS Himachal Pradesh has been allocated 93,000 doses of Covishield vaccine. The consignment reached the state late on Thursday and was immediately despatched to the districts. The vaccination drive is being conducted at 45 locations across the state. Among those getting inoculated on Saturday are ambulance drivers, staff nurses, doctors, lab technicians, ASHA workers, pharmacists, sanitation workers and other health department staff. A maximum of 540 health workers will be administered the vaccine in Shimla, 520 in Mandi and 500 in Kangra. VACCINE STORES SET UP IN ALL DISTRICTS Vaccine stores have been set up in all 12 districts of the state, besides 371 stores in medical colleges, block-level, community health centres and primary health centres. Dr Gurdarshan Gupta, the chief medical officer of Kangra, the biggest district based on population, said that the district health authorities have received 8,600 doses of Covishield vaccine, 800 of which are meant for the armed forces. “The vaccine will be launched at four locations in the district simultaneously and 100 people will be vaccinated at each centre,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/choose-vaccine-over-virus-says-himachal-pradesh-s-first-beneficiary-101610782067471.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||Don't pay heed to rumours, listen to experts on Covid-19 vaccines, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to people to not pay heed to rumours, adding that experts have said that the Covid-19 vaccines are safe."8,100 people will get the vaccine at 81 vaccination centres in Delhi. I appeal to the people not to pay heed to rumours. Experts have said that the vaccines are safe,"Kejriwal said after witnessing vaccine administration at Delhi's LNJP hospital.The Covid-19 vaccination drive began in Delhi with healthcare workers, who were at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, getting the first shots.Doctors, nurses and healthcare workers were vaccinated at AIIMS hospital.The vaccination exercise will span 81 sites across all 11 districts. Six central government hospitals -- AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital, Kalawati Saran Children Hospital and two ESI hospitals -- are also part of the drive.Besides LNJP Hospital, Delhi-government run GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, DDU Hospital, BSA Hospital, Delhi State Cancer Institute, ILBS Hospital are among the vaccination sites.Private facilities Max Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital are also part of the inoculation drive.Delhi had recorded 295 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the lowest in more than eight months, which took the city's tally to 6,31,884. The death toll mounted to 10,732 with 10 new fatalities, according to official data.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said the positivity rate slipped to an "all-time low" of 0.44 per cent.The city government has received a total of 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre, which would be sufficient to cater to 1.2 lakh healthcare workers, Kejriwal had said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-pay-heed-to-rumours-experts-have-said-vaccines-are-safe-kejriwal-101610780785829.html
16-01-2021||Ranchi||‘No side effect’: 1st to get vaccine, Jharkhand woman worker gives a thumbs up||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state on Saturday, with Marium Gudia, a sanitation worker, getting the first shot of Covishield at Sadar hospital in Ranchi, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the nationwide immunisation programme.Speaking to media after the launch, Hemant Soren said, "The country, after a long fight against this covid-19 pandemic, has finally got the anti-coronavirus vaccine. Jharkhand too has received its doses. I hope that the vaccine would prove to be a boon for citizens."The chief minister said as per Centre's guidelines, frontline and health care workers would get shots in first phase."I personally oversaw the first dose administered to a woman sanitation worker. The second beneficiary was a male doctor. All precautions have been taken at vaccination centres. It is important to watch the beneficiary for half an hour after the shot is taken for any kind of side effects or trouble. Elaborate arrangements have been made to meet any exigency," the CM said.In her first reaction after taking the shot, Gudia said she was happy and fine."I am a sanitation worker attached with the Sadar hospital since 2013. I am happy that I was the first to get vaccinated. I am fine after taking the shot and am not feeling any side effect or abnormality," she said.Dr Vijay Mishra, a senior doctor with a private super speciality hospital, who was the second to get vaccinated at Ranchi Sadar hospital, said he was not feeling any weakness, nausea or any other trouble after taking the shot."Vaccination is safe, please don't reject it. Confusion and rumours have now been laid to rest. The experience is only like an ant bite. For 35 minutes, I was in observation, my health parameters were measured including blood pressure, pulse rate and others. All my vital parameters were stable and normal. It's good and safe. It is necessary and important to fight against the pandemic," said Mishra.Around 4,800 healthcare and frontline workers across Jharkhand are scheduled to get Covid-19 vaccine shots on the first day.As many as 48 vaccination centres, two in each of the 24 districts, have been set up for the purpose. Each centre would have one vaccinator and four vaccination officers to run the show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/no-side-effect-1st-to-get-vaccine-jharkhand-woman-worker-gives-a-thumbs-up-101610780762940.html
16-01-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj doctor defeated Covid 19 last year, now among 1st to get vaccine shot||Braving the morning chill and fog, Dr Prabhat Singh, an associate professor of Moti Lal Nehru Medical College (MLNMC), Prayagraj, became one among the first in the city to receive a shot of coronavirus vaccine. He was the first person to be vaccinated at the medical college vaccination centre in Prayagraj on Saturday. Singh came out of the vaccination room at 10.54 am with a smile on his face.The 41-year-old doctor expressed complete faith in Covishield vaccine administered to him and said that all results, right up to its administration, have shown it to be an effective protection against the coronavirus and safe for the individuals getting it.Dr Singh, a resident of Tagore Town and an alumnus of King George Medical College, Lucknow, maintained that as the first phase of the vaccination drive progresses, even the skeptical will be won over and earn confidence. “I am sure any inhibition about the vaccine would get dispelled in days to come,” he added.He said that everyone at his home including his two children Prakriti (6) and Prakhar (3), along with his wife Dr Kirti Singh, a doctor working with the Railway Hospital in the city and parents Vinay Kumar (59) and mother Phoolkali (55) were excited about him being one among the first 600 chosen for receiving vaccine shot in the district.“I was informed that I would be vaccinated today but had no idea that I would be the first to get it. I am proud to be a part of this initiative,” said Dr Singh, a neurologist who hails from Bara Tehsil of Prayagraj district.Dr Singh said that he served at the Covid-19 ICU set up at SRN Hospital in the district during the lockdown period and in September, ended up testing positive. “However, I successfully beat the virus, recovered and rejoined my duty. Having received the first dose of the vaccine, I am looking forward for the second one,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-doctor-defeated-covid-19-last-year-now-among-1st-to-get-vaccine-shot-101610779091673.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccination drive begins in Maharashtra||The Covid-19 vaccination drive began in Maharashtra on Saturday along with the rest of the country.Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, Dean, JJ Hospital, in Mumbai and Dr Padmaja Saraf were among the first beneficiaries to receive the vaccine shots in Mumbai and at Jalna civil hospital, respectively.The inoculation drive is taking place at 285 centres in Maharashtra where 100 healthcare workers will be administered the shots in a day, and cover 28,500 workers, an official said.The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and 20,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine, which have been distributed to all the districts.At JJ Hospital in Mumbai, a doctor didn't take the vaccine dose as had developed some allergy in his eyes on Saturday, which is not related to inoculation, doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-begins-in-maharashtra-101610778209111.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai temperature dips to 16.6 degree C, air gets cleaner on Saturday||Mumbai woke up to a chilly Saturday morning as temperatures dropped to 16.6 degree Celsius, the lowest so far, this year. Residents also breathed the cleanest air this year with the air quality index at 166.The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 16.6 degree Celsius, a degree below normal. This is the second lowest minimum temperature recorded this season following a mercury drop to 16 degree Celsius on December 22 last year.Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 19 degree Celsius, which was at par with the normal temperature. The IMD attributed this drop in temperature to the cold westerly winds.“There was a nice chill in the air as westerly winds have started blowing over parts of the state. Since, parts of northwest India are under the influence of a cold wave, north-westerly winds from these parts are colder. Minimum temperature in the state is expected to see a gradual fall in the coming days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD.Meanwhile, the air quality improved further on Saturday. Air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator-- of 166 (moderate), was recorded on Saturday morning. This is better than Friday’s 190.The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.“Winds blowing from the north and west have cleared the air of pollutants. If the wind continues, air quality will remain moderate for the next couple of days, despite a drop in temperatures. However, without the winds, air quality may become worse,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-temperature-dips-to-16-6-degree-c-air-gets-cleaner-on-saturday-101610777423244.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||Sanitation worker becomes 1st person to receive Covid-19 vaccine jab in Delhi||A sanitation worker has become the first person to receive the Covid-19 vaccine jab at Delhi's AIIMS. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan is also present on the occassion.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the biggest vaccination drive of the world and said that India's coronavirus drive is based on humanitarian and very important principles and also laid emphasis on maintaining social distancing and the use of masks.Speaking at the launch of the nationwide vaccination drive against the novel coronavirus via video conferencing, PM Modi said: "India's coronavirus drive is based on humanitarian and very important principles. Those who need the vaccine the most will get the dose first. Those who are at high risk will get the vaccine shot at first. Doctors, nurses, sanitation staff at hospitals, medical and para-medical staff are the most deserving to get the vaccine dose first.""Everyone was asking as to when the vaccine will be available. It is available now. It has been made available in very little time. I extend my wishes to the citizens," he added.The Prime Minister also lauded scientists who were involved in the vaccine research."Today, scientists and those who are involved in vaccine research, deserve special praise. They have been involved in making the vaccine against Corona for the past several months. It usually takes years to make a vaccine. But in such a short time, not one, two Made in India vaccines are ready. Work is underway on some other vaccines as well," he said.PM Modi said that a vaccination drive on such a massive scale has never been conducted in history. "There are over 100 countries with less than 3 crore population and India is administering vaccination to 3 crore people in the first phase only. In the second phase, we have to take this number to 30 crores," he added.A total of 3006 session sites across all states and union territories was virtually connected during the launch. Around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site on the inaugural day, the union health ministry has said.In the first phase government and private sector health care workers, including Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) workers, will receive the vaccine.The drive will be held daily from 9 am to 5 pm, except on the days earmarked for routine immunisation programmes.In the next phases of the vaccination drive, people aged over 50, and those who are below 50 years but have serious health conditions or co-morbidities will be vaccinated, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sanitation-worker-becomes-1st-person-to-receive-covid-19-vaccine-jab-in-delhi-101610776308274.html
16-01-2021||Patna||Bihar Congress vows not to let farm laws take effect; march to support farmers||Hundreds of Congress workers took out a march in Patna on Friday to support the farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farms laws passed by the Central government.All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Tariq Anwar, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, chairman of BPCC campaign committee Akhilesh Prasad Singh, AICC media panellist Prem Chandra Mishra and BPCC working president Shyam Sundar Singh Dheeraj led the procession, which had to be terminated near Rajapur chowk, about one kilometre away from the BPCC office.The party workers had planned to march up to Raj Bhawan in support of the protesting farmers’ demand for repeal of the farm laws but were prevented by the police from proceeding further after they had reached near Rajapur chowk.The party workers carried the party flag and shouted slogan against the Central government over its reluctance to repeal the laws, which protesting farmers fear would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporates.Addressing the party workers near Rajapur Pul on Boring Canal Road, where they were stopped by the police, AICC general secretary Anwar said, the party would not let the BJP-led government enforce the new laws at any cost. “The Congress is with the farmers and it would continue to support them without any political motive,” said Anwar.BPCC chief Jha thanked the leaders for turning up in large numbers and said no force could make the farmers bow. MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the farmers from Bihar were standing in solidarity with those agitating around the national capital.“The new laws, if implemented, would make farmers sell their produce at throw away prices to the corporates,” said Mishra.Senior leaders including former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh, former BPCC vice president Pravin Kushwaha, state Intuc president Chandra Prakash, MLA VS Dubey, et al, also addressed the gathering and called upon party workers to sensitise people about the implications of the newly passed farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-congress-vows-not-to-let-farm-laws-take-effect-march-to-support-farmers-101610772232095.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||‘Want health insurance for sanitation workers’||After Rajesh Tambe completed his undergraduate degree in arts from Mumbai University, he could only find work as a computer hardware repairman in a private firm. Unhappy with the job, which was time-intensive and left him with no opportunity to pursue his dream of joining the civil services, he quit in 2015 and joined the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. He was given a job as a sanitation worker. Everyday, he would start his work at 7.30am and spent eight hours cleaning the drains alongside the arterial roads in Mumbai's Chembur suburb. In the evening, he would go back to his home and study for the state public service exam.Then, Covid-19 hit Mumbai.Starting March 25, when the government clamped a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the virus, Tambe worked 12 hours a day in India’s worst-hit city at the time. Around him, Mumbai teetered on the brink of collapse with hospitals struggling to deal with surging infections and patients sometimes waiting for days for an ambulance. But Tambe went to work, every day, without fail, for three months.“As only bus services were available, the daily commute was three to four hours,” said Tambe.Across India, close to 20 million municipal workers like him became an effective frontline force to manage containment zones and provide essential supplies in these areas, apart from carrying out daily santisation of localities. Many of them died due to exposure to the virus and other hazardous waste.During Covid-19, Tambe was part of BMC’s team that focussed on cleaning and disinfection of public places, considered risk prone areas for local spread of the virus.“It was a tough time. I avoided going home as I was concerned that I may transmit the virus to my two-year-old daughter, and this constant thought was an added stress.” Things are better now, he added.The number of cases have come down drastically in Mumbai, from its peak of 2,000 cases daily in September to 500-600 cases daily in January.In Tambe’s Navi Mumbai house that he shares with his wife and daughter, there is relief at the improved condition. “Our situation is way better now than what we faced during Covid-19. During the lockdown, we were unsure if we would get groceries on time and would always fear of running out of money. We somehow sailed through difficult times,” he said.In its budget 2020-21, BMC allocated ₹239 crores for solid waste management. This includes cleanliness, construction of toilets, and waste management. The civic body spent over ₹1,600 crore for Covid-related expenses which included cleanliness and sanitisation of public places.In the Union budget, Tambe wants the Centre to allocate funds for medical insurance of all sanitation workers in the country.He draws a monthly salary of ₹20,000, and says it is a struggle to meet ends every month. “Our jobs are the most vulnerable and even during this pandemic, we worked on cleaning areas throughout the year. The least we expect is medical cover by the government,” he said.Tambe, who is preparing for Maharashtra Public Service Commission examination, also hopes for a special scholarship scheme for children of sanitation workers to pursue higher education. “We cannot pay fees of private institutions. The government should provide scholarships to our children,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/want-health-insurance-for-sanitation-workers-101610764000307.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||The singer confesses||He is special. Not only for being an acclaimed Sufi musician but because he is our living link to the great Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. Dhruv Sangari-Bilal trained under under the wings of that late Qawwali legend between 1995 and 97. These days, with the pandemic drying up the concert scene, it’s rare to see Mr Bilal on stage. Like so many artists, he has been forced to cut down on live performances. Whatever, he was sporty enough to become a part of the Proust Questionnaire series, in which folks from diverse backgrounds are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, so as to explore the lives, thoughts, values and experiences of fellow citizens.In his 30s, he chatted on WhatsApp video from his drawing room in Jangpura, in company with wife, Anam, and 3-month-old daughter, Rumi, who keeps the couple awake the whole night long.The principal aspect of your personalityMaking sense of my world through music and poetry. Rooted in the esoteric. An aversion to labels of any kindYour favorite occupation.Used to be simultaneously devouring three or four of my favourite books curled up in bed with easy access to my harmonium (and munchies). Now it’s just holding my baby-daughter in my godi and singing to herIf not yourself, who would you be?Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali KhanWhere would you like to live?In all these places—Delhi, Ajmer, Konya and LahoreYour favourite colour and flowerBlue, any shade. Desi Gulab: you can eat it, wear it, inhale its fragrance and most importantly, offer it at our beloved Khwaja Sahab’s resting placeYour favourite birdSeagulls. Love the way they look all stern and reprimanding while scarfing anything their beaks may encounterYour favourite poetsMevlana Rumi, Baba Fareed, Amir Khusrau, Rahim, Bulleshah, Bedam, Ghalib, Neruda, Brecht, Faiz, Iqbal and Shiv BatalviWhat characters in history do you most dislike?Those who made cruelty, oppression and corruption appear normal, natural and expedientYour favourite food and drinkSteak & potatoes, sushi & poke, kabab & biryani, scones with clotted cream & Turkish Delight, Rooh Afza & Ayran. All to be topped off with espresso lungo and an irresistible mulethi paanYour favourite namesNaintara, Parizad, Kabir, Anamta, Farid, Siddharth are some favouritesThe military event you admire the mostAs a student of history I have been an admirer of the tactics, bravery and strategies of the armed forces of various erstwhile states such as the Spartan, Sassanid, Mongol, Rajput, Ottoman and even Viking. However, personally, I abhor the notion of making war for territorial gains, resources or glory. War is hell and a sometimes necessary evil which must not be romanticizedThe natural talent you’d like to be gifted withTo be able to converse in seven languages with native easeWhat is your present state of mind?A restless desire for life to return to normal, and once again be filled with concert tours and recording commitments||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-singer-confesses-101610757286165.html
16-01-2021||Patna||Nitish Fumes as journalists question him on murder case||A heated exchange between Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and journalists ensued after the latter questioned him over a high-profile murder case that rocked the state capital earlier this week.Kumar — who was speaking to reporters after inaugurating an elevated road project — was talking about the improvement in infrastructure since he assumed power when he was interrupted by journalists who insisted that law and order has deteriorated, citing the murder of Rupesh Kumar Singh, an official of a private airlines, outside his residence in Patna on Tuesday evening.“Please do not mix up the issues of development and crime,” Kumar said and then snapped when reporters persisted. “Bihar has one of the lowest crime rates across the country. Please have a look at other states,” a visibly irritated chief minister said.“Don’t try to demoralise the police. No one would be spared. The police are investigating to know the reasons for the murder, which is unfortunate, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-fumes-as-journalists-question-him-on-murder-case-101610758881028.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||Koli held guilty in 12th Nithari murder case, employer Pandher acquitted||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Ghaziabad on Friday held prime accused in the Nithari murders Surinder Koli guilty but acquitted his employer Mondinder Singh Pandher in a case linked to the murders.The case is of the abduction, attempted rape and murder of a 20-year-old domestic help and destruction of evidence in the crime. Lawyers attached to the case said that the quantum of punishment is likely to be pronounced on Saturday.The infamous Nithari murders were believed to be committed between 2005 and 2006. In December 2006, skeletons were found in a drain near to a house in Nithari, Noida. Pandher is the owner of the house and Koli was his domestic help.The CBI registered 16 cases, charge sheeting Koli in all of them for murder, abduction, rape besides destruction of evidence, and Pandher in one for immoral trafficking. The Ghaziabad court, however, summoned Pandher in five other cases after several victims’ families approached it.In 11 previous cases, the court had found Koli guilty in all and had awarded the death sentence all of which are now pending appeal in higher courts. With Friday’s ruling, Pandher has been acquitted in two cases.The 12th case was regarding a murder that is believed to have happened on November 12, 2006.“Koli lured her into the house where he killed her. Her body parts and belongings were recovered in the investigation and the parents identified her clothes. Koli in his statements before a magistrate had also revealed her name. Later, DNA sampling of the remains and blood of victim’s parents also matched,” said JP Sharma, CBI public prosecutor. He said that the prosecution produced 38 witnesses in the case.The prosecution, during final arguments in all previous cases, had demanded death penalty for Koli while terming the killings as “rarest of rare”.Koli, a native of Mangrukhal village in Almora district of Uttarakhand, is representing his cases himself in the trial court and had been lodged in Dasna jail ever since he was arrested in December, 2006. Pandher is lodged in Dasna jail.“Of the six cases we now have only one case which is pending trial at Ghaziabad while the other cases are pending appeal before higher courts,” said Devraj Singh, Pandher’s lawyer at Ghaziabad court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/koli-held-guilty-in-12th-nithari-murder-case-employer-pandher-acquitted-101610756213667.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||Two Chinese nationals among 12 nabbed for defrauding ‘thousands’||Twelve people, including two Chinese nationals, have been arrested after raids across Delhi and the National Capital Region for luring Indian cellphone users into earning easy money by “liking” videos on social media platforms and “following” those accounts. The suspects main intention, police spokespersons claimed, was to install malware in these phones and installed banned software in them.The two Chinese women, Chaohong Deng Daoyong, 27, and Wu Jiazhi, 54, were arrested from Lajpat Nagar.“The suspects would use a malicious app to make phone users knowingly or unknowingly ‘follow’ social media accounts. This could be used later to manipulate and influence Indian users,” said Roy, adding that tens of millions of Indians had downloaded these “malicious” apps and there were at least 40,000 confirmed victims who had lost their money to this fraud within two months.Investigators claimed that two other Chinese nationals, who the police believe to be the kingpins of the racket, are on the run. “They moved out of India in early 2020,” said Roy.Roy said the fraud began when users started receiving WhatsApp messages containing encrypted URLs from international numbers. “These messages promised good, easy money in return for clicking the like button on social media platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Instagram, and for following social media accounts,” said the DCP.Clicking on the website link would lead to a link to download an app, Roy saidUpon registering on this app, users would receive social media videos to like and accounts to follow. They would be paid ₹6 for each such action. The number of tasks and amount paid for each action would rise substantially if the users opted for a “VIP membership”, by paying between Rs.1,000 and Rs.50,000.The DCP said the gang floated this fraud as a multi-level marketing scheme, in which users could earn a percentage of a money made by people referred by them.The police said tens of thousands of people ended up investing thousands of rupees each. Their earnings reflected in their accounts on the app, but was allegedly never handed over to their bank accounts.By doing this, the gang made crores of rupees which were routed to shell companies in which Indians as well as Chinese people were found to be directors. “The Indians who were made directors were people like accountants, office boys and drivers working for the Chinese people,” Roy said.Next, the social media accounts being promoted were being passed off as belonging to celebrities, but were actually freshly created accounts with unknown origin and ownership, the DCP said.“When these social media accounts would receive a large number of followers, they could later be used to manipulate and influence Indian social media users,” Roy said.While all this could be easily detected by the police, much more allegedly happened once the users downloaded the app. “The app would seek dangerous permission of users to discreetly install several software packages and apps. One of these apps was the QQ Browser app which belongs to the QQ family of apps banned by the Indian government in June last year,” said Roy.The DCP said that the app itself was a malware that would make users “follow” thousands of social media accounts without their knowledge.The website and app being used in the fraud were hosted to IPs found to be attached to Chinese companies, the DCP said.The police said they began probing this fraud after receiving complaint from a woman who lost R50,000 .Subsequently, on Wednesday, the police raided several places in Delhi-NCR to arrest the twelve suspects.The police have allegedly recovered Rs.25 lakh in cash from them and froze several accounts containing nearly Rs.4.75 crore of the duped amount||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-chinese-nationals-among-12-nabbed-for-defrauding-thousands-101610754029311.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||Poultry sale resumes after brief pause, traders say demand low||oultry trade in the Capital resumed on Friday, with the Delhi government and the three municipal corporations removing all restrictions on trade, storage, processing of poultry products, and import from other states.On Thursday, the animal husbandry department had confirmed that no cases of avian influenza had been found among samples collected from poultry birds in the Capital.On Friday, the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market – which is the only authorised one for poultry in Delhi – opened after being temporarily shut since last Sunday as a preventive measure against bird flu after amid reports of dead ducks and crows being found in several locations across the city came in.So far, the infection has been found in ducks and crows in Delhi, but no other bird.Traders, however, expressed concerns over declined demand, with a large section of people apparently avoiding consumption of chicken in the light of the avian influenza, cases of which has been confirmed in at least 10 states across the country so far. They also fear that a prolonged decline in demand will bring down the price of both raw and packaged chicken — a trend that Delhi saw in earlier instances of bird flu in 2006 and 2016.Delhi’s daily demand is around 350,000 live birds a day. Most of the supply arrives from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh – both currently impacted by the outbreak.“The demand for chicken and eggs will drop. It happens each time there is a bird flu scare. Even though live birds that arrive at the authorised wholesale markers are medically examined on departure and arrival, there is fear among people. The decline often brings down prices. However, we are thankful to the administration that they have removed all restrictions on trade,” said Iqbal Qureshi, a poultry trader and vice-chairperson of the wholesale poultry market in Ghazipur.Siddhant Wangdi, CEO at Meatigo.com, said: “Though raw chicken sales went down 10% over the past few days, other products such as pork, mutton and ready-to-eat products have substituted the lost chicken sales. All our products are sourced through a network of private farms, where not a single case has been reported in the past 30 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/poultry-sale-resumes-after-brief-pause-traders-say-demand-low-101610753673191.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||3 die in blaze at scrap godown in Kirti Nagar||Three, including a child, were killed in a fire that broke out in some shanties atop a scrap godown in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar on Thursday night, the fire department said.The deadly mishap there was followed by another unrelated blaze at a multi-storey building in north Delhi’s Rohini, just hours later, in which two persons were injured. Firefighters rescued six others, who were stuck on the terrace, in the second incident.In the first blaze, the fire department received a call at 10.50pm and were informed of a fire at a furniture shop.But when the firefighters reached the scene, they found that the fire was at a scrap godown, constructed over a 100 square yard plot, and the building had three shanties above it, where people working in the godown lived, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services.“Although we reached the spot within minutes of receiving the call, residents of nearby shanties were busy trying to control the blaze and had rescued most occupants from the shanties above. But we were told that a drunk man and a boy were still trapped inside. One local man even entered the burning building to rescue the trapped people, but ended up getting trapped himself,” said Mohit Kumar, station officer of Shankar Road fire station.The blaze raged on due to the presence of a large quantity of plastic and foam in the godown, Kumar said.The impact of the blaze was such that the roof of the godown collapsed in the midst of the firefighting operation.Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (west), said when the fire was doused and a search for survivors began, two charred bodies were found inside. “One was of a man in his 20s and the other of a boy. They remain unidentified,” he said.The authorities continued the search and found another body in a drain. The DCP said it was of the local man, Rohit (20), who worked as a driver.“It appears Rohit got trapped in the blaze and ended up falling into the drain adjacent to the godown,” Purohit said.He said the godown belonged to a 50-year-old man, Tony Mahto. “We have registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder at the Kirti Nagar police station. Mahto is on the run, and we are searching for him,” the DCP said, adding that the trigger appeared to be an electrical short-circuit.In the second incident, reported from a six-storey building in north Delhi’s Rohini just hours later, a 42-year-old woman and a firefighter were injured.Garg said the call about the blaze was received at 5.35am Friday and four fire tenders were rushed to spot. Garg said the blaze began on the ground floor which is used to store and pack goods for an e-commerce platform.Paras Kumar, the fire officer who led the operation, said the six-storey building in Rohini’s Sector 6 was constructed on a 32 square yard plot.A woman received burns to her limbs and a firefighter, Sunil, sustained injuries to his leg while trying to break into the building. The police are probing how the blaze started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-die-in-blaze-at-scrap-godown-in-kirti-nagar-101610752416337.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||BJP drove MCDs to bankruptcy, alleges AAP; BJP hits||A day after the Delhi government said it would give Rs.938 crore to the three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) to pay employees salaries, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said its leaders have driven the civic bodies to bankruptcy due to their rampant corruption.The BJP – which leads all three municipal corporations in the capital -- dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and said the money assured by the AAP government is not even one-third of what it actually owes the MCDs for the third quarter of the financial year 2020-21.“Despite knowing that the BJP-ruled MCD owes more than ₹6,000 crore to the Delhi government, we have released Rs.938 crore because we do not want the MCD employees to suffer anymore. This money was meant for government departments and schemes. The Delhi government has given loans to the BJP-ruled MCDs several times in the past six years. But rampant corruption by BJP leaders have driven the MCDs to bankruptcy -- they cannot even pay their employees. The BJP should resign from the charge of the MCDs immediately,” said Atishi, AAP MLA from Kalkaji, at a press conference at the party head office in central Delhi on Friday.Employees of the three MCDs in Delhi – from teachers and doctors to horticulture staff and sanitation workers – have been on strike, on and off, for several months now, protesting against the delay/non-payment of salaries. On Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said the government would give Rs.938 crore to the MCDs for payment of employee salaries.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “The allegations by MLA Atishi are baseless. The party is misleading people by portraying as if the Rs.938 crore is some sort of a “special grant”. The amount is actually less than one-third of what the Delhi government owes the three MCDs for the third quarter of 2020-21. The government owes Rs.13,000 crore to the three MCDs in total.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-drove-mcds-to-bankruptcy-alleges-aap-bjp-hits-101610751829434.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||DTC places order for 1,000 new buses; another promise delivered, tweets Kejriwal||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has placed an order for 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses which, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said has happened for the first time in 12 years.“Congratulations Delhi! After 12 years of wait, orders have been placed by DTC to induct 1,000 low-floor AC CNG buses. All these buses will be on-road by Sept 2021. Delhi government is committed to a pollution-free Delhi by building a world-class public transport system,” Kejriwal tweeted on Friday.In another tweet he said, “With these 1,000 buses, (the) total DTC fleet (size) will increase to 4,760 and the total bus fleet of Delhi (DTC and cluster) will increase to an all-time high of 7,693. Despite several obstacles in procurement in the past years, our government has persisted and delivered.”The decision to induct 1,000 new buses in the DTC fleet was approved by the DTC board, chaired by transport minister Kailash Gehlot,on January 6.Gahlot said on Friday, “Despite many obstacles and hurdles, we have once again delivered. We have kept our promise. Expectedly, by May 2021, Delhi residents will have the first lot of these state-of-the-art buses which will be environment friendly, too, as they will be BS-VI compliant.”The tenders for the batch of 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses were first floated in 2019. The contract was signed in 2020 but there were delays because of Covid-19 and the revenue shortage that it brought about. The letter of intent was issued to the manufacturer after the board’s approval.The 1,000 new buses in the DTC fleet is part of the government’s larger plan to scale up Delhi’s existing bus fleet by 4,000 -- in DTC and the cluster network operated by concessionaires -- and also by introducing electric buses. Delhi, according to transport experts, needs at least 11,000 buses to cate to its population of nearly 20 million.In December, the DTC also issued a tender to create a real-time passenger information system (PIS), which will enable commuters to access information on bus routes, estimated time of arrival, fare, location of nearest buses which a passenger wishes to board, availability of seats and best options for interchange -- all on their mobile phones.The government has plans to have equipment fitted in the new buses to conform with the real-time PIS system, a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dtc-places-order-for-1-000-new-buses-another-promise-delivered-tweets-kejriwal-101610749590300.html
16-01-2021||Other||BJP resolution to withdraw special spending powers for Mumbai civic body administration gets Sena support||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s standing committee on Friday approved a resolution moved by the Bharatiya Janata Party to take back the special financial powers given to the administration in March 2020 over the emergency expenditure owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. The resolution was unanimously passed by the Shiv Sena-headed standing committee. All the parties, including the Congress and NCP, supported the resolution to take back the special powers. The resolution is now sent to municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal for his opinion. Under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, former municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had in March 2020 empowered certain officers to make financial decisions for the city for the period till the Act was implemented. Last week, BJP’s group leader Prabhakar Shinde, wrote to BMC’s municipal secretary, allowing the party to move a resolution to revoke all special financial powers granted to municipal commissioners, additional commissioners and assistant civic commissioners to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. “The BMC has spent around Rs2,100 crore in the pandemic so far. These powers were given on the condition that the administration would submit a detailed account of all the spending. But so far, no details have been given by the administration. There has been massive irregularities and corruption in all Covid-related spending. Hence, we had moved a proposal to give back the powers to the standing committee as per the law,” said Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator and standing committee member. “In the interest of transparency, BMC must restore the powers given to the standing committee,” said Ravi Raja, Congress Corporator and leader of Opposition in BMC. Meanwhile, Yashwant Jadhav, standing committee chairman, said, “There was a proposal by BJP to take back powers that gave BMC’s administration the right to spend for Covid-19 mitigation without seeking the approval of the standing committee. The provision was made in March 2020, and now BJP proposed to revoke it. I have forwarded the proposal to Chahal for his approval.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-resolution-to-withdraw-special-spending-powers-for-mumbai-civic-body-administration-gets-sena-support-101610740782427.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||28,500 from Maharashtra to get Covid vaccine on Day 1||Maharashtra expects to inoculate around 28,500 health workers, a drop from the earlier target of 50,000, on day one of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, as hours before the launch of the pan-India roll-out, the number of centres in the state fell from 358 to 285. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to launch the vaccination through an online programme, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate the state’s vaccination drive from a Covid-19 centre in the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), immediately after Modi’s function. Last week, when the pan-India vaccine plan was announced, the Centre had allotted 511 centres to Maharashtra, which dropped to 358 two days ago and now to 285 (279 for Covishield and 6 for Covaxin) on Friday.According to state health officials, the reduction in centres was as per directives of the ministry of health and family welfare. The officials said the centres were reduced to ensure effective handling of the drive. The officials said the reduction was also to ensure that the stock of vaccines supplied to the state was sufficient for second doses to beneficiaries until the next consignment was allotted.This will result in delay in completion of the vaccination of the targetted 800,000 health workers. The state government has also planned to hold sessions on four days a week. This will prolong the process to more than six weeks for the completion of the first phase, from the earlier plan of completing it in four weeks.“The reduction in centres is as per the direction of the central government. We have stock of vaccine to cover 55.5% of the health workers registered with us. The vaccine has reached every centre and has been maintained at the stipulated temperature. The centres are at the district level and in some of the medical colleges, so there would not be any logistical problem. The standard operation procedure (SOP) has been in place with sufficient number of beds and backup medical arrangements. All the beneficiaries have already been informed about timing and centres they have to report to,” said Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare, and director, National Health Mission.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 3,145 cases and 45 deaths on Friday, taking the tally to 1,984,768 and toll to 50,336. Mumbai clocked 574 cases and eight deaths, taking the tally to 301,655 and toll to 11,229. Pune and Nagpur, other two most affected cities, clocked 263 and 243 cases, respectively. Both the cities reported two deaths each on Friday. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.54%, while its overall positivity rate has dropped to 14.5%.The state has 52,152 active patients in various Covid-19 facilities across the state. The highest number of active patients, 15,777, is in Pune, followed by 9,799 in Thane, and 7,107 in Mumbai. State’s recovery rate stands at 94.78%.According to the statement from the health department, the beneficiaries have been informed about the vaccine name, details about the centres through SMSs till Friday evening. “Each of the vaccination centres will have a team of five members, including the vaccinator, and four members for identification, maintenance of protocol and to make entries into the Co-WIN app,” the statement said.PM Modi will interact virtually with the beneficiaries at the Cooper Hospital in Mumbai and the district hospital in Jalna on Saturday morning. The webcast facility at all vaccination centres has been set for the launch programme.Maharashtra has received 963,000 doses of Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield and 20,000 vials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. The centres at medical colleges in Mumbai, Aurangabad, Solapur and Nagpur and district hospitals at Pune and Amravati will administer the doses of Covaxin. The drive will be between 9am and 5pm on four days a week.The health department is also wary about health workers backing out of fear against the reaction of the vaccine. State health minister Rajesh Tope said both vaccines are completely safe for use and health workers should set an example before the general people by participating in the drive. “The politicians are not going for inoculation because we want the most vulnerable groups to benefit first. The health workers are real heroes during this pandemic and they should set an example before others by getting vaccinated,” he said.The highest number of vaccination centres are in Mumbai (40), followed by Pune (31), Thane (23), Nashik (13) and Nagpur (12).“The beneficiaries will get the SMSs one or two days in advance. We will add beneficiaries above the 55.5% health workers once we get the next consignment of the vaccine from the Centre. The stock of 983,000 vials will last for 55.5% of 800,000 health workers registered for vaccination in the first phase,” said Dr DN Patil, state immunization officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/28500-from-maharashtra-to-get-covid-vaccine-on-day-1-101610740072241.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Treat patient as whole rather than just disease: AIIMS director||Never forget clinical medicine in this era of investigative medicine, and treat the patient as a whole rather than just the disease.This was said by professor Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who was addressing the inaugural ceremony of the new academic session of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research as the chief guest here at Bhargava Auditorium on Friday.Himself an alumnus of PGIMER, Guleria motivated the newly-inducted doctors: “We have to remember that we are here for the patient and it’s not the other way round.” He stressed upon the importance of learning by continued teaching, active listening and empathy, research, ethics, tele-health, artificial intelligence in healthcare, interdisciplinary and patient-centric approaches as key enablers to make a mark in the profession.Professor Jagat Ram, director of PGIMER, said that in the last 57 years, the institute had witnessed a spectacular expansion from 230 beds to 2,200. “PGIMER has taken care of around 2,700 seriously-ill Covid-positive patients, 7,700 suspected ones in various isolation wards and clinically screened more than 12,000 patients in special OPDs.”He added, “More than 4,500 healthcare workers had been posted at the Covid hospital, and only 30 of them were detected to be positive. This is one of the lowest rates of Covid positivity among healthcare workers directly in contact with Covid patients anywhere in the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/treat-patient-as-whole-rather-than-just-disease-aiims-director-101610740002497.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn comes to the rescue of MC, releases ₹130 crore for development||In the beginning of this crucial election year itself, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has received a major shot in the arm with the UT administration finally deciding to financially rescue the beleaguered municipal corporation (MC).The administration on Friday decided to immediately release ₹30 crore for carrying out development works in the 13 villages, which had come under the MC jurisdiction a year ago. Another ₹60 crore will be released in a phased manner by June 2021.The administration also decided to release in full the pending grant-in-aid of ₹100 crore to the MC. The aid will come without the Centre-imposed mandatory expenditure cuts.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “The administration has also assured that for the next financial year (2021-2022), the grant-in-aid will be increased from the current ₹425 crore to ₹500 crore.”The decision was taken in a meeting called by UT adviser Manoj Parida and attended by mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and Yadav.After being elected as mayor earlier this month, Sharma had promised to take up the issue of shortage of funds with the UT administration on priority basis. He had directed the MC departments to prepare a list of projects that had been suffering due to the paucity of funds.The MC engineering department had prepared a proposal of ₹102 crore for village development for works like new roads, laying stormwater pipes and sewer lines, electrical and horticulture works, supply of water and installing more than 1,000 tube-wells for improving water supply.Village devp crucial for BJPDelivering on village development is crucial for the ruling BJP as the MC goes to poll this year, and villages are now part of the 35 new MC wards. The party had come under severe criticism from residents and opposition parties on the issue. Residents had complained that the development in villages had suffered immensely after they were brought under the MC.With funds in its kitty, the MC will also start releasing ₹80 lakh each to councillors under ward development funds, which will allow long-pending works to be restarted, said Yadav. Last year, the councillors hadn’t received any.In addition to releasing the aid and additional funds, the administration has also, in principle, agreed to the long-standing demand of the MC of sharing of revenues generated from the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) with it. If implemented, the MC stands to gain more than ₹100 crore additional revenues every year.On Friday, the administration also decided to transfer development of some of the infrastructure projects from MC to the UT engineering department. This includes reconstruction, if needed, of the five parking lots in Sector 17 and other sectors, which have been declared unsafe for use. This will save the MC around ₹25 crore in costs.UT to share costs of village devpClose to ₹12 crore will be incurred by the UT engineering department for development works in the 13 villages; the department has been directed to complete the construction of seven community centres in the city before May 2021. This will also add to the revenue of the MC.For revenue generation, permission for exhibitions at Kala Gram have been assured to the MC. The administration has also assured that provision of a banquet hall in Industrial Area, Phase I, will be made.The UT adviser has also directed the chief architect to increase the unipole sites from 24 to 75 and to earmark two additional petrol pump sites for the MC. This will further revenue generation for the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-comes-to-the-rescue-of-mc-releases-130-crore-for-development-101610739881731.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Restaurant sales in Chandigarh suffer due to avian flu||In the wake of avian flu outbreak, not just poultry shops but restaurants in the city, too, are reporting a drop in sales.Saying that the losses hadn’t been quantified properly, but the losses of 30% to 40% were likely, chairman of the Chandigarh Restaurants and Hotels Association, Manmohan Kohli, said, “People who are coming out to eat are not ordering chicken dishes. But it goes beyond that and sales of all items in general are suffering. News of a second virus is making people stay at home.”Restaurants, however, are adopting innovative ways to adapt to these conditions.Kohli, who is also the proprietor of Hotel Aroma in Sector 22, said that he was using this opportunity to develop vegetarian dishes. “While some people are ordering more mutton and fish dishes, we are seeing a rise in people turning to vegetarian food, and we are working on that part of our menu.”Outlets offering imitation chicken, fishSunveer Sondhi, the city head of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI)’s Chandigarh chapter, said, “This is the second jolt that the restaurant industry has received in the past year. It is difficult for people to feel welcome at a restaurant when there are rumours going on about bird flu. The NRAI has asked all restaurants to cook chicken at a higher temperature than normal to ensure that the food is safe for people to eat.”Also the proprietor of Pyramid at Elante Mall, Sondhi added that they had launched a line of imitation meat made from vegetables: “Imitation meat that uses soya and other vegetables is starting to take off in the city. Customers are curious to know about vegetarian chicken and vegetarian fish that we sell.”Many eateries in the city report a higher demand for mutton and fish dishes. Proprietor of Pal Dhaba in Sector 28, Amit Pal Singh, said, “There is no sale of chicken dishes, but the sale of mutton and fish products has increased by 30-40%.” The prices of mutton and fish, however, have started increasing, thus affecting sales, leading to a 40% dip, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/restaurant-sales-in-chandigarh-suffer-due-to-avian-flu-101610739822659.html
16-01-2021||Other||Jalandhar lab detects bird flu at two Dera Bassi farms||After the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, confirmed bird flu in samples from two poultry farms at Dera Bassi’s Behra village, the Punjab animal husbandry department on Friday said final confirmation from National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, was awaited.“Samples from Alpha Poultry Farm and Royal Poultry Farm at Behra village were found positive in the RT-PCR test. As per protocol, the samples were sent to the Bhopal lab for confirmation,” said VK Janjua, additional chief secretary, animal husbandry, fisheries and diary development, Punjab.He said further course of action will be decided only after receiving reports from Bhopal. This may take a week. So far, there has been no detection of avian influenza in Punjab.Meanwhile, a senior official of the Mohali animal husbandry department said after detection of bird flu in Panchkula’s Barwala belt, they were not taking any chances here. “Directions have been issued to 30 veterinary officers to start sampling live chicken in their jurisdictions. Every day, 50 samples will be collected across the district,” the official added. Besides, the officers have been told to intensify surveillance at poultry farms as well as meat shops in Mohali. Poultry farms in Mohali district are located in Dera Bassi, Lalru, Zirakpur, Gharuan and Banur. The Punjab government had already declared the state a controlled area in view of the outbreak in neighbouring Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, and banned the import of live birds and unprocessed poultry meat. Carcasses of 10 birds, bat found in ChandigarhA total of 10 birds and a bat were found dead in various parts of the city on Friday, the UT forest and wildlife department confirmed. Six crows, two peacocks, a pigeon and a bat were recovered from Sector 50, Industrial Area Phase 1, Sector 40 and Panjab University, among other areas. Chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said, “After 21 samples sent till January 11 turned out to be negative, we haven’t sent any more samples for testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jalandhar-lab-detects-bird-flu-at-two-dera-bassi-farms-101610739522375.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||₹7-lakh relief for 9-year-old Chandigarh girl left in vegetative state after vicious attack||A nine-year-old girl left in vegetative state, after she was strangled and thrown off the second floor by her 19-year-old neighbour in May last year, has been awarded a compensation of ₹7 lakh.The victim, Kirti, alias Pari, was left permanently disabled in the incident following an attack by her neighbour, Laxmi.The compensation was awarded after additional sessions judge Rajeev Goyal on January 14 referred the matter to District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Chandigarh, for victim compensation scheme after Kirti’s mother Mamta and father DP Mishra appeared before the court. Mishra told the court that his daughter was undergoing treatment at PGIMER, Chandigarh, but not responding to it. The doctors concerned had told them that there were bleak chances of her recovering. The family has already spent ₹2.5 lakh on her treatment. “In view of this, in my opinion, it would be just and proper to take recourse to the provisions of victim compensation scheme and refer the matter to secretary, DLSA, Chandigarh, to see if interim compensation under the said scheme can be provided to the parents of girl child for her proper treatment and rehabilitation,” the judge had ordered on January 14. Disposing of the matter, Ashok Kumar Mann, chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary, DLSA, in his order on January 15, granted financial assistance of ₹7 lakh to the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7lakh-relief-for-9-year-old-chandigarh-girl-left-in-vegetative-state-after-vicious-attack-101610739282451.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||First rake for Metro-2A, 7 unveiled, to reach Mumbai by January-end||The first rake for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) was unveiled at the Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) manufacturing unit in Bengaluru on Friday. The six-coach train can also function as a driverless Metro, an option which authorities say will be explored six months to a year post operations. The train is expected to leave the unit on January 23 and reach Mumbai’s Charkop depot by January 27-28, officials from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) confirmed. While it was unveiled in Bengaluru by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, MMRDA will organise an event in Mumbai on January 29, which is expected to be attended by Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “Ten trains are ready at the manufacturing depot in BEML. The first train will reach Mumbai by road on January 27-28, post which some minor works will be undertaken at the depot itself.” MMRDA is looking at initiating trial runs for Metro-2A and Metro-7 by March, post which operations are expected to start from May.While MMRDA was hoping to initiate trial runs from January 14, 2020, it got delayed. On Friday, Singh tweeted, “Visited the BEML manufacturing facility at Bengaluru and unveiled India’s first indigenously developed Driverless Metro Car. I’m proud of the good work the team of engineers and technicians are doing at BEML. They are the real warriors of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, taking India ahead.”The first mock train for the Mumbai Metro lines was unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September 2019. MMRDA had placed an order for 378 coaches at ₹3,015 crore in November 2018. The authority then placed an order for 12 more trains of six coaches each for line 2B (DN Nagar-Mankhurd), 7A and 9 (Dahisar-Mira Bhayander and Andheri to Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/first-rake-for-metro-2a-7-unveiled-to-reach-mumbai-by-januaryend-101610739102808.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and Aaditya involved in planning strategy for the 2022 Mumbai civic elections||While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is preparing for a high-decibel campaign for the February 2022 Mumbai civic polls, on the lines of the recent Hyderabad civic elections, the ruling Shiv Sena has quietly begun work on ground. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) election will be a tough contest for the Sena, as it will go head-to-head with the BJP for the second time since 2017. Political dynamics in the state have altered since then, as the Sena-BJP parted ways in 2019. According to Sena functionaries, party president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Aaditya Thackeray are involved in the preparations and the strategy to retain power in one of India’s richest civic bodies. The Sena chief is expected to convene a meeting with senior leaders, ministers and key Mumbai legislators in the coming week to chalk out the party’s plan to retain power in BMC. Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya, in a meeting last week, mobilised the functionaries of the party’s youth wing Yuva Sena, which he heads, in each of the 227 electoral wards in Mumbai to publicise the work carried out by the party and by the Sena-led state government. Aaditya, who is also the guardian minister of the Mumbai suburban district, is inspecting, reviewing, and planning projects on-ground to upgrade the Mumbai’s civic and transport infrastructure. Taking a leaf out of the BJP’s book, the Shiv Sena is focusing on upgrading city’s transport and infrastructure. Thackeray’s recent review of transport and infrastructure projects is an attempt to show the party as pro-development in contrast to their opponent BJP’s claim, political observers said. Last week, Aaditya held meetings with BMC officials over several issues, including the city’s biggest problem – flooding during monsoon – which earns the Sena most brickbats every year. In a series of tweets following the meeting, Aaditya said they plan to have an integrated transport hub at the city’s entry points and fix 386 flooding spots that have emerged in the city. The environment minister also outlined his “long-term plan” to make Mumbai into a “sponge city, with aquifer recharge, rain water percolation and holding tanks”. The BJP, which has already announced that it will hoist their ‘pure’ saffron flag atop the BMC headquarters, has targeted the Shiv Sena over the Metro car depot issue and painted the Sena as anti-development. It recently also alleged misdoings in spending of funds meant for Covid relief operations and corruption in handing out contracts to private parties. Behind the doors, Aaditya has mobilised the Yuva Sena core committee and the 36 vibhag (division) heads of the youth wing. The party that has recently fortified its social media presence through its youth wing will use WhatsApp, other messaging apps, and social media to pass on “information” to people. A party functionary, who was a part of Aaditya’s recent meeting, said, “Aaditya ji will formally convene a meeting for election preparation once again, but during the interaction with Yuva Sena core committee, Yuva Sena and Yuvati Sena functionaries, he has asked everybody to remain alert and active in their wards. Aaditya ji asked them to make a team of 20 people under each of the division head to promote party work, government’s work to tackle Covid-19. Use of messaging apps will be used to spread information.” The party could also use ‘Aaditya Samvad’ – a townhall style interaction where Thackeray would interact with the youth. The party had used the event conceptualised by Prashant Kishor’s firm I-PAC as part of Sena’s Lok Sabha campaign in 2019. “Not immediately, but we can go for Aaditya Samvad at the later stage of campaigning,” said a party functionary close to Aaditya. Meanwhile, Thackeray is expected to convene a meeting of senior leaders to strategise for the elections, after the gram pachayat results are out on January 18. Thackeray, in his interactions with Mumbai legislators, has already asked them to start the ground work in ward levels, a party functionary said. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said the Sena will have to activate Shiv Sainiks, as there is a “loss of emotional attachment after the formation of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and a communication gap has set in”. “The Shiv Sena has an upper hand going into the election as they are in power in the state. It is a prestigious battle for them to retain power in the BMC,” Jondhale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-s-plan-for-next-year-s-mumbai-civic-elections-is-quiet-clear-101610738922275.html
16-01-2021||Other||Dr Bhansali from Bombay Hospital to get vaccine||Bombay Hospital’s consultant physician Dr Gautam Bhansali, who has not taken a single off since the Covid-19 outbreak, finally has a reason to smile. He will be among the first beneficiaries of the vaccine against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, at BYL Nair Hospital on Saturday morning. On Friday evening, Dr Bhansali, who was made the in-charge of all private Covid-19 hospitals in Mumbai during the peak of the pandemic, had received a call from Nair Hospital on Friday, asking him to reach the vaccination centre by 9.30am on Saturday to get inoculated with the Covishield vaccine. He had registered for the vaccine along with other healthcare workers from Bombay Hospital last month.“Being a doctor, I think it is my responsibility to get the vaccination administered and so that the general public trusts its efficiency. So when the hospital asked me if I wanted to get the shot tomorrow [Saturday], I readily agreed,” said Dr Bhansali. Dr Bhansali, who has worked round the clock to take care of Covid-19 patients, said, “I haven’t taken a day off since the pandemic broke out. Now, almost 10 months later, I am happy to get the vaccine. I hope this immunisation programme marks the end of the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dr-bhansali-from-bombay-hospital-to-get-vaccine-101610738863621.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||Hospital staff upbeat a day before first jabs||Three women, who helm a leading private hospital in Delhi, one of the first to start treating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, are all set to mark a crucial milestone in their fight against the global pandemic — the hospital is one of 81 centres in the national capital where the nationwide vaccination drive will kick off at 10.30am on Saturday. Their collective fight, the women managers said, is finally drawing to a close.The 250-bed Max Smart Hospital in Saket was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 centre on May 9 and now that the Covid patients are fewer and far between, the hospital has gotten the nod to restart non-Covid services in 102 beds. The hospital will start inoculating its staff members at one of the three sites on its premises on Saturday.“With the hospital ready to vaccinate its staff and open its doors to non-Covid patients, it feels like Covid-19 is finally coming to an end. We can see the light at the end of the tunnel. There were three phases in our fight against the infection. First, was in January, when we had first set up a screening centre; as the disease was not even in India people wondered what we were doing. Second, was when hospitals started getting overwhelmed with the number of Covid patients and people started following all precautions. And, the third, is this,” said Bindu Sharma, assistant general manager, Saket Max Smart Hospital.Nursing head Manju Devi said this was the beginning of the end of all struggles -- of staying away from loved ones; living in fear of contracting the deadly virus; of dealing with the loneliness felt by patients admitted to the Covid wards who could not speak to their family members.The team, led by medical superintendent Dr Sahar Qureshi, however, managed to save countless lives and will now be among the first ones in India to receive the vaccine shots.Her sentiments were echoed by Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital. “It is like a long-awaited festival for us,” he said.Staff and technicians at Lok Nayak hospital worked till late evening on Friday to ensure that the vaccination drive on Saturday goes without a hitch. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will flag off the vaccination drive from the hospital at 12 noon. A doctor, a nurse, and a safai karmachari will receive the jabs in the presence of the CM, according to sources.Two large halls have been created in the middle of the out-paient seating space for the inoculation drive. Alternate seats on the blue coloured sofas have been crossed out using white medical tape to ensure social distancing between recipients.Another of at least three vaccination sites at the hospital has been set up on the first floor of the outpatient department. Two rooms with oxygen support and all emergency medications have been created at the site itself for managing any adverse event. The vaccines reached the hospital on Friday afternoon and were stored in deep freezers on the fifth floor of the same building, doctors said.“We are fully prepared for the vaccination drive and all our staff are very excited. They have been treating the very sick Covid-19 patients since last March,” said Dr Kumar.At Safdarjung Hospital, red arrows from the Ring Road gate marked the way to the vaccination site on the first floor of the old emergency building. The three room site was abuzz with activity on Friday afternoon. Across the road, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will flag off the drive at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.With nearly 67,000 tests, Delhi reported 295 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the lowest number recorded in a day since May 9, when the city had seen 224 cases.This has also brought down the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – to 0.44%, the lowest ever since the state government began releasing regular testing data.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off India’s massive vaccination exercise at 10.30am on Saturday, when 81 sites in Delhi will start immunising their health care workers. Each centre aims to immunise 100 persons||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospital-staff-upbeat-a-day-before-first-jabs-101610737866755.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Classes 6 to 8 to reopen at Chandigarh’s govt schools from February 1||Government schools in Chandigarh will resume physical classes for Classes 6 to 8 on February 1.The decision was taken by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore during Friday’s war room meeting, a week after the Punjab government reopened its schools from Class 5 onwards on January 7. Confirming the development, UT school education director Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The education department will soon issue an order to this effect. Students will need their parents’ permission to attend school.”Officials of the education department confirmed that the Covid protocol, already in effect for Class 9 onwards, will be followed for the younger classes as well. Classes 9 to 12 had reopened on November 2 last year, nearly eight months after 115 government schools in the city had closed on March 12 in view of the pandemic.Attendance in Class 9 and up has touched 50%, especially in the peripheral areas of the city, while other schools have been reporting 20%-30% attendance.No call for private schoolsMeanwhile, private schools haven’t received any orders from the education department. “Even though private schools have been taking offline exams for board classes, lessons are still continuing online. I have yet to receive any information about this, but we hope that the order is implemented for private schools as well,” said HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools Association, Chandigarh.He added that most private schools still had not started classes for Class 9 onwards and were only holding voluntary consultation for the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/classes-6-to-8-to-reopen-at-chandigarh-s-govt-schools-from-february-1-101610738683781.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||SPJIMR’s highest salary package drops by 14% in online placements||The highest annual salary package offered to a post-graduate diploma in management (PGDM) student from the current batch at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s SP Jain Institute of Management and Research (SPJIMR) stood at ₹44 lakh per annum this year, a 13.75% drop compared to last year.The highest package received by a student of the 2020 PGDM batch was ₹51 lakh, whereas the year before that, the highest package received stood at ₹46.5 lakh. This year, the entire placement process was conducted virtually and in a record two days, said officials from the institute.The average annual salary offer this year stands at ₹25.86 lakh per annum, while the median annual salary package stands at ₹25 lakh per annum, with over 26% of the batch securing offers in excess of ₹30 lakh per annum. Over 80% of the batch earned offers in excess of ₹20 lakh per annum, highlighted the institute’s placement report.“Consulting emerged this year as the top recruiting sector, with offers rolled out to 36% of the batch of 233 participants. The FMCG (Fast-moving consumer goods) sector continued to be a major recruiter, making offers to close to 18% of the batch. This was closely followed by offers in the banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) and e-commerce sectors,” said a statement released by the institute on Friday evening.The institute further highlighted that despite the challenges brought on by the pandemic, around 50% of the batch bagged pre-placement offers (PPOs) through the autumn internship and corporate competitions. In all, 131 companies participated in the placement process this year, including 75 first-time recruiters.“What looked like a particularly difficult season, harking back to the times of the global financial crisis, has ended on a high. Despite the extremely challenging environment, we have maintained compensation at the levels achieved last year,” said Abbasali Gabula, professor and associate director, external relations, SPJIMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sp-jain-s-highest-salary-package-drops-by-14-in-online-placements-101610738682781.html
16-01-2021||Other||V-Day: 1,125 to get Covishield jab in tricity on January 16||As many as 1,125 healthcare workers will receive the first dose of Covishield on Day 1 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the tricity on Saturday.As many as 500 frontline workers have been identified in Chandigarh, followed by 325 in Mohali and 300 in Panchkula for the first day of the rollout.In Chandigarh, health director Dr Amandeep Kang and joint health director Dr VK Nagpal will be among the 500 beneficiaries, who will get the jab at five vaccination sites – Advanced Paediatric Centre (PGIMER), Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Civil Hospital, Sector 45, and two sites at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Mohali has earmarked four centres for the launch at Civil Hospital, Phase 6; Civil Hospital, Kharar; Community Health Centre (CHC), Banur; and Kissan Vikas Chamber, Aerocity; while at Panchkula, three centres have been set up at Civil Dispensary, Sector 4; CHC, Raipur Rani; and Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21.At each site, not more than 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated as per the advisory of the Union health ministry.“All vaccination sites have been converted into three-tier rooms. The first room is the waiting hall, followed by the second room where identification and vaccination will take place. The third room is for inoculated beneficiaries, who will be observed for 30 minutes. The vaccination will kick off after the inaugural speech by the Prime Minister at 11.15am and continue till 3pm,” senior UT officials said.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will launch the drive for the state at Kissan Vikas Chamber in Aerocity.“All arrangements have been made, each vaccination site will have an anaesthetician and physician for monitoring patients,” said Dr VK Nagpal said.‘Eagerly waited for this day’Twenty-year-old Arun will be the first healthcare worker to get the jab at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 – one of the five vaccination sites in Chandigarh. A sanitation worker at GMSH-16, Arun is also pursuing Class 12 in humanities through the National Institute of Open Schooling. “My family was initially a little apprehensive, but I explained the vaccine trial process to them and assured them that the vaccine is safe with rare chances of an adverse effect,” Arun said.He said they had all been eagerly anticipating this day with the hope that the vaccine will bring back normalcy at their workplace and the city at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vday1125-to-get-covishield-jab-in-tricity-on-january-16-101610738502362.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for stabbing brother-in-law to death||A 19-year-old man was arrested by the Shahu Nagar police for allegedly stabbing his brother-in-law to death on Thursday night at Matunga Labour Camp. According to police, the accused, identified as Aman Sikandar Shaikh, was unhappy after his sister eloped with the victim, Akram Chawdhary, 26, six months ago, and stabbed him in the stomach with a chopper. Vilas Gangawane, senior inspector of Shahu Nagar police station said that Chawdhary, who worked in a call centre in Bengaluru, and Shaikh’s sister Fatima had been in a romantic relationship since the past several years. After Fatima’s parents refused to allow them to marry, the couple eloped and married in court six months ago.Chawdhary left the city and returned recently to take his wife back with him. Shaikh had kept watch for the victim since the past six months and attacked him when he was alone.On Thursday, when Chawdhary left his house at 10.30pm, Shaikh followed him. When the victim reached Matunga Labour Camp, Shaikh confronted Chawdhary. After a heated argument, Shaikh stabbed Chawdhary with a chopper in the stomach.“Shaikh stabbed him so fiercely that the wooden handle and the blade got separated, leaving the pointed end in the victim’s stomach,” said Gangawane.Police arrested Shaikh from his house early on Friday and are on the look-out for his associate Ejaz, 19, who has allegedly helped him with the murder.“Shaikh did not like my son and the moment he found him alone, he stabbed him with a knife so brutally that it cut through his entire intestine and other organs, leaving him dead in a matter of seconds,” said Yusuf Chawdhary, the victim’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-stabbing-brother-in-law-to-death-101610738442182.html
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sports minister likely to head Chandigarh Olympic body||Punjab sports minister and former international shooter Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi is likely to head the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA).The Olympic body polls are scheduled for January 27.International shooter Sodhi, who remained president of the COA for three terms of four years each between 2004 to 2016, is considered an obvious choice for the post of president. During the 2016 elections, he had decided not to contest.“If everyone (referring to the affiliated sports associations) wants me to be the president of COA, I have no issues. But it all depends on the office bearers of the sports associations,” said Sodhi, who is the recipient of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh award, Punjab’s highest sports award.“I have also worked as the president of the COA, so if given the opportunity again, I will deliver my best. Being a former sportsperson, sports has always been my top priority,” he added. Maha Singh, who is currently the secretary of the COA, will be re-contesting for another term. “The elections are a numbers game. Most of the sports associations wanted me to re-contest. So I have decided to contest again for the post of honorary secretary,” he said. “Rana Sodhi is the presidential candidate from our group and most likely his candidature will be a unanimous choice for the top post.”The COA has a voting strength of 68: there are two votes each for the 34 affiliated state sports associations. The display of the electoral college is on January 16; filling of nomination papers is on January 18; and withdrawal is between January 22-24.A faction led by the president of the Chandigarh Basketball Federation, Chander Mukhi, and Chandigarh Amateur Judo Association’s president Raj Pal Chauhan had trained guns on Maha Singh over affiliations granted to several sports associations in the last couple of months and also alleged that if he (Singh) reruns for the post of secretary, it would be a violation of the National Sports Code.“I was made treasurer of the COA in the middle of the 2012-2016 term and was secretary in 2016-2020. As per the Code, I am eligible to contest again. Moreover, the state Olympic body doesn’t fall under the preview of that Code,” said he, who is also the vice-president of the Chandigarh Archery Association.On affiliation to hockey bodies, he added, “As there is a case going on in the court between two Chandigarh’s hockey bodies, so till the time there is no verdict from the court, we (COA) have not given affiliation to any.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sports-minister-likely-to-head-chandigarh-olympic-body-101610738322610.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu in poultry spreads in 11 more villages in seven districts of Maharashtra, confirms ICAR-NIHSAD||The ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, a nodal body for testing bird flu cases, has confirmed avian influenza or bird flu in poultry chickens at 11 places, covering seven districts of Maharashtra on Friday.The central laboratory has found bird flu to be the cause of death in poultry birds in two more villages each at Parbhani and Latur districts. In addition, it has found bird flu deaths in poultry birds at two villages each in Nanded and Pune, and one village each in Solapur, Beed and Ahmednagar districts. State animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh confirmed the development.“Following confirmation from the central laboratory, the district administrations will start culling poultry birds within one-km vicinity of the infected areas from Saturday,” Singh said.Earlier, ICAR-NIHSAD has confirmed bird flu in poultry birds in one village each in Parbhani and Latur districts, respectively, where nearly 15,000 poultry birds were culled to contain the spread in other areas.Besides, ICAR-NIHSAD had also confirmed avian influenza in other birds in Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Beed and Latur districts.On Friday, 571 bird deaths were reported in different districts, pushing the count to 3,949 across the state. ICAR-NIHSAD also confirmed H5N1 strain of bird flu in Yavatmal district, where peacocks deaths were reported.“As the state government has empowered district collectors to impose a containment plan, even if they only suspect deaths are owing to bird flu, most of these districts have started implementing the plan. The Centre has allowed the administration to start culling poultry birds only after receiving a confirmation report from ICAR-NIHSAD,” the animal husbandry commissioner said.According to the containment plan prepared by the Central government, the local administration will have to cull poultry birds within a one-km radius of that particular poultry farm where bird deaths were found to be due to avian influenza or bird flu. A surveillance zone within a periphery of 10km will have to be created, which means no birds will be allowed to sell or purchase in that area. The particular village where that poultry farm is situated will have to be declared a prohibited area, which means no one can enter or exit, including local villagers. A medical team also has to be set up for the examination of the local people.Decrease in chicken dish ordersHotels and restaurants witnessed a reduction of chicken dishes by 10% to 20%. “Many people are now shying away from chicken dishes and ordering sea food,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association (AHAR), an association of hotels and restaurants. He said that overall business has not been affected due to bird flu.Fountain Hospitality Private Limited (FHPL), which runs four restaurants including Flamboyante and Fountain Sizzlers, has increased the variety of mutton, fishes and prawns dishes on its menu. “We have witnessed people reluctant to have chicken dishes and hence has increased other non veg items,” said Amrish Arora, managing director, FHPL.The president of the Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association of Maharashtra said that chicken sales have come down to 1.50 lakh metric tonnes daily from the normal 2.00 lakh metric tonnes. “It will due to the scarce created by the media. It will normalise soon,” said Vasantkumar Shetty, president of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-in-poultry-spreads-in-11-more-villages-in-seven-districts-of-maharashtra-confirms-icarnihsad-101610738322244.html
16-01-2021||Other||Covid-19 vaccine: CoWIN server slows down, leads to chaos||A day before the nationwide mass inoculation programme, the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) app developed by the Centre to monitor and track the inoculation process, slowed down after developing technical glitches. As a result, confusion prevailed till late evening as the registered healthcare workers failed to receive information about their vaccination centres and timings.As per protocol, health workers who wish to be vaccinated, have to register on the app. With the health department unable to receive the link to send messages to registered individuals, officials at vaccination centres were forced to call each beneficiary to provide the requisite information. “Due to some technical glitches, the server of CoWin app has slowed down. Thus, we aren’t able to send message to the registered beneficiaries. So we have created a WhatsApp group, where all the beneficiaries of each district have been added, and we are sending a message in those groups, informing them about the vaccination centres and timings,” said state immunisation officer Dr Dilip Patil. Around 7pm, BMC officers sought permission from the state to start informing the registered healthcare workers individually but they were asked to wait longer. The permission was granted around 9pm and by 10pm, BMC health officers released the list of those registered to all the Covid-19 war rooms at the respective wards to call the healthcare workers. “We worked so hard only for all our efforts to go in drain at the last minute. We’ve asked all the officers at the respective war rooms to call and send information to the beneficiaries individually. This will go on till late night,” said a senior health officer who was at BMC health office, making arrangements at 11pm. Till the time of going to the press, officers were calling the registered individuals.The development has raised concerns among those in-charge of the vaccination centres. “We have the app but we haven’t received the link yet. We are personally informing healthcare workers about the timing for the vaccination,” said the dean of one of the BMC-run centres. “This might be the biggest hurdle tomorrow as we need to verify the details of the beneficiaries,” the dean added.On a regular basis, hospitals have to make a roster of their medical staff. Due to the confusion, hospital staffers also had to wait till late night to make the roster. “We don’t know who will get called for the vaccination. So we couldn’t even make the rota of our duty till late night. There is so much confusion,” said a doctor from BYL Nair Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccine-co-win-server-slows-down-leads-to-chaos-101610738142552.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 79% voting turnout for elections of 12,711 village panchayats||Termed as a litmus test for the ruling parties as well as the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a year after the changed political equations in the state, polls for more than half of the state’s village panchayats were held on Friday. The voting turnout for the panchayats was 79%, according to the State Election Commission (SEC). Counting of the votes will take place on Monday 18.Of the 14,234 panchayats for which the elections were announced last month, 12,711 saw voting on Friday, while 162 panchayats in Gadchiroli district will go to the polls on January 20. Most of the remaining panchayats saw members either elected unopposed, partially or fully. Elections to two gram panchayats in Nandurbar and Nashik were cancelled by the SEC after a probe found the posts of sarpanch and panchayat members to be auctioned from amongst the candidates.According to the records, 214,880 candidates were in the fray for 125,709 seats, for which 356,221 nominations were filed and 26,718 members were elected unopposed.Though the gram panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, political parties field their workers to wrest power in the village bodies. “Elected representatives in district and tehsil-level local bodies – district councils and panchayat samities – take a keen interest in the elections to ensure that the party workers are elected in the village panchayat. The political parties see the village panchayat elections as their opportunity to strengthen the party base in villages. The BJP, during its five-year regime at the state level, successfully brought many village panchayats under its control. Similarly, after the change in the political equation in the state, the three ruling parties will now try to gain control over them,” said a Congress leader.The leader said that the panchayat elections will prove to be a litmus test for the ruling parties, a year after the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising of the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, was formed. The ruling alliance had recently bagged four of five Legislative Council seats from the graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies. It expects a repetition in these elections too. Three ruling parties had announced to contest the gram panchayat elections separately. The MVA government had scrapped the previous Devendra Fadnavis government’s decision of electing sarpanchs or panchayat heads directly from the voters.In Thane district, gram panchayat elections saw an estimated turnout of over 80% as per the district election commission. Voting was highest in Bhiwandi (75% by 3.30pm) followed by Ambernath (74%), while the lowest turnout was seen in Kalyan (60%). A scuffle between two groups was reported in Khoni gram panchayat in Kalyan taluka. Manpada police have filed a non-cognizable offence against three who were found distributing cash in Khoni village on Thursday night, ahead of the election. Apart from this, no major glitches or incidents of violence were reported across the district. A total of 1.78 lakh voters went to the polls across the district, including 85,627 women voters and 92,986 men voters till 3.30pm. The total number of registered voters from Thane district is 2.50 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-79-voting-turnout-for-elections-of-12-711-village-panchayats-101610737962401.html
16-01-2021||Other||Covid-19: 2,300 people across Thane district to get vaccinated today||Around 2,300 people will be vaccinated on Saturday across Thane district. The immunisation process will start at around 11am at the Thane civil hospital. There are 23 vaccination centres across the district. Every centre will vaccinate 100 healthcare workers. A message with timing and name of the centre has been sent to every individual in the vaccination list. They are required to arrive at the scheduled time to avoid overcrowding at the centres.“We have all the provisions including power backup and enough temperature-controlled ice lined refrigerators to store the vaccine. We have made all preparations for a smooth vaccination drive and hope for cooperation from locals to not crowd the vaccination centres and help in making it a success,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Collector, Thane District.Every individual will take around six minutes for the vaccination process and half-an-hour in the observation room. After vaccination is completed, the beneficiary will receive a QR code that shows the completion of the process. There will be five rooms in each vaccination centre. The first room will be for registration where the beneficiary has to show the message received to get vaccinated. In the second room, the oxygen levels and temperature will be checked for every beneficiary.In the third room, there will be two officials who will verify the identity documents of the beneficiary with that available on the COVIN App. In the fourth room, the beneficiary will be informed about the vaccine and administered the vaccine and then they have to wait in the final observation room for half-an-hour to check if any side effects were felt.“Within Thane rural, there are five vaccination centres. This includes the Thane Civil Hospital, Chaya Hospital, Ambernath, Dubey Hospital, Badlapur; Sub-district Hospital, Shahapur and Central Hospital Ulhasnagar-3. The first vaccination for the district will begin at the Civil Hospital, and others will follow suit,” said Kailash Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane district.TMC will vaccinate sanitation workersThe TMC’s vaccination drive includes healthcare workers and sanitation workers associated with health centres. There are four vaccination centres within Thane city including Rosa Gardenia in Ghodbunder Road, Kores, Kalwa and Kausa health centres. Around 400 beneficiaries will get vaccinated on Saturday within the city limits.“Our sanitation workers are also an essential part of a healthcare facility. We have some of the sanitation staff as well in the list of beneficiaries. We have made provisions for 20 vaccination centres across the city. Currently, only four will be functioning. To ensure there are no discrepancies, Mayor Naresh Mhaske and TMC chief Vipin Sharma will also be visiting the vaccination centres individually,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-2-300-people-across-thane-district-to-get-vaccinated-today-101610737783262.html
16-01-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt strikes out one vaccination centre in Kalyan-Dombivli||Out of the four vaccination centres that were planned to conduct the Covid vaccination in Kalyan-Dombivli on Saturday, only three will have the vaccination programme as one was cancelled by the Maharashtra state government.The DNC School centre has been cancelled as only three centres were required for Saturday. The remaining three, where the vaccination will take place, are Rukminibai civic hospital in Kalyan (W), Shastri Nagar civic hospital in Dombivli and Shaktidham building in Kalyan (E).The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will be vaccinating a total 300 beneficiaries on the first day of the vaccination drive.“I have inspected all the centres. The staff there are ready for the vaccination drive. Each centre has a team of four people to look into the entire process. Further, we have also got police force deployed at the centre to look after any incidents that would affect the process,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The civic body received 6,000 vaccines on Wednesday following which they were taken to the 15 health posts for storage.Totally, two chances will be given to the beneficiary to get vaccinated. “If a beneficiary fails to come to the centre for the first time, he or she has an option of a second chance. But if the second chance is also missed, that particular beneficiary will not be vaccinated,” said Panpatil.The Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) will also carry out the vaccination at its three centres – civic schools in Kamatghar, near Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Bala compound.A total of 300 beneficiaries will be vaccinated on the first day. KR Kharat, health officer of BNCMC, said, “A total of 10-member team will be deployed at each centre to carry out the job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-strikes-out-one-vaccination-centre-in-kalyandombivli-101610737482288.html
16-01-2021||Other||Gram panchayat polls see 80.23% turnout in Thane district||The Covid-19 pandemic failed to dampen the spirit of the voters who turned out in huge number at the 146 gram panchayats in Thane district to cast their on Friday. Long queues were observed outside most polling booths in the district from the morning. The election commission informed that the voting was done following all the Covid social distancing norms.The Thane district recorded 80.23 per cent of votes at the end of the day.A total of a little over two lakh voters including 94,602 women and 1.06L men cast their votes. The total number of registered voters in Thane district is 2.50 lakh. Vaibhav Mhatre, 25, who runs a transport business, said, “Voters in our gram panchayat got a chance to vote after 15 years as in all the previous elections candidates won unopposed and no voting was required. The Anjur dive gram panchayat had last held elections in 2005. There are several issues related to roads and land disputes, which led to a few unpleasant scenarios in the election this year.”The officials claimed that the first round of voting was conducted without any glitch following proper social distancing norms by both the voters and the staff at the polling stations.“There is no glitch reported as of now and voting went smoothly. Amidst the pandemic, the polling booths had a good amount of voters coming to cast their vote. Our staff was ensuring the voters’ temperature was checked before they entered the booth,” said Balasaheb Waghchoure, deputy collector, Thane district.The election was conducted in 143 gram panchayats of Thane, Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Ambernath, Murbad and Shahapur Taluka. A total of 2,231 candidates were in the fray for 996 seats.Non-cognisable offence against three The Manpada police have booked a non-cognisable offence against three who were found distributing cash in Khoni village in Kalyan Taluka on Thursday night, a day before the gram panchayat elections.The police suspect that the trio were distributing on behalf of a candidate contesting from the village. Investigation is on.“We are not sure whether the cash distribution was for the election. We are investigating the matter. A non-cognisable offence has been registered against three in this matter,” said Abhishek Shinde, assistant police inspector, Manpada police station.Ruckus by two groups in Khoni Supporters of two candidates who gathered at the zilla parishad school polling station at the Khoni gram panchayat indulged in a tiff and created ruckus during the last round of the voting. In Khoni gram panchayat, 24 candidates were contesting for 11 seats.Since morning, the entire procedure was conducted smoothly. However, during the last round, there was a tiff between two groups outside the polling station. This led to a chaotic situation. The on-duty police, however, managed to control the chaos and disperse the crowd.Khoni gram panchayat was identified as one of the sensitive villages and since eight days, continuous patrolling of police was present at the village.A police officer from Kalyan zone 3 said, “It was not a serious matter. Some groups initiated a tiff and our team immediately dispersed them from the polling station and the situation was under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-district-gram-panchayat-polls-see-80-23-turnout-101610737122323.html
16-01-2021||Other||Two arrested from Madhya Pradesh for firing in Bhiwandi||The Bhiwandi Crime branch unit 2, on Friday, arrested two persons from Madhya Pradesh for allegedly firing two rounds at a 38-year-old woman in Kalher on Tuesday to extort money. One of the bullets hit the woman on her head. She is seeking treatment at a private hospital and is stable.Jayashree Shende was alone at home when the two fired at her. The accused are identified as Surendra Bhati, 24 and Manshing, alias Bunty Chavhan, 20, both residents of Madhya Pradesh.The police got a tip off about the firing, which helped them trace the two. Bhati is a farmer and transporter by profession and would visit Bhiwandi often to deliver consignments. He got in touch with the victim, Jayashree Shede and Shivram Dhede through his business.According to crime branch police officials, “Bhati needed ₹50,000. He discussed it with Chavhan, who has a criminal background. Both of them hatched a plan to extort the money from the victim at gunpoint.He arranged a revolver for the same. On the day of the crime, Bhati called the victim and reached her house at Jai Durga Society in Kalher, Bhiwandi at 9.30 am, threatened her for ₹50,000 and after she refused, he fired two bullets at her head. One hit her head and the other missed. Fortunately, she was saved by her son who heard a voice of argument and reached to rescue his mother.”The team checked all possible technical and non-technical information. Kisan Gavli, assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, said, “The accused were taking several halts and changing their vehicles at each stop. We managed to nab them from Dhar district in MP before they reached their last stop. We are yet to recover the gun used in the firing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-from-madhya-pradesh-for-firing-in-bhiwandi-101610736822006.html
16-01-2021||Dehradun||No mobiles for guides, gypsy drivers inside Corbett Tiger Reserve||After videos of gypsy drivers going too close to wildlife went viral on social media last year, Corbett Tiger Reserve administration has now issued new guidelines for safari which states that guides and gypsy drivers will not be allowed to take mobile phones inside during safari.RK Tiwari, warden of Corbett Tiger Reserve said, “This decision was taken after authorities found drivers talking on the phone during safaris or going too close to the wildlife for making videos, risking both their lives and that of tourists. Taking cognisance of such actions, it has now been decided that drivers and guides will have to leave their phones at the gate of the reserve while going on safaris.”According to the norms of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), a minimum distance of 50 metres should be maintained from animals within the tiger reserve and 30 metres of distance should be maintained between two vehicles.He further said that as part of a new initiative by Uttarakhand forest department to stop the usage of single-use plastic in the protected area, tourists will not be allowed to take eatables inside the reserve.Also read: Bengal BJP leaders meet Amit Shah in Delhi, discuss poll preparedness“Tourists used to take fruits or snacks with them while going on safaris and there were instances when they tried to feed monkeys or other wild animals. This is strictly not allowed and to stop such cases, tourists will not be allowed to carry any eatables inside. There are canteens available at specified spots, tourists can stop there if needed,” added Tiwari.Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is spread across 1,288 square kilometres, is one of the most loved tourist destinations in the state. The gates of Corbett open on November 15 every year for six months till mid-June.Corbett witnesses a footfall of around three lakh tourists every year. There are 231 tigers inside Corbett Tiger Reserve and 266 using the reserve according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers across 50 tiger reserves in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/no-mobiles-for-guides-gypsy-drivers-inside-corbett-tiger-reserve-101610736399355.html
16-01-2021||Other||Duo imprisoned for not able to pay fine for drunk driving; sent to Taloja jail||A biker and his pillion were sentenced to 10 days of imprisonment for drunk driving by the Thane court on Friday. The two were caught by the Thane traffic police on December 31, 2020. Twenty seven persons caught for drunk driving were fined ₹10,000 each by the court.The two, who do odd jobs, could not pay the fine and hence were sentenced to 10 days imprisonment. Police booked 416 persons for driving in an inebriated state while 207 co-passengers were also booked on the New Year’s Eve.Traffic police inspector Sachin Gawade said, “The duo was held by Vitawa traffic police at around 9 pm on December 31. The man riding the bike was drunk whereas the pillion was sober. We have booked the rider under MOV Act Section 185 for drunk driving and his pillion under Section 188 for allowing the man to drive. The court asked them to pay a fine of ₹10,000. The duo could not pay fine and therefore the court has sentenced them to 10 days imprisonment. They have been sent to Taloja jail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/duo-imprisoned-for-not-able-to-pay-fine-for-drunk-driving-sent-to-taloja-jail-101610736403002.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Won’t ask Dhananjay Munde to resign for now, says NCP chief||Maharashtra social justice minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Dhananjay Munde will not have to resign from his post over allegations of rape for now, party chief Sharad Pawar said on Friday, adding he would be allowed to continue until the police investigation is completed. The decision was taken considering the allegations of “honeytrapping” made by leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), Pawar said. On the other hand, the opposition BJP announced an agitation from Monday, demanding removal of Munde from the state cabinet. Pawar said he also suggested the police appoint an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) level woman officer to investigate the allegations against Munde as well as against the woman. “As I had said yesterday, we have taken the allegations against Munde seriously because a sister (complainant) had made the claims and we were discussing our course of action. But a few people have also made allegations against the same woman. We have come to the conclusion that there is a need for an in-depth investigation and so we will wait for the police investigation to be completed,” he said. “The woman, who is accusing Munde of sexual exploitation, is now facing allegations from three others. Considering this, anyone can make allegations against someone (other ministers) and then demand he be removed from the government. Hence, we will take the next step only after verifying the facts. A decision without verifying the facts is likely to bring injustice.” The NCP took the decision in a late-night meeting of core committee members as leaders from the BJP and MNS alleged the same woman had tried to “honeytrap” them too. HT on Friday had reported that Munde may not have to resign from the ministerial council. Senior NCP leaders were of the view that asking Munde to step down without any investigation, even after fresh revelations by different people, would not be right, said NCP insiders. “If Munde is forced to resign, there is a possibility that the same incident would be repeated with others. We should refrain from a knee-jerk reaction,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity. Munde has filed a petition against the complainant and her sister in the Bombay high court alleging blackmail. “NCP leaders were informed that the “blackmail” was going on for the past six years since Munde was appointed as the leader of opposition in the legislative Council,” said another NCP leader. “When a person goes to the court, there is a possibility that he has some faith in what he has done,” Pawar said. The complainant is the sister of a woman Munde was in a relationship with. On Friday, the woman reacted to the allegations against her on her social media account. “If I was wrong why these people were silent for so many years. I am proud of myself that I fought alone, even if I am forced to move back. I haven’t named any party but so many have ganged up against me,” she wrote. “Let’s do one thing. If you want to make a decision, go ahead without knowing the facts. I am ready to move back as you all are wanting (sic),” she added. Meanwhile, the women’s wing of the state BJP unit announced a statewide agitation from coming Monday, demanding Munde’s resignation. In a release issued on Friday, Uma Khapre, state chief of the women’s wing, said, “Munde has himself admitted that he was in a relationship with another woman and has two children. We need to think of the message we are giving to society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-won-t-ask-dhananjay-munde-to-resign-for-now-says-ncp-chief-101610736342164.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to redo Mahabaleshwar market, beautify Venna lake||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday approved the masterplan of the tourism development in Mahabaleshwar, the state’s popular tourist destination in Satara district. In phase one of the plan, the state government will beautify the vicinity around Venna lake, carry out road-widening work, and redo the Mahabaleshwar market.Thackeray, during a meeting held at his official residence Varsha, said that the tourism development plan should be carried out in a time-bound manner. While tourism and environment department minister Aaditya Thackeray said that the state will maintain balance in conserving the environment and providing infrastructure for tourism growth.A tourism department official said that in the first phase, the beautification of Venna Lake will be done by January 31. “Besides the lake, uniformity will be maintained in the design of roads, transport system, sidewalks, markets, colour scheme, street lights, vertical gardens, road crossings, and other development construction,” the official said.The state also plans to have a polo field to host matches, which can be another tourist attraction. The chief minister said that the local civic body must submit a proposal to the state government seeking flattening of the polo field, as it is under the possession of forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-redo-mahabaleshwar-market-beautify-venna-lake-101610736044264.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||AQI at 190, Mumbai breathes cleanest air this year||The city breathed its cleanest air this year on Friday as westerly winds blowing from the north-west of India cleared up pollutants dispersed in the air. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator— of 190 was measured on Friday, which was in the moderate category for the first time in 2021.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality had remained in the poor to the very poor category since the beginning of January owing to low temperatures. On January 8, the AQI was the worst at 317 (very poor) for this year. However, with the onset of westerly winds, the air has cleared up.“Winds blowing from the north and west has cleared the air of pollutants. If the wind continues, air quality will remain moderate for the next couple of days, despite a drop in temperatures. However, without the winds, air quality may become worse,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR. Navi Mumbai, however, recorded very poor air with the AQI being measured at 350. Along with the western suburbs, Malad had the worst air with an AQI of 211 (poor).Day and night also turned pleasant on Friday as temperatures dropped significantly in the city providing relief from week-long heat conditions. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature dropped to 19.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. The Colaba observatory of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 21 degrees Celsius. While this was 2 degrees above normal, the minimum temperature was much lower than Monday’s minimum temperature of 23.5, the highest in a decade. Meanwhile, maximum temperatures remained below normal. Santacruz reported a maximum temperature of 31 degrees Celsius, which was 0.8 degrees below normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature dropped a degree below 30 degrees Celsius and was 1.1 degrees below normal.“IMD had forecast that temperatures would drop from Friday for the next few days as westerly winds have started blowing over parts of the state. Since parts of north-west India are under the influence of a cold wave, north-westerly winds from these parts are colder,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of the western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aqi-at-190-mumbai-breathes-cleanest-air-this-year-101610735922166.html
16-01-2021||Mumbai||Dhananjay Munde suffers setback as his upward surge halted by controversy||Dhananjay Munde’s rise in state politics has been impressive since 2014. Though he lost to cousin Pankaja Munde in 2014 assembly elections, he was handpicked by NCP leadership for the post of Opposition leader in Legislative Council-the post that was occupied by the likes of Sharad Pawar, Nitin Gadkari and Chhagan Bhujbal in the past. During the five years of Devendra Fadanvis led the BJP-Sena government, he emerged as an aggressive opposition leader, often attacking the government over its policies and controversies. He surprised everyone when he defeated Pankaja in 2019 assembly elections. As the three-party coalition of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress formed the government, he was inducted as a cabinet minister and given politically significant social justice department. He was also being seen as a prominent Other Backward Class (OBC) not only of his party but also of the ruling MVA.But now Dhananjay Munde,45, is staring at a setback in his political career. His image has taken a beating following the allegations of sexual exploitation made against him by a woman. The allegations have also forced him to disclose that he was in a relationship with the woman’s elder sister and they even had two children together. The BJP has now announced an agitation from Monday to demand his sacking from the state cabinet. It is also accusing him of hiding his second marriage in his election affidavit (though he has used the word relation and marriage) and demanding his disqualification as a legislator. He almost lost his post as minister in the MVA government in the state but has got respite after two leaders from BJP and MNS came forward to say that the woman in question had tried to honey-trap them in the past. However, there is going to be a police investigation into the entire episode. As such, his fate would depend on the outcome of the investigation.Will he be able to bounce back?Ironically, Dhananjay first became a known name in political circles due to controversies surrounding him during his mentor and uncle Gopinath Munde’s tenure as deputy chief minister of first Shiv Sena-BJP government in the state. As senior Munde got busy with his responsibilities, nephew Dhananjay got an opportunity to handle political management in his uncle’s stronghold, Beed district in Marathwada or central Maharashtra. Dhananjay and his father Panditanna were often accused of running riot by Munde’s political opponents. He kicked up several controversies and his uncle was forced to do damage control.Subsequent years saw differences emerging between Gopinath Munde and his brother-nephew duo. The gap widened as senior Munde fielded his daughter Pankaja to represent his assembly constituency when he moved to Lok Sabha in 2009. Three years later, Dhananjay joined the NCP.Following Munde’s death in an accident in June 2014, Dhananjay tried to wrest the leadership of the Munde clan from cousin Pankaja but failed. He avenged it first by constantly attacking her (she was a minister in Fadnavis government) as Opposition Leader of Council and later by defeating her in 2019 assembly elections.The rivalry between the cousins is likely to continue as Pankaja is likely to launch an offensive against him to avenge her defeat.“This controversy is a set back for him but it is unlikely to affect him much in his rural constituency as his performance is not bad. However, it will tarnish the party’s image,” opined political analyst Hemant Desai.“He had a good future to become a prominent leader but now this affair may haunt him. It will affect his base among women voters,” he added.Perhaps that was why NCP chief Sharad Pawar termed the allegations against him as serious and indicated that he would have to face the consequences. The party top brass discussed if he was needed to be dropped from the state cabinet but has now decided against it. Dhananjay is close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar who has thrown his weight behind the former. Him being an OBC leader in a party dominated by Marathas could help him as the party would be cautious not to irk his OBC supporters.He also shares cordial relations with Fadnavis and would hope that the BJP does not go far in seeking his scalp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dhananjay-munde-suffers-setback-as-his-upward-surge-halted-by-controversy-101610735562054.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||Covid beds at Delhi’s pvt hospitals reduced further||With number of Covid-19 cases at an all-time low, the Delhi government decided to further de-escalate the number of beds earmarked for the treatment of the infection at private hospitals on Friday.The 45 big hospitals have been asked to reduce the number of Covid-19 beds from 30% to 15% of the total beds or double the number of patients admitted as on Friday. As for ICU beds, the number can be reduced from 40% to 25% or double the number of admitted patients, according to the ordered signed by Dr RN Das, medical superintendent of nursing homes in Delhi.The hospitals with less than 100 beds have been asked to reserve the beds on their own as per requirement. However, the hospitals that still have patients admitted need to earmark double the number of beds and keep it till all patients are discharged, the order says.The number of beds has already been brought down to 11,880 as on Friday evening from over 18,700 beds two weeks ago. The government had ordered 115 government and private hospitals to reduce the number of beds on December 31.Only 9.5% of the total beds earmarked for Covid-19 are occupied in hospital across Delhi, with just under 12% of the ICU beds being occupied as on Friday night, according to the Delhi Corona App.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-further-reduces-only-covid-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-101610734601842.html
16-01-2021||Delhi||‘‘People at the top are living like lords’: HC asks Delhi MCDs to list non-essential expenses||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the city’s three civic bodies to disclose their non-essential expenses, including the perks availed by councillors and senior officers, while stating that it intends to stop such expenditure.“People at the top are living like lords. Once they feel the pinch, the things will work out,” said the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, adding that a paucity of funds in the municipal corporations could not be an excuse to deny employees their salaries, as they are at the front line of the civic bodies’ work.Employees of the three municipal corporations have routinely gone on strike in recent months over the non-payment of their salaries. Thousands of civic body staffers went on an “indefinite” strike on January 7, demanding their pay and pension be released.The court on Friday said employees are being denied their fundamental right of receiving salaries, a move that would affect the quality of life of the workers, as well as those dependent on them.“The people who are working on the ground have not got their salaries. The councillor doesn’t care and will continue to roam around in their cars and use the powers of the civic body. When people at the top feel the pinch, then there will be some change. I am first going for the councillors. We want a system in place,” the court added.The court was hearing several PILs claiming non-payment of salaries and pensions of serving and retired employees, including teachers, doctors and sanitation workers, of the three corporations.During the hearing, the bench also disapproved of the action of the Delhi government decision to deduct for loans from the amounts transferred to the corporations as aids, saying that even the Reserve Bank of India had imposed a moratorium on recall of loans and declaration of accounts as NPA by banks and financial institutions.“We all know that revenue has gone down and we are going through a bad phase. You should not have done this, you should not have asked for the repayment of the loan. It’s as good as not giving,” the court told Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam.Advocate Satyakam urged the court sought time to take instructions on why the deductions were justified following which the court posted the matter for January 21.It also asked the Delhi government to explain why funds payable to the corporations under the heads of ‘transfer duty’ and ‘parking charges’ were not released, and asked when they will be paid.The Basic Tax Assessment (BTA) comprises 6% of the revenue collected by the Delhi government which was being deducted by the government to recover the loans given to the corporation, Satyakam told the court. He said that during the pandemic, amounts paid under that head were reduced due to lower revenue collection.He said grant-in-aid of 6.5% was paid without any reduction to the corporations under the heads of education, health and urban development.The corporations, however, contended that if the loan amounts are not deducted from the BTA, then they can meet the salaries of all their employees. They said that presently they were unable to pay salaries or pensions due to paucity of funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-at-the-top-are-living-like-lords-hc-asks-delhi-mcds-to-list-non-essential-expenses-101610734181800.html
