17-01-2021||Kolkata||BJP cautions Bengal leaders against 'discussing internal moves' with outsiders||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership on Sunday warned its Bengal leaders against making careless statements in public and discussing internal decisions with outsiders in person or over phone, leaders who attended a closed-door meeting of the extended core committee of the state unit in Kolkata said on condition of anonymity.The leaders said in view of the upcoming assembly elections, nobody is henceforth allowed to discuss crucial organisational decisions, policy matters, poll-related decisions etc. with outsiders or journalists.The leaders were also asked to be extremely careful about attempts to conduct sting operation on them by political parties, media or commercial agencies.“The orders came straight from central leaders in Delhi,” one of the leaders who attended the meeting told HT on Sunday night but did not want to be named. “Though this was not specifically mentioned but the rules were sounded mainly for those who left the Trinamool Congress and other parties and joined the BJP. Old BJP leaders are aware of the party’s strict discipline,” he added.Talking to HT late on Sunday night, state BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, "The restriction on discussing the party's internal matters in public is in place for a long time. The leaders were told to abide by it."Also read: Facebook, Twitter representatives to appear before IT parliamentary panelSaumitra Khan, state BJP youth front president and Lok Sabha member from Bankura district who left the TMC in 2019, was pulled up for saying at a recent rally that BJP state president Dilip Ghosh would be the chief minister if the party comes to power in Bengal. The video went viral.Khan and other leaders were told that nobody should make any statement on the party’s chief ministerial candidate as the matter will be decided and announced only by central leaders such as national president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah.“I cannot share what was discussed at the meeting,” Khan told a television channel in the evening but did not deny that he was warned.The meeting continued for around three hours and organisational matters and recent decisions taken by the central leadership were discussed as well, said those who attended.“We have been told not to share any details of the meeting with the media. Only the state BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya is authorized to brief the media,” said one of the frontal organization leaders.Nadda’s proposed visit to the state on February 5 was also discussed. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will come to Bengal to address rallies after the election schedule is announced,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said after the meeting.“We will organise roadshows, to be named parivartan yatra (journey for change), very soon to strengthen the organization in the districts. There is the weakness in some polling booth areas. This will be taken care of,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-cautions-bengal-leaders-against-discussing-internal-moves-with-outsiders-101610907393471.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Bad air days are back for Mumbai after two days of respite||After two days of relatively cleaner air, the city saw air quality worsen significantly on Sunday. Pollution levels were in the very poor category in many parts as wind speeds, and temperatures remained low.The air quality index (AQI) has soared to 252 and fallen in the poor category as temperatures remained low, causing pollutants to be trapped in the air.The city breathed its cleanest air this year on Saturday with an AQI of 162 as westerly winds blowing from the northwest of India cleared up pollutants in the air. On Friday, the AQI was 190, which was in the moderate category for the first time in 2021.The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.“Due to low wind speed, low dispersion, and influence of oceanic air mass, Mumbai AQI is likely to remain in moderate to poor category for the next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.The air quality was the worst of all 10 locations at Navi Mumbai, with an AQI of 366 (very poor). Malad recorded an AQI of 331, BKC was at 308 and Andheri recorded AQI of 306, all in the very poor category.Day and night were pleasant as temperatures remained low on Sunday. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature dropped to 18.2 degrees Celsius, 1 degree above normal. The Colaba observatory of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 20.6 degrees Celsius, 1 degree above normal.Santacruz reported a maximum temperature of 31.3 degrees Celsius, which was at par with normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature dropped a degree below 29 degrees Celsius and was one degree below normal.“Winter returns for the state. Dry weather is expected over the region during the next five days as a gradual fall in temperatures by 2-4 degrees Celsius is expected from January 19,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bad-air-days-are-back-for-mumbai-after-two-days-of-respite-101610907785677.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Night curfew in Mumbai impacted liquor sale in December||The night curfew imposed by the state government in December-January impacted the sale of liquor in Mumbai in December, which normally records high sales annually.December sees the highest consumption of liquor in the year due to Christmas and the New Year. However, this year due to restrictions and night curfew owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the establishments were shut by 11pm.According to the state excise department data, December 2020 witnessed a decrease in consumption of liquor to 38 lakh litres compared to 41 lakh litres in December 2019.The worst-affected was the sale of beer, which struggled at 50 lakh litres in December 2020, compared to 70 lakh litres during the same month in 2019.“The decrease in the consumption in Mumbai was due to the night curfew,” said state excise commissioner Kantilal Umap. “In case of beer, people are still not drinking it as a precautionary measure as they want to avoid chilled drinks, due to the pandemic,” he added.The state government imposed a 15-day night curfew between December 22 and January 5 in line with the Maharashtra government’s decision amid concerns over the outbreak of a new strain of the coronavirus in the United Kingdom. The hoteliers said it was natural that consumption of alcohol would take a hit. “People tend to celebrate throughout the night, but since all celebrations were cancelled, it directly affected the intake of alcohol,” said Pankaj Saxena, general manager, Radisson Blu, Mumbai International Airport hotel. He added that many have now switched from chilled beer to liquors and wines at room temperature.The hotels and restaurants have lost approximately ₹150 crore in revenue due to restrictions on the December 31 celebrations.Savio D’sa, who is a consultant in the hospitality sector, said the curfew was unwarranted. “Many travelled to Goa to bring in the New Year and it was a loss for the state’s exchequer. People tend to start celebrations only after 10pm and it was not possible to wind up within an hour. Hance, many had to cancel their plans,” said D’sa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/night-curfew-in-mumbai-impacted-liquor-sale-in-december-101610907725689.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: E-Seva Kendra to be launched on Monday to help people with court case information||To guide the citizens about the court number and the next date of hearing in their case, the metropolitan court at Azad Maidan, also known as the Quila court, has initiated an E-Seva Kendra which will be inaugurated on Monday.The E-Seva Kendra would be inaugurated by the justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice Prakash Naik of the Bombay high court, in the presence of many dignitaries.According to the court staff, there would be two staff members present at the E-Seva Kendra to assist people about the court number their cases would be heard in. The petitioner or any other person related to the case will have to approach the court staff with their case number, following which, the staff members would share the court number and next date of hearing.“Finding out the court number their cases would be heard in, is time-consuming for the common man. With the E-Seva Kendra, it would be easy for them to locate the number of courts,” said a court staff member.The response of people given to E-Seva Kendra will be noted and depending on the demand, more such service centres would be opened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-e-seva-kendra-to-be-launched-on-monday-to-help-people-with-court-case-information-101610907485632.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||No major side effects after Covid-19 vaccine says Maharashtra health minister||No major adverse effects have been reported from Maharashtra following the vaccination of 18,562 healthcare workers on Sunday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said. However, there were reports of minor side-effects faced by some beneficiaries, who complained of fever, chills, body ache and weakness. Among the other complaints received by the state health department include minor swelling after the jab, uneasiness, etc.On Saturday, the first day of the vaccination drive in Mumbai, concluded at 5pm, with 1,926 health workers vaccinated, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). A total of 200 staffers, including 80 vaccinators, were working on Saturday.Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “There are a few reports of minor complaints like swelling after being pricked, some experienced uneasiness or pain, but there was nothing serious. There have been no major adverse effects following the vaccination. Many of the doctors and healthcare workers, who were inoculated, have given interviews sharing their experience.”The BMC said there was no hospitalisation on Saturday or Sunday post-vaccination or any beneficiary reporting major adverse effects.A senior doctor from Mumbai, who did not wish to be named, said, “Post-vaccination, I did not experience any major issue throughout the day. I could do my work comfortably. There was this feverish feeling that I had for the entire day, however, this is something that will go away in a day.” Another senior doctor, who was inoculated on Saturday said, “On Sunday, I felt a little weak and experienced body ache. Hence, I took a pain killer.”Mangala Gomare, chief of the public health department, BMC said, “No major incident or hospitalisation has been reported in Mumbai yet. But yes, we have got reports of fever, weakness or body ache. All beneficiaries were given contact details to report of such incidents. We have provided guidance to all such beneficiaries, on a case to case basis.”Meanwhile, in Pune, of the 1,802 beneficiaries who were vaccinated on Saturday, nine reported of having minor side-effects. Doctors said, factors like fasting, psychological anxiety over the vaccine, among others contributed to the side-effects.With inputs from Steffy Thevar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-major-side-effects-after-covid-19-vaccine-says-maharashtra-health-minister-101610907426305.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Presence at crime scene not liable for punishment: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) in a recent order held that merely being present at the place of a crime which falls under the purview of the Maharashtra Prohibition of Obscene Dance in Hotels, Restaurants and Bar Rooms and Protection of Dignity of Women (Working Therein) Act, 2016 cannot be considered a crime, and quashed a first information report (FIR) against two applicants who were arrested by Santacruz police in a raid at a dance bar in 2017. The court held that as the two had not indulged in obscene acts, nor had they abetted the same, mere presence in the place could not be considered a crime. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by the two men, was informed by advocates Rajesh Khobragade and Gayatri Nayak that there were no specific allegations, and nor any role was attributed to their clients which would attract the charges levelled in the FIR and the charge sheet submitted by the police. The two men were booked by Santacruz police on January 21, 2017, along with other accused persons under section 294 (punishment for obscene acts or words in public) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the allegation that obscene dances were being performed by women in a bar owned by the other accused persons. The two men were booked for allegedly being present at the time. The advocates submitted that when the ingredients of the alleged offences were not made out, there was no question of the petitioners being made to face the trial and sought the complaint against them to be set aside. Given this, in December last year, the court had granted a stay of the trial on the two men. However, additional public prosecutor VB Konde-Deshmukh for the police submitted that the names of the two men were clearly stated in the FIR, and material collected in the charge-sheet indicated their presence at the spot of incident, and therefore, the petition deserved to be dismissed. After hearing both sides, the bench observed, “A perusal of the material on record shows that no allegations as per section 294 of the IPC are made against the petitioners at all. Similarly, as per section 114 of the IPC, a person is liable when he is an abettor present when the alleged offence is committed. The material on record does not indicate any specific action on the part of the petitioners to qualify as abettors.” The HC added, “Similarly, as regards the provisions of the Act of 2016, mere mentioning names of the petitioners in the FIR and the charge-sheet would not suffice and there is lack of material to indicate that the ingredients of the offences alleged under the said Act could be said to be present against the petitioners.” The bench then allowed the FIR to be quashed against the two men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/presence-at-crime-scene-not-liable-for-punishment-bombay-hc-101610907125971.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Bitter rivalry between estranged cousins Uddhav, Raj Thackeray set to revive ahead of 2022 Mumbai civic polls||The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) is all geared to attack the Shiv Sena-led state government after it reduced the security of its chief Raj Thackeray.Ahead of the crucial Mumbai civic elections, Raj, who is a bitter rival of Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has already instructed his leaders to go on an attack spree against the Sena.Following the government decision to downsize his security, MNS spokesperson Sandeep Deshpande described it as a case of personal bias. “Uddhav Thackeray is jealous of Raj Thackeray, considering the crowds coming to him at Krishna Kunj (Raj Thackeray’s residence) seeking justice,” said Deshpande. “Uddhav Thackeray is giving security to nobody like Varun Sardesai while purging the security of the tallest leader in this state like Raj Thackeray. This is pure vengeance,” he added. Varun Sardesai, the nephew of Uddhav Thackeray’s wife Rashmi, is the secretary of the Yuva Sena led by Uddhav’s son Aaditya Thackeray.The MNS has now formed the MNS Rakshak Pathak which will consist of party men assigned to protect Raj. The other attack came from lone MNS legislator Raju Patil, who tweeted his complaint to Uddhav in Gujarati. “The Marathi number plates on vehicles are being targeted in Maharashtra. Please look into this matter. The Marathi manoos is looking towards you with hope,” tweeted Patil. Patil said that considering how the Shiv Sena is wooing the Gujarati community with its campaign — “Mumbai ma jalebi fafda, Uddhav Thackeray aapda”, he hoped his plea would be heard in Gujarati. “Since Uddhav Thackeray has left the Marathi agenda, and [we are] witnessing his newfound love for Gujaratis, I felt it’s better to address him in that language,” said Patil. The Shiv Sena has defended itself saying it was the decision of the home ministry. “MNS is just making an issue of a non-issue. It is the home ministry’s recommendation after they had analysed the threat perception. Even Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi’s security was pruned but they accepted it gracefully. Even Sharad Pawar offered to voluntarily reduce his security,” said Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande.The MNS did not spare Uddhav’s son Aaditya, who is the state tourism minister. MNS spokesperson Deshpande took a jibe at Aaditya by reposting the latter’s tweet in which he invited Tesla, an electric vehicle company to set base in Maharashtra. However, Tesla has chosen Karnataka. Deshpande tweeted, “Tesla company has fled to Karnataka. It is a setback to Page 3 ministers.” The jibe aimed at Aaditya used to be seen in parties earlier.The friction between Raj and Uddhav aggravated in 2005 when Raj, who was once seen as Sena founder Bal Thackeray’s heir, deserted the saffron outfit following a cold war between them and formed his own party the next year. He squarely blamed Uddhav and his coterie for this desertion, saying he was being marginalised from the party and was being utilised just for campaigning.MNS faced a setback in his debut elections — the 2007 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) where MNS secured seven seats. However, this all changed when Raj played up the Marathi Manoos card to the hilt in 2008 with North Indian bashing, blaming them for depriving jobs of the locals. This paid rich dividends in 2009 parliamentary and Assembly polls — severely damaging the Sena. His 2012 BMC poll tally was impressive with 28 seats in his kitty. However, MNS then faded into oblivion as it was almost wiped out in the 2014 and 2018 Assembly polls when Raj was able to secure just one seat in both the elections.Political analysts point that Raj is bound to be aggressive in the coming days. “Raj has no alternative but to get aggressive for political survival. He will also get indirect support from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in his mission. The BJP will use him against the Sena,” said political commentator Hemant Desai. The coming Mumbai civic polls will be an opportunity for the MNS and Raj to regain some lost ground. As such, the MNS has now begun getting aggressive on its “sons of the soil agenda”.The BJP, which is determined to win the Mumbai civic body that the Sena has been ruling for over two decades, would prefer if the MNS eats into the Sena’s Marathi vote bank and damage its chances to retain power in one of Asia’s richest civic bodies, the BMC.How the Shiv Sena and its chief Uddhav Thackeray’s counter to Raj remains to be seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bitter-rivalry-between-estranged-cousins-uddhav-raj-thackeray-set-to-revive-ahead-of-2022-mumbai-civic-polls-101610906766993.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu outbreak: 836 more birds dead; over 25,000 poultry birds culled across Maharashtra||The count of bird flu deaths in the state has soared to 5,987 in the last 10 days. Additionally, over 10,000 poultry birds in eight districts have been culled after bird flu deaths were confirmed by the ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, a nodal body for testing bird flu cases.This is in addition to nearly 15,000 poultry culled in one village each in Parbhani and Latur after ICAR-NIHSAD recently confirmed bird flu in poultry birds.On Sunday, 836 bird deaths were reported, whereas on Saturday around 1,200 birds died across the state, officials from the state animal husbandry department said.The ICAR-NIHSAD has confirmed bird flu in poultry chickens at 11 places covering eight districts — Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Pune, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad — on Friday.“Following confirmation from the central laboratory, the culling of poultry birds started within a one-km radius of infected areas from Saturday and culled 10,433 poultry birds till Sunday. This is apart from destroying eggs and pigeons in infected areas,” said Sachindra Pratap Singh, state animal husbandry commissioner on Sunday.The local administration has culled 707 poultry birds at two villages in Parbhani district, 781 at two villages in Latur, 1,263 poultry birds at two villages in Nanded, 5,557 at two villages in Pune, 600 at a village in Solapur district, 1,244 at a village in Beed and 281 poultry were culled at a village in Raigad district, stated a release issued by the animal husbandry department.“We have decided to continue our surveillance in Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Yavatmal and Beed where bird flu has caused deaths in other birds such as crows, parrots, pond egrets, peacocks etc,” said the commissioner.The state government already empowered all district collectors for immediate implementation of a containment plan, if they suspect deaths are due to bird flu. It, however, has not banned the supply and sale of poultry birds in the state except the one-km area of the poultry farms where bird flu was confirmed. According to the containment plan prepared by the Central government, the local administration will have to cull poultry birds within a one-km radius of that particular poultry farm where bird deaths were found due to avian influenza or bird flu. A surveillance zone within a periphery of 10km will have to be created, which means no birds will be allowed to sell or purchase in that area. The particular village, where that poultry farm is situated, will have to be declared as a prohibited area, which means no one can enter inside and no one can come out. A medical team has to be set up for the examination of local people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-outbreak-836-more-birds-dead-over-25-000-poultry-birds-culled-across-maharashtra-101610906465626.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP leaders want ban on Tandav web series||State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have accused the latest web series Tandav of hurting the sentiments of Hindus, and want it to be banned. They have filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police, saying that this is not going to be tolerated. They have urged the ministry of information and broadcasting to set up a regulating authority to govern all the over-the-top (OTT) platforms.BJP leader Ram Kadam said that he has filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police against the web series. “Filed complaint against Tandav Web Series at Ghatkopar police station. Police has assured quick investigation, FIR under Sec 295A of IPC, Section 67A of IT Act & Atrocities Act. Producer, Director, Writer, Actors & Amazon to be summoned soon,” Kadam said on Twitter.Kadam also said that he has decided to write a letter to Union minister Prakash Javadekar regarding this issue and will request to bring all OTT platforms under censorship.BJP member of Parliament (MP) Manoj Kotak, in a letter to information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on January 16, urged him to immediately ban the Tandav web series and also constitute a regulatory authority to govern the content on OTT platforms.“It seems that the makers of Tandav have deliberately mocked Hindu gods and disrespected Hindus religious sentiments,” the letter states.Kotak said that the programmes telecast on OTT platforms are full of sex, violence, drugs, abuse, hate and vulgarity. “I urge the Ministry of I&B to immediately constitute a regulatory authority on OTT platform, and in the meantime ban the controversial web series Tandav,” it further adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-leaders-want-ban-on-tandav-web-series-101610906224883.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Acting in golden hours, Mumbai cyber police saved ₹15 crore from criminals in 2020||Promptly responding in the first two hours, called the golden hours, after the occurrence of any cyber fraud, the Mumbai Police’s cyber wing prevented around ₹15 crore from being siphoned off by cybercriminals in 2020. Police managed to save the money as the victims approached the police timely with all banking details.According to an officer of the cyber wing, city cyber police has strengthened and enhanced their cyber fraud money prevention mechanism, under the guidance of joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambhe, wherein victims’ money can be saved before fraudsters can withdraw it or misuse it.“The enhanced mechanism ensures timely contacting banks concerned and tracing the disputed money and freezing it right there. As a result of this, last year the cyber police managed to prevent around ₹15 crore of victims of cybercrimes who approached us,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber).These matters range from email phishing, online job frauds, online classified frauds, KYC update frauds, online loan fraud, matrimonial frauds, other OTP frauds, etc. In many cases, the stopped money has been returned to the victims.“Like there is golden hour in road accidents, for cybercrimes or online frauds the first two hours are golden hours. The sooner the victims approach the police, the chances of saving or recovering the lost money becomes higher,” Karandikar added.Kurla resident Fahad Shaikh had received a fraud call for KYC update and had shared the OTPs with fraudsters in a hurry as he was attending a funeral. “Moments later, ₹8 lakh were transferred from my bank account by fraudsters. I immediately approached cyber police and they managed to trace the entire amount and froze the account in which it was transferred to, before the fraudsters could withdraw or misuse it. I had saved this money for my daughter’s marriage and the cyber police’s timely action saved it. I got all my money back. I am very grateful to them,” Shaikh said.Similarly, Sushil Sethia, a jeweller from Andheri, was made to click on a link by cyber fraudsters and all his banking details were compromised. “After I approached the cyber police, they immediately responded and my ₹92,000 were timely stopped and saved,” Sethia said.The police said that people approach them late, provide them with incomplete information, incomplete or wrong email ids or account details; because of this, important time is wasted.“When a cybercrime occurs, the victims are generally in shock and start making inquiries with friends and relatives to understand what exactly hit him/her and how to proceed further. The victims approache local police with a written application and the police tell them to get in touch with the bank and get the details about the disputed transactions and then a case gets registered. This whole process takes four to five days, but by that time, fraudsters withdraw the money from the account or use it,” said assistant commissioner of police (cyber) Nitin Jadhav.Whenever a cyber fraud is committed, multiple bank accounts and e-wallets are used. So the cyber police have to first trace the disputed money and then freeze the said account. The entire process requires constant follow up and a team of cyber police personnel do it on a regularly basis.Police sources said an internal system is devised by the department that generates a token or reference number of a fraud reported to cyber police and then the same is shared with the concerned bank or e-wallet service provider for freezing the disputed money. Once that’s done, the complainant is asked to approach the local police station and lodge a complaint for further legal pursuit of the matter, ACP Jadhav said.The police further added that fraudsters have become smart. They target individuals on weekends or holiday or in the night hours when banking channels are closed. “Therefore to make the mechanism more productive and effective, the city cyber police have also written to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) requesting them to issue directives to all the banks and e-wallet service providers to compulsorily make their nodal officers available 24×7 (for co-ordination with the police) so that the police’s timely intervention can save cyber fraud victim’s money. Non availability of bank’s nodal officer makes it a tough task for the police,” said a police source.“We urge citizens to understand the importance of golden hours and report cybercrimes to police within the first two hours so that the suspicious transactions can be stopped in the bank and the money can saved,” the ACP said.He further added that cyber police are prepared and well-equipped to take more such applications and save people’s money.Cyber expert advocate Vicky Shah also said, “Approaching police in the first two hours is very important. And if the RBI wants to curb cybercrime, then the present ‘settlement cycle’ must be delayed by at least 24 hours. Delayed settlement cycle will prevent misuse of disputed funds. Also, the Telecom Regulatory authority of India (TRAI) should make the process of issuance of mobile numbers more rigorous like the passport to prevent cybercrimes by 100% as mobile numbers are directly liked to bank accounts and is key to all KYC details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/acting-in-golden-hours-mumbai-cyber-police-saved-15-crore-from-criminals-in-2020-101610906105356.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Cyber police arrests Gujarat man for duping 22,000 people via fake shopping website||Mumbai cyber police busted a major cyber fraud gang that duped 22,000 people across the country through fake shopping websites. The head of the gang, Ashish Ahire, a 32-year-old technology expert who studied in London, has been arrested from Gujarat. Police have also identified 11 more such fake websites that similarly dupe people on social media sites. The cyber police on Sunday stated that it received multiple complaints regarding online fraud through the website shopiiee.com. Further investigations revealed that nearly 22,000 people were duped by the website to the tune of ₹70 lakh. “The fake website was selling dress material, imitation jewellery, and other household items through advertisements on Facebook,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (cyber crime). The investigation led police to the website’s owner who was operating it from Surat, Gujarat. A team of senior inspector S Shastrabudhe, inspector Pramod Khopikar and assistant inspector Ravikiran Naale then arrested the accused and are questioning him to recover the money. There were several complaints against the website about the fraud from consumers, a police officer said. The arrested accused has been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act for cheating, impersonation, etc. He has been sent to judicial custody by a local court. The police are currently looking for his associates. During investigation, the police learnt that there are more such websites that are cheating people. The police have identified 11 such fake websites and warned people from using them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyber-police-arrests-gujarat-man-for-duping-22-000-people-via-fake-shopping-website-101610905865727.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Foreign national arrested with MD and charas worth ₹25 lakh||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a foreign national as part of its drive against the drug supply chain in the city. On Saturday, NCB officers arrested a Nigerian national, Paul Chigbata Onuoroh, from Navi Mumbai after a half-kilometre chase and seized 475 grams of mephedrone and 38 grams of charas worth ₹25 lakh from his possession. This is the second arrest of foreign nationals involved in the drugs supply chain, in two days.Onuoroh is illegally staying in India and is allegedly a big supplier of drugs like cocaine, MD and charas. He recently came out from jail after spending two years sentence in a drug case.The agency claims that the accused, Onuoroh is a part of a drug distribution racket which supplies cocaine, charas and mephedrone in the city and outskirts. He came to Mumbai four years ago on a business visa for garment business, but he continued to live in Kharghar, Navi Mumbai even after his visa expired. Two years ago, NCB arrested him for allegedly supplying cocaine and he recently came out from jail after serving a two-year sentence, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede.According to NCB officers, Onuoroh pushed the officer who was approaching him and tried to run away, but another team chased him for almost half kilometre and nabbed him. “During search, we found 475 grams of Mephedrone and 38 grams of charas worth ₹25 lakh from his possession. During further search at his residence, we also recovered a small quantity of drugs. He was arrested under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act,” said an officer. The accused was produced in the court on Sunday and has been remanded in custody till January 21.Earlier on Friday, NCB arrested a Nigerian national from outside a five-star hotel in Juhu and allegedly recovered 10 to 12 cocaine-filled capsules from his mouth. The accused is currently in Sir JJ Hospital and his X-ray and CT scan reports suggested that he was allegedly carrying more drugs. Doctors are trying to eject the drug-filled capsules from his body through purging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiforeign-national-arrested-with-md-and-charas-worth-25-lakh-101610905685362.html
17-01-2021||Pune||Pandemic slowdown “concerns” ruling BJP with polls scheduled early next year||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is in power in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is staring at poll-bound difficulties with elections fast approaching early next year. Most of the planned development work was hampered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Recently, mayor Murlidhar Mohol chaired a meeting of all department heads to take a review of the development works and plan an inauguration according to projects. The civic polls are scheduled during the month of February next year with all political parties including the BJP, NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena beginning preparations and gathering information of development work which was carried out in the last four years by the elected representatives of respective organisations. A ruling party with 98 seats in the PMC, the BJP has started collecting information of development works in the last four years in PMC so that they can mention the completed work in the party’s manifesto. It will also help BJP corporators to make ward wise report cards of the development work. The code of conduct may be imposed in December 2021. So, there are roughly 10 months for preparation. Due to Covid-19, the PMC has taken decisions to cut down on the budget as per state government directives. So, there will be only a 40 per cent budget available to corporators in their ward development funds. In the last four years, Bhama-Askhed water project and Atal Bihari Vajpayee medical college are two major city level projects on which BJP can take political advantage in the upcoming civic polls. The Bhama-Askhed project has already been completed and inaugurated by BJP leaders. Now, the BJP is pursuing the Atal Bihari Vajpayee medical college to start in the coming days. In the meeting with the mayor, all head of departments reported the progress, completion of projects, the status of works, starting new development work and projects to Mohol. Members of private agencies were present in the meeting to note information related to development. Mohol said, “The purpose of the meeting was to take a review of the development work and projects in the BJP tenure, we are going to contest civic polls next year. So, we are gathering progress of works which we can tell people in the civic polls. The Bhama-Askhed water project, improving of public transport by adding new buses, the opening of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee medical college, the progress on the Chandani chowk project, metro project, 24x7 water projects are some of the achievements.” He added, “Covid-19 affected development work. Most of the project and development work was on halt during the pandemic. This year’s budget is also going to be hit due to the financial crunch. Overall, two years – the Covid-19 year which was 2020 and the post-Covid year which is 2021 has been shattered in terms of the development of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pandemic-slowdown-concerns-ruling-bjp-with-polls-scheduled-early-next-year-101610905264503.html
17-01-2021||Pune||Two samples from Pune found positive for bird flu, central team to visit district||Two samples of poultry birds from Pune district were found positive for the bird flu virus of the 11 bird samples that were sent to the Bhopal laboratory. The district administration still awaits reports of 22 bird samples that were sent to the national lab and has now declared two villages in Mulshi and Daund infected zones and culled over 5,500 poultry birds. A central team will now be visiting the district on Monday to check the arrangements put in place to contain the spread of the virus. The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal (NIHSAD) has confirmed the presence of H5N1, more commonly called as bird flu virus or the Avian influenza. It is reported that migratory birds that fly from the northern hemisphere infect poultry or domestic birds through droppings when they fly to the southern hemisphere during harsh winters. According to the World Health organization (WHO), there have been only 608 confirmed human cases of avian influenza since 2003-2012. Although birds to human transmission is very rare, the district administration in Pune has culled over 5,500 poultry birds from farms within one kilometre radius where the infected birds were found. Dr Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner animal husbandry said, “We have got the test reports for all the samples that we sent before 14th December of which two tested positive. Till date we had sent about 33 bird samples to NIHSAD. We have culled 5,139 birds from Mulshi and 418 from Daund where positive cases were reported. These birds were from the farms reported within the one kilometre area from where the infected birds were found. The central team will now visit the rural areas in Pune to check if all proper arrangements are in place to prevent the spread.” The samples that were sent consisted of bats, wild pigeons, crows and various backyard birds. Some of the symptoms displayed by the birds include diarrhoea, dullness and depression. Pune zilla parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “Our team will also try to catch all the possible wild birds that could be trapped to prevent the spread. I am on spot at various rural locations to ensure that all the containment zone measures are in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-samples-from-pune-found-positive-for-bird-flu-central-team-to-visit-district-101610905264921.html
17-01-2021||Other||Govt to work on enhance teacher training and cutting dropout rates: Sisodia||New Delhi: The first seven-day international education conference held by the Delhi government concluded on Sunday with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announcing that moving forward, the state government would work on enhanced teacher training, strengthening school management committees (SMCs), working on an interactive curriculum, and cutting dropout rates.“We are already working on forming a new curriculum and new state board. We also want to examine students graduating from our schools and see what their thoughts are on caste, creed, religion, gender biases, corruption, honest governance and environmental issues. After working on foundation, the question is on how to work on the mindset of students,” the education minister said.While referring to the issue of students dropping out, Sisodia said, “Struggling children who leave the system to pick up jobs outside is where we need to figure out how skill training can come into play, and how we can provide support to them.”The week-long conference saw 22 education experts from India and other countries including the United Kingdom, USA, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, Singapore, and Canada. The final day of the conference also saw Andhra Pradesh education minister Audimulapu Suresh highlighting reforms initiated by their government and extending an invitation to the Delhi education team to visit Andhra Pradesh.“In Andhra Pradesh, in the past 19 months, we allocated 16%-18% out of our total budget to the education department to show our commitment,” Suresh said, while talking about the key reforms in the southern state, including bilingual textbooks from classes 1-6, improved monitoring and regulatory mechanisms, and incentivisation of SMC participation through ‘parent committees’.Sisodia said, “Education ministers from all states should work together to create better systems for India. I would like to learn from Andhra Pradesh on how regulation and autonomy manifest on the ground through state-level legislation, especially the reformed structure of Anganwadi workers.”Some of the key takeaways across panel discussions during the week included the link between political will and educational reforms, building inclusive administrative tools to support teacher training, and moving away from ‘heavy content-based syllabi’ to a reduced interactive curriculum.During the course of the conference, setting up cadre of specialist teachers, collaborative professional development, shared lesson-planning, and providing teachers with agency and autonomy along with increased interaction with parents were suggested as key measures for improvement of school education and teacher training.“Our focus will now be on further bridging the gap between SMCs and parents by increasing parent participation. The ownership parents have showcased in the past few years has been a positive change for us,” Sisodia said.The Directorate of Education officials also presented their findings on the low class 9 pass percentage. “Though there was progressive decline in the pass percentage (55.96%) from 2013-14 onwards, the results have been improving from 2016-17 and went up to 64.49% in 2019-2020,” the government said in a statement.Rajesh Prasad, principal secretary (education), said the national capital was “a fertile ground” to implement the National Education Policy 2020. “Lots of aspects from NEP are already covered in Delhi’s education reforms. It is now time to focus on interactive teaching rather than carrying on examination-oriented teaching and rote-learning to transform the educational landscape of the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-to-work-on-enhance-teacher-training-and-cutting-dropout-rates-sisodia-101610905025860.html
17-01-2021||Other||246 new Covid-19 cases in Capital — positivity rate hits another low||Delhi on Sunday recorded 246 new cases of Covid-19 — the lowest since May 9 when 224 new cases were recorded – and eight more deaths, according to the state government’s daily health bulletin.“We can comfortably assume that the third peak in Delhi is over. It is even better now that the vaccine has arrived. However, I still urge people to continue wearing masks and take all necessary precautions against Covid-19,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said in a press conference on Sunday.The city, on Sunday, also recorded a positivity rate of 0.36% which, health officials said, is also the lowest so far. Sunday’s health bulletin recorded 67,463 tests, of which 40,102 were conducted using the RT-PCR method believed to be more accurate in terms of sensitivity and specificity. The other tests were done through rapid antigen kits, which dish out quicker results, but are known to be far less accurate than RT-PCR tests.So far, 632,429 people in Delhi have been diagnosed with Covid-19 since the first case was recorded on March 2. Of these, 10,746 have died.On Saturday, 4,319 people in Delhi were vaccinated across 81 centres in the city, as India began the world’s largest Covid-19 immunisation programme. As many as 8,100 healthcare workers – the top priority group for vaccination – were supposed to take the vaccination on the first day in Delhi. The drive in the city will resume on Monday.“It is a good thing that the vaccine has arrived at a time when Delhi is witnessing a low number of cases. However, people must not let their guards down at this juncture, even after vaccination which acts as an additional shield against potential infection but does not negate all chances. People must continue to wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and take other precautions,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/246-new-covid-19-cases-in-capital-positivity-rate-hits-another-low-101610905025418.html
17-01-2021||Other||‘No Car Sunday’ organised in Connaught Place||New Delhi: Scores of Delhiites, including youngsters, gathered in Connaught Place on Sunday morning, cycling and walking, with a message for people to ditch their private vehicles for a day. The campaign called, ‘No Car Sunday’, which was first started by a group of teenage environment activists as a local initiative to discourage neighbours from using their cars for one day of the week to help reduce vehicular emissions in the national capital, has now become a multi-city campaign that was organised on Sunday in Mumbai, Bangalore and Lucknow. The initiative is now being backed by Fridays for Future (India chapter), Let Me Breathe, Vrikshit Foundation, My Right to Breathe and Extinction Rebellion (India). Sixteen-year-old Aditya Dubey, who was among the youngsters who started this campaign, said that this was initiated to encourage public participation to send out the message that every citizen of the country can contribute to making the environment cleaner for the coming generations. “I am an asthmatic myself and I know how difficult it is hundreds like me in Delhi to just exercise our basic right to breathe. Things only get worse for us during the winters. We all know the contribution that vehicular emissions make to the rising pollution in the country and our small contribution can go a long way in reducing that,” said Dubey. Many youngsters like Dubey came out to the streets of Delhi with the same message, coaxing the adults to start using more sustainable modes of transportations such as cycles, public transportation or walking as much as possible. Participants stood with posters reading, “clean air everyday’, ‘this is my space to walk’, and ‘reclaiming my right to breathe’. The participants cycled and used the Yulu bikes from central Delhi’s Shivaji Stadium metro station as a symbolic gesture to reclaim the streets for cyclists and walkers. The Delhi government has also introduced a similar concept in 2015, calling it ‘car free day’ where in some roads of the city private vehicles were not allowed to ply for selected days. The concept, however, was not sustained. Bhavreen Kandhari, environmental activist, who is also backing this campaign, said that this initiative by children and young adults is a wake-up call for adults to start doing their bit for the environment. “We are planning to increase the ambit of this campaign and want that the government should also take interest and get involved in this initiative that has been taken up by children of this city. Today (Sunday) when we took the campaign to the streets we saw that there was a great appreciation and acceptance to this concept,” Kandhari said. She also said that while the ‘No Car Sunday’ was being encouraged because it is easier for people to avoid using the vehicles on a weekend, people can choose any convenient day when they would not take their cars out. “We are privileged and many in the city own multiple cars, but there are the less privileged ones who are the direct victims of air pollution that is aggravated by our vehicular emissions. We need to do this for them, and for all of us,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-car-sunday-organised-in-connaught-place-101610905024531.html
17-01-2021||Other||BJP MCD councillor Aarti Yadav joins AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in a statement on Sunday said that a current councillor of the municipal corporation of Delhi (MCD), Aarti Yadav, has joined the party from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Yadav had won the 2017 municipal polls as an independent candidate and joined the BJP, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019Yadav, who is the councillor of ward no 49 in southwest Delhi’s Kapashera, said on Sunday, “I want to work for the people in my ward and I can see opportunity to do good work only in the AAP. There is too much corruption in the BJP.”The AAP’s MLA Atishi said, “Aarti Yadav, along with former councillor from the same ward, Anil Yadav, have joined the AAP. We welcome them. Several leaders of the BJP are fed up with the corruption of the BJP-ruled MCDs. To contribute towards development-centric politics, they are joining the AAP.”The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.BJP-Delhi spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations. Her (Yadav’s) switching allegiance at regular intervals reflects that she is not interested in public service but she is on a lookout for some sort of political power. Moreover, such political switching of loyalty ahead of municipal elections by power seekers is nothing new. The BJP is not worried about this.” Delhi will go to the municipal polls in 2022. While the AAP is in charge of the city government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mcd-councillor-aarti-yadav-joins-aap-101610904965111.html
17-01-2021||Other||Schools to open classes, labs with masks, sanitisers; private schools to reopen later||New Delhi: From masks, sanitisers, and physical distancing markers to thermal scanners and sensor taps, schools in the national capital have taken several measures to ensure that the return of class 10 and 12 students to the campus after 10 months is smooth and safe. Schools in the national capital had been closed since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.While most government schools in the capital are reopening for board students on Monday, several private schools said they would reopen later once the online pre-board exams are over and parental consent for return of students has been acquired.Madhulika Sen, education advisor at Tagore International School, said, “The notice was issued with only five days in hand. Our online pre-board exams are currently underway and will only be completed by next week. So we will use this time to implement all protocols, speak to parents for their consent before reopening in February. The syllabus has already been covered and we will have time for revision and practicals. Students are likely to be called three days a week initially with no more than 15 students per room which is one-third of the original capacity of our classrooms.”Last week, the Delhi government allowed all public and private schools in the national capital to call students of classes 10 and 12 back to the campus from January 18 for pre-board preparations and practical work. The schools have been asked only to call students with the consent of the parents and follow all the Covid-19 precautions.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday held a review meeting with officials from the education department on the matter. “Everyone is excited and a little nervous at having Class 10 and 12 students back in schools from tomorrow for practical/counselling. All preparations – sanitizers, masks, and social distancing measures – are in place,” he tweeted.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School which has over 300 students appearing for class 10 and 12 boards this year, said, “We will reopen sometime later this week as are waiting for parental consent slips to form the batches. Thermal scanners and oximeters are present in the school along with sanitisers and emergency masks for those students who need it. Sanitising machines have also been installed on every floor. Class hours have been reduced from six hours to two hours and initially, we will only be calling 50 students to school from both classes to ensure parents and students both feel comfortable. Only 10 students will be allowed per laboratory with at least three staff members to ensure supervision.”Teachers and principals in the national capital have been concerned about practical classes and offline doubt-clearing sessions for students since the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced dates for class 10 and 12 board exams last month. Board practical exams will begin from March 1 and written exams will be conducted between May 3 and June 10.BP Dhyani, principal of a Delhi government school in Trilokpuri, said they are all set to reopen Monday with masks, sanitisers, and physical distancing markers in place. “Through existing WhatsApp groups, we had asked children to bring a signed copy of consent form to school on Monday. We have also made arrangements to keep printed copies of the form ready in case any parent wants to sign it tomorrow after coming to school. The students who could not arrange school uniforms this year will be allowed to come in their home clothes. The idea is to facilitate their learning for upcoming board exams. With teachers deployed for Covid-19 duty, that too might be a challenge,” he said.Schools will also hold orientation programmes and put up posters and notices detailing the Covid-19 guidelines. “We will hold orientation sessions reminding students of little things like opening doors using elbows, keeping their masks on at all times and carrying pocket sanitisers. Parents have also been asked to pick and drop their children as per the specified schedule. Teachers have also designed and put up posters on Covid-19 safety guidelines as well. We have installed web-cams in our classrooms to ensure that classes can be live-streamed for those who choose not to attend offline classes,” said Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, which has over 400 students appearing for their class 10 and 12 boards this year.Geeta Gangwani, principal of Bal Bharati School in Rohini, which will reopen later this month once their pre-board examinations are over, said they will have daily orientation for students. “We have also prepared a presentation for parents which focuses on how children should behave before entering school, while being in school, and after they leave school. Exhaustive training of support staff will also be undertaken in the coming week,” she said.The school has installed sanitisers, fogging machines, thermal scanners, and disinfectants which will be sprayed in-between batches. “The students will be here only for three hours and we will have to disinfect the area before the other batch comes in. We have also installed taps that can be operated by feet in washrooms. Physical distancing markers have been put up between classrooms and washrooms. Teachers will ensure that children are not gathering anywhere, including washrooms and will be checking the queues in the corridors before excusing the child,” she said.Richa Sharma, principal of The Sanskriti School, which is reopening Tuesday, said they will have seven students per laboratory, which has a capacity of 30 students. The school also sent consent forms to parents of those students who were being called to school as per their roster. “Each batch will have a teacher and attendant to ensure that physical distancing is followed at all times. A task force has also been formed which is supervising entry-exit protocols, cleaning, managing consent forms among other things.”Trisha Kakkar, a class 12 student at The Indian School, said, “My parents have allowed me to return to school and I am really excited about it. Along with practical lessons, we will be able to see our teachers and interact with them one last time as this is our last year of school. Though we won’t be able to do much because of Covid-19 protocols, returning to school will have a positive impact on us and will only motivate us to study harder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-to-open-classes-labs-with-masks-sanitisers-private-schools-to-reopen-later-101610904964532.html
17-01-2021||Other||DDA asks residents for input on Delhi’s Master Plan 2041||New DelhiThe Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has sought suggestions from the public for the city’s new vision document, Master Plan of Delhi-2041. The move comes months after the DDA and the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which has been roped in by the DDA to prepare the MPD-2041, held a two-month-long public consultation last year.A senior DDA official said that this is being done to ensure maximum participation from the public before the draft of MPD-2041 is prepared. “People can give their suggestions and share their ideas about what kind of the city they want Delhi to be. The idea behind this exercise is to get maximum participation,” said the official.DDA on January 6 also tweeted along with a link of the form for suggestions from the public, “Be a part of RE-INVENTING DELHI! DDA is preparing Delhi’s next Master Plan for 2041. Being a resident of Delhi, click on the link below & aid in creating a vision for your city that will steer the next master plan. 5 statements! 10 minutes of your time!”In the form, DDA has asked people about the issues they face currently which they want to be addressed in the next vision document. The land-owning agency has also asked people to list five important things they must address to ensure planned and sustainable development of the city. DDA officials say that no deadline has been set for the exercise so far.From rampant commercialisation due to mixed land use to poor implementation of MPD-2021 to frequent amendments in the plan to regularise “illegal” developments, Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) say that the next master plan should take into account “ground realities” and provide solutions to local problems.In the last 14 years, when mixed land use was allowed in Delhi, RWAs say it has led to commercialisation of residential areas.Rajiv Kakria, convener, Save Our City campaign and a resident of Greater Kailash-I, said, “It has destroyed the residential character of neighbourhoods. Today, safety and security has become our utmost concern due to rampant commercialisation of residential areas. We don’t know who is entering our areas. It has destroyed the social fabric. Our top priority is that residential, industrial and commercial areas should have dedicated space. Safety and security of residential areas should be maintained.”BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA joint front, said, “Apart from mixed land use, the new Master Plan should also focus on making the city roads more pedestrian friendly. There is an urgent need to find a solution to the problem of traffic congestion.”While RWAs want the problem of rampant commercialisation to be addressed, traders’ associations in the capital want planned commercial spaces and a permanent solution to the problem of sealing. Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said, “Development of commercial space has not kept pace with the city’s growth. DDA should assess the requirement for commercial space and plan accordingly. There is a need to provide planned commercial spaces in the city and also protect present businesses from sealing and demolition action.”NGOs and experts working for the welfare of under-privileged people in turn want the DDA to reach out to these people also so that they can have a say in the plan.Shalaka, coordinator of ‘Main Bhi Dilli’ campaign (a collective of individuals and organisations working on creating awareness about the MPD-2041), and member of Indo-Global Social Service Society (IGSSS), a voluntary organisation, said, “It is good that the DDA is reaching out to people. But there is a need to organise mass outreach programme so that people living in unauthorised colonies and slum clusters also get a chance to give their inputs. They will not be able to fill-up the form online.”While the DDA is asking people to give a broad vision for the city, citizens want an issue-based discussion on various aspects of MPD-2041.Atul Goyal, president of URJA, a collective of RWAs in the city, said, “There are several components of MPD which require detailed discussion. The DDA should have issue-based discussion with people on mixed land use, transportation, redevelopment, development of unauthorised colonies impact on plotted developments. There should be a provision to audit. We should know what all has been achieved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-asks-residents-for-input-on-delhi-s-master-plan-2041-101610904906017.html
17-01-2021||Other||AIIMS guard who showed severe allergic reaction to vaccine released from hospital||New DelhiThe 22-year-old security guard who was admitted into the intensive care unit (ICU) for severe allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis, after receiving a Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Saturday, was discharged on Sunday.“He is stable and has been discharged,” confirmed Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, Delhi.He was the only severe reaction reported in Delhi on the first day of the national vaccine roll-out. Anaphylaxis causes skin rash, nausea, vomiting, difficulty breathing, and shock, if not treated promptly. The hospital had been administering Covaxin that is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research. According to doctors at AIIMS, the security guard had complained of uneasiness, palpitation, headache, and developed rash after 10-15 minutes of having been given a shot. He was moved to the icu, and remained under observation of specialists for a day before being discharged on Sunday evening. In all, Delhi reported 51 minor reactions such as rashes, swelling at the site of injection, or fever on day one of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. A senior NDMC official, who asked not to be named, had said that two cases of mild AEFI (adverse effects following immunisation) symptoms were reported at Charak Palika Hospital. Two of the hospital’s health care workers who took the Covid-19 vaccine in the afternoon, had reported slight tightness in the chest during the observation period. “They were immediately attended to by the AEFI team and kept under observation. They felt normal within half-an-hour and were discharged. There is nothing to be worried about AEFI cases, as such symptoms are normal to occur after any vaccination,” the official had said. As per the Covid-19 vaccination operational guidelines, a recipient of the vaccine would need to be kept under observation in a separate waiting area at the vaccination site for at least 30 minutes, to monitor their health condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aiims-guard-who-showed-severe-allergic-reaction-to-vaccine-released-from-hospital-101610904904995.html
17-01-2021||Other||Health care workers in Delhi who skip vaccine shot to be allotted another slot||New Delhi: Health care workers in Delhi who do not receive a Covid-19 vaccine shot despite being registered to get a dose will be allotted another slot, senior government officials said, as the administration looks to build confidence and minimise purported hesitancy among residents of the national capital. “We have to work on building confidence. Those who do not turn up at vaccine centres in the first phase despite being registered will get another slot. However, we are yet to decide whether that window for healthcare workers should be accommodated before vaccination starts for frontline workers or after that,” said a senior official in the Delhi government who did not wish to be identified.The official, who asked not to be named, said a health care worker’s name would be removed from the priority list, if they miss the second slot.With the vaccination drive launched on Saturday, around 8,100 healthcare workers in Delhi were slotted for the first day of the jabs. However, of these, just 4,319 (around 53%) turned up at the 81 vaccine centres in the Capital. Around 240,000 healthcare workers in Delhi have been registered for the first phase of the drive, which will resume from Monday.“The turnout figure in Delhi for the first day is at par with the rest of India. But the number is likely to increase in the days to come. The government is making its best efforts to ensure that,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said in a press conference on Sunday.According to data compiled from states by HT, 200,297 people across the country were vaccinated on Saturday, against an estimated 300,000 who were slated to receive their first dose of either the Covishield or Covaxin jab.After healthcare workers, the vaccine will be given to front line workers, which include police officers, fire officials, home guards, sanitation employees, school teachers and employees of several agencies and departments that were engaged in Covid-19 management. Delhi has an estimated 600,000 front line workers, and the registration process for this category is underway.The government will this week intensify its awareness drive to allay concerns regarding vaccination, said a second senior government official. “Starting Sunday, all registered vaccine candidates will get a call from the district surveillance teams. The caller will try to engage with the candidate over potential risks, concerns and try to allay fears, if any.”Currently, candidates receive text messages informing them of the date and time of the scheduled vaccination, as well as the location of the respective centre.The second official said the government has also asked agencies and departments to start conducting group-counselling for their staff – largely frontline workers — to ensure they are ready to receive the vaccine when their turn arrives.A senior doctor from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who asked not to be named, said, “There are some who are extremely excited about the vaccination drive. However, some others would like to wait and see what happens, and some who prefer to avoid getting immunised at the moment. The fears especially revolve around potential adverse effects — both short and long-term.”On Saturday, Delhi recorded 51 instances of minor adverse reactions such as mild fever, rashes and swelling at the site of injection, while one recipient — an AIIMS staffer — suffered a severe allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis, after receiving a dose of Covaxin. The staffer was admitted to hospital on Saturday, and discharged on Sunday, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria confirmed.Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicines department at Maulana Azad Medical College, said, “With time, more people will turn up. Efforts are being made on several fronts to ensure confidence building and reduce hesitancy. For counselling drives in the days to come, the government can also take help of people who have been vaccinated and engage them in group discussions with potential candidates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/health-care-workers-in-delhi-who-skip-vaccine-shot-to-be-allotted-another-slot-101610904904484.html
17-01-2021||Other||Farmers declare tractor parade on Outer Ring Rd on R-Day, maintain they won’t get vaccinated till farm laws are repealed||Samyukt Kisan Morcha – an umbrella body of 40 farmers’ bodies protesting at Delhi’s borders– on Sunday announced a tractor parade on Outer Ring Road on January 26, a day before the Supreme Court hearing on seeking injunction against the proposed march. “This will be a peaceful parade. No disruption will be caused to official Republic Day celebrations or provocative speeches will be made. The national flag will be placed on all tractors,” farmer leaders said during the press conference.Farmer leaders said they will urge the Haryana and Delhi Police to cooperate. “There will be no threat to any national heritage sites, or to any other site. The vehicles in the parade will consist of tableaus and floats that will reflect the agricultural reality of different states in addition to showcasing historical regional and other movements. No political party flags will be allowed,” said farmer leader Darshan Pal.Meanwhile, a day after India kicked off its vaccination drive against Covid , farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders maintained that they would not leave the capital to go to their home states to get vaccinated before the three contentious farm laws were repealed.Though the first round of vaccines have been reserved for health care personnel followed by front line workers, the elderly – considered to be at risk – will be next in line to get the vaccines administered. This is crucial as a sizable number of farmers protesting at the national capital’s borders are above 50 years of age.On Sunday, Chamkaur Singh, 63 and his friend Dabinder Singh, 61, from Moga district of Punjab, were among the several at the protest site who said they will not return to their villages to get vaccinated unless the three new contentious farm laws were repealed.“We have heard many doctors say that Covid-19 existed earlier as well and affected people with less immunity. There are thousands of poor people living on the streets here, who have no means to wash their hands or wear masks. How are they managing? We believe the lockdown was just a ploy of the government to get the [farm] laws passed without any resistance,” said Chamkaur Singh, who hails from Dhudike village in Moga district, and is a member of Kirti Kisaan Union. Dabinder added, “We will get vaccinated only if we have the disease. Not otherwise.”Several others in the crowd added that they did not trust the government’s claims on the fatality rate of Covid-19 disease. Balpreet Singh, 28, a farmer from Marur village in Firozpur, said, “We have been here since day one and it has been impossible to maintain physical distancing. Yet, we are yet to encounter any Covid-19 cases in our group of 100-200 people. The fear of the disease is more fatal than the disease itself.”“What will we do with the vaccine if we lose our lands and homes eventually due to the farm laws? This fight will continue and we are now looking forward to the tractor march on Republic Day,” he said.Farmers also raised questions on the efficacy of the vaccines, as several leaders had not been vaccinated yet. Mer Singh, 55, a farmer from Panipat in Haryana, said, “The Prime Minister should step forward and take the vaccine and lead by example. It will help in dispelling rumours about the vaccines. We have read reports of people having reactions, even dying, after getting vaccinated. There is a strong feeling among farmers that this Covid-19 threat has been made bigger than it actually is just to counter resistance.”However, not all protesters were against taking the Covid shots. Kuldeep Kaur, 68, a farmer from Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district, said, “Though we don’t have Covid-19 cases in our village, I will get vaccinated when I return to Punjab and the vaccine is made available to us. I will not get vaccinated here though.”Health care workers volunteering at the spot said they had no plans to counsel farmers on the need for vaccines. Virendra Singh, a neurotherapist volunteering at the medical camp set up by United Sikhs NGO at Singhu border, said, “It is too early to counsel the farmers. Let the health care workers get vaccinated first. Right now, we have very few volunteers focusing on the immediate needs of farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-declare-tractor-parade-on-outer-ring-rd-on-r-day-maintain-they-won-t-get-vaccinated-till-farm-laws-are-repealed-101610904844567.html
17-01-2021||Other||Jal Vayu Vihar home burgled while family was away||Noida: Unidentified persons broke into a house in Noida’s Jal Vayu Vihar on Saturday night and stole jewellery and cash, said police.According to police, the family of the house had been out at the time of the incident. When they returned at aroound 10 pm, they found the house ransacked, they said. “The burglars left with around ₹80,000 kept in one of the cupboards along with gold jewellery. No electronics or watches were taken,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, sector 20 police station.A case of trespassing (section 457 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered on the basis of a complaint from the house owner Neeraj Munjal.Police suspect that the burglars had been watching the area for some time.“We will look at CCTV footage in the area. The family does not suspect anyone specific,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jal-vayu-vihar-home-burgled-while-family-was-away-101610904724902.html
17-01-2021||Other||Five held in connection with two robberies in Greater Noida||Noida: Five men were apprehended by the Greater Noida police in connection with two robberies after an encounter on Saturday. Part of the stolen money was recovered from them, said the police.In the first case, a businessman in Greater Noida’s Surajpur was robbed of ₹1.5 lakh on December 29, 2020. In the second case, two staffers of a petrol pump, on their way to a bank to deposit money on a scooter, were robbed of ₹8 lakh on January 8 this year.According to the police, they had a tip-off that the suspects were going to meet near the Janpad crossing to divide the loot. “Teams from the special operations group and Surajpur police station reached the spot where the suspects were asked to surrender. They tried to flee and fired at the police team surrounding them. In retaliatory firing, two suspects were injured. Three more were apprehended while three of their accomplices managed to flee,” said Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.He also said that the suspects were identified using technical surveillance.The injured suspects were identified as Brajesh Gurjar and Sunny, who were rushed to a hospital for treatment. A search is on for the three absconding suspects. Of the other three who were nabbed, Vikas worked at the petrol pump and was allegedly an informant for the gang, said the police. On the day of the robbery, he had allegedly informed the suspects when the money had left the fuel station.Police have also recovered two motorcycles, which had allegedly been used in the incidents, along with ₹6.15 lakh and four countrymade pistols.Police said the gang has been operative for past few months and has been involved in robberies and looting in the NCR. They are looking at other cases in which the gang may have been involved.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-held-in-connection-with-two-robberies-in-greater-noida-101610904724516.html
17-01-2021||Other||Five years after death, discom serves electricity bill of ₹86,000 to former MLA||NOIDA: The Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), a power distribution company, has served an electricity bill of whopping ₹86,000 to former MLA Thakur Chhatrapal Singh, more than five years after his death. However, Singh’s family members said that all the outstanding power dues in his name had been cleared in 2016 itself. Singh had won the Khurja seat (Jewar was then part of it) as Socialist Party candidate in the assembly elections in 1957. According to Manjit Thakur, grandson of the former MLA, Singh had died on October 18, 2015. The family lives at Dayanatpur village in Jewar. Thakur, who is also a local BJP leader, said that he wrote a letter in this regard to the UP energy minister Srikant Sharma. “After my grandfather’s death, who was also a freedom fighter, I went to the PVVNL office on July 9, 2016, and cleared all outstanding dues in his name. After that, we applied for a fresh power connection in the name of my mother Veena Devi, which we got within a week. We’ve been paying our electricity bills regularly. But our family gets disturbed now as the discom has issued us the notice to clear the dues in my grandfather’s name,” Thakur said. When asked, state energy minister Sharma said that he has asked the PVVNL officials to look into the matter immediately. “I’ve seen the final disconnection certificate issued by PVVNL and asked the discom officials to resolve this issue immediately. Such acts tarnish the image of a leader, who was considered as a high-principled leader in the area,” said Sharma. Virendra Nath Singh, Noida divisional chief engineer of PVVNL, said that he has got information about the issue on Sunday. “I feel extremely sorry for this error, which is apparently committed by the billing agency outsourced by us. We are looking into the matter and it will be sorted out soon. The guilty officials will have to send a letter of apology to the former MLA’s family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-years-after-death-discom-serves-electricity-bill-of-86-000-to-former-mla-101610904544464.html
17-01-2021||Other||Noida’s air quality improves to ‘very poor’||Noida: The air quality of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida improved to ‘very poor’ on Sunday after being under ‘severe’ levels for the past three days. Weather experts said that better ventilation conditions on Sunday helped pull the air quality out of ‘severe’ zone. The three cities, however, remained the most polluted in the country. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Greater Noida was 384 (‘very poor’) on Sunday against 438 a day earlier – both highest in the country on their respective days. Noida’s AQI on Sunday was 383 against 434 on Saturday, while Ghaziabad recoded an AQI of 368 against 423 a day earlier – third worst in the country. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. “The changing wind directions and slightly better speed has improved the ventilation conditions in the region. The particle pollutants could be dispersed, thereby improving the air quality. The weather conditions are likely to improve over the next two days, so the air quality may further improve,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Sunday, the wind direction changed from icy cold north-westerly to mostly easterly that led to lifting the fog, thereby blocking the sunlight and dropping the daytime mercury and cold day like conditions, Srivastava said. According to IMD, the minimum temperature dipped for Noida, with Sunday seeing a minimum and maximum temperatures of 6.1 degrees Celsius and 15.1 degrees Celsius, against 7.8 degrees and 18.3 degrees a day earlier. The major pollutant or PM2.5 in the region ventilated to become three times the safety standards against being eight times a day earlier. The average PM2.5 for Noida on Sunday was 229.44 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3) against 351.22 µg/m3 on Saturday. The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 232.86 µg/m3 against 341.64 µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad was 220.11 µg/m3 against 404.06 µg/m3 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the air quality is likely to stay in the ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. “Surface winds are moderate and East Northeasterly. The better wind speed has helped improve dispersion. The air quality is likely to stay in the same very poor category for the next two days. Further improvement is expected on January 20 in the lower end of the very poor to poor category,” Safar said in a statement on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noidas-air-quality-improves-to-very-poor-101610904544954.html
17-01-2021||Bhopal||Morena hooch tragedy: Main accused Mukesh Kirar held from Chennai||The main accused in the January 11 Morena hooch tragedy in Madhya Pradesh which killed 24 people was arrested from Chennai on Sunday, officials said.The home of main accused Mukesh Kirar in Chhera village was also demolished as part of the action following the tragedy, they added.Additional Chief Secretary Rajesh Rajora said Kirar was held from Chennai, while Jaura Sub Divisional Magistrate Neeraj Sharma confirmed that the accused's home had been brought down.Morena BJP MP and Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar visited the houses of the victims on Sunday.The January 11 incident, in which some residents of Manpur and Pahawali villages consumed "white coloured liquor", has claimed 24 lives, nine of whom died immediately and the rest in hospitals later.A three-member team under ACS Rajora, and comprising Additional Director General of Police (CID) A Sai Manohar and Deputy Inspector General Mithilesh Shukla, was constituted to probe the incident.Following the tragedy, the state government removed the district collector, the superintendent of police as well as the entire staff of Bagchini police station for negligence in duty, while a sub-divisional officer of police was placed under suspension.A case was registered against seven persons for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under IPC and Excise Act provisions, and a reward of ₹10,000 each was declared for their arrests. PTI ADU BNM BNM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/morena-hooch-tragedy-main-accused-mukesh-kirar-held-from-chennai-101610903214778.html
17-01-2021||Noida||Species diversity rises yet population drops at Okhla Bird Sanctuary||Following the trend set last year, the bird population at Noida’s only eco-sensitive zone, the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, dropped this year. On a positive note, the diversity of species had increased to the highest in three years. The Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2021 was conducted by the Wetlands International South Asia and the divisional forest department Gautam Budh Nagar. Fifteen volunteers and forest department officials counted 8,068 birds of total 73 species of water birds, of which 27 were resident and local migratory species and 46 migratory species. Last year’s AWC-2020 saw only 62 species – 28 residents and 34 migratory species -- however the numbers were higher at 8,776 birds as compared to January 2021. The census also included 8 species of IUCN Red-listed threaten birds – Black-headed Ibis (Indian resident), Black-tailed Godwit (Winter migratory from Central Asia), Common Pochard (Winter migratory from Central Asia), Painted Stork (Indian resident species), Greater Spotted Eagle (Winter migratory migrates from Central Asia), Oriental Darter (Resident), River Lapwing (Resident), Ferruginous Duck (Winter migratory from Central Asia). According to the ecologists, the drop in population numbers was primarily owning to poor habitat health. “Due to global climate change impact like delayed winter, slow migration and fewer winter migratory water birds has been recorded almost everywhere in northern India. Okhla Bird Sanctuary on Yamuna, one of the 467 important birding area (IBA) Sites in India used to be rich habitat for birdlife diversity but degrading due to urban development, biotic pressure and much disturbance losing year by year species diversity and population,” said TK Roy, ecologist and conservationist, AWC. He added that OBS is among only two IBA in Delhi-NCR, the other being Sultanpur National Park in Haryana. Pointing out some interesting and among uncommon sightings, Roy named -- Common Shelduck ( total five spotted, migrates from Central Asia), Mallard ( three spotted, migrates from Central Asia) and Great Crested Grebe ( seven spotted, migrates from Central and East Asia). Meanwhile, the forest department stated that the census was held with the protocols of bird flu – like wearing protective gears, etc. “Since there had been a bird flu alerts, so there were some protocols at place like wearing masks and gloves. However, we still went ahead with the census as it would help us take a stock of ground reality since the birds are indicator of the habitat health. We are committed to develop better habitat and manage our wetlands so that the population and species diversity increases,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the experts, water birds are one of the key indicators of wetlands health that provides feeding, resting, roosting, and foraging habitats for these species. The migratory birds start arriving in the region by October from far Central Asia, North Asia including Russia and Siberia, while their strength reaches its peak by December. Their departure begins by March and by mid-April they are all back to their breeding grounds in central Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/species-diversity-rises-yet-population-drops-at-okhla-bird-sanctuary-101610904484418.html
17-01-2021||Other||Noida authority sanctions ₹32 crore for various projects to address civic issues||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Sunday said that it has sanctioned ₹32 crore for several projects in various areas, mostly sectors 72 to 79, to address civic issues. The funds will be spent on constructing drain walls along internal roads, construction of drainage network, development of green belt and beautification of footpaths, among others, said officials.“We will first prepare estimates and then hire agencies to carry out these works,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief general manager, Noida authority.The authority has also decided to spend a part of the amount on constructing community centres in sectors 73, 112, 116 and 117, the officials said.Residents of these sectors, which are home to dozens of group housing societies, have been demanding for these works for a long time. They said that the authority should also focus on proper cleaning work in these areas.“We have also asked the authority to ensure that the drains stay clean as choked water channels cause sanitation issues. Also, the sanitation employees should do a better job to keep the areas clean,” said Amita Singh, a resident of sector 76.Apart from this, the authority on Sunday also started various works worth ₹7 crore for streamlining traffic in these sectors. Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and Gautam Budh Nagar MP Dr Mahesh Sharma inaugurated these projects on Sunday.These works are related with construction of boundary wall in sector 77, construction of central verge on internal roads in sectors 74 and 117, and central verge on road between sectors 77 and 116, said the authority officials.“We have asked the authority to make sure that the issues related with basic amenities should be dealt with on priority basis,” said Sharma, GB Nagar MP.Singh, the Noida MLA, said, “Following the demands made by the residents, the authority has started work on these projects.”The authority said that it is already carrying out projects of at least ₹150 crore in these sectors with an aim to address the issue of traffic congestion and improving basic amenities. “The authority is building an underpass on traffic intersection of sectors 71 and 51, a flyover at Parthala roundabout and resurfacing the internal roads in these sectors,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-authority-sanctions-32-crore-for-various-projects-to-address-civic-issues-101610904425499.html
17-01-2021||Other||Next vaccination round on January 22, Ghaziabad chalks procedures for increased coverage||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday said that the next round of Covid-19 vaccinations will take place on January 22. After that, the drive will take place bi-weekly -- likely on Mondays and Fridays, according to health officials.Health care workers (HCWs) will remain the focus of the vaccination drive and districts have been told to prepare their list of beneficiaries and vaccination centres.“The first round of vaccination was successful (on Saturday). In all, 22,643 people were vaccinated (of the 31700 they had targeted, which is a 71% turnout) and we used both vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin in the state. The next round of vaccination will be held on January 22 and thereafter the vaccination will take place for two days in week. The list of beneficiaries is being prepared with the help of the Co-WIN portal,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). The Centre on Sunday had advised states to keep the vaccination sessions four days in a week so as to avoid disruption of health services. Depending on their cohort, resources and staff, the states have created their weekly schedule ranging from six to two days a weekDuring the on-going phase 1 of vaccinations, over 900,000 HCWs are expected to be vaccinated over several weeks in the state. Those who were vaccinated with Covishield on Saturday are expected to get their second booster shot on February 15. Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad district officials said they will further fine tune their ground protocols for the second round of vaccinations. The districts were told to prioritise vaccinating HCWs over 40 years of age.On Saturday, the Ghaziabad district vaccinated 379 of 400 listed HCWs in four centres, while Gautam Budh Nagar vaccinated 393 of 600 in six centres. In terms of turnout, the Ghaziabad district stood third after Siddharth Nagar and Baghpat, while Gautam Budh Nagar was on 53rd spot among all 75 districts. On Saturday Hindustan Times reported how a centre in Dasna had to call beneficiaries up when they realised that people had not got their text message informing them of their shot, date, time and centre the previous day. Some beneficiaries in Ghaziabad were on leave and could not take their shot. “We have learnt our lessons from the first round. For the next, we will procure a list of beneficiaries from the centres and rule out people suffering from ailments and also those on leave, and include those who are willing to get vaccinated. So, this will help us get more coverage,” said Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO).“We will also deploy a dedicated team for each centre that will contact beneficiaries over phone a day before the vaccination drive,” said Dr Gupta.Of the stock of 2,741 vials of Covishield vaccine, the district used 40 vials during the first round. A vial contains 10 doses. District officials said they will continue with routine immunizations --- polio, DPT, diphtheria, tetanus and BCG, among others -- on Wednesdays and Saturdays.Gautam Budh Nagar district administration said their drive on Saturday was smooth and they had nothing to improve.“We will likely increase the number of centres. The exact number of beneficiaries will be decided by Thursday,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.Of the stock of 3,500 vials of Covishield vaccine, the district used 44 vials during the first round in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/next-vaccination-round-on-january-22-ghaziabad-chalks-procedures-for-increased-coverage-101610904424424.html
17-01-2021||Noida||No complications, say the vaccinated Covid-19 warriors||Dr Rakesh Gupta, the director of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), is a happy man. He has been managing the dedicated Covid-19 facility since April and on Saturday was vaccinated against the coronavirus disease. When asked about his experience after the vaccination, Gupta said that it was a regular vaccination lasting nothing more than a few seconds. “But indeed, it was a moment of pride to be among the first lot to be inoculated against the deadly virus that halted the growth across the globe for over nine months. None of our staff suffered nausea or dizziness after getting their shot,” he said. Chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) Dr DK Singh said that everybody should get the vaccine as responsible citizens. “Since the vaccine has been developed by seasoned scientists after sufficient trials and it is safe for use, I had no side effects. I am continuing work today as per my routine,” he said. Dr Pallavi Sharma, assistant professor in school of dental sciences in Sharda university, said that none of the health workers in her campus complained about vomiting tendency or fever, after getting the first dose of vaccine on Saturday. “To me, it was like other vaccines – some pain for a few seconds and nothing else. In fact, while being under observation for 30 minutes, we all were cracking jokes and planning menu for Sunday’s lunch,” she said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said there were no cases of adverse events in the city. “The details of health workers were noted and it has been uploaded on Co-WIN app. Altogether 24,453 health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase of vaccination,” he said. The district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that those who missed Saturday’s inoculation will get another chance in the next phase. “We have got adequate Covidshield vials to be used in the first phase. In the second round of vaccination for the first phase, we hope to vaccinate over 7,500 people on Friday at 75 vaccination booths. However, we are waiting for the government’s detailed guidelines in this connection,” he said. Ohri also said that the district administration has approved the list of 12 government and 20 private hospitals. “The district health department has also prepared a list of 75 booths, where the vaccination will take place in these hospitals. We have already prepared a list of 24,453 doctors and other medical staff, who will be inoculated in the first phase of vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-complications-say-the-vaccinated-covid-19-warriors-101610904424939.html
17-01-2021||Other||Noida authority to hold its board meeting today||NOIDA: The Noida authority is likely to go over several important proposals in its board meeting scheduled for Monday, said officials. After the board approves a plan, it is sent to the state government for final nod.The board meets once a year wherein the authority tables proposals such as those related to development, property rules, among others. The meeting is chaired by the chairman of the authority and is attended by the senior officials of the police, administration and the state government. The meeting will take place at the authority’s Sector 6 administrative building.One of the major proposals to be tabled is allowing payment of lease of group housing properties in four instalments. As per the current rules, however, developers have to pay 1% per annum of the total property cost, calculated for a period of 15 years, as lease in one go to get permission for flat registries. “This proposal is to be tabled before the board for discussion and approval,” said Rajesh Kumar, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.Apart from this, a proposal to hire an agency to develop a ₹650 crore Noida convention centre in Sector 94 will be tabled. The authority has finalised the UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam (UPRNN) for the project. However, sources said the authority is exercising caution before allowing work to be started at the ground, as the UPRNN had been blacklisted by the Allahabad High Court in the past.“The Noida authority board will discuss whether a blacklisted firm should be allowed to carry out works in important projects or not. If the board gives its nod, the authority can allow the firm to start work, after the state government’s nod,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to the media.Other proposals to be discussed in the board meeting are related to hiring of employees with the land department, etc, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-authority-to-hold-its-board-meeting-today-101610904244999.html
17-01-2021||Other||At UP Gate, social outfits hold rallies in show of support for farmers||Ghaziabad: On Sunday, the UP Gate site where farmers have been on protest against the three new farm laws, was abuzz with activity as several organisations carried out rallies in the thousands in a show of support.Among them were volunteers of the Samajwadi Bahujan Manch, a social organisation that took out a “tiranga yatra” (tricolour march) and a “mati sankalp march” (pledge for the soil march) at the UP Gate site.“We brought in soil from farmlands in villages from 25 different districts in western UP, Delhi and Haryana, and handed the earthen pots containing the soil to farmers at the UP Gate. Some of these will also be sent to the Singhu and Tikri borders protest sites. With this march, we have vowed to protect our soil. We also took out a tiranga yatra in which we stitched a 150-metre long tricolour,” Sanjeev Mathur, convener of the organisation, said while adding that about 15,000 volunteers joined the rally at UP Gate. “It is being said that only farmers from Punjab are part of the ongoing agitation, but this is not so. The fight is even for small and marginal farmers alike, as well as landless farmers. Even our leaders such as Dr BR Ambedkar would have supported farmers. So, members of our organisation decided that we should take out the awareness rally and support farmers at the UP Gate,” he added.Members of the Bhagat Singh Ambedkar Brigade also organised a rally.“Our organisation took out a rally to support farmers and we want them to emerge victorious. We feel that their talks with the government should continue and we also support their proposed tractor march on January 26,” said Shyam Kishor Yadav, founder member of the organisation.MAHILA KISAN DIVASMembers of the UP Gate protest site said they will observe Monday as Mahila Kisan Divas wherein hundreds of women farmers from different areas will join them. They added that the dais will be coordinated by women farmers on Monday. Besides, a kabaddi match has been scheduled on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway.“Women farmers will come to the protest site in large numbers for the Mahila Kisan Divas. Besides, a Kabaddi event is scheduled for Monday. The day will be observed to remember the contribution of women farmers,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of the UP Gate committee and a farmer leader from Uttarakhand. TRAFFIC AND SOUND CONTROL PANEL Thousands of farmers have been camping at the UP Gate since November 28 over their demand of repeal of the three new farm laws. Successive talks with the government have so far failed to break the deadlock. The gathering at the UP Gate has swelled further as tractor-trolleys and camps have been put up all across the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway, from UP Gate to Khoda Colony. The farmers have also come up with a traffic and sound control committee, which has 11 members who are all senior citizens. A special camp at the site has been erected for the committee members. “The idea behind this committee is to keep an eye on youngsters who play loud DJ music in their vehicles and perform stunts in tractors. We don’t allow them to play loud music at night, since it will trouble residents nearby (of Khoda Colony). We keep a 24-hour check on such instances and no loud music is allowed here after 10pm,” said Satnam Singh, a senior citizen from Lakhimpur Kheri.He added that a youngster got injured a couple of days ago while performing stunts with his tractor.“The boy got injured and his tractor saw major damages. It could have led to injuries to people in camps. Our committee keeps an eye on such incidents and we try to prevent them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-up-gate-social-outfits-hold-rallies-in-show-of-support-for-farmers-101610904244447.html
17-01-2021||Other||Avian flu: 81,000 birds culled at three farms in Panchkula||Ten days after avian influenza was confirmed at two poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt, the district administration on Sunday completed culling of 81,000 birds at three farms falling in the infected zone.While Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, had confirmed flu in samples sent from four more farms, the administration is still awaiting confirmatory reports from the national laboratory in Bhopal.On January 7, the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, found samples sent from Siddharth Poultry Farm in Kheri and Nature Poultry Farm in Dandlawar-Ganauli positive for H5N8 avian influenza virus.The next day, the Haryana government declared the outbreak, turning the area within a kilometre of the two epicentres as infected zone and announcing culling at five farms falling under it. Later, the deputy commissioner issued a revised notification, based on new measurements, and the number of farms was reduced to three: Siddharth and Narender in Kheri besides Nature.“The special task forces have completed culling at the three farms. They have culled 81,000 poultry birds,” said DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Sunday, adding: “On January 8, we had sent samples from 11 poultry farms, where mortality was high, but we have not received any report from the Bhopal lab.”When asked if meanwhile any preventive measures have been taken, he said: “We cannot restrict movement until we get positive reports.” The DC said 40 more samples have been taken from 15 poultry farms and these will sent to a laboratory in Hisar, which will be notified on Monday.”Mohali admn awaits confirmation report tooIn the neighbouring Mohali district, the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, had confirmed bird flu in samples from two poultry farms at Dera Bassi’s Behra village on Thursday, but the final confirmation from the Bhopal lab is awaited. It is expected to come on Monday. Meanwhile, in Chandigarh, carcasses of seven crows, two pigeons and a bat were recovered from difference parts of the city on Sunday. Three of the dead crows were found at the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals premises in Sector 38 West and another in an adjoining area.The Chandigarh forest and wildlife department has so far sent 21 samples to the Jalandhar lab, and all have tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/avian-flu-81-000-birds-culled-at-three-farms-in-panchkula-101610904185392.html
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bad weather grounds two flights, delays 10 at Chandigarh airport||Bad weather in the region led to cancellation of two flights and delayed 10 others at Chandigarh International Airport on Sunday. The two flights that were cancelled were GoAir G8-104 and IndiGo 6E-236 to Delhi with scheduled departures at 6:15am and 7:30am, respectively. Passengers travelling to Delhi on IndiGo’s flight scheduled at 7:45am had to wait for more than six hours before it finally took off at 2:10pm.Apart from this, IndiGo’s flights to Pune (7:50am), Kolkata (8am), Lucknow (8:25am) and Bengaluru (2:20pm) were also delayed by up to an hour and a half. GoAir’s flights to Mumbai and IndiGo’s flight to Goa were late by around half an hour. Likewise, IndiGo flight from Pune arrived late by an hour, at 2:34pm. Its flights from Bengaluru and Goa also landed here late by around half an hour.Mercury rises after fog clears in afternoonVisibility was as poor as 50 metres on Sunday morning, but it improved as fog cleared later during the day. A day after taking a nine-degree plunge, maximum temperature in Chandigarh again rose by eight notches to reach 19.2°C on Sunday. However, it was still two degrees below normal. Minimum temperature went up from 5.8°C to 8.3°C, three degrees above normal. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), similar conditions are likely in the coming days.With dense fog descending over the city on Saturday, the day temperature had dropped from Friday’s 20.8°C to 11.3°C, 10 notches below normal.“While fog formation is likely in the morning, easterly winds blowing in the city are expected to clear it by the afternoon, and sunny weather can be expected thereon,” said an IMD scientist.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 19 and 20 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 8 and 9 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bad-weather-grounds-two-flights-delays-10-at-chandigarh-airport-101610904066243.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||Three booked for snatching ₹97K from a trader||The city police on Sunday booked three men for allegedly snatching ₹97,400 from a 25-year-old trader who was returning to Nuh from a Delhi market. The victim alleged that he was assaulted and threatened for life by the suspects, who snatched the money kept in his van, said the police. The victim, Mustafa Muhammad, is a resident of Ferozepur Jhirka in Nuh, who delivers paneer to a Delhi market every morning. On Sunday morning, Muhammad was returning to his house along with two other men in his pick-up van. When he reached near Bhondsi, an Alto car intercepted his way. Three men in the car pulled him out and assaulted him. He was punched in the face as the two other men remained seated in the van out of fear. Jagbir Singh, inspector, Bhondsi police station, said that they have verified the car and a raid is on to nab the suspects. They will be arrested soon. “The suspects snatched ₹97,400, which was kept in the dashboard. Although the victim tried to hide the money, the suspects snatched the cash and fled in their car towards Nuh,” he said. After the incident, the victim informed police control room and lodged a compliant at the Bhondsi police station, where his statement was recorded. Singh said they have also recorded the statement of two eyewitnesses and have registered the case against three men.The police suspects that the accused were known to the victim and were following him from Delhi. A case under section 379B (snatching with hurt),341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) was registered at Bhondsi police station on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-booked-for-snatching-97k-from-a-trader-101610904064998.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers from Karnataka, Maharashtra join protestors at Haryana border||Groups of farmers from Karnataka and Maharashtra joined the ongoing agitation on the Haryana-Rajasthan border on Sunday. Farmers said that the growing numbers would help to strengthen the agitation ahead of January 26, when farmers plan to proceed towards Delhi. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Maharashtra and other states have been campaigning at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district since December 13. Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Sanjay Madhav, state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that nearly 300 farmers from Karnataka and 250 from Maharashtra had reached the protest site on Sunday. He said that the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha was of the view that the government was not serious in its approach towards the ongoing talks. As such, the number of protesting farmers would continue to rise until the laws are rolled back, said Madhav. He added that women farmers had also joined the protest in large numbers ahead of the women farmers’ day celebrations scheduled for Monday. “Right now, there are more women farmers than men here. Women farmers are an equal part of the movement and we plan to celebrate their contributions tomorrow,” said Madhav. Women farmers at the site also said that they were not happy with the Supreme Court’s stance that women, children and elders should avoid protests. Sohni Singh Punia, a 58-year-old farmer from Sikar in Rajasthan, said that women were an integral part of the farmers’ agitation and will not back down until the three laws are rolled back. “People say that women should not protest. It’s unfair. No one can stop us from protesting, it’s our democratic right. We will sit here till the three laws are taken back,” said Punia. She said that women farmers from different states had joined the ongoing agitation to strengthen the movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-from-karnataka-maharashtra-join-protestors-at-haryana-border-101610904064434.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||HSVP prepares layout plan for transport hub in Sector 33||After a delay of almost two decades in setting up a transport nagar (hub) for parking and operation of commercial vehicles in the city, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has finally prepared the revised layout plan for setting up this facility in Sector 33. The authority had initially planned the project initially over 70 acres but due to litigation and encroachment of land, it has decided to develop this facility on around 35 acres of encumbrance-free land. A revised layout plan for the transport nagar has been prepared and it will be soon sent to the headquarters in Chandigarh for approval, said Jitender Yadav, HSVP, administrator. The authority on Friday held its first meeting with the leading transporters in the city and discussed the revised plan regarding development of this project. It has sought inputs from the operators to make the project more suited to their needs.“We discussed this project in detail and have already taken their inputs in the matter. We have also given them a week’s time to give final suggestions after which the proposal will be sent to Chandigarh for final approval,” said Yadav. HSVP officials said that revised layout plans for the transport nagar in Sector 33 and an auto market in Sector 10 have been prepared and they are seeking inputs from all the stakeholders. “Due to litigation, these projects were delayed. However, we have worked on removing the roadblocks. These projects will be developed over land which is free from litigation and encroachments,” said Yadav, adding that the auto market project will be taken up next month. Hukam Chand Sharma, president, Gurugram Transporters’ Welfare Association said that they held a meeting with HSVP officials and shared their views about the proposed project. “We have requested the authority to allot space at the earliest to transporters located inside the city. Otherwise, issues like congestion would not get resolved,” he said, adding that they have been waiting for this facility since 1996, when it was first conceived. In a memorandum submitted to the HSVP on Friday, the transporters’ association stated that there are four kinds of operators in the city — those who book retail goods, those who act as brokers for warehouses, those who are wholesale goods transporters, and large contract-based operators. The association said office and godown space should be made available for all of them in addition to spaces for spare parts shops, vehicle mechanics, petrol pumps and recreational activities for drivers and helpers. Vivek Kalia, estate officer-l, HSVP, said that after incorporating the inputs, the proposal will be sent to the headquarters for approval, which will also decide the rate and mode through which shops, warehouses and offices are to be alloted to the transporters. “We are confident that project would be executed in the next few months on the ground,” he said. Sharma said that there are around 100 large transport operators in the city and they should be accommodated on priority. “Most of the cities in Haryana have developed such facilities. It is heartening to see such a project come up in Gurugram finally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-prepares-layout-plan-for-transport-hub-in-sector-33-101610904005433.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||Additional charges give MCG chance to avoid missteps in Manesar||As many as 22 officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) have been given additional charges in the newly formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM), which provides them with a chance to avoid missteps and issues of the MCG.The MCM was formed on December 23, 2020, with MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh appointed its first commissioner. It will be responsible for all civic activities in 124.32 square kilometres of its jurisdiction.In over a decade since the MCG’s formation in 2008, issues of basic infrastructure, a multiplicity of agencies, lack of online services, non-inclusion of residents in development and lack of access to MCG offices have hampered smooth functioning of the agency.Officials said that setting up roads, drainage and water lines before urban expansion; establishing coordination among various public bodies; using an e-office mode of operating; integrating RWAs into localised projects; and setting up zonal offices are some of the key matters they want to incorporate in the MCM from its beginning.Besides Singh, the MCG’s additional municipal commissioner, deputy municipal commissioner, chief town planner, senior medical officer, and officials of the engineering, electrical, taxation and sanitation wings have been given additional charges.Urban expansionThe MCG was formed nearly a decade after Gurugram had already witnessed unprecedented urbanisation. Due to the absence of a municipal body and proper urban planning, the city’s civic amenities continue to remain heavily affected. Over the last 12 years, MCG has always been playing catch-up to Gurugram’s civic mess.Each time there is heavy rain, the city is inevitably waterlogged due to either absence of drainage lines or choked drains. As recently as 2019, underpasses in the city were inundated and had to be shut to the public, which compounded traffic issues.The newer areas of the city — sectors 58-115 — where over half a million people are estimated to be living, continue to be hampered by civic issues such as poor road connectivity and absence of streetlights. In some of the newer sectors, condominiums and societies are yet to get direct water or sewerage connections, and remain heavily dependent on private water tankers and septic tanks.Vinay Pratap Singh said that in areas falling under the MCM, the majority of urbanisation has occurred in areas bordering Gurugram. He said that there are many parts of the city where urbanisation is yet to take place, giving MCM officials an opportunity to properly lay utilities and above all, the time to do it properly.“Prior to leasing out land for housing or industrial projects in areas which are yet to be developed, we will ensure that utilities have been provided so that expansion is carried out around it and there is no shortage or absence of civic amenities,” said Singh.Coordination among agenciesOfficials said that although the MCM is set to become an independent civic body once officials lay the groundwork, the functioning would be streamlined so that both the MCG and MCM work together for large-scale projects that would cater to demand of both the cities.“In the initial period, both the MCG and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) were operating separately. However, we soon realised that our objectives and work were not only similar but also largely covered the same areas or overlapped. Hence, for multiple projects such as monsoon preparedness, cleaning of drains and setting up of cycle tracks, the MCG and GMDA now work together. The MCG and MCM will also have a similar arrangement,” said Singh.After its formation in 2017, the GMDA took over all the master roads and drains from the MCG. The MCG subsequently handled only arterial roads and drains. However, after a year of operations, the two bodies realised that their projects needed to be coordinated.For instance, if the arterial drains leading to a master drain or vice versa were in a bad condition, there was no outlet for stormwater or sewage to flow. Often, the MCG and GMDA officials would clear their respective lines only to find that the line ahead was choked, making the entire project redundant.So far, the GMDA has been handling the master roads and drains in Manesar, while the arterial works were taken care of by village panchayats.Online servicesIn one of the first announcements since being appointed the MCM commissioner, Singh said that the new civic body will operate as an e-office. Under an e-office, all files are digitised and approved and sanctioned via e-signatures. The GMDA is the only government authority in Gurugram which offers a complete array of services on the internet.Due to the entire record being digital, officials said that discrepancies, such as forged signatures, missing files or misappropriation of funds — all of which are a regular occurrence in the MCG — will be difficult to execute as it will leave a digital footprint.The MCG has been working on digitising its entire mode of operations since December 2018. However, barring its property tax wing, none of the other wings has been completely digitised so far.“E-office is the best way of operating as it has many benefits. Even if an official is not present at their designated office space, he/she can approve or sanction a project from any location through e-office. This mode of operating will not only expedite work but also bring transparency to the daily mode of operations,” said Singh.Including residents in local worksIt took the MCG officials nearly nine years to fully realise the benefits of incorporating residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in their operations. Since 2017, of the 800 parks in the city, nearly 500 are being managed by local RWAs, with the rest by the MCG.“By decentralising the upkeep of parks, the MCG has been able to create a system where parks are managed at a micro-level rather than on a macro basis. This way, the standard of parks has improved significantly over the past three years across the city,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.If the RWAs fail to maintains the standards in the parks, the MCG reserves the power to take over the management. Further, the MCG also holds competitions and offers monetary incentives to the 10 best parks.Further, the MCG has also started open-air gyms at a few selected parks, where RWAs have volunteered to look after its upkeep as well. After the equipment at its first two open-air gyms — near Kanhai village and St Thomas Marg — were broken and items were stolen soon after their launch in February 2016, the MCG decided to seek the assistance of RWAs to make the venture successful.MCG officials said that they would be adopting similar strategies with RWAs in Manesar and incorporating them within the MCM from the start to increase surveillance and utility of localised projects.Zonal officesEven though the MCG has four zones, residents of Zone 3 — those living along Golf Course Road and nearby areas — had to visit the civic body’s main office in Sector 34, an industrial sector, located on the outskirts at a distance of 9 kilometres, to get their issues redressed for nearly 11 years.In July 2019, the MCG opened the Zone 3 office in Sector 42, at a distance of around a kilometre, to address both the distance issue and also deploy staff to address the residents’ concerns and expedite local projects.In Gurugram, there are two zonal offices at present for residents to get their issues addressed. Offices for zones 1 and 2 are at Civil Lines, while residents of Zone 4 have to reach out to officials at the Sector 34 office.Singh has already announced that zonal offices will be made in MCM to give better services to residents and the civic body will set up seven zones in Manesar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/additional-charges-give-mcg-chance-to-avoid-missteps-in-manesar-101610904006089.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||Security guard duped of ₹80K on pretext of getting a job||A 40-year-old man was duped of ₹80,000 by an unidentified person under the pretext of getting him a job in Dubai as a security guard in a multinational company, said the police on Sunday. Although the complaint was lodged by the victim, Mohammad Sabbir, a resident of Baldev Nagar, in August last year, the case was filed on Saturday after initial investigation. The police said Sabbir, who saw a job posting on an online portal in August, last year for the position of a security guard in a multinational company, called on the phone number provided, said the police. According to the police, Sabbir was looking for a career abroad and had applied for a job in a multinational company in other countries in the past. He was interviewed over the phone and was asked to submit documents of educational qualifications, past experience and salary slips from his previous jobs. The victim said, within half-an-hour, he received another call from a person named Vijay Kumar, who allegedly posed as the head of a department of a multinational company in Dubai. The man said that he was presently in based in his home town in Panipat in Haryana. The suspect told the victim that since the profile being sought was that of a senior guard position, the portal would provide him with a relationship manager to take care of the hiring process, for which charges would be applicable. He further said that there were as many as four levels of services to choose from — starting from the basic level to the priority level, said the police. According to the police, the victim first paid ₹5,000 for the basic level as registration fee, and then proceeded to pay for all the subsequent levels, in instalments of ₹20,000. All the transactions were carried out within a week. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that the victim transferred the amount in August last through his debit cards. “The suspect had promised that the amount will be refunded in his bank account after 24 hours of his placement. The executive had also said that they will only deduct 10% of the total amount,” he said. Goel added that after the amount was transferred, the victim did not receive any invoice for the same. “Vijay Kumar had told me that the invoice will be generated within 24 hours, but I did not receive any calls. I tried calling him repeatedly but he did not receive my calls. When I tried calling from a different number, he picked my call and asked for another day to send the invoice. I thought that the man was genuine, as he made himself sound convincing. Later, he blocked my numbers and accounts from all social media platforms.” Sabbir Singh. The suspect had promised to generate the interview ID within 48 hours but when the victim again sent an email, it bounced back and all numbers were found to be switched off. The victim then approached the police after he realised that he had been duped. A case under sections 420 (cheating) of the IPC and section 66 D of the IT Act was filed at the cyber police station after six months, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/security-guard-duped-of-80k-on-pretext-of-getting-a-job-101610904004911.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||Civic group writes to HSPCB over gaps in air quality data||A city-based civil society group has written to the chairperson of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), drawing attention to gaps in official air quality data from Gurugram.As per an analysis done by the group — Citizens for Clean Air — 10% to 22% of PM2.5 data each day is either erroneous or compromised. While officials did not comment on the veracity of the analysis, they admitted to persisting issues with collection of air quality data in the city.“We have observed that when we try to access the online monitoring units... the data reading is unavailable on some days for the stations in Gurugram. This frequent failure of air quality monitoring units is causing great concern. To give an example, the data for Gurugram, at various stations, was missing on January 7, January 12, January 14 and January 15,” states the letter, authored and signed by eight members of the collective.The issue, members of the group pointed out, is perennial at three of the four monitoring sites in the city, namely at Sector 51, Gwal Pahari and Vikas Sadan.Kuldeep Singh, the HSPCB’s regional officer for Gurugram, said, “There are no issues with the monitors in themselves. The data is not reflecting on the official websites on some days because it is not being relayed to the central CPCB server, perhaps. I have asked a technical expert to look into the matter.”A deeper analysis reveals more worrying gaps in the data. Abhishek Shrivastava, an environmental engineer and member of Citizens for Clean Air (CFCA), pointed out that between 10% and 22% of daily readings of finer particulate matter with a diameter less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5), across all four monitors, are either missing or erroneous. This was done by scrutinising about 1,201 data points at each monitoring station, which quantifies the amount of PM2.5 present in the vicinity of the device every 15 minutes. The data was analysed from January 1 to 13.At Vikas Sadan in Sector 11, for instance, 211 of the 1,153 readings available are marked as “None / Null”.“This is over 18% of data compromised,” said Shrivastava.“None/Null” readings have been marked in 178 of 1,153 readings for the TERI Gram monitor, while 76 readings are marked below 10 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3). “So, in total, 254 out of 1,153 readings available are erroneous. That is over 22% of data compromised,” said Shrivastava.“The standard expectation of any continuous monitoring system is that at most, data should be less than 5% erroneous, so that systematic interventions, both on short-term and long-term measures can be taken and impact can be monitored. It is evident that any positive action taken by government unfortunately with a system that does not deliver accurate values cannot be identified or scaled,” states CFCA’s representation to the HSPCB, dated January 15.Ruchika Sethi, a founding member of CFCA, which claims to have over 200 active members across 67 residents’ welfare associations in Gurugram, said, “Correct and timely information about air quality should be freely available to all taxpayers. Such persistent gaps in the data essentially mean that we are not getting an accurate picture of how bad the air is. Given that there is an inadequate number of monitors to begin with, what data we do get should be trustworthy.”S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, did not directly comment on the contents of the letter. She said, “We have received the communication and are waiting for comments from the field office. The CAAQMS are all outsourced to expert agencies and if there are some issues in connecting to servers we will take up with them and resolve at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/civic-group-writes-to-hspcb-over-gaps-in-air-quality-data-101610903948604.html
17-01-2021||Other||28 ex-councillors, local leaders resign from SAD in former Mohali mayor Kulwant’s support||A day after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal expelled former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh from the party, 28 local leaders, including office-bearers and former councillors, also tendered their resignation on Sunday and said they will be contesting the upcoming municipal elections under the banner of Azad group led by the former mayor. Of the 28 members, eight were holding party posts at various levels in the district. Kulwant had raised the banner of revolt against the party by deciding to contest the elections independently along with other former SAD councillors. The elections are scheduled on February 14. The group is now gearing up for the polls and have opened their office in Sector 78. “We paid obeisance at the Sohana gurdwara before starting our new innings,” said Kulwant. “The screening of candidates is going on and we are hopeful of announcing the final list soon.” Parvinder Singh Sohana, who resigned from the post of president, Youth Akali Dal, Mohali, said: “We gave everything to the party, but they back-stabbed and humiliated us. We will not even have any post-election alliance with SAD.” Blaming former member parliament Prem Singh Chandumajra for this debacle, former Akali councillor RP Sharma alleged: “He is hand in gloves with Congress and will help them in winning the elections.” Another former councillor, Surinder Singh, said that it was difficult for them to resign after having “sacrificed our entire life to SAD”. “But we were helpless as we were not heard. There were several issues that forced us to contest the elections independently,” he said. On Saturday, SAD expelled Kulwant from its primary membership after recommendations from senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, who stated that he was involved in anti-party activities. In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad group (of independents) and won 10 seats. With the support of Congress, he was elected the mayor. Later, in 2017, he joined SAD. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 last year. Last week, SAD had officially declared a list of 28 candidates (all of whom were former councillors) for the upcoming elections, but on January 11, 22 of them sided with Kulwant. With the latest development, a four-cornered fight awaits the MC polls. In the fray are SAD, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Kulwant’s group. The splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has opted out of the elections and will support AAP candidates and independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/28-ex-councillors-local-leaders-resign-from-sad-in-former-mohali-mayor-kulwant-s-support-101610903947898.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||MCG to set up state’s first dog sterilisation centre||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to set up Haryana’s first dog sterilisation centre at Begumpur Khatola, said officials on Saturday. MCG officials said that the centre will have an operation theatre, vaccination area, separate dog sheds and a ground for dogs to play. The issue of dog sterilisation has remained a source of friction between the civic bodies and residents, who have claimed several instances of cruelty and lack of adherence to procedures by the MCG contractors. Two weeks ago, the MCG terminated the contract of a Jhajjar-based team over allegations of animal cruelty, non-performance of duties and misbehaviour with residents. The Jhajjar-based firm was hired after the previous firm’s contract was terminated in February 2020, also due to complaints of mistreatment of dogs from residents and activists.Last month, MCG officials had visited Lucknow and examined the dog sterilisation centre operated by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation, following which they decided to open one in Gurugram. “Estimates for the project are being prepared. We will be floating a tender to finalise a contractor next month. The centre will be set up a one-acre plot owned by the MCG, and will conform to all guidelines of the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI),” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG.MCG officials privy to the matter said that the civic body would also simultaneously start proceedings of hiring a new contractor to sterilise dogs.“One of the main reasons behind setting up a centre is for the MCG to keep constant surveillance on all the operations carried out by the contractor. By creating a single infrastructure where all stray dogs are sterilised, the MCG can ensure all procedures are being carried out according to the norms and the possibilities of cruelty, negligence would be minimised. This way, there would be greater supervision on day-to-day operations of the contractor,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.As per MCG officials, geo-tagging of dogs would also be carried out prior to their capture to ensure they are released at the same location from where they are picked up. Further, the MCG is also working on a strategy to create avenues for offering strays for adoptions.“As per the World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates, the stray dog population corresponds to 3% of the total human population of any area wherever dog birth control centre is absent. Hence, setting up dog birth control centre is vital as it is one of the first steps for mitigating man-animal conflict,” said Chetna Devendra Joshi, AWBI representative for Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-set-up-state-s-first-dog-sterilisation-centre-101610903946050.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Minimum temperature at 5.7°C, shallow fog to prevail||The city recorded maximum and minimum temperatures of 14.2 degrees Celsius and 5.7 degrees Celsius, respectively, even as the air quality continued to remain in the very poor zone for a fourth consecutive day, with a reading of 330 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said that there could be a rise in temperature next week with a change in wind direction.As per IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 7 degrees Celsius and 21 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Monday. As per the IMD’s forecast, shallow fog is expected on Monday. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature on Sunday and the reading was taken from the IMD’s AWS in Palam of Delhi. The air quality worsened marginally from a reading of 316 recorded a day before. Experts said that the wind speed had picked up Sunday and improvement in the air quality is likely over the next few days. Vijay Soni, the head of IMD’s Environment Monitoring Research Centre, said that the wind direction had changed from westerly to easterly. “Fog will prevail tomorrow as well. The air quality is expected to improve since we expect stronger winds in the coming days,” said Soni. He said that a western disturbance is expected around January 22, but there is no expectation of rain on account of it. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the lower end of the very poor category on 18.01.2021. The air quality is likely to remain in the lower end of very poor to poor category 19.01.2021.” Subsequently, over the next five days, the air quality is largely expected to remain in the poor category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugramminimum-temperature-at-5-7-c-shallow-fog-to-prevail-101610903945464.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination to pick up steam in Gurugram||Nearly 4,800 front-line healthcare workers are expected to be vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district on Monday, health department officials said.Of the total, nearly 3,300 work at private healthcare facilities and Monday’s inoculation drive will be conducted at 45 vaccination booths located across 31 vaccinations sites, with 100 healthcare workers assigned to each.Despite certain hitches in meeting their target on Saturday, department officials said they are confident of inoculating at least 4,386 healthcare workers in the next round, which is more than seven times Saturday’s target of 600 individuals. “We have registered 3,301 private workers and 1,535 public workers in the next schedule. There were also some server issues with the Co-WIN portal on Saturday, but they have been resolved so we expect Monday’s drive to be a lot smoother,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, Gurugram.“All medical officers have been instructed to counsel their staff on the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. Personally speaking, I have not experienced any adverse event after immunisation; neither has anyone else who received the vaccine on Saturday. While vaccination isn’t voluntary, it is certainly recommended,” said Singh, adding that nearly 4,600 workers will be inoculated per day, on three days every week, which have been stipulated as involution days — Monday, Thursday and Saturday.About 46,000 healthcare workers across private and public facilities are expected to receive the vaccine over the next month.When asked whether the department is taking steps to address vaccine hesitancy among registered beneficiaries, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “All medical officers have been instructed to speak to their staff. Ensuring them of the vaccine’s safety and efficacy is paramount. The health department has to lead by example. Text messages are also being sent to beneficiaries who did not receive the vaccine on Saturday, whether by choice or some logistical challenge.”A senior medical officer who is privy to the matter said that lesser vaccine hesitancy is expected among those employed in the private sector. “Private hospitals have been conducting their own dry runs and have assured us that all beneficiaries will come forward. They are also better equipped to communicate with staffers and handle any questions, though we have also been making an effort at that. It will help our own workers to see those in the private sector accept the vaccine,” the official said.Representatives of private hospitals said they are prepared for the drive.Dr Sameer Kulkarni, regional director, Paras Hospital, Gurugram, said, “We have made all necessary preparations for the exercise including identification of vaccination sites and registration of healthcare and other front-line workers. Our healthcare staff, who will be vaccinated tomorrow, have been briefed well about the whole exercise.”Dr Shuchin Bajaj, director, Ujala Cygnus group of hospitals, said, “We have gone through an extensive dry run a few days ago under the supervision of all experts, and have trained our health workers, paramedics and doctors to recognize any adverse events early on and deal with them, if they occur. But, nothing of that sort has been reported from anyone in the January 16 drive. The vaccine looks very safe to me. We have also done the registration of all healthcare workers and other front-line workers for tomorrow’s vaccination drive.”Dr Tarun Jhamb, consultant (internal medicine) at Columbia Asia Hospital, Palam Vihar, said, “The vaccinations will start on January 18 from 9am and continue till 5pm. We are aiming to inoculate 100 healthcare workers every day.”District registers 45 new cases of Covid-19 on SundayGurugram recorded 45 new cases of the Covid-19 infection on Sunday, along with 75 recoveries and no new deaths. The ongoing slowdown in new daily cases has now entered its tenth straight week, with 249 new cases reported in the week ending January 17 (down from 404 new cases the week prior).The weekly and daily test positivity rates for Gurugram remains between 2% and 2.5%, with the district testing at least 2,000 new samples for Covid-19 each day. The number of active cases in the district currently stands at a 558, a weekly low, with 497 people under home isolation, and 58 people who have been hospitalised for treatment. Another three individuals are under observation at district Covid care centres. Gurugram reported one new Covid-related death this week, taking the total death count to 349.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-to-pick-up-steam-in-gurugram-101610903944397.html
17-01-2021||Gurugram||Top cop directs SHOs to look out for illegal call centres||The police commissioner on Sunday directed station house officers (SHOs) to watch out for illegal call centres and warned of strict action if any such centres are found running in areas under their respective jurisdictions.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that it is not that difficult for an officer to find out illegal activities running in his area. “We have been focusing on curbing street crime. Fraud cases have been on the rise for the last few months. These illegal call centres are operational at night and are mostly operational from commercial spaces or residential areas. The police station concerned will have to be alert and keep a track on the movement of people at night,” he said. Rao said most of the call centres provide pick and drop facility to their employees and give short breaks at night. “The employees move out during breaks and can easily be spotted near tea vendors and cigarette shops. This exercise needs ground working and activating sources in the areas,” he said. Rao has also directed that assistant commissioner of police concerned, who are the nodal officers to keep track of illegal call centres, and other senior officials be informed about activities of any illegal call centres. “Such Illegal activities have reduced in the city since we have started raiding these operations and have arrested over 100 suspects in the last one year. The only challenge we are facing is getting victims on the record. We are working towards finding a way and have involved embassies in this regard,” he said. The police said that Udyog Vihar, Golf Course Road, Sohna Road and residential areas near Sector 56 are on their radar. The chief minister’s flying squad has busted six call centres and has recently conducting mapping of the areas from where illegal call centres were operating across the city. The officials involved in the raid said fake call centres have mushroomed in the city over the last six years and people have minted money by duping citizens of foreign countries, mostly the US and the UK. Most of the suspects involved in running these call centres are repeat offenders and have been arrested multiple times, said officials. Most of them know one other, but not one of them has been convicted, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/top-cop-directs-shos-to-look-out-for-illegal-call-centres-101610903944948.html
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Stricter fire safety rules in the works in Chandigarh||After years in slumber, the Chandigarh municipal corporation is finally set to enforce stricter fire safety rules with harsher penalties against violators and additional powers to its fire department for enforcement. The new rules will allow the fire department to remove encroachments (that may cause fire or obstruct movement during a fire rescue) from markets and houses. In addition to the power to seal the premises that violate fire safety norms, the MC will be authorised to cancel water connection in such cases. An increase in the quantum of fines, with provision for imprisonment, is also in the works. Violations will include failure to share information regarding an outbreak of fire, failure to take precautions to prevent fire and wilfully obstructing the rescue operations. It was in the aftermath of the fire tragedy at a paying guest accommodation in Sector 32 that led to the death of three girls on February 22, 2020, that the MC officials realised the civic body was following now defunct Delhi Fire Prevention and Fire Safety Act, 1986, and outdated rules under the repealed Act. “The fire department lacked enough teeth to punish property owners who violated fire safety norms, particularly those creating permanent or temporary structures that blocked firefighting and rescue efforts. At the time of the Sector 32 fire incident, it fell upon the UT estate office to take lead in initiating action against the violators under building rules,” said an MC official, privy to the development. While the national capital adopted Delhi Fire Safety Act, 2007, in 2010, the MC neither adopted the new law nor revised its rules formulated under the previous Act to keep these in line with the changed circumstances over the years. Confirming the development, Anil Kumar Garg, additional commissioner, MC, said: “We will be adopting the Delhi Fire Service Act, 2007, with modifications as per the city’s needs, and will formulate rules thereunder.” For formulating fresh rules, the MC has constituted a committee headed by Garg, which comprises all fire station officers, law officer and fire superintendent. The committee’s report will be approved by the MC House. “The changed rules will also be in sync with the national building code in terms of fire safety norms. They will allow for better enforcement of building codes,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stricter-fire-safety-rules-in-the-works-in-chandigarh-101610903645163.html
17-01-2021||Other||Delhi: Fraudsters target people looking for affordable housing||New Delhi: Sometime around November 2018, Dr. Shivali Seth, a Delhi-based dermatologist, came across a newspaper advertisement regarding an affordable housing scheme being launched by a private developer in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla. The developer claimed that the scheme was under the Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) land pooling policy. “Since the advertisement had the DDA’s name and the scheme was lucrative and affordable, I invested R12.37 lakh, after my name figured in the list of people selected in the lucky draw. I did some basic online and physical verification of the real estate developer and the proposed site which threw up some red flags. Two months later, I found out that the housing scheme was fake with no DDA connection at all. All my hard-earned money was gone,” said Seth, a single mother. Pushkar Rawat from Uttam Nagar, who worked in a private company, said he took loans and invested ₹7 lakh in 2018 in a similar proposed housing scheme in Dwarka, after getting reference from a relative. But he sound found himself cheated, when in November he read about the fraud and the arrest of the company’s two office bearers by Delhi Police. “The company’s office is closed and its executives who processed the flat’s booking and payments have switched off their phones. I am paying nearly ₹6,000 every month as interest for the loan I had taken. I lost my job during the lockdown and am struggling to pay the loan interest and make ends meet,” said Rawat. Owning a house in Delhi is a dream for many. But like Rawat, Seth and thousands of home buyers, this dream turned into a nightmare after being duped by various developers and promoters, who allegedly tricked them into investing in different housing schemes by fraudulently using the DDA’s land-pooling policy, which is yet to become operational. In the last one and a half years, Delhi Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) has registered 19 cases of cheating and fraud against various developers and housing society groups. So far, EOW has arrested 13 officer bearers of four companies – Revanta Multi State CGHS Ltd, Aerocity Dwarka, Rudra Welfare Society, and Eminent Officers Welfare Society. Three of the four arrested office bearers of Revanta group are now out on bail, at least three EOW officials probing these cases said. “The fraudsters had launched web portals and various types of electronic advertisements were being sent to attract homebuyers and dupe them in the name of allotting flats. It was also revealed that a Nigerian gang was also involved in duping people, through online transactions, in the name of the DDA’s land pooling policy. A special investigation team (SIT) was formed to probe the cases,” said one of the officers. The DDA had notified its land pooling policy for the first time in 2013 and later in 2015. But it is only in 2018, the land-owning agency started work on it. Currently, the DDA is in the process of getting land owners in 95 urbanised villages to come together to pool their land. So far, DDA says 6500 hectares (approx.) of land has been pooled. DDA officials say that they are yet to start planning for its use. Joint commissioner of police (EOW) OP Mishra said that even as the land pooling policy planning was in the early stage, various builders and promoters have grabbed this as an opportunity to exploit the situation by luring in and duping innocent flat buyers. They often promised flats in Dwarka, Chhawla, Najafgarh and Rohini under the scheme. “They raised huge amounts for advance bookings in the name of registration and allotment,” he said. By the time the DDA could learn about this fraud in 2014-15 and begin issuing public notices to warn people to stay away from “any illegal offer of registration of plots or flats under the land pooling policy”, many real estate firms set up their offices in Delhi, mostly in Dwarka and its neighbouring areas, and hundreds of home buyers had already invested their money in various housing schemes, which only existed on “attractive brochures and papers”, the EOW officials said. Officials said the DDA began receiving complaints from cheated homebuyers in 2018 and the authority contacted the EOW, which by then had also received similar complaints. After preliminary verification, the first case was registered in December 2019 against the Revanta Group, which alone had duped more than 4,000 homebuyers of over Rs450 crore, said the officials. “The company offered flats in L-Zone Dwarka under the DDA’s land pooling policy, even though the authority had not allotted any land for any housing project there. The company’s founders purchased lands in Dwarka at very high rates – R10 crore per acre against the circle rate of R53 lakh. Land facilitation agencies were incorporated and direct land deals with farmers were avoided to siphon off the funds. One of the members sold his own land posing as a farmer,” said Mishra. The joint CP said that the company hired facilitation agencies and paid them around ₹115 crore for bringing homebuyers by contacting them through phone calls, text messages and emails. When contacted, founder member and former president of Revanta group Satender Maan (out on bail) said, “We purchased 48 acres of land using the investors’ money but the problem began when the DDA reduced the floor area ration (FAR) and we informed investors that they will either have to pay more money for the extra land or would get reduced size flats. Many filed police complaints and civil suits. After registering the case, the police freezed our bank accounts and we could not progress in our project.” When contacted regarding the frauds, the DDA released a statement and said, “DDA has time and again cautioned home buyers and investors against fraudulent practices by some developers and societies to lure people into buying houses under the false pretext of land policy. Any person interested or being given promise of any land or apartments under any land pooling scheme, must go through the instructions and details about the scheme on DDA’s website so as to safeguard their interests and avoid any trap by fraudsters floating and advertising false and fictitious land pooling schemes. DDA is again requesting the aggrieved persons, who have invested in the name of fraudulent land pooling schemes, to approach the EOW and file formal complaints against the fraudsters.” EOW officials said that there are many victims of similar frauds. “We are doing campaigns to make people aware of this land pooling policy frauds and come forward to file their complaints, if they have been duped,” added Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-fraudsters-target-people-looking-for-affordable-housing-101610903524498.html
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Documentary film on Ganga screened at Chitkara University||Chitkara University organised an exclusive movie screening of feature-length documentary film ‘Moving Upstream: Ganga’ directed by Shirdhar Sudhir, an industry mentor at Chitkara Design School and National Institute of Design alumnus.The screening was held at the university auditorium in the presence of pro-chancellor Dr Madhu Chitkara among other dignitaries. Proper social distancing norms were followed for everyone’s safety.The documentary, filmed over six months between June 2016 and April 2017 on slow river exploration journeys based on research projects and archives for fixing accountability, is a first-person account of a 3000-kilometre walk from Ganga Sagar in West Bengal till Gangotri in Uttarakhand. The project has documented the flow of the river and life of the riparian community living along Ganga.The producer, Siddharth Agrawal, also the founder of Veditum India Foundation’s Moving Upstream project, is an aerospace engineer from IIT Kharagpur, feels that walking allowed the time gap needed for clear thinking. The slow pace allowed a calm thinking bereft of the clutter associated with the highly politicised topic of the Ganga.Director of the film, Shridhar Sudhir is a graduate of the NID, Ahmedabad, and has been making independent films, both fiction and non-fiction, on contemporary India for the last five years. Based out of Himachal Pradesh, he is the founder of Buddhijeev Studios, a venture which tries to make vernacular content for the Indian audience through independent films and the YouTube channel Buddhijeev.Sudhir has been associated with Chitkara Design School for the past one year as an integral member, teaching filmmaking to our students. His movie is a piece of art which gave our students the chance to witness the nuances of independent film-making, a faculty member said.The film includes unique footage that interprets stories from the immediate vicinity of the Ganga. The ‘Moving Upstream’ series is an attempt to document the stories of the rivers of India, bringing out a first person narrative of the river’s condition and life of the people of the basin.Shridhar treaded over 500 km along the Ganga in the final stretch of the Moving Upstream walk, and his documentation forms an integral component of the film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/feature-film-on-ganga-screened-at-chitkara-university-101610903466657.html
17-01-2021||Kolkata||Eyes on polls, TMC reshuffles three district units; Jitendra Tiwari sidelined||With eyes on the coming assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leadership on Sunday made some major organisational changes in the districts of South Dinajpur, West Burdwan and Malda where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made noticeable inroads in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Significantly, the ruling party once again projected senior leaders apparently to weed out dissent that cropped up among a section of veterans after comparatively younger leaders were given important portfolios in district units.The most significant reshuffle was made in West Burdwan where two adjacent Lok Sabha seats are represented by Union ministers Babul Supriyo and SS Ahluwalia.The district’s heavyweight leader Jitendra Tiwari, who turned rebel in December last year and resigned from the post of administrative head of the Asansol municipal corporation and president of the district unit before holding a meeting with Suvendu Adhikari before the latter joined the BJP, has found no place in the new setup. Though not included in the new district committee in West Burdwan, Tiwari said, "My best wishes are with the new team. If they want me to play any role I will be obliged to help as a faithful party worker. I never hankered for any high post."Law minister Moloy Ghatak, a senior legislator, has been made chairman of the committee and Apurba Mukherjee is the new president.Also read: Facebook, Twitter representatives to appear before IT parliamentary panelIn north Bengal, where the BJP won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha polls, the South Dinajpur district, which is located adjacent to Bangladesh and has a 24.63 per cent Muslim population, has witnessed the growth of the saffron camp in recent months. BJP’s Sukanta Majumdar wrested the Balurghat Lok Sabha seat in 2019.On Sunday, former lawmaker Biplab Mitra, who joined the BJP in 2019 but returned to the TMC in July last year, was made chairman of the district committee. TMC leaders said Mitra was rewarded for his loyalty.In Malda, where BJP’s Khagen Murmu wrested the Malda North Lok Sabha seat last year, the TMC made veteran leader Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury the chairman of the new district committee, retaining Mausam Noor as the district president.The reshuffles were announced after the party said that Satabdi Roy, the three-time Lok Sabha member from Birbhum district who voiced dissent against the leadership and triggered speculation that she might join the BJP, would be one of the vice-presidents of the state committee.The changes however could not address dissent everywhere.In Howrah district, the TMC is in an uncomfortable position because of forest minister Rajib Banerjee who said in a live social media post on Saturday that he was not being allowed to work freely in the party. On Sunday, Banerjee was conspicuous by his absence at a grand rally that minister and district unit chairman Arup Roy led in the afternoon. “If anyone has anything to say about the party then he should raise it inside the party, not in public,” said Roy.TMC spokesperson and former Rajya Sabha member Kunal Ghosh said, "These are purely internal decisions of the party and taken for the betterment of the party."While TMC leaders attempted to play down the organisational changes as “internal matters” of the party, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “This is disaster management by the TMC because it is disintegrating. Mamata Banerjee is trying to keep everybody happy but it will not help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/eyes-on-polls-tmc-reshuffles-three-district-units-jitendra-tiwari-sidelined-101610902861922.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police puts up posters of wanted Khalistani, Al-Qaeda terrorists||After inputs that some terrorist organisations including Khalistani outfits and Al-Qaeda may carry out unwanted activities on January 26, Delhi Police have taken a few steps including putting up posters of wanted terrorists in the capital."We have inputs that some terrorist organisations including Khalistani outfits and Al-Qaeda may carry out unwanted activities on January 26. Keeping this in mind, we have taken a few steps including putting up posters of wanted terrorists," said Siddharth Jain, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) for Connaught Place, on Sunday.The police have also increased patrolling in the area as well as sensitised market and resident welfare associations people in view of security alert."Amid the COVID pandemic, we have tried to reduce the gathering of people from 1.5 lakh to 25 thousand. Only limited people have been issued passes and tickets for the Republic Day parade. They have been asked to carry their photo-based ID card for the verification process. No person will be allowed to stand, only sitting arrangements have been made," informed the ACP.The Delhi Police has issued several guidelines for Republic Day to avoid the spread of COVID-19. People have been asked to wear masks, sanitize hands, and follow social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-puts-up-posters-of-wanted-khalistani-al-qaeda-terrorists-101610898429983.html
17-01-2021||Noida||Air quality improves in Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad||The average air quality in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Gurgaon was in the 'very poor' level on Sunday, a day after recording it in the 'severe' category, according to data issued by a government agency.Faridabad recorded its air quality in the 'poor' category.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10, however, remained prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Sunday was 368 in Ghaziabad, 384 in Greater Noida, 383 in Noida, 297 in Faridabad and 330 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Saturday, it was 423 in Ghaziabad, 438 in Greater Noida, 434 in Noida, 416 in Faridabad and 316 in Gurgaon.According to the CPCB, 'poor' air quality causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure while 'very poor' air may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations while Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-improves-in-ghaziabad-noida-faridabad-101610896566007.html
17-01-2021||Lucknow||Remaining health workers in UP to get Covid-19 vaccines by Jan 22: Official||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday said the rest of the health workers in the state will get Covid-19 vaccines by January 22.Speaking to reporters here, Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal said, "The anti-COVID vaccination drive in the state started on January 16, and rest of the health workers will get vaccinated by January 22. There should be no rumours regarding vaccination."He added that the vaccination drive in the state is being done as per the Centre's guidelines, and there will be no change as far as the vaccine shots are concerned.A total of 20,076 healthcare workers at the frontline of India's Covid-19 battle got their first jabs in UP on Saturday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi launching the world's largest vaccination drive against the pandemic.CM Yogi Adityanath had on Saturday visited the Balrampur Hospital in Lucknow and reviewed the vaccination drive where the first doses were administered to Dr Praveen Kumar and staff nurse Geeta Devi. Adityanath also interacted with the hospital staff.Sehgal also said the state had conducted only 72 tests per day in March last year and it has now increased to 1.8 lakh per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/remaining-health-workers-in-up-to-get-covid-19-vaccines-by-jan-22-official-101610895895886.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Condition of ex-CEO of BARC Partho Dasgupta stable: Doctors||The health condition of Partho Dasgupta, a former CEO of TV ratings agency BARC who was arrested in the Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging case, is stable but he is still in the ICU of JJ Hospital here, a senior official said on Sunday.Dasgupta, 55, a diabetic, was rushed to the state-run hospital in central Mumbai from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai in the early hours of Saturday after his blood sugar levels shot up, a prison official had said, adding that he was put on oxygen support."Dasgupta was admitted to the ICU of the hospital after his blood sugar level shot up. He is still in the same department but is stable. A team of physicians is monitoring his health," JJ Hospital superintendent Dr Sanjay Surase said on Sunday.Dasgupta was arrested in the alleged TRP rigging scam by crime branch of the Mumbai Police on December 24 last year.A Mumbai court had earlier this month rejected his bail plea, stating that he appeared to have played a vital role in the scam to rig TRP as per the police's case.The Mumbai Police had earlier told the court that Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami had allegedly bribed Dasgupta with "lakhs of rupees" to ramp up the news channel's viewership numbers fraudulently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/condition-of-ex-ceo-of-barc-partho-dasgupta-stable-doctors-101610895692452.html
17-01-2021||Other||PMC officially allows sports tournaments outside containment zones from Monday, Jan 18||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has officially allowed sports tournaments to be conducted outside containment zones from Monday, January 18.Since October 2020, PMC had allowed only practice of indoor and outdoor sports, with players and organisations eagerly waiting to conduct tournaments.An order issued under the “Mission Begin Again” dikata by municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar under the provision of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, states that from Monday, January 18, sports tournaments (indoor/outdoor) can be conducted outside containment zones, following all standard operating procedures (SOPs).The order also states that coaching and training of state, national and international players is also allowed outside containment zones.“It is good news, but the organiser needs to plan the tournament very carefully since players from all places will come to one venue. Currently, all the practices are going on smoothly at all the centres, because all are following the standard operating procedures,” said Nikhil Kanetkar, who runs the Nikhil Kanetkar Badminton Academy (NKBA) at the Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex in Balewadi.Sunder Iyer, secretary of Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association (MSLTA), said “It is a very good decision from the PMC as tournaments were getting conducted in the other states, so it was affecting players mentally. Due to Covid, many players were avoiding travelling, but now with players allowed, playing a tournament at home will boost them mentally.”MSLTA, which is known to conduct many tournaments at the junior level across the state, will released its annual tournament calendar soon.“We had kept all thing ready and just awaiting for the order from PMC, Pune being sports capital of the state this order will be highly appreciated by the players and organisers who conduct tournaments,” added Iyer.Pune District Junior Athletics selection meet The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had allowed the Pune District Junior Athletics selection meet at the Santh Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Krida Sankul, Indryaininagar, Bhosari, which concluded on Sunday.The meet was held from January 14-17.“We had got special no-objection certificates from the district sports officer, Vijay Santan, to conduct this selection meet tournaments as it was important for players. All the standard operating procedures were followed and we did not allow more than 100 athletes on the ground, which includes officals,” said Abhay Chhajed, president, Pune District Amateur Athletic Association.From January 19, selection trials of Maharashtra state team for the National Junior Federation cup will be conducted at the Santh Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Krida Sankul, Indryaininagar, Bhosari, which will continue till January 22.“We had given permission to conduct trials as Maharashtra government has allowed tournaments at a few places, so there was no problem,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-officially-allows-sports-tournaments-outside-containment-zones-from-monday-jan-18-101610893983082.html
17-01-2021||Bangalore||Home minister Shah asks Congress to stop undermining Indian vaccines||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday lashed out at the Congress claiming that the party has been undermining the efforts of the developers of the Covid-19 vaccine amid the pandemic. Shah said the opposition party has been doing nothing other than resort to protesting against the government’s initiatives and should refrain from demoralising those who are fighting to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.“Congress leaders raised questions on Covid-19 vaccine. We know you cannot do anything other than protest but at least don't stop the ones making efforts. Both vaccines developed in India are completely safe,” Shah was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also encouraged people to get vaccinated in order to stop the spread of Covid-19 and not pay attention to rumours related to the vaccine. “Do not believe what Congress says, when it is your turn, please get vaccinated and India will soon become a country free of coronavirus,” Shah said while addressing a public rally at Karnataka’s Belagavi.Congress and several other opposition parties have been criticising the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for politicising the pandemic and the approval of emergency use authorisation of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech. Congress’ Punjab lawmaker Manish Tewari on two separate occasions said that the government chose to overlook necessary scientific procedures in its bid to show that vaccines were developed under the Atmanirbhar Bharat drive. He also questioned the reliability of Covaxin earlier in January.Tewari lashed out at the Centre a few hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Covid-19 vaccine drive on Saturday. “If the vaccine is so safe and reliable and the efficacy of the vaccine is beyond question then how is it that not a single functionary of the government has stepped forward to get themselves vaccinated as it has happened in other countries around the world?” Tewari had asked.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan was quick to counter the criticism levelled at the government and said that Congress is indulging in activities that fuel rumours and spread fear. He also shared pictures of doctors in AIIMS taking the Covid-19 jab.Earlier in January, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had also questioned the government regarding the vaccine rollout and said that he distrusts the vaccines launched under central government’s supervision.Amit Shah also lashed out at the Congress during his address calling the party anti-poor and blamed the previous governments under the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) for not doing enough to develop Karnataka.Shah was on a two-day visit to Karnataka where he laid the foundation stone for a new campus for the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF's) new Rapid Action Force battalion in Bhadravathi. He also laid the foundation stone of various projects related to the farming sector in Bagalkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/home-minister-shah-asks-congress-to-stop-undermining-indian-vaccines-101610890515978.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools for Classes 10, 12 to reopen tomorrow, Sisodia wishes students||Schools in Delhi, which were shut in March last year to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease, will reopen for Classes 10 and 12 on Monday after the Arvind-Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party government allowed all government, government-aided and unaided institutions to call students back to the campus for pre-board preparations and practical work.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education ministry portfolio, held a review meeting with the senior education department officials on Sunday. “Everyone is excited and little nervous at having Class 10& 12 students back in schools from tmrw for practical/counselling. All preparations-sanitizers, masks, social distancing measures- are in place. Good luck to all!” he tweeted after the meeting.The schools can ask students to come only with the consent of their parents and are required to follow all the Covid-19 precautions. “In order to conduct the activities pertaining to pre-board preparations and practical work, the head of government, aided and unaided recognised schools may call the students of classes 10 and 12 only to school with effect from January 18, 2021. However, the child should be called to school only with the consent of parents, following the enclosed standard operating procedure. Further, while the records of children coming to school be maintained, the same should not be used for attendance purposes as sending the child to school is completely optional for parents,” the Directorate of Education (DoE) said in a circular issued on Wednesday.Schools that are outside containment zones of the national capital have only been allowed to open and students, teachers and staff living in these zones will not be allowed to attend. The schools have been asked not to hold any assembly and physical outdoor activities. The principals have been asked to guide children not to share books, copies and stationery items.The pre-board exams for Class 12 will be conducted between March 3 and April 15 and for Class 10 they will be held between April 1 and April 15, the circular stated. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has already announced that practical exams will begin from March 1 and written exams will be conducted between May 3 and June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-for-classes-10-12-to-reopen-tomorrow-sisodia-wishes-students-good-luck-101610888815056.html
17-01-2021||Other||No vaccination drive in Pune city today||While the state has decided not to hold the vaccination drive on Sunday and Monday to work on loopholes in their system, city hospitals had no clarity till late Saturday evening.The officials confirmed that there would be no vaccination drive on Sunday.Dr Ashish Bharti, health chief, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “There will be no Covid-19 vaccination drive on Sunday. During the national video conference, we were informed that the preparations put in place were only for January 16. Once the technical glitches will be studied and the adverse effect reported would be analysed the next vaccination date would be set.”Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital, said, “We have not got any official communication about the same.”Dr Satish Pawar, director of health services, said, “There would be no vaccination drive on Sunday. Today there were many technical problems reported from various parts of the city which we have reported to the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-vaccination-drive-in-pune-city-today-101610889183206.html
17-01-2021||Other||Pune district reports 457 new cases, 4 deaths||The district reported 457 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths on Saturday, according to the state health department.The district has reported a total of 3,81,661 Covid cases out of this, 3,57,882 patients have recovered, 7,855 were reported dead and 15,887 are active cases.Two deaths were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and two in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).PMC has so far reported 1,95,498 Covid cases and 4,452 deaths, while PCMC has reported 95,591 cases and a total of 1,297 deaths due to the virus.Pune rural has reported 90,572 total cases and 2,106 deaths due to Covid-19.As per the state health department, 3,039 patients were discharged on Saturday in Maharashtra taking the total to 18,84,127 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.79%.Across Maharashtra, 2,910 new cases of Covid were diagnosed and 52 Covid-19 deaths were reported. The Case fatality rate in the state is 2.54%.The department stated out of 1,37,43,486 laboratory samples, 19,87,678 have been tested positive till Saturday.Currently, 2,24,705 people are in home quarantine and 2,037 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-457-new-cases-4-deaths-101610889003433.html
17-01-2021||Other||Co-WIN app slows down, Pune hospitals forced to do manual registration||On the first day of the vaccination drive on Saturday in Pune district, the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) app, developed by the Centre to monitor and track the inoculation process, slowed down after developing technical glitches forcing hospitals to do manual registrations. The app was designed to ease the process of verification and registration of over thirty million health care workers in the country, avoid hoarding and ensure vaccination of only verified beneficiary. Dr Ashish Bharti, health chief, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), who was present at the Kamala Nehru hospital, said, “We had alerted authorities about technical glitches and had to manually carry out beneficiary verification. Since most of the government staff are already present at the hospital, we did not face a major issue throughout the day. However, major hospitals like Sassoon General Hospital and private hospitals whose staff are working in shifts had to call their off-duty staff back to the hospital for vaccination. The state is insisting to vaccinate only as per the software list, but the site is not working even on mobile.” “We have been asked to upload the data offline since the app was not working during the day, but it was not working at most sites and we were unable to upload the data,” he said. Multiple hospitals reported that the Co-WIN site had either crashed or was too slow and beneficiaries could not be registered on it. One of the staff at the Kamala Nehru hospital handling the registration process said, “The site crashed and we had to manually verify each beneficiary. We received the list last night and are vaccinating beneficiaries who turned up and not according to the software. We took a print of the list and manually verified each beneficiary before allowing them at the vaccination site.” By late evening, local authorities got messages from the state government that the Co-WIN app has started working and upload data offline. Dr Manisha Karmarkar, chief operating officer, Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We got the list of beneficiaries late Friday night. We then prepared a time slot for beneficiaries and put it out on our various hospital WhatsApp groups. The messages to beneficiaries did not mention any time and so we prepared a time slot for each beneficiaries and asked them to come at that particular time. Since this was the first day, we could personally message everyone and create time slots and get it done, but it would be better if the app could create time slots in case we have to vaccinate staff from other hospitals. “ Dr Rebecca George, deputy medical director at the hospital said, “Earlier, we had to verify all the information on the app and update once the beneficiary is vaccinated, but early morning the Co-WIN site did not open at all and we manually entered all the information on our computers and kept it ready in case we are asked to upload it later. We had not even received the password and login ID as of Saturday morning. Those who could not make it for vaccination today would be scheduled automatically by the Co-WIN app.” Siddharth Waghmare, medical officer, Dhole Patil road ward which houses multiple major hospitals, was present at Ruby Hall Clinic to supervise the vaccination process. He said, “The site is slow and so we have asked the hospital staff to manually enter information. At each stage — verification, vaccination and post-observation — we had to enter the details, however, that could not be done.” Dr HK Sale, executive director at Noble hospital said, “The vaccination process was carried out smoothly, but we faced a few glitches. The site was not opening and so we had to manually enter the details. Also, the messages were sent out to beneficiaries late Friday night and since it was a weekend maybe some of them were not present in town or even had just finished their shifts in the morning and had gone home. “ Dr Prakash Rokde at Aundh district hospital confirmed that they had to manually enter the details of beneficiaries since the site was not working. He said, “It could be because all the sites across the country were trying to log in at the same time and so the site got slow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cowin-app-slows-down-pune-hospitals-forced-to-do-manual-registration-101610888822928.html
17-01-2021||Dehradun||Heartbroken Dehradun youth opens up tea joint called 'Dil Tuta Aashiq cafe'||A 21-year-old youth from Dehradun is creating a buzz in the city with his tea joint named "Dil Tuta Aashiq- Chai Wala" which he says has opened after he suffered a heartbreak during the lockdown.Divyanshu Batra, a resident of Dehradun and owner of the cafe, says he decided to open a cafe with a catchy name as he wanted to "take something positive out of his break-up" instead of "mourning it for long."The cafe, located at the GMS Road area of the capital, opened on December 16 and has been drawing customers since then, especially young ones like him who also suffered heartbreak from breakups.Batra said, "I had a girlfriend from my high-school days with whom I broke-up last year as her parents were against us going together. After that, I was depressed for about six months and spent my time only by playing PUBG. Then one day, I thought it's enough and I will get out of this, and that's how the idea of this popped up."Parents had their doubtsBatra is a BSc in computer science and claims to have opened the cafe with his savings, He said his parents, especially his father was a bit "sceptical" when he told him about opening a cafe with a such name.Also read: Thousands of tractors will enter Delhi for disciplined Kisan Republic Day parade"My mother was very supportive of the fact that I was going to start something of my own after the bad phase I went through but my father was not convinced with the name of the cafe. But one day, one of his friends who was unaware that the cafe is mine, praised the food and its ambience. Then my dad got convinced that I am doing something productive," he said.Tales of heartbreakBatra, who manages the cafe with his younger brother Rahul Batra, said that "more than doing business, he wanted to provide a platform to people like him with heartbreaks to share their stories.""Everyone in their life goes through the same phase. Hence, I wanted them to come here and share their tales and the pain in their heart so that I can help them overcome this and move on. I am even succeeding in this as many are now coming by seeing the cafe's name and sharing their break-up stories with me," said Batra.The visitors of the cafe are also commending the concept and sharing their tales with Batra.One of the visitors said, "I work as a teacher and had a breakup with my partner recently after a relationship of about 3 years. I was totally heartbroken since then. Then a few days ago, while passing by the area, I saw the cafe and stopped only to end up sharing my pain with Batra and feeling lighthearted."Another visitor who was having his coffee at the cafe said, "After having a heartbreak, I came here and Batra helped me a lot in coping with the bad phase and moving on. I am really grateful to him and continue to come here."After getting a good response from the customers Batra has plans for expanding the cafe."I am soon going to have a franchise in Haridwar within a month and have plans of opening up another branch in Dehradun after a couple of months," said Batra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/heartbroken-dehradun-youth-opens-up-tea-joint-called-dil-tuta-aashiq-cafe-101610888439146.html
17-01-2021||Other||1,802 healthcare workers vaccinated in Pune district on first day||A 74-year-old senior doctor, a diabetic, became the first beneficiary to be vaccinated with Serum Institute’s Covishield vaccine at Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) Kamala Nehru hospital Saturday morning. At least 1,802 healthcare workers of the total 3,100 who were targeted to be vaccinated on day one were inoculated at the 31 vaccination centres across the district. As many as 1,150 beneficiaries did not report to the centres and 71 refused to take vaccine, according to the district information source. In Pune city, 438 of the 800 targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) saw 456 out of 800 and in rural Pune 908 were vaccinated out of 1,500 targeted. Amidst a ceremonial moment, the first beneficiary of Covid-19 vaccination drive under the first phase was inoculated on the fifth floor at Kamala Nehru Hospital at around 11 am. Dr Vinod Shah, 74, was relieved that he could now step out with safety precautions in place. Dr Shah practices at Kamala Nehru Hospital and is consultant at other hospitals. Dr Nitin Abhyankar, a 57-year-old physician and a diabetic, also received the Covishield vaccine. Dr Shah said, “I was forced to provide consultation and diagnosis to patients via phone or computer since the past ten months due to my age and comorbidities. The vaccine has boosted my confidence. After the second dose, I am sure that I will be able to step out by following the Covid safety measures.” Dr Abhyankar said, “I have treated over 600 Covid patients and seen deaths caused by the virus. With the vaccine in place, we hope to see no more deaths. The vaccine is definitely a game-changer.” PMC mayor Murlidhar Mohol, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal and divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao were also present at Kamala Nehru hospital for vaccination. Dr RS Wadia (88) was vaccinated at Ruby Hall Clinic, Pune with Covishield. He was probably one of the oldest doctors to be vaccinated in the city. Dr Rebecca George, deputy medical director at the hospital, said, “We had prepared four booths, but we were later told to use only one booth and go slow with the vaccination process.” Dr Avinash Naniwadkar, head of the radiology department at the hospital who also received the vaccine jab, said, “We got messages for vaccination on Friday night and follow-up calls in the morning. My blood pressure and pulse oximeter were checked before and also ten minutes after the vaccination process.” At BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, which was also part of the Covishield clinical trial phase two and three, dean of the college Dr M Tambe was the first person to get the vaccine. Dr Tambe was administered with the Covishield vaccine. “To send a message to all my colleagues I decided to take the vaccine first. Since the outbreak, Sassoon had been flooded with Covid-19 cases and it was a tough time for the entire team. Being the only tertiary care hospital, we had the responsibility to handle critical cases. Many doctors, nurses and hospital staff, almost a hundred, were exposed and several got infected,” said Tambe. “I am absolutely fine and have no adverse effect post the vaccination,” said Dr Tambe. Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, HOD, microbiology department, Sassoon, said, “I am happy that I got vaccinated today. Vaccination is the best way to achieve herd immunity safely, effectively, and in the shortest time. We have the most effective tool to halt the pandemic. One must get vaccinated to protect self, family and society.” Aundh district hospital, meanwhile, was the only hospital to get Covaxin which has been developed and produced by Bharat Biotech and is India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Dr Prakash Rokde, senior ophthalmologist, Aundh district hospital, said, “The poor turnout could have been because of the late-night SMSes sent to beneficiaries or because of our staff’s shift timings. The turnout at our hospital was 60% which is a good number.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1802-healthcare-workers-vaccinated-in-pune-district-on-first-day-101610888583843.html
17-01-2021||Other||Vaccine drive: 9 cases of minor adverse effects reported in Pune district||At least nine cases of minor adverse after-effects of the vaccination were reported in Pune district on Saturday. Eight cases of Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported at Thergaon Hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and one at Wagholi primary health centre. Dr Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “The incident at Wagholi primary health centre was where the nurse, who did not have proper food after her night shift, felt anxious and was overwhelmed by the vaccination process.” Doctors at the centre clarified that it was a psychological experience. Dr Ashish Bharti, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department chief, said that there were observation sites for vaccine beneficiaries. “We have also put up emergency contact numbers of ambulances and drivers at the observation sites. Also, referral hospitals were ready to tackle any adverse case. However, no such case was reported. At Sutar Hospital, we had made rangoli to welcome healthcare professionals,” said Dr Bharti. Dr Subhash Kokane, the first beneficiary at Rajeev Gandhi hospital for the vaccination, said that he took the vaccine first to ensure others’ safety. “I was working for Rajeev Gandhi hospital during the pandemic. And I was tested positive for Covid in October and recovered. I have seen many patients lose their life to the virus. I encourage everyone to take the vaccination to keep themselves and their family safe,” said Kokane. The vaccination drive at PMC-run Rajiv Gandhi hospital started smoothly on Saturday. The beneficiaries are mostly staff from the hospital. The hospital is equipped to vaccinate 100 persons on the first day. The staff during the vaccination informed the beneficiaries about the emergency contacts if they experience uneasiness post-vaccination. Sharing similar views, Pooja Bandal, a nurse at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, said that even though she was not infected by the virus, she was happy to be the first woman to receive the vaccination at the hospital. “I am not fearful if the vaccination shows any side effects. All necessary arrangements are made by the hospital in case of any emergency. There is a follow-up after seven days and the next shot is after 28 days,” said Bandal. Speaking about the necessity of vaccination, Dr Maya Lohar, medical superintendent at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, said that the beneficiaries are kept under observation for half an hour. “Most of the beneficiaries are from the hospital. And we are all very positive because of the vaccination. We have made all necessary arrangements to tackle any emergency,” said Dr Lohar. Dr Varsha Doiphode, additional civil surgeon, district hospital, Aundh, said that all the staff members at the hospital are excited to get the vaccination shots. “Our nurses and doctors have been the first to handle the Covid emergency. And we are again the first ones to get the vaccination. We are communicating with the beneficiaries if there is an emergency. So far, there is no problem,” said Dr Doiphode. Savita Jadhav, telemedicine facility management, Aundh hospital, who tested positive for Covid in May, said that she is happy to receive the vaccination. “It is an indigenous vaccination. And I feel proud to receive it on day one. The hospital has followed all rules and regulations to give the jab,” said Jadhav. JS Ghodke who is a paediatric nurse and cold chain and vaccine incharge at Aundh Hospital said that those who came in for vaccination were positive about the drive. “Our staff and beneficiaries are happy. We are hopeful that this vaccine will help us fight against Covid by boosting our immunity further,” said Ghodke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-drive-9-cases-of-minor-adverse-effects-reported-in-pune-district-101610888282972.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||No fine for not wearing masks in private vehicles in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), civic body of Mumbai, on Sunday directed its cleanup marshals not to fine citizens for not wearing masks inside their private vehicles. The exemption, however, excludes those travelling in public transport services such as taxis, rickshaws, trucks and tempos. As of now, ₹200 fine per person is being imposed for not wearing masks in public places. The new rules have been imposed with immediate effect.The decision has been taken following several complaints by the citizens.The BMC had set the fines for skipping out on masks as well as spitting in public places at ₹1,000 in April. Later, the amount was reduced to ₹200 in September after citizens complained of the fine being too stringent.Recently, motorists had complained to the BMC about marshals fining them while they were inside their car. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed all cleanup marshals to stop fining people for violating mask rules if they are in their private vehicles.Also read: Thousands of tractors will enter Delhi for disciplined Kisan Republic Day paradeA senior civic official said, “Implementation of new directives has been started from Sunday afternoon. However, marshals will continue fining people not wearing masks in public places. The ones travelling in public transport will also be fined."In October, the BMC had launched a massive drive with a target of penalising 20,000 citizens daily for not wearing a mask. On October 12, when the drive was launched, nearly 40,000 citizens were penalised. In ten days, as of October 21, additional 60,000 citizens were penalised for not wearing a mask.Apart from collecting fines, the BMC has also started making violators perform community services, such as sweeping roads for an hour or cleaning graffiti, if they argue or refuse to pay the fine amount of ₹200 for not wearing masks. This punishment is being implemented as per the BMC’s solid waste management by-laws which empowers the civic body to make citizens perform community services for spitting on roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-in-private-vehicles-in-mumbai-101610886295415.html
17-01-2021||Bhopal||'Crime which I never committed': Ex-army man acquitted after 14 years in jail||An ex-army man, who was arrested in 2006 in connection to a murder in Morena district, was acquitted by Madhya Pradesh High Court Gwalior bench just 11 days before his release from the jail said an advocate.Balveer Singh Yadav, 45, a resident of Bharrad village of Morena district, with his friend Radheshyam Yadav had been arrested in 2006 in connection to a murder case of Surendra Rajput, a resident of Banmore in Morena. Later, he was convicted by a district and session court while his friend was acquitted by the same court. Yadav was awarded punishment for life imprisonment.“Yadav completed the jail term of 14 years and the state government was going to give him the benefit of remission on January 26, 2021 (Republic Day) but before his release, MP High Court, Gwalior bench declared him innocent on January 15, said Atul Gupta, the advocate of Yadav.The double bench of the court, comprising judge Anand Pathak and judge Vishal Mishra, in its judgment delivered on Friday said, “Regretfully appellant’s 14 years which otherwise he could have served the nation as an army personnel cannot be returned back but certainly he can be given solace by removing the stigma of an accused from him, therefore, this court proceeded to conclude its findings on merits.”Also read: India gives Nepal 'iron clad' commitment on vaccine, supply schedule coming week“It is concluded that the prosecution couldn’t prove the case beyond reasonable doubt and material contradictions, omissions and discrepancies crept into the case of the prosecution. It is the duty of the prosecution to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt and here the eye witness account, dying declaration nowhere evoke sufficient evidence to conclude that Balveer committed the offence. In the absence of the motive, relying on the evidence of last seen conviction cannot be maintained. On such doubtful pretext, appellant couldn’t have been convicted. Appellant is directed to be released,” the order stated.Balveer Singh said, “I was accused just because I was seen with Surendra Yadav before his death. I am happy that the stigma of being a murderer has been removed but I lost my job, pride and important 14 years.”“My trust on judiciary has increased but I will request the central government and the judiciary to fix the time limit for a judgement of any case because it was very tough for me to take the punishment for a crime which I never committed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/crime-which-i-never-committed-ex-army-man-acquitted-after-14-years-in-jail-101610884061162.html
17-01-2021||Bangalore||Kannada has been ignored: Kumaraswamy accuses Shah||Accusing Union Home Minister Amit Shah of an anti-Kannada attitude, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday asked him to clarify to the people of Karnataka regarding the local language not finding place on the foundation stone plaque of the RAF unit in Bhadravathi, which he inaugurated.Hitting out at Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and his Deputy Govind Karjol for ignoring the same, he said in a series of tweets that those who tolerate insult to the dignity and honour of the land as well as its language were not fit to hold the reins of the state's administration, as he accused them of "betraying" Kannadigas.Shah on Saturday had laid the foundation stone of a new battalion campus of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) near Bhadravathi in Shivamogga district in the presence of Yediyurappa, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Karjol among others."...the inscription plaque unveiled on the occasion to mark the foundation stone laying is in only Hindi and English. It clearly shows that Kannada has been ignored though the foundation stone that has been laid in Karnataka," Kumaraswamy tweeted.Stating that it is the responsibility of the Centre to show due respect towards the languages of the states as our country has adopted the three-language formula, he said, but violation of such a sensitive norm by the union Home Minister himself is an insult to the Kannada language as well as Kannadigas."The behaviour of Mr Shah who has ignored Kannada in the process of providing prominence to English and Hindi indicates an anti-Kannada attitude. It is an insult to the pride of Kannadigas. It is Karnataka that has given land for the Centre's RAF unit," the former Chief Minister pointed out."It is an unpardonable act that despite getting land from Karnataka for the RAF unit, Kannada has been completely ignored in the foundation stone plaque," he said, adding Amit Shah should clarify to Kannadiagas on the episode of violation of three-language formula in the foundation stone plaque.The Karnataka government has provided a 50.29-acre land for the headquarters of the 97th battalion of the RAF, the blue dungaree wearing special anti-riots wing of the Central Reserve Police Force.Kumaraswamy said, it is "highly condemnable" that even the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister who were present on the occasion chose to ignore dignity and honour of our land and its language."Those who tolerate insult to the dignity and honour of land as well as its language are not fit to hold the reins of state's administration. The act and behaviour of the Union Home Minister, Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister are nothing but betraying Kannadigas," he added.Kumaraswamy had earlier too had been very critical of the alleged Hindi imposition and discrimination against the people of other languages, especially from the south.Terming "Hindi Diwas" celebration as an "underhand method" to impose the language on people speaking other languages, he had in September demanded its cancellation.The JD(S) leader had also asked as to how much more people of other languages including Kannadigas have to "sacrifice" in this country for not knowing Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/kannada-has-been-ignored-kumaraswamy-accuses-shah-101610880992097.html
17-01-2021||Patna||'If cops behave like this…': Tejashwi Yadav visits murdered IndiGo manager's family||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday met the family of IndiGo station manager, who was shot dead earlier this week in Bihar's capital Patna, as he once again trained his guns at Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and the police over the crime rate in the state.“Requesting Nitish Kumar with folded hands... We know that you're a weak CM but for the sake of your position, please don't let human lives be sacrificed. It is your (Bihar CM) responsibility to control crime in the state,” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“No arrests made yet. DGP says crime rate was higher in 2019, has come down now but for 16 years, Nitish Kumar has been CM. If police behave like this, one can understand ground reality,” he had said earlier.IndiGo’s Patna station manager Rupesh Singh was sprayed with bullets as he waited inside his SUV for the gates of his residence at Punaichak locality in the city to open. He had just returned from office on Tuesday evening. His family members have been demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) alleging that the Patna Police had failed to make any breakthrough.The opposition leader had earlier too called Kumar ‘weak and tired’ and accused him of threatening the media when they posed questions regarding the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. “Bihar is turning into the crime capital of the country. The number of incidents of crime is increasing here. It was ridiculous to see the chief minister yesterday. Nitish Kumar seemed helpless, very weak and tired,” he had said on Saturday.Yadav had also accused Bihar ministers of being involved in Singh's murder during a Facebook live session on Friday. "There are rumours that Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's ministers might be involved in the murder of IndiGo airlines manager Rupesh Kumar Singh," Yadav had said, according to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/if-cops-behave-like-this-tejashwi-yadav-visits-murdered-indigo-manager-s-family-101610880745781.html
17-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan police reject claim that Bikaner girl forced for interfaith marriage||A video war started over an interfaith marriage in Bikaner with the girl's family, in a video released on social media, alleging she was coerced into marriage, only to be countered by another video of the girl, released by the Rajasthan police, saying she had married out of her own sweet will.The girl's family claims it to be a case of forceful marriage with the aim to convert the girl and has accused the police of inaction.“A few days-ago, a family living in Bajju released a video on social media alleging their daughter was forcibly taken away and married by a boy. In the video, both the grandfather and the father of the girl are also seen crying. After the video went viral, Hindu organisations started putting pressure on the police to act and accused it of inaction,” said a police official.He added that when the police contacted the girl to verify the allegations made in the video, she denied all the allegations and said she had not been converted either before or after her marriage. The police too released the video on social media to put things in perspective.“I got married as per my will. Do not do false politics. This is not love jihad. We have married on our own free will, no one has been forced," the official quoted the girl as saying.However, the girl's grandfather released another video saying the family had lost respect. The girl's father claimed that he was also receiving threats.Bikaner’s superintendent of police, Priti Chandra, rubbished the claims made by the girl’s family. “All the allegations made by the girl's family are false. The girl has herself publicly confessed to have married out of her own sweet will. We have not received any complaint from any girl and the couple has produced a marriage certificate along with the documents confirming their ages,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-reject-claim-that-bikaner-girl-forced-for-interfaith-marriage-101610878769084.html
17-01-2021||Other||A week before deadline, government receives 49 objections to merger of 23 villages||The Pune divisional office has received as many as 49 suggestions and objections to the proposed merger of 23 areas – known as villages in government records – in to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. The process, to receive suggestions and objections on the inclusion, began on December 22, 2020, after state government issued a notification for the same. Officials said most of the responses received under “suggestions” and “objections” are opposing the proposed merger, although the quantum is too small as compared to 2017, when 11 areas were merged into the PMC. In its notification issued by state government related to the merger of 23 areas into the Pune corporation, the state government’s urban development department had given a month’s period to register views. Prashant Khandkekar, deputy regional director, municipal administration, Pune Division, said, “Till date (Friday), we got 49 suggestions and objections from local residents of the 23 merged areas. The number is less as compared to 11 merged areas notifications in 2017. At that time, we had received 2,900 suggestions and objections. However, only 265 people were present at the time of hearing.” According to Khandkekar, the process to sort out the objections area-wise has not started yet. “It will be done on January 22. In 2017, when large number sent their views and opposed the merger of 11 areas, most residents raised objections expressing concern of increasing property taxes, uncertainty of getting services, and that there was no need for a merger due to lack of urbanisation,” he said. As per the 2011 census, the population of 23 merged villages is 1,90,619. According to PMC officials, it may have now reached half a million given the rapid grown of real estate in these areas. On the other hand, the Pune corporation limit has grown to 518 sq km, from the existing 331 sq km, which become the first corporation in the state in terms of geographical area. The PMC had also informed state government that if these 23 areas are to be merged, the PMC has to be given ₹9000 crore to provide basic amenities to these parts. On the political front, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has given full support to the merger of 23 areas. However, the Shiv Sena and Congress party have taken a stand to prepare a detailed plan for development, manpower and funds before final decision. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has insisted that first the PMC carry out development of the 11 areas it merged in 2017 and then, step by step, include these 23 areas in the PMC limits. Shrinag Chavan, who had filed a public litigation for merger of villages in the Mumbai High court, said, “Fewer suggestions and objections show that people are happy with the decision. They want the inclusion of 23 villages. They need better infrastructure to live a better life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-week-before-deadline-government-receives-49-objections-to-merger-of-23-villages-101610878800951.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||HC puts on hold trial court order summoning Make My Trip CEO in cheating case||The Delhi High Court has put on hold a trial court order summoning online travel company Make My Trip's (MMT) CEO Deep Kalra in a cheating case filed by a lawyer.Justice Anu Malhotra issued the interim direction on Kalra's plea seeking quashing of the trial court order dated March 3, 2020 and proceedings emanating from it.The high court also issued notice to the state and the lawyer, who had lodged the cheating complaint against MMT, its CEO and a company employee, seeking their response on Kalra's plea by February 10, the next date of hearing."The matter be re-notified for February 10, till which date the impugned order against the applicant (Kalra) is stayed," the court said.Kalra was represented by senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, who told the high court that the police filed a closure report in the case in 2017 saying there was insufficiency of evidence, the grievance of the complainant-lawyer was a consumer dispute and there was no concealment.The complainant-lawyer had filed a cheating complaint with the police alleging that MMT, its CEO and one of its employees, who had planned his holiday package, conspired to cheat him, Kalra's plea, filed through advocates Ridhima Mandhar and Kartik Khanna, has said.Pahwa told the court that after carrying out an initial enquiry, the police had in 2014 said the dispute was purely of civil nature and no cognisable offence was made out.Despite that report, the magisterial court had directed registration of an FIR and therefore the FIR for the offences of cheating and criminal conspiracy was lodged against MMT, Kalra and the employee who had planned the holiday for the complainant-lawyer, the petition has said.The complainant-lawyer had in 2019 filed a protest petition against the police's closure report. In March last year, the trial court allowed the plea and summoned the company, Kalra and the employee, it said.Hence, the present petition for quashing the trial court order was filed, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-puts-on-hold-trial-court-order-summoning-make-my-trip-ceo-in-cheating-case-101610878461441.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi High Court says parents of road accident victim entitled to compensation||Parents are dependent on their children at some stage of life and it would be inequitable to deny compensation to those who lost their ward in a road accident, the Delhi High Court has said.Justice JR Midha said even if parents are not dependent on their children at the time of an accident, they will certainly be dependent, both financially and emotionally, upon them at the later stage of their life, as the children were dependent upon their parents in their initial years.The high court’s observations came while awarding compensation for loss of dependency to a woman, who lost her 23-year-old son in a road accident in 2008, and enhanced the award amount from ₹2.42 lakh to ₹6.80 lakh.The motor accident claims tribunal had held that though the accident occurred due to rash and negligent driving of the offending vehicle, the parents of the victim were not entitled to compensation for loss of dependency but only to compensation for loss of the estate.It had held that the victim’s father was working with the Delhi Police as a Sub-Inspector and was, therefore, not dependent upon the deceased.It had also said that his mother cannot be said to be dependent upon the victim as her husband was employed with the Delhi Police.The high court, however, said it was of the view that parents of the deceased are considered in law as dependent on their children, considering that they are bound to support their parents in their old age, when the parents would be unable to maintain themselves.The court, which said the law imposes a responsibility on the children to maintain their parents, added that “it would therefore be unfair as well as inequitable to deny compensation for loss of dependency to a parent, who may not be dependent on his/her child at the time of accident per se but would become dependent at him or her later age”.It further said that provisions of Code of Criminal Procedure, Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act and Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act cast an obligation on the children to maintain their parents and these legislations recognise the legal rights of parents to be maintained by their children.The high court directed that a copy of this judgement be sent to the Registrar General who shall circulate it to all Motor Accident Claims Tribunals to note that the principles relating to the loss to the estate in Keith Rowe judgement and Dinesh Adhlak judgement are not applicable to the claim of the parents in respect of the death of their child, claim of children in respect of death of their parents and claim of a spouse in respect of death of his/her spouse in a motor accident.It said the copy of this judgement be also sent to Delhi Judicial Academy to sensitise the claims tribunals about the principles laid down by this court in this verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-says-parents-of-road-accident-victim-entitled-to-compensation-101610877849665.html
17-01-2021||Other||Fire in luggage van of running train doused in time in Kerala||A fire broke out in a luggage van of a running train in Kerala on Sunday and was doused in time before it could spread to adjacent passenger coach, averting a possible major mishap, railway source said. The Thiruvananthapuram-bound Malabar Express from Mangaluru was stopped at Edava, about 60 km from here, after a gatekeeper there noticed smoke billowing out of the luggage van close to the engine and alerted officials around 7.40 am, they said. Fire force personnel said halting of the train in time averted a major blaze as the fire did not spread to other coaches. According to the railway sources, the gatekeeper informed the station master of Varkala, around 15 km from Edava, who in turn alerted the loco pilot and the guard, following which the train was halted immediately. An attempt was made to douse the blaze with fire extinguishers available in the train before the fire force personnel, who rushed to the spot, put it out, the sources told PTI. Shinoj, a passenger of the train, said seeing the smoke he first thought it must be due to some garbage being burnt on roadside. He later informed the police control room. Two motorcycles were among the goods gutted, the sources said adding a staff of Kasaragod railway parcel office has been suspended pending inquiry into lapses if any in booking of the vehicles. According to preliminary assessment, it was suspected one of the bikes could have triggered the fire, the sources said without elaborating further. Later, the train left for its destination after officials, including the Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer, inspected the luggage van and found it fit for journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-in-luggage-van-of-running-train-doused-in-time-in-kerala-101610876783526.html
17-01-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: Mamata administration questions Centre’s vaccination data||In a fresh flashpoint between the Centre and the West Bengal government, the Mamata Banerjee administration has questioned the data on vaccination published by the Union government on Saturday, alleging that it was incorrect.While the state health department claimed that at least 15,707 people were vaccinated on the first day in West Bengal, the union health ministry in its tweet said 9730 beneficiaries received the jab in the eastern state.A senior official of the West Bengal government said on Saturday that that the state had set a target to vaccinate 20,700 health workers on the first day. Out of them, the official said, 15,707 (75.9%) received the shot. While 92% of the target could be achieved in Kolkata, in some districts such as Jhargram 100% target was achieved.Late on Saturday night, however, the Union heath ministry tweeted that out of the 191,181 beneficiaries across the country, only 9,730 were from West Bengal, which is less than 50% of the target set by the state.“This is not correct. We are taking it up with them (the Centre),” said NS Nigam, state health secretary.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday requested the Union government to send adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines for all citizens in the state, and said her government was ready to bear the cost. Banerjee earlier announced that her government would provide free vaccine to all citizens across the state.On Saturday, India launched the world’s largest coronavirus vaccination drive, setting in motion a complex deployment plan aimed at stemming the wide spread of infections across a nation of more than 1.3 billion people.This is, however, not the first time that differences have surfaced between the Bengal administration and the Union government over Covid-19 data and related issues.In May 2020, an inter-ministerial central team (IMCT), which was sent to assess Bengal’s response to Covid-19, alleged discrepancies in the number of cases reported by the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-mamata-administration-questions-centre-s-vaccination-data-101610876240754.html
17-01-2021||Kolkata||After rebellion, TMC MP Satabdi Roy made party’s Bengal vice-president||Less than 48 hours after Satabdi Roy, three-time Lok Sabha member from Birbhum district, voiced dissent against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leadership and triggered speculation that she would join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the TMC on Sunday made the actor-turned politician a vice-president of the West Bengal state committee.While Roy welcomed the move, saying chief minister Mamata Banerjee wants her to work more for the people, the party’s secretary general, Partha Chatterjee, described the appointment as an “internal matter” of the organisation.Two other leaders, Moazzem Hossain and Shankar Chakraborty were also made vice-presidents of the TMC state committee.Speculations over Roy’s future started on Thursday over a post in a Facebook page of the Satabdi Roy Fan’s Club. The post, which Roy on Friday said was written by her, mentioned that she was unable to connect with voters in her constituency as she was not being invited to TMC programmes since the 2019 polls.Roy told the media that she would fly to Delhi on Saturday. This led to rumours that she would meet Union home minister Amit Shah. “As an MP, I can always meet Shah. But I am not saying that I will join the BJP,” Roy said on Friday afternoon.For the first time, TMC’s youth unit president and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, stepped in to fight the crisis. He sent party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh to bring Roy to his office and held a two-hour long meeting on Friday evening.“I discussed everything with our leader Abhishek Banerjee. I conveyed to him the grievances I had. He said he will solve all the problems,” Roy said after emerging from the meeting.Saumitra Khan, BJP state youth front president and Lok Sabha MP from Bankura district, however said Roy would join the BJP very soon. “Mamata Banerjee may have stopped her now but not just Roy but seven or eight MPs, such as Prasun Banerjee, will subsequently join the BJP,” Khan said on Saturday.Banerjee, a former football star, however dismissed Khan’s claim. “I am and will always be an integral part of the TMC,” he said.Though the TMC managed to stop Roy from leaving, the party was in an uncomfortable position because of state forest minister Rajib Banerjee, who has been avoiding most of the government and party programmes since September last.Banerjee said in a live social media post on Saturday that he was not being allowed to work freely in the party. Since September, the minister has been speaking against a section of TMC leaders in Howrah district.Making things a little easier for the TMC in East Midnapore district, where Suvendu Adhikari was a legislator from the Nandigram seat, Siraj Khan, a senior functionary of the zilla parishad (district council) left the BJP and returned to the TMC on Sunday morning. Khan was welcomed into the BJP in November last year by the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/after-rebellion-tmc-mp-satabdi-roy-made-party-s-bengal-vicepresident-101610876301122.html
17-01-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata nurse stable, experts try to find cause of illness post vaccination||The health condition of a 35- year-old nurse, who fell ill here following the administration of COVID-19 vaccine, is currently stable, and a medical board of experts has been formed to find out why she fainted after taking the shot, a senior official said on Sunday.The health department official, who is also a prominent doctor, said the experts are examining her condition as of now, and the analysis might take some time."She is is stable. We have formed a board of experts to take care of the treatment procedure. Let's see how quickly we can analyse the reason behind her illness and come up with a solution. As of now, she is responding well to the treatment," the official told PTI.The health department is also consulting vaccine expert Dr Shantunu Tripathy, who was earlier associated with School of Tropical Medicine, he said.Asked if there was any underlying cause, the official said, "No one can say anything for sure as of now. Experts are examining her condition. We have found out that the woman suffers from chronic Asthma and is hypersensitive to a number of drugs."The nurse was on Saturday admitted to the critical care unit (CCU) of Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital here as she complained of uneasiness and fainted shortly after taking the shot, during the nationwide vaccination programme."We checked on her this morning and found that all her vital health parameters are normal. Her blood pressure and oxygen saturation levels are also fine. Oxygen support has been removed for the time being. We will soon decide on the next course of action," the senior official said.Thirteen other 'Adverse Event Following Immunisation' (AEFI) cases have also been reported from various parts of the state but "none of those were serious", the state health department said."All these vaccine recipients showed minor side effects like increased blood pressure and feverish feeling. They were discharged after preliminary treatment. Our doctors in respective districts are keeping a tab on their health condition and will take a call as per the demand of the situation," the official said.AEFI is any untoward medical occurrence following immunisation and might not have any relation with the vaccination process, officials said.Of the 14 AEFI cases in Bengal, three are from Murshidabad district and two from Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-nurse-stable-experts-try-to-find-cause-of-illness-post-vaccination-101610874375531.html
17-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP forms 5-member panel to prepare for 2022 assembly polls||Uttarakhand BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat has formed a five-member committee under the leadership of Rajya Sabha member Naresh Bansal for preparing a roadmap for the 2022 Assembly elections in the state.This committee will also give various recommendations on the issues to be taken up for elections and on mass outreach on pressing issues.Devendra Bhasin, BJP state spokesperson, said the five-member committee includes Rajya Sabha member Naresh Bansal, state BJP general secretaries Ajay Kumar, Kuldeep Kumar, Suresh Bhatt and minister Dhan Singh Rawat.“The committee will create a roadmap for the elections so that there is clarity with regard to what we have to do and what we have to focus on”, he saidBhasin said the party leaders and ministers have been asked to tour their respective districts and areas and interact with party workers and people there. He said these decisions were taken in the core committee meeting of the BJP, held in Dehradun, Saturday late evening.“The party has also decided on various events and programmes which will be held in the coming days. The meeting of the state working committee will be held on March 13 and 14. Chintan Baithak—the meeting to analyse and ponder over various issues-- will be held on February 19 and 21. Then on March 18, a grand function will be held on the completion of four-years of the BJP government in the state,” he said.Already in poll mode, Uttarakhand BJP has recently started various initiatives including a grassroots level campaign "Booth Jeeta to Chunav Jeeta" meaning winning booth is winning election.The party has also been holding training workshops for the party cadre which continues till February. So far, several training workshops have been held to train thousands of booth-level workers for spreading the word of development works done by the BJP governments at both state and Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-forms-5-member-panel-to-prepare-for-2022-assembly-polls-101610875176943.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray vows to incorporate 'Karnataka-occupied areas' into Maharashtra||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said his government is committed towards incorporating into the state the areas of Karnataka where Marathi-speaking people are in majority.This will be the "true tribute" to martyrs of the cause, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a tweet.Maharashtra claims Belgaum and some other areas, part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency but currently in Karnataka, on linguistic grounds.Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, a regional organisation fighting for the merger of Belgaum and some other border areas with Maharashtra, observes January 17 as the 'martyrs' day' for those who laid down their lives for the cause in 1956."Bringing Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who accepted martyrdom in the boundary battle. We are united and committed towards it. Respects to the martyrs with this promise," the CMO tweeted.Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending that the majority of population in these areas is Marathi- speaking.The dispute between the two states over Belgaum and other border areas is pending before the Supreme Court for many years.Thackeray last year appointed Maharashtra ministers Eknath Shinde and Chhagan Bhujbal as co-coordinators to oversee the state government's efforts to expedite the case related to the boundary dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-vows-to-incorporate-karnataka-occupied-areas-into-maharashtra-101610872943841.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Only 843 passengers travelled in Mumbai AC local train in 1 month||Nearly a month after the Central Railway began operating air-conditioned (AC) local train services for its mainline passengers between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan, the service has not been able to gain ridership.Less than 1,000 passengers travelled by the AC train after it was introduced on December 17, states the data shared by railway officials.Between December 17 and January 16, only 843 passengers travelled by the AC local train. Of them, 220 passengers were monthly season pass holders and others were single journey passengers. It means, on an average, a meagre 25 to 30 passengers travelled by the AC local train daily in the last one month.On December 20 and December 25, only three passengers travelled by the AC local train services, according to the daily statistics.Nearly 5,000 passengers can travel at a time in an A/C train on the route.The Central Railway introduced 10 AC local trains between CSMT and Kalyan railway stations on the slow railway line corridor. They are operated from Monday to Saturday. The fares of the AC local train are 1.3 times higher than the fares of normal local trains.Railway authorities have stated that they expect an increase in traffic after local train services resume for the general public.“We are constantly advertising about the AC local train and seeking passenger feedback. Implementation of feedback from passengers will be done before local train services resume for the general public. We are expecting the number of passengers to increase after the resumption of local train services for all,” said a senior Central Railway official.Currently, those working in the essential and emergency sectors, cancer patients and differently-abled persons are allowed to travel on local trains. From the third week of October, women commuters have also been allowed to travel in specified hours.The Central Railway has also started an online survey to find out commuting preferences for the passengers of the AC local train. Passengers were asked to name their preferred travel routes from among CSMT - Kalyan, CSMT- Dombivli, CSMT- Thane, CSMT-Kurla, CSMT- Vashi, CSMT- Belapur, CSMT- Panvel, CSMT- Bandra, CSMT- Andheri and CSMT- Goregaon routes.With an aim to increase the passenger footfall, the railway authorities have also started approaching offices to encourage staffers to travel on the AC local train.Passenger associations have claimed that a reduction in the fares of the AC local train for women passengers, senior citizens and students could help in increasing the ridership.“Employees working in private companies have their commute provided by the companies. Railways could charge first class fare from women, senior citizens and college students to attract more passengers. However, they are likely to increase only after train services reopen for the common people," said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-843-passengers-travelled-in-mumbai-ac-local-train-in-1-month-101610870738431.html
17-01-2021||Patna||Bihar top cop reviews Indigo manager murder case in Patna, breakthrough expected||Following Bihar chief minster Nitish Kumar’s instruction to expedite the probe in the sensational murder of Indigo’s station manager, Rupesh Kumar Singh, the director-general of police, S K Singhal, along with ADGs CID, Operations, Law and Order, visited Patna SSP’s office to review the progress in the investigation.The DGP paid a surprise visit to SSP Upendra Sharma on Saturday and held an unscheduled meeting with the officials. The incidents of crime, especially murders, daylight robberies and snatchings have recently shifted focus to the law and order situation in the state.Singhal, who assumed charge almost four months ago, expressed concern over the recent incidents of crime and inquired about the progress in the investigation in Rupesh Singh murder case.He held closed-door meetings with range IG, SSP, City SP and SIT members to discuss the progress of the probe. DGP later told mediapersons that the case was complicated and there murder could have been committed for either personal or professional reasons. He added that the police had some important clues after interrogating several persons and is expecting to work the case out, soon. The DGP also said that contract killers were employed to kill Rupesh Kumar.Singhal said that the forensics team, along with the SIT, was scientifically probing the case. He dismissed allegations that the law and order situation in the state was on the wane and said isolated incidents can’t be used for an effective assessment (of the situation).Police officials in the police headquarters said a breakthrough was likely in the case. “We are following some specific clues that might lead to the arrest of the suspects soon. Separate teams have raided places in Bihar as well as in Uttar Pradesh. All possible angles were probed in detail and we are ruling out one after the other,” said a police official, adding that some inmates lodged in high security blocks in central prisons across the State were also being questioned.The SIT was verifying information and the details would be disclosed at the right time. “No arrests have been made so far, but we will get a result soon,” the official said.Rupesh Kr Singh was sprayed with bullets while he waited inside his SUV for the gates of his residence at Punaichak locality in the city to open, after he returned from office on Tuesday evening. His family members have been demanding a CBI probe alleging that the Patna police had failed to make any breakthrough after five days of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-top-cop-reviews-indigo-manager-murder-case-in-patna-breakthrough-expected-101610869232003.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Aurangabad is Sambhajinagar for us and will remain so, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that Aurangabad is Sambhajinagar and will remain so for them, amid a row over renaming the district."I don't know. Maharashtra Chief Minister has clearly said that for us, it is Sambhajinagar and will remain so," Raut told reporters here.When asked why Congress is opposing the renaming of Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar, the Shiv Sena leader said: "It is a matter of people's feelings, so we can discuss it, but the decision has been taken."Earlier in the day, Shiv Sena on Sunday took a jibe at its ally Congress and attacked it for being "secular" and opposing the name change, as the issue of renaming Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar snowballs into a controversy.An editorial in Shiv Sena's mouthpiece "Saamana" said that the renaming of Aurangabad might affect the vote bank of "secular parties" as the renaming will upset the Muslim society."India's constitution is secular... Aurangzeb had a strong hatred for other religions. He tortured Sikhs and Hindus. Why should we pay attention to their relics? Who was Aurangzeb? At least, Maharashtra does not need to explain this.....Therefore, there is no reason for a true Marathi and hardcore Hindu to have an attachment for Aurangzeb," it read.Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi Government which comprises Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress had completed one year in office last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aurangabad-is-sambhajinagar-for-us-and-will-remain-so-says-sanjay-raut-101610868700303.html
17-01-2021||Other||HC directs CBI court to adjourn Manesar land case till after February 24||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the court of the Special CBI judge, Panchkula, to adjourn trial proceedings in the Manesar land case after February 24. Taking up a petition by former Haryana IAS officer Sudeep Singh Dhillon, justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the high court issued notice of motion to the CBI. “List again on February 24. In the meantime, the trial court is directed to adjourn the case beyond the date fixed by this court,’’ said the January 15 high court order. Dhillon, a former director of the town and country planning department, argued before the high court that the acquisition proceedings were initiated by the industries department and, therefore, the town and country planning had no direct role to play either in the acquisition or in the decision-making process of dropping the acquisition proceedings. The counsel for Dhillon contended that the chief secretary’s office while examining the sanction to prosecute sought by the CBI had in a file noting of January 19, 2018, exonerated him saying that his involvement in the acquisition or dropping of land acquisition proceedings in the Manesar matter have not been proved. The comments of the town and country planning and industries departments confirm this too, the petitioner said, quoting the government order. HOODA GOVT DROPPED 600 ACRES FROM ACQUISITION The then Congress government had in 2007 dropped about 600 acres in Manesar from the acquisition process on the orders of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The land was to be acquired for the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) for creating residential and recreational utilities in the Industrial Model Township (IMT) at Manesar. In 2015, the CBI registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code against unknown persons on a recommendation made by the BJP government in Haryana. The investigating agency filed a chargesheet in the trial court, accusing Hooda and three former IAS officers, ML Tayal, Chhatar Singh and SS Dhillon, besides others of dropping acquisition proceedings to help real estate builders. Builders were also named as accused. In 2018, the Supreme Court set aside the decision of Hooda government to drop land acquisition proceedings and directed the CBI to unravel the role of middlemen in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-directs-cbi-court-to-adjourn-manesar-land-case-till-after-february-24-101610867820374.html
17-01-2021||Patna||Multi post EVMs to be used in Bihar panchayat polls for the first time||The upcoming panchayat polls in Bihar would be held using multi post EVMs after the state government’s consent and intimation of the same to the state election commission (SEC) on Saturday.The nod gives the state poll panel the clearance to purchase the advanced multi post electronic voting machines from ECIL (Electronics Corporation of India Limited). The government has also approved ₹300 crore for the purchase and management of the multi post EVMs by the SEC, officials said.Additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, Amrit Lal Meena said, “The SEC will now purchase the EVMs from ECIL. The use of EVMs would make the election process more transparent and the counting process will be much quicker.”Secretary, SEC, Yogendra Ram also confirmed that the poll panel had received the approval from the panchayati raj department.The SEC will purchase 15,000 multi post EVMs for use during the panchayat polls. While the use of EVMs in rural polls in Bihar is going to take place for the first time, many other states, namely Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala, have conducted panchayat polls using the voting machines in the last few years.The multi post EVMs are different from EVMs used in assembly and lok sabha polls as it has a central unit with six ballot unit for the six posts of ward member, gram panchayat, panch, sarpanch, mukhiya, panchayat samiti member and district board members to be contested in the elections.The SEC is giving final touches to the tentative schedule of panchayat elections for 2.58 lakh posts. The polls are likely to be held from March to May this year. 1.19 lakh polling stations have been identified so far.“As the voting will be done through EVMs, the counting will be done after the conclusion of each phase in districts by taking out the secure detachable memory module of the EVMs. It will allow the results to be declared in districts, where polling gets complete, within a couple of days of voting. This would also free up EVMs to be dispatched to districts, where the next phase of polling is scheduled,” said, an official in the SEC, who didn’t wish to be named.Panchayat polls in Bihar could be held in eight to nine phases depending on the availability of security forces and preparedness in districts.“We will be sending the schedule of election to the state government for approval soon. The election process would start from March onwards after the final publication of the ward-wise voters’ list, being prepared by the SEC,” said another SEC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/multi-post-evms-to-be-used-in-bihar-panchayat-polls-for-the-first-time-101610867334716.html
17-01-2021||Patna||Bihar LIC office under lens for selling insurance policy to Afghan national||The investigation into five Afghanistan nationals’ illegal stay in Katihar has taken a new turn with the revelation that one of the Afghan nationals had been issued an insurance policy by the Life Insurance Corporation’s (LIC) Katihar branch.Katihar sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Amar Kant Jha, who is in charge of investigation, said it was a serious matter. “Yes, this is a very serious matter and we will investigate how LIC offered the insurance policy to an foreign national staying illegally” he said, adding “All those found guilty will not be spared.”The insurance policy was sold to the Afghan National in 2007 on the basis of forged documents and it would have matured in a year in 2022. “He would have been given the matured amount if the matter had not come into light” a police officer said and indicated that LIC officials, including the insurance-issuing agent will be quizzed in the matter.“We are in search of the agent who was instrumental in helping the Afghan national buy an insurance policy without valid documents,” said Priyabandhu Thakur, senior manager of LIC branch in Katihar. He added that the ‘development officer’, under whom the agent worked, has been summoned in the matter.Besides the birth certificate, proof of residence and a photograph are needed to open an insurance policy with the LIC. “We have apprised the top authorities in LIC of the matter and further departmental enquiries are being conducted,” an LIC official said on the condition of anonymity.This is not the only instance of institutions and official machinery’s suspected misuse. Earlier, Katihar circle office was in the spotlight for allegedly issuing a license of lending in the name of Dawood Ibrahim. However, Katihar circle officer Sonu Bhagat later denied that such license was ever issued to Dawood Ibrahim from his office.On December 15 last year, Katihar police had arrested five Afghan nationals from a rented house in Choudhary Mohalla under Katihar town police station; however, one Afghan national and the landlord have since been absconding.Seemanchal, due to its proximity to Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bangladesh borders, is considered a safe haven for anti national elements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-lic-office-under-lens-for-selling-insurance-policy-to-afghan-national-101610865354179.html
17-01-2021||Lucknow||Guided tour packages, heritage walks for Ayodhya soon||The state culture department and the Ayodhya district administration have designed six religious-cultural trips and heritage walks for pilgrims and tourists that will be implemented soon. In ranges between 10km and 170km, the culture trips and heritage walks will have a duration varying from two hours to half-a-day."We have designed tour packages for Ayodhya. These trips and walks are under Ayodhya's short-term tourism development plan while there are many long-term projects too. It will make things easier for the visitors who will have an option to go for short- and long- duration trips or a combination of them as per the time they have. They will be launched soon," said Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha.Once these trips and walks start, all that the visitors will have to do is to book packages of their choice either over phone or online. "Walks obviously will be guided ones with an expert guide walking along and describing heritage, history, religious significance. The trips would be on package-provided vehicles," said a cultural department officer.So far, a total of six circuits have been finalised. For instance, there is a seven-hour package tour that would begin at 6.30 am every day from Laxman temple at Sahastradhara ghat. It will traverse through Chandrahari temple, Nageshwarnath temple, Ram Ki Paidi, Korea Park, Ramkatha Sangrahalaya, Vilvahari temple, Dashrath samadhi, Shitala Devi, Hanuman Gadhi, Kanak Bhawan and Shri Ram Janmabhoomi before culminating at Ram Ki Paidi.Another one will start at 12.30 pm each day from Hanuman Gadhi, passing through several places such as Kanak Bhawan, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi, various ghats, including Guptar ghat, Bharat Kund, will take the visitors to Ram Ki Paidi for Saryu Aarti.The biggest one (170 km long circuit) is ten-and-a-half-hour trip starting from Naya ghat at 8am. It will go to various temples and then to Saryu-Ghaghara Sangam (confluence of Saryu and Ghaghara rivers), Tusli ashram, Agastya ashram, Parashar ashram and then facilitate Saryu Aarti at Ram Ki Paidi—its final point.The one heritage walk finalised so far will begin at 6 am from Rin Mochan crossing, making visitors walk through Jhunki ghat, Gola ghat and Sahastradhara before ending at Maukhada tirth sthal."The state government is doing a lot of things to make it a prominent religious tourism city in the world. These tour packages and walks will make it convenient for the tourists and visitors once they land in Ayodhya," said the culture department officer."Already, the annual Deepotsava has won Ayodhya a lot of eyeballs globally and the Ayodhya administration is also engaged in renovating all religious, mythological, and historical sites under its Chaurasi kosi, Chaudaha kosi and Panch kosi parikrama (circumambulation). Along with shelters for pilgrims, there will also be arrangements of other basic facilities besides 'kuccha' routes for pilgrims on foot. A separate action plan has also been prepared for the development of major sites like Makhauda," the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/guided-tour-packages-heritage-walks-for-ayodhya-soon-101610861053686.html
17-01-2021||Bhopal||Minor gang-raped by nine people in MP||The Madhya Pradesh police on Saturday arrested eight people on charges of abducting and gang-raping a 13-year-old girl for three days, officials said.Police have identified the eight accused as residents of Umaria. They are Akash Singh, Rahul Kushwaha, Paras Soni, Manu Kewat, Onkar Rai, Eitendra Singh, Rajnish Choudhary and Rohit Yadav. The police are yet to identify one of the accused.They were arrested under section 376 (d) (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under relevant section of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence.Umaria superintendent of police (SP) Vikas Shahwal said the girl was in trauma and being counselled."A Class 9 student, the girl had come to Umaria from Jabalpur to meet her mother on January 10. On January 11, two men, Akash and Rahul, met her in a market. They asked her to join them for a lunch. They took the girl to a forest and raped her," said Shahwal."They reached a dhaba where they held her hostage for the whole night. Later, Dhaba owner Paras Soni and four others raped her. The girl requested the accused to allow her to go. The girl was sent to her home in a truck. She shared her trauma with the truck driver, Rohit Yadav, but instead of informing police, the driver raped her. The truck driver left her near a toll plaza on Umaria-Katni road. She flagged down another truck and the unidentified driver too raped her. The girl somehow reached her home on January 13 and informed the police," he added.Police are investigating the matter and are on the lookout for the unidentified truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/minor-gang-raped-by-nine-people-in-mp-101610860742974.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi's records minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 5.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday but it is likely to rise over the next two days due to a change in the wind direction, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The national capital had recorded a low of 6.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius this morning.An IMD official said easterly winds are blowing in Delhi that are not as cold as northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas.Hence, the minimum temperature is likely to rise by a few notches over the next two days. It is expected to rise to 8 degrees Celsius on Monday, the official said.Delhi's air quality index (AQI) improved slightly to the 'very poor' category from 'severe' on Saturday as favourable wind speed helped in dispersion of pollutants.The city's AQI was 347 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 407 on Saturday, 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, and 354 on Wednesday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.Delhi's AQI remained in the 'severe' category for three consecutive days till Saturday due to "extremely unfavourable" conditions for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-records-minimum-temperature-of-5-7-degrees-celsius-101610859734063.html
17-01-2021||Jaipur||Mercury dips at several places in Rajasthan||Night temperatures dipped by a few degrees in parts of Rajasthan where Pilani was the coldest place with 1.4 degrees Celsius followed by Churu which shivered at 1.9 degrees. Dense fog also engulfed many parts of the state.Ganganagar, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Alwar, Bundi and Dabok recorded 2.5, 6.1, 6.3, 7.4, 9.6 and 10 degrees respectively.The night temperature in Ajmer, Jaipur, Barmer and Jodhpur was 11.1, 11.6, 12.3 and 13.2 degrees respectively, according to the weather department here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/mercury-dips-at-several-places-in-rajasthan-101610859586716.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi's air quality continues to remain in 'severe' category; overall AQI at 428||Delhi's air quality continued to remain in 'severe' category on Sunday, with overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reaching 428, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research.An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101- 200 is moderate, 201- 300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is considered severe.The minimum temperatures are showing negative tendency over Delhi and Bihar and positive tendency over Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh, and mixed tendency over Haryana, Chandigarh, Punjab and West Rajasthan, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Dense to very dense fog has been observed over Punjab, west Uttar Pradesh and moderate to dense fog has been observed over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam and Meghalaya today morning, said the IMD.Due to dense fog in Delhi and adjoining states on Sunday morning, around 26 trains travelling in and around the national capital were delayed, according to news agency ANI.As per Northern Railways, Train number 04217--Prayagraj Sangam-Chandighar Covid special and Train number02397--Gaya-New Delhi Special suffered a maximum delay of 3.45 hours.Due to such chilly weather conditions, IMD advised citizens to be careful while driving or outing through any transport and prefer to use fog lights during driving.On Saturday, the overall AQI was 492 and on January 15, the overall AQI was 431 in Delhi.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-continues-to-remain-in-severe-category-overall-aqi-at-428-101610858578010.html
17-01-2021||Jaipur||6 dead, 36 injured after bus runs into high tension power line in Rajasthan||At least six persons were killed and 36 injured in a major accident in Rajasthan’s Jalore district, when a bus ran into an 11kv high tension electric line and caught fire on Saturday night around 10:45 pm.Six people were burnt alive and 36 others sustained burn injuries. The injured were rushed to Jalore district hospital, according to the district administration.“Due to the critical condition of some people, they were referred to Jodhpur. All victims belong to the Jain community, who were returning to Ajmer and Beawar after visiting the Nakoda shrine,” a police official said.The accident took place in Maheshpura village, 7 km from Jalore district.“Jain devotees left Beawar on Friday night in two buses after visiting the Jain temple in the district. The driver of one of the busses lost the way and reached Maheshpura village. While passing through the narrow lanes of the village, the bus hit the 11 KV line and caught fire,” the district official added.The deceased were identified as Sonal, Surabhi, Chanda Devi, Rajendra, driver Dharmchand Jain and the bus conductor, whose name is yet to be identified.Some of the injured have been identified as Priyanka, Nisha, Shakuntala, Anushi, Shilpa, Sunita, Seema, Ritika and Shilpa.Jalore MP Devji Mansingram Patel offered his condolences, and said, “My prayers are there with the relatives of the deceased. May god give them the power to bear this irreparable loss. The administration and Jalore police should provide all possible assistance to the passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/6-dead-36-injured-after-bus-runs-into-high-tension-power-line-in-rajasthan-101610858989169.html
17-01-2021||Patna||Kidnappers used 20 different phone numbers to dodge police, caught in 24hrs||13-year-old son of a priest in Bihar's Kaimur district was kidnapped on Thursday evening and a demand for ₹58 lakh ransom was made by the abductors, setting the police on a 24-hour-long intense hunt for the criminals, which ended successfully with the recovery of the boy. The incident occurred at Karnpura village in Ramgarh police station limits of Kaimur district.The case was solved within 24 hours with the boy's recovery from a remote house, situated on the banks of river Ganga in Gazipur district of bordering Uttar Pradesh, and one man was arrested, superintendent of police, Rakesh Kumar said on Saturday.Two persons claiming to be clients sought consultation with the priest, Ashok Kumar Pandey, on Thursday evening to fix an auspicious date for griha pravesh pooja (house inauguration ceremony).The priest asked them to visit after January 15, when the inauspicious period as per Hindu calendar ends. The two men assured to visit later but requested the priest to send someone to accompany them to the village shop as they had to purchase some goods. The priest sent his 13-year-old son Priyanshu. It was about 5pm.When the boy did not return till late evening, the family and the villagers launched a search, but to no avail. At 7 pm, kidnappers called the priest and demanded a ransom of rupees five lakh for the safe release of the boy. The family informed Ramgarh police and a case of kidnapping was registered.Next day at 10am, the kidnappers again called the father and raised the ransom to ₹58 lakh while threatening to kill the boy if he informed the police.A police team led by the district intelligence unit (DIU) in-charge, Santosh Kumar Verma, started electronic surveillance and activated manual intelligence in the area bordering UP.Kidnappers used 20 phone numbers and 6 International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) numbers, registered in Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, to throw the police off the trail, police said.Despite chilling cold and dense fog in the area, the police and intelligence team worked round the clock and recovered the boy from a house at Birpur village under Bharwarpur police station in Gazipur district of UP.One of the accused Satya Narayan Tiwary was arrested. Tiwary confessed that his son, Vishwamitra Tiwary, with friend Manish Tiwary, had hatched the kidnapping plan to make a quick buck after noticing that the priest was wealthy.Raids were being conducted to arrest both the absconding kidnappers.The superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar said that the district intelligence unit (DIU) in-charge Santosh Kumar Verma, constable Kapil Mandal and Ramgarh SHO Rajiv Ranjan, would be suitably rewarded for excellent investigation and hard work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/kidnappers-used-20-different-phone-numbers-to-dodge-police-caught-in-24hrs-101610851540365.html
17-01-2021||Kolkata||‘Necessary for docs to take first shot to break any myths’||Dr Anima Halder, 65, principal of state-run Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital was among the first people to get vaccinated in Kolkata on Saturday, as West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee looked on during the inoculation.“It was a nice feeling to have received the vaccine on the first day. It was also necessary for doctors to take the first shot as it would break any myths and encourage others to come forward to take the vaccine. I was administered the vaccine exactly at 11:11 am. Thereafter I had to wait for another 30 minutes in the observation room before I could go back to work,” said Halder.At 5:30 pm, she was back in her office, attending meetings and signing papers.“I am absolutely fine. The wait for the vaccine is finally over but we cannot let our guards down against the virus,” she said. Apart from being a senior citizen, Halder also has a co-morbidity, as she is hypertensive. Her husband is also a senior official of the state health department.The vaccination drive was launched on Saturday across 207 sites. At least 20,000 persons were vaccinated in the state on Saturday, while 191,181 people got the shot around the country.The centre has warned recipients to continue to wear masks and practise physical distancing, as well as hand hygiene to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread before they receive the second dose of the vaccine.The state has seen over 564,000 cases of infection since the outbreak last March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/necessary-for-docs-to-take-first-shot-to-break-any-myths-101610834942001.html
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||‘Hid jab from family as they’d refuse’||Saroj Bala, a 40-year old sanitation worker at the general dispensary, sector 4 in Panchkula, said that she didn’t tell her family about the vaccine, shortly after she received the first dose on Saturday.Bala, who has served in the dispensary for the last 20 years, kept the vaccination a secret from her family, which only came to know about her getting the shot from media reports.“We are five members, but no one knew that I was going to get the first shot today. Had they known, they would have never allowed me to come,” she said adding,”A doctor informed me about this around a month ago and I agreed.”When asked why she went ahead despite the opposition, she said, “Work comes first.”A resident of sector 11, Haripur, Bala’s husband Ram Saroop works as a Class-4 employee in a government office. Hr said that he felt honoured that his wife took a shot.The drugs regulatory authority approved two vaccine for emergency use earlier this month: Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech Ltd and Covishield, developed by Oxford-Astra Zeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune.At least 300 million are expected to be given the vaccine in the first phase, where doctors, frontline workers including sanitation workers and anganwadi workers will be covered.Haryana Health department administered the vaccine to about 5907 beneficiaries at 77 immunization sites across the state.When asked if she felt afraid, Bala said, “No, there was no fear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hid-jab-from-family-as-they-d-refuse-101610834075308.html
17-01-2021||Jaipur||‘No cause for fear... Happy to be in first few to get vaccinated’||Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College and Hospital, who played a pivotal role in the effective management of the Covid-19 disease in the city, received the first dose of the vaccine on Saturday along with three colleagues, doctors Ish Munjal, Tarun Patni and GL Sharma.Bhandari, who is a member of the state advisory board for Covid-19, said, “I am happy that I am among the first few persons selected to get vaccinated. It is a proud moment that our country has developed a vaccine to deal with the pandemic. There is no cause for fear.”He added that a vaccine usually took more than 10 years to develop starting from initial research and testing to approval for general use.“With the Covid-19 vaccines, there have been exponential advances in scientific understanding from the initial genetic code released globally to numerous laboratories developing potential vaccines in only 10 months and more importantly, there has been the sharing of information,” he said.Experts agree that efforts to tackle the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease, capitalise on decades of advances made globally in the study of the coronavirus as well as on immunisation technologies.Saturday saw the launch of one of the world’s biggest Covid vaccination programmes as 300 million recipients will receive the jab in the first phase.The official schedule aimed to innoculate 300,000 people across 3,351 centres around the country. At least 191,181 people were vaccinated around the country today.Eminent persons, doctors, nurses and frontline workers including sanitation and anganwadi workers were among the first to take the jab of either of the two vaccines approved in India: Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech Ltd and Covishield, developed by Oxford-Astra Zeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune.Rajasthan has seen over 314,600 cases of the virus since the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/no-cause-for-fear-happy-to-be-in-first-few-to-get-vaccinated-101610833254183.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Will set an example that the vaccine is safe, say Delhi’s 1st beneficiaries of Covid-19 jab||Most health care workers in the national capital who volunteered to take the first shot of the Covid-19 jab said they were doing it to set an example that the vaccine was safe, as the world’s largest immunisation programme against the coronavirus disease kicked off across the country on Saturday.From sanitation workers to hospital administration clerks, from senior doctors to ambulance drivers, those who volunteered to take the vaccine shot said they would lead the way in inspiring confidence in the antidotes by defeating the virus.Though civil defence volunteers and police personnel were posted outside Delhi’s 81 vaccination centres to manage crowds and keep intact law-and-order, there were no reports of any untoward incidents from any of these points.Until Saturday evening, 4,319 of the scheduled 8,100 persons had got vaccinated in Delhi. Hospital authorities said some who were to get the jab said they were not in the city, or cited personal reasons. Authorities said the absentees could also be attributed to a glitch in the CoWIN app, and to people either being on duty or on leave.“It could be because people wanted to wait and watch what happens. It could also be that some of them were on duty or in quarantine,” said a senior doctor from GTB hospital.A senior doctor from Lady Hardinge Medical College said that a technical snag on Friday night resulted in fewer people turning up for vaccination. At Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, many doctors said they did not want to take a Covaxin jab, which the facility had received.While only 32 workers were vaccinated at Lok Nayak hospital, 45 were given their first doses at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (RGSS) hospital.Each centre had a target of vaccinating 100 people on Saturday.Dr Ajeet Jain, nodal officer of Covid-19 and cardio surgeon at RGSS hospital, “There is vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers despite conducting multiple counselling sessions.”But those who visited the vaccination centres called the process “smooth and effective”. Those who received Covaxin doses had to sign a consent form since it is being administered under a clinical trial.At most centres, health care workers, who received the vaccine shot on the first day, were welcomed by their colleagues with gift hampers and sweets. While a gift hamper with chocolates, chips, and juice were distributed at RGSS hospital, workers at Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital were greeted with sweets.Several hospitals, including Max Hospital in Saket, decorated their premises to mark the first day of the vaccination drive.On Saturday morning, the process started with the beneficiaries showing the SMS received on their phone regarding their appointment. This was checked by the civil defence volunteers deputed at the front desk by the office of the district magistrate of Central Delhi. The process also included noting the name, phone number of the beneficiary along with an additional phone number of a person close to the person, who would be informed in case of any side-effect.Once verified with a photo identification document, beneficiaries were asked to sit in a waiting room while maintaining social distance. The beneficiaries then went inside and got the vaccine shots. After which they were sent to the observation room for 30 minutes to check on any possible symptoms.“It took around 45 minutes for the entire process to get over. I can vouch for the vaccine as I feel no discomfort even 2 hours after taking the first shot. Each person who is getting vaccinated is being informed about the type of vaccine being administered before the injection,” said Dr Abhishek Bhowmick, 32, a senior resident doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital.The hospital was inspected by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, state health minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev and health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt. Kejriwal also interacted with two beneficiaries, including Atmaja Priyadarshini Nayak, a nursing officer. “I was vaccinated in the presence of the chief minister. He also asked about my wellbeing. I have not witnessed any side-effect,” the 37-year-old said.Biji Tony, a nursing officer in Lok Nayak hospital, was the first to get the Covishield vaccine at the state-run facility.At Delhi state cancer institute, 46 healthcare workers were vaccinated on the first day. Dr Pragya Shukla, the nodal officer of vaccination at the institute and Head of Department (HoD) Clinical Oncology, volunteered to take the first shot at the institute. “I decided to take the first shot in an effort to inculcate confidence among my team members,” she said.At around 12:20 am, health care and paramedical staff at Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital in Tahirpur welcomed their colleague Dr Akansha Rathore.A senior resident at the hospital, Dr Rathor had been on Covid-19 duty from the beginning of the outbreak. “I am proud and overwhelmed at the same time. I did not face any discomfort. I request people to not believe rumours and participate in the vaccination drive.”RGSS hospital saw 45 vaccinations on day one. Dr Vikas Dogra, head of department of the school of pulmonology, was the first person to get the vaccine shot there. Vinish Kumar, 30, a nursing staff complained of some discomfort after the shot. However, he was immediately shifted to the emergency room for further observation. “Immediately after taking the shot, it felt as though my blood pressure had fluctuated. I informed the doctor and they immediately examined me. After staying in observation for an hour, I feel absolutely fine now. There is no discomfort anymore,” he said.The vaccination process was smooth at Charak Palika Hospital (CPH), Moti Bagh, the only civic bodies run hospital designated for the vaccination in the first phase. Dr CK Bakshi, CMO coordination for Covid-19 activities in New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), said that the vaccines, received on January 15, were preserved on the hospital campus. “The vaccine drive commenced at 11.30 am on Saturday. One the first day we administered vaccine shots to 43 beneficiaries including doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, and other hospital staff. As many as 671 healthcare staff have volunteered to get inoculated at the hospital in the first phase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-set-an-example-that-the-vaccine-is-safe-say-delhi-s-1st-beneficiaries-of-covid-19-jab-101610827983185.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||One small jab, a giant leap for Delhi||A total of 4,319 healthcare workers — 53.3% of those registered — received the Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi on Saturday, becoming the first batch of people to be inoculated as India launched one of the biggest immunisation campaigns to control the coronavirus disease.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal assured people about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines, saying “there is no need to worry” and urged people to continue to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. State health minister Satyendar Jain described the drive as successful.Experts attributed the low turnout mostly to vaccine hesitancy but added that since no major adverse events were reported on Saturday, more people will join the drive on Monday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Lok Nayak hospital where 32 healthcare workers turned up for vaccination.While the next Covid-19 vaccination will be held on Monday at the same centres, each site has been allowed to vaccinate a maximum of 100 people a day.“I want to say to all not to pay attention to rumours and misinformation. The experts say vaccines are safe and there is no need to worry,” Kejriwal said.“Every person who has been vaccinated is happy, nobody is experiencing any problems. We have started this at 81 sites, and we will increase this number to 175 in the coming days. As and when the vaccine supply increases, we will start vaccination at 1,000 sites,” Kejriwal said after inspecting the arrangements at Lok Nayak hospital.The inoculation drive was launched at 81 centres or vaccination sites in Delhi with just one serious adverse event following immunization (AEFI) reported in the south district. Of the 4,319 beneficiaries, 51 reported minor reactions such as rashes, swelling at the site of injection and fever. South and southwest districts reported the highest number of minor AEFI with each reporting 11 such cases.The exercise proceeded smoothly at all centres with no major glitches being reported from anywhere.The Delhi heath minister said once the 240,000 registered healthcare workers are vaccinated, nearly 600,000 frontline workers will be next in line.Senior government officials said the turnout was better in the city’s private hospitals with Max Saket vaccinating all of its 100 registered beneficiaries. Sir Ganga Ram hospital vaccinated 88 healthcare workers, while Indraprastha Apollo saw 72 of them.Among the government hospitals, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) vaccinated 95 people with a couple of them being turned away with fever and other symptoms.The drive started after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, after 11am. Almost all centres, including GTB hospital and AIIMS, had installed LED televisions to live broadcast the PM’s speech which was shown to the beneficiaries to boost their morale.At AIIMS, a sanitation worker, Manish Kumar, was the first to get the jab. He was followed by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and NITI Ayog member Dr VK Paul with his wife Dr Shashi Paul – all three were administered a dose of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Allaying apprehensions over Covaxin, Dr Guleria said, “We may keep arguing about which vaccine is good and which is better, at the end of the day all the vaccines that are safe and efficacious will help in saving lives and reducing mortality..”Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College said, “Vaccine hesitancy had a major role to play when it came to the low vaccination rate on Saturday. Many people were comparing the two vaccines. But, with no major adverse events reported, I think more people will come forward in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-small-jab-a-giant-leap-for-delhi-101610827603041.html
17-01-2021||Other||Increased criminal activities on Friday nights, Ludhiana police increase vigil||With Friday nights becoming notorious for increased criminal activities, especially burglaries, the Ludhiana police has increased vigil near banks and ATMs for this night of the week.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that Friday nights are sensitive for the police as gangs of snatchers and burglars are the most active at this time due to impending weekend closure. “Most offices and shops operate for five days a week and remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays. Burglars target such establishments on Friday night as after executing the crime, they get ample time to hide or flee the city, as it takes owners or employees at least two days to discover the incident. Most owners remain clueless about the incident till Monday morning.”“A lot of shopkeepers also keep all their sales in the shops on Friday as some banks don’t conduct public dealing during weekends. Moreover, the banks also keep their ATMs loaded with money as people do more transactions on weekends,” he added.Besides, the fog cover during winter nights also helps miscreant to hide. To deter such criminal activities, at least 110 patrolling teams are deployed at major spots, markets, roundabouts, banks and other financial institutions. Three gazetted officers also make rounds of the city on rotation. Police officials said that on other nights too, the security is tight as 80 to 90 patrolling parties keep vigil in the city.The police commissioner said that the cops have already indentified sensitive points in the city which are prone to become targets of such miscreants and beefed up security.Besides, the heightened security also helps keep a check on revelers who become more active before weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/increased-criminal-activities-on-friday-nights-ludhiana-police-increase-vigil-101610827432864.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||1,926 health workers in Mumbai vaccinated||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday launched the state’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive from Mumbai, at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid-19 Jumbo facility, at 11.30am. Following this, the drive started at 40 booths across the city’s 10 vaccination centres — the eight municipal hospitals, the BKC jumbo facility and the state-run JJ Hospital. The first day of the drive in Mumbai concluded at 5pm, with 1,926 health workers vaccinated, according to information from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), as of Saturday evening. A total of 200 staffers, including 80 vaccinators, were working on Saturday. No untoward incident or adverse medical reaction among those vaccinated was reported in the city. Speaking at the launch on Saturday, Thackeray said, “We are taking a revolutionary step today [Saturday] by starting vaccination. I salute all health and frontline workers who have been serving the city through the toughest time of Covid-19 in April, May and June. It is our duty to honour this work, and hence they have been selected to receive the first vaccine doses. In Mumbai, we built Covid-19 centres like BKC, and this was all possible due to health and frontline workers.”Dr Madhura Patil, a dietician at the Asian Heart hospital, received the first shot at BKC, while Dr Deepak Sawant, former health minister and Shiv Sena member of legislative council (MLC), was the first person to receive the coronavirus vaccine shot at Mumbai’s Cooper Hospital, after the Prime Minister’s address to the country via teleconference at 10.30 am.Thackeray also urged Mumbaiites to continue the use of masks, and measures such as handwashing and social distancing, despite being vaccinated. “Even after taking vaccine, we will have to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Thackeray said.When asked to comment on the safety concerns raised around Covaxin, which is still in the trial stage, Thackeray said on Saturday, “The Centre takes the decision about which vaccine is to administered. Considering the Prime Minister has launched the vaccine drive today, there should not be any hesitation in the minds of citizens regarding the safety of any vaccine.”The state has received the vaccines from the centre, for emergency usage for health and frontline workers. We do not have clarity on when it [vaccines] will be available for all citizens, Thackeray said. He also said the vaccine is being administered for free for health workers on Saturday. Decisions regarding cost will be taken following further guidelines from the centre.The nine vaccination centres in the city are the four major hospitals — King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital where 243 health workers were vaccinated on the first day, BYL Nair Hospital at Mumbai Central where 190 were vaccinated, Cooper Hospital where 262 people were vaccinated, and Sion Hospital where 188 people were vaccinated; four peripheral hospitals — Bhabha hospital at Bandra where 149 people were vaccinated, V N Desai hospital at Santacruz where 80 people were vaccinated, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar where 289 were vaccinated, and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital, Kandivli, where 266 were vaccinated; and the Covid-19 facility at BKC where 220 were vaccinated . The state-run JJ Hospital is the 10th vaccination centre in the city where 39 people were vaccinated.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “1,926 health workers were vaccinated on Saturday. No adverse incident was reported. On Sunday, the drive will start at 9am, so we will get three or four hours more, up to 5pm, so the number of people who will receive their vaccine shots on Sunday will increase. We have already supplied enough vaccine doses to all centres in the city from the storage facility in Parel, to suffice for a week.” Mumbai received 139,500 vaccine vials from the Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday this week.Dr Rajesh Dhere, dean, BKC Covid-19 vaccination centre, said, “No adverse effect has been reported in any vaccine beneficiary yet. But one 32 year-old health worker had reported anxiety post vaccination. We counselled her and she is fine.”Dr Shashank Joshi from Lilavati Hospital, who is a member of Covid-19 taskforce and who took the vaccine at BKC, said, “By keeping faith and trust on the government and scientists who have worked hard for the Covid-19 vaccine, I appeal to all health workers and frontline workers to take the vaccine.”Dr Madhura Patil, the first person to receive the vaccine at BKC jumbo facility, said, “When I came to know that I was selected for vaccination, I was more than willing to take it. We have been working hard throughout the pandemic, and this vaccination drive dedicated to us is something that every health and frontline worker should take benefit of. I did not experience any adverse effect after undertaking the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1926-health-workers-in-mumbai-vaccinated-101610826478553.html
17-01-2021||Other||26-year old dietician first to be vaccinated at Mumbai’s BKC centre in CM’s presence||Dr Madhura Patil, 26, became the first beneficiary of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) facility in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. A dietitian working with the Asian Heart Hospital in BKC, Dr Patil has been working with Covid-19 patients at the BKC centre for the past six months. “When I came to know that I’ve been selected for the vaccine, I was more than willing to take it. We’ve been working hard throughout the pandemic, and this vaccination phase dedicated to us is something that every healthcare and frontline worker should take benefit of,” Dr Patil said, adding that she did not experience any adverse effect after getting the shot. “My family has also supported me to get the vaccine administered and I’d like to appeal to all the citizens to not believe in any rumour and get themselves immunised, as the government has rolled out the vaccine after extensive research and study,” said Patil who has been in the healthcare field for six years. Have faith in scientists, says second BKC centre vaccine beneficiary The second vaccine beneficiary at BKC centre, Dr Manoj Panchange, said, “I’ve been working at the BKC Covid-19 centre for almost 10 months now. I got myself immunised as I’ve faith in scientists who have worked day and night to ensure that our country gets a timely vaccine. I’d like to appeal to all the citizens to not believe in rumours and get vaccinated as soon as it’s rolled out for the general public.”‘No fear after working with Covid-19 patients closely’Thirty-three-year-old Kiran Damse, who works with Kurla’s Bhabha Hospital, has been a healthcare worker for the past 12 years. “For the past ten months, I’ve been taking care of Covid-19 patients. So there is no fear left within me, as I have seen Covid-19 patients so closely,” he said when asked if he was worried about taking the shot.Damse had decided to get the vaccine a week ago but got to know that he has been selected as one of the beneficiaries for Day 1 of the vaccination drive only last night. “My family is very supportive about me getting vaccinated. My wife also is a healthcare worker and we both have decided to get vaccinated,” he said.‘Trust professionals from our fraternity’Fifty-three-year-old nurse Lata Salunkhe, who works at Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) health clinic, was among the set of vaccine recipients who received the shot at BKC. She said, “There were fears of side-effects due to the vaccine. However, I have not developed any health complications after getting the vaccination administered. As a healthcare worker, I trust the professionals from our fraternity.“Now my family is among the citizens who are waiting for vaccination programme to start for the general public,” she said.Former health minister, wife get the shotFormer health minister and Shiv Sena legislator Dr Deepak Sawant was the first beneficiary to receive the Covishield vaccine at Cooper Hospital. “I received a message yesterday [Friday] from BMC about the vaccination schedule,” he said.Dr Sawant and his wife Dr Anila were vaccinated around 11.15am. They were asked to wait in the observation room to check if they experienced any health complications. The couple exited the hospital shortly without developing any adverse effect. “I have been asked to rest for 30 minutes. This vaccine is definitely safe. People should not believe in any rumours about the vaccine. Everyone should come to get vaccinated,” Dr Sawant said.Doc with comorbidities gets the vaccineDr Ninad Gaikwad was the third recipient after the Dr Sawant and Dr Anila to get vaccinated at Cooper hospital. “It’s a completely safe vaccine. There were no side effects. I had no idea that I will be the third person to get vaccinated until I got a call from BMC yesterday to inform about today’s schedule. I have comorbidities such as hypertension and diabetes. After the vaccination, I was asked to rest for 30 minutes at the waiting room,” said Dr Gaikwad, who heads the ENT department at Cooper hospital. Doctor from hospital that conducted SII vaccine’s trial gets the shot Dr Milind Nadkar, academic dean, head of medicine department, King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, was the first beneficiary of the vaccine at the hospital. He said, “KEM Hospital was the first centre to start the clinical trial of Covishield. So it is a proud moment for me to get its first vaccine. I hope this step will motivate others to come forward and take the vaccine which will contribute in attaining herd immunity in the society against the Covid-19 outbreak.”Proud moment to get first dosage of indigenous vaccine: JJ hospital dean“Our hospital is one of the hospitals to conduct the clinical trials for Covaxin. So it is a proud moment for us to take the dosage of the first indigenous vaccine. We have been working round the clock during the pandemic and now finally, we have got the vaccine. We encourage healthcare workers to come forward and take the vaccine,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean of the state government-run Sir JJ Hospital. Dr Mankeshwar was the first to take Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in Mumbai. He had to sign a consent form before taking the vaccine. “I took a rest for 30minutes after taking the vaccine. But I have not developed any kind of side effect like fever or dizziness,” he added.Retired anaesthetist is first recipient at Nair hospital “I have been waiting for days to get vaccinated. I got a call yesterday [on Friday] and was asked if I was ready to participate in the immunisation programme. I readily agreed and I am quite thrilled that I received the vaccine,” said retired anaesthetist Dr Dilnaz Devadhvala. Dean first to get vaccinated at Sion hospital“We have seen people around us getting infected and dying because of the Covid-19 outbreak. But now we have the vaccine that can help us to win the war against Covid-19. So we have to make sure that we take both shots of the vaccination. So far, we haven’t seen any kind of adverse effect among the beneficiaries,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, the dean of Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital (Sion hospital). Dr Joshi was the first recipient of the Covishield vaccine at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/26year-old-dietician-first-to-be-vaccinated-at-mumbai-s-bkc-centre-in-cm-s-presence-101610826173394.html
17-01-2021||Other||40-year-old sanitation worker first to get vaccine jab in Haryana||Saroj Bala, 40, who has been working as a sanitation worker for 20 years was the first to get the vaccine jab in Haryana at the Government Dispensary, Sector-4, Panchkula, said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (ACS), health and family welfare. However, she kept the matter a secret as her family was wary of her getting the inoculation. “A doctor informed me about this vaccination around a month ago and I agreed. However, my 18-year old daughter opposed my decision so I went ahead without telling anybody as I am not one to break a commitment,” she said. “We are a family of five but no one knows that I was going to get the first vaccine shot. Had they known, they would have never allowed me to come,” said Saroj. A resident of sector 11, Haripur, Saroj said she had joined the dispensary around 20 years ago at a salary of ₹500. With time, her salary was increased to ₹1,000 and now she earns ₹5,800 per month. She says she did not deviate from her routine even amid the pandemic. “I did not take any leave. I came at around 7am and left at noon.”Her husband, Ram Saroop, works as a Class-4 employee in the DG office, Sector 6, Panchkula. On whether she was apprehensive before getting the shot, Saroj said: “No, there was no fear and I feel alright after getting the jab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40yearold-sanitation-worker-first-to-get-vaccine-jab-in-haryana-101610826052682.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine drive Day 1: 50 vaccinators inoculate hundreds in Mumbai||On Day One of the nationwide mass Covid-19 immunisation programme, around 50 vaccinators inoculated hundreds of healthcare workers (HCWs) in the city. For a majority of vaccinators, most of whom were nurses attached to the hospital’s immunisation centres, administering a jab felt like a personal victory against Covid-19.For the last 10 months during the ongoing pandemic, these vaccinators have witnessed the deadly outbreak of coronavirus very closely, while taking care of infected patients. Janhavi More, 52, was stationed at BYL Nair Hospital on Saturday as a vaccinator. Her husband contracted the virus on July 23 and was admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU) at Karuna Hospital, Borivli. After five days, he was moved out of ICU. “I know the feeling when your loved ones contract the virus. Now, with a vaccine in my hand, I feel that we have won the battle against the virus,” said More. Shraddha More, who was among three vaccinators stationed at the government-run Sir JJ Hospital, also witnessed the virus close at hand. In April, her husband had contracted the virus and was hospitalised for a week.“We have come a long way. Today, I felt like the goddess Durga, weaponed with Covid-19 vaccine in my hands,” she added.The vaccinators were thrilled and excited to provide vaccines to HCWs. Some even visited temples before going to their immunisation centres. Rucha Salgaonkar, in-charge of nurses at Nair Hospital and one of the vaccinators at the hospital said, “It is an emotional day for us. We have worked tirelessly for months. In the initial days of the pandemic, we didn’t even go home to our family to maintain social distance. We have seen patients die before our eyes. So, this is an extremely important day for us.” Though the vaccinators have years of experience inoculating lakhs of children up to five years, they were trained by the state health department before starting the mass immunisation programme. Sweta Rane from Shatabdi Hospital, Kandivli, said, “We have also been trained to identify and take care of beneficiaries, in case they develop any adverse reaction, like allergy or dizziness, and to respond to queries posed by beneficiaries.”However, it was the first time on Saturday that they vaccinated adults with a new vaccine. When asked, Rane said that it was nothing different from the routine immunisation process, except that the vaccine was new. However, vaccinators also observed anxiety and anticipation among some HCWs about taking the vaccine. “When we vaccinate children, their level of acceptance is high. But among adults, some were sceptical about the vaccine and asked us different questions about safety rules. But overall, the response has been quite promising,” said Janhavi.Joyas Thanchand, a vaccinator stationed at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital said they had to counsel a few anxious beneficiaries during the immunisation process. “I wish to get vaccinated soon. As a healthcare worker who has worked closely with Covid-19 patients, it is my responsibility to boost confidence among the public and encourage them to take the vaccine,” said Janhavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccine-drive-day-1-50-vaccinators-inoculate-hundreds-in-mumbai-101610825332513.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Air ‘severe’ despite improved wind speeds||An unexpected weather phenomenon, which washed off pollutants hanging in the air, along with improved wind speeds, came to Delhi’s rescue once again on Saturday, saving the city from what was supposed to have been a severely polluted day.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Saturday was 407, in the ‘severe’ zone, as against the 460 recorded on Friday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on Friday forecasted that the air quality of Delhi was on its way to sliding into the ‘severe plus’ or ‘emergency’ levels on Saturday. Even though till 10am on Saturday, Delhi was engulfed in a thick blanket of fog, as the day progressed this fog condensed and melted the pollutants that had accumulated.VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said that on Saturday morning the fog cover over Delhi condensed and precipitated, washing the accumulated pollution particles with it.“Even though dense fog conditions usually leads to a rise in pollution levels, sometimes the fog condenses and precipitates. In simpler words, when the moisture level in the air increases beyond a point, it flushes and clears the atmosphere. The average wind speed during the day was also around 7-8 kmph, which made conducive conditions for the air to clear off,” said Soni.IMD recordings show this phenomenon more clearly. At 8.30 am the relative humidity, which is essentially the moisture content in the air, was 100%.Soni said that from Sunday afternoon the wind direction will change from north-westerly to easterly and this will bring further relief for Delhiites.“There is also a forecast of another western disturbance impacting Delhi. Even though this western disturbance will not bring any rainfall in the plains, it will improve the wind speed in Delhi and the NCR towns, and this will lead to a further improvement in the air,” she added.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that from 1am to 10am on Saturday, Delhi experienced a prolonged fog spell, which reduced the visibility to zero metres for several hours.Despite the dense fog, the minimum temperatures in the city rose to 6.6 degrees Celsius, which was only one degree below the season’s normal. The maximum temperature recorded at Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official recording for the entire city, was 19.1 degrees Celsius.“On Sunday too, the temperature is expected to remain in the same range. However, after the wind direction changes to easterly, in the next week, the mercury will rise and even reach around 10 degrees Celsius,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-severe-despite-improved-wind-speeds-101610824798631.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records lowest temperature of the year, breathes cleanest air||The city woke up to a chilly Saturday morning as temperatures dropped to 16.6 degrees Celsius, the lowest so far this year. Mumbaiites also breathed the cleanest air so far, this year, with air quality index (AQI) at 162.The Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 16.6 degrees Celsius, a degree below normal. This is the second-lowest minimum temperature recorded this season following a mercury drop to 16 degrees Celsius on December 22 last year. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 19 degrees Celsius, which was at par with the normal temperature. The IMD attributed this drop in temperature to the cold westerly winds. “There was a chill in the air as westerly winds have started blowing over parts of the state. Since parts of north-west India are under the influence of a cold wave, north-westerly winds from these parts are colder. The minimum temperature in the state is expected to see gradual fall in the state in the coming days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of the western region, IMD. Maximum temperatures also remained low compared to the beginning of the week. The maximum temperature at Santacruz was recorded at 31.2 degrees Celsius, which just normal. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 29.6 degrees Celsius which was 1.6 degrees below normal. Meanwhile, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), air quality improved further on Saturday. An overall AQI of 162 (moderate), was recorded on Saturday morning. This is better than Friday’s 190. “Winds blowing from the north and west has cleared the air of pollutants. If the wind continues, air quality will remain moderate for the next couple of days, despite a drop in temperatures. However, without the winds, air quality may become worse,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.Navi Mumbai recorded the worst air quality with an AQI of 365 (very poor). Andheri was a distant second among the 10 locations with an AQI of 221.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-lowest-temperature-of-the-year-breathes-cleanest-air-101610825092332.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||High pollution levels turn giant lung billboard at Kharghar, near Mumbai black in a day||A giant pair of artificial lungs fitted with filters and fans to mimic the human lungs, which was fitted in Kharghar by an environmental organisation on Friday, has started turning black within a day.A similar installation was set up in Bandra last January but it took 14 days to turn completely black. The installation changing colour within a day of being set up has caused concerns about increasing pollution levels among residents. This comes four weeks after a study found that air pollution levels on the outskirts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) along the Kharghar-Panvel-Taloja belt are above safe limits for nearly two-thirds of the day, with peak pollution during early morning hours posing a threat to morning walkers and joggers. Kavita Choutmal, mayor of the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC), who visited the site, has demanded the setting up of an expert committee to study the deteriorating air quality in the area. “There is an urgent need to understand the cause of such high levels of air pollution in this belt and then work on solutions. However, the PCMC and MPCB (Maharashtra Pollution Control Board) needs to immediately take strict action against industries in Taloja MIDC as well as nearby areas that are not following norms and causing air pollution,” said Choutmal.The artificial lungs, called the lung billboard, was installed to demonstrate the effect of pollution levels on the lungs by the Waatavaran Foundation, a non-government organisation. The installation is placed near the Bank of India Chowk at Sector 7.Designed by the digital advocacy group Jhatkaa.org, the artificial lungs are made up of a white filter medium. A pair of fans are fixed at the back of the billboard to suck in the air, in a bid to mimic the functions of lungs while breathing.“Such visuals (like the billboard) are important methods to raise awareness about finer particles bringing out a vivid image on how they impact the lungs. Air quality spikes could be mostly due to vehicular emissions in these areas. The impact needs to happen across all stakeholders to understand how various sources of pollution are contributing to this issue,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB.“Over the next few days and weeks, particulate matter from different sources will begin getting trapped in the filters. This will lead to the lungs changing colour- from chalk-white to brown to black. The billboard is also fitted with a digital air quality monitor that will record and display the real-time Air Quality Index (AQI),” said Bhagwan Kesbhat, founder of Waatavaran.On Saturday, even as the overall air quality of Mumbai remained in the moderate category, in Navi Mumbai it was in the very poor category with an AQI of 365. BOX:A study released by Waatavaran in December 2020 found extremely high levels of PM2.5 in the air, especially between 6am and 8am, and average air quality above safe standards for 17 hours every day in the Kharghar-Panvel-Taloja belt. The data from five locations – Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Taloja; Sector 13, Panvel; Navade, Taloja; Sector 7 and 36, Kharghar, showed average PM2.5 levels over 31 days was 101.12 microgrammes per cubic metre (μg/m3), which is almost twice the national safe standard (60μg/m3), and four times the World Health Organization (WHO) standard (25μg/m3). The highest PM2.5 concentration was at 7am at 141.1μg/m3 (average data from five monitors). MIDC Taloja had the most polluted air among five locations at 197.4 μg/m3 at 7am. PM2.5 data was accessed using five low-cost air quality monitors between November 13 and December 13 and then analysed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-pollution-levels-turn-giant-lung-billboard-at-kharghar-near-mumbai-black-in-a-day-101610824972336.html
17-01-2021||Other||Got vaccinated so I can work without fear: Kalyan hospital ward boy||VASANT GOVINDRAO KULKARNI, WARD BOYForty-five-year old Vasant Govindrao Kulkarni, a ward boy at Rukminibai civic hospital, Kalyan, was infected with the virus in August and was admitted for 12 days. He was one of the persons to get vaccinated on Saturday by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation. A resident of Badlapur, he travelled to Kalyan on a daily basis during the pandemic and had worked with the Covid-19 patients too. “I deal with casualties. It was a tough time when I got infected. I am happy that I got vaccinated so that I can do my work without fearing a second infection,” said Kulkarni.PRADNYA TIKE AND PURUSHOTTAM TIKE, MEDICAL OFFICERSPradnya Tike, 52, medical officer, and her husband Purushottam Tike, 52, chief medical officer at Rukminibai hospital, Kalyan, worked with Covid-19 patients throughout the pandemic. Pradnya co-ordinated with the Holy Cross Covid Hospital in Kalyan. Purushottam worked with Covid patients at Rukminibai while their 23-year-old son also interned with Nair Hospital in Mumbai. She and her husband got vaccinated on the first day while her son will also get the vaccine soon.“If today we are immunised, we can work fearlessly and deliver more during the pandemic. The idea of vaccination never worried us as vaccination is a form of prevention,” said Pradnya.Read more: Technical glitches mark vaccination drive across Thane districtLAHU SHANKAR SHALANKE, 54, HEALTH WORKERLahu Shankar Shalanke, 54, a multipurpose health worker at Rukminibai civic hospital in Kalyan, travelled all the way from Shahapur to Kalyan throughout the pandemic to deal with Covid cases. He worked for the KDMC in tracing cases in Kalyan-Dombivli and then sent the patients to Covid centres.“I am not infected so far but can catch the virus eventually. I don’t want to take a chance and then stay away from this work. We all health workers do our job responsibly and hence taking the vaccination is also our responsibility so that we can continue working for the people,” said Shalake.SANGEETA KEDARE, 33, SANITATION WORKERSangeeta Kedare, 33, sanitation worker at Rosa Gardenia healthcare centre, Ghodbunder Road, has been working with TMC for almost a decade. But the last ten months were the most crucial. “I didn’t take a single day off during the lockdown and served at the Covid care centre with a smiling face. People were not in a positive state of mind but keeping them happy and motivated was important especially as they were in isolation and we were the only people they interacted with,” said Kedare. She was keen to get vaccinated as she wanted to continue serving during the pandemic.ATUL MUNDRA, 42, DOCTORDr Atul Mundra, 42, from Anand Nagar health centre, tested positive while treating Covid patients in July. On Saturday, he got himself vaccinated at Rosa Gardenia – the same centre that declared him Covid positive a few months ago. “For five months since March, I was working continuously without a break. We used to be with the patients till midnight on some days. The most challenging phase was to examine the patients regularly and support them emotionally,” said Mundra.As he is a diabetic, his family got worried for his health. However, he survived the pandemic and was back to work the very next day after completing the quarantine period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/got-vaccinated-so-i-can-work-without-fear-kalyan-hospital-ward-boy-101610824733791.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Rape charge against Dhananjay Munde: Mumbai Police records statement of woman||The assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Oshiwara division on Saturday recorded the statement of the woman who has accused social justice minister Dhananjay Munde of sexually exploiting her.The woman’s lawyer, advocate Ramesh Tripathi, said he will insist on registration of a first information report (FIR) against the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister. “Only after registration of the FIR, police should investigate the case and not the other way round,” said Tripathi.The woman had taken to social media to express her discontent towards Oshiwara police who had not registered an FIR against the minister, despite submitting a written complaint.In her written complaint, the woman, an aspiring singer, alleged that she was raped by Munde on numerous occasions since 2006. She alleged that Munde had lured her with a promise to secure work for her in the film industry. He had purportedly promised to introduce her to music directors and under the guise forced her into a physical relationship.The Indore resident further complained that she was threatened and abused by Munde giving details of the places where Munde had taken her and raped her over the years. On Thursday, the woman had been to the office of the ACP of Oshiwara division and part of her statement was recorded on Thursday itself. Remaining statement was recorded on Saturday at DN Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rape-charge-against-dhananjay-munde-mumbai-police-records-statement-of-woman-101610824732612.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Senior doctors in Mumbai receive vaccine shots, motivate healthcare staff||On the first day of the mass vaccination drive, senior doctors got vaccinated to boost the morale of hundreds of healthcare workers (HCWs) in the city.Since the approval of the two drugs — Covishield and Covaxin, there has been speculation among the public about its safety. But when senior doctors like Dr Shashank Joshi, Dr Rahul Pandit and Dr Gautam Bhansali who are part of the state’s Covid-19 task force along with deans of the hospitals got vaccinated, it was a way to gain the confidence of the public.“There is speculation among public about the vaccine, so if senior doctors who have years of experience in the medical field can take the shot, they shouldn’t have any doubt. This should motivate all the HCWs to take the vaccine,” said Dr Bhansali.Other senior doctors like Dr Harish Shetty, who is a well-known psychiatrist; Dr Sanjay Surase, medical superintendent of the government-run Sir JJ Hospital; Dr Nilkanth Awad, head of respiratory medicine at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, among others also took the vaccine.“We took the vaccine and didn’t have any kind of side effects or adverse reaction. We are the living example that the vaccine is safe for the public,” said Shetty.Dr Bhansali said that after taking the vaccine, he also joined his duty at Bombay Hospital. “I didn’t feel any kind of weakness or dizziness,” he said.Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital, said that it would help to spread a positive reaction among the public and gain their confidence in the vaccine. “When I got the vaccine, I could see relief in the eyes of the staffers. Even though some were sceptical, we counselled them, which encouraged them to take the shot,” he said.Dr Dilip Patil, state surveillance officer, said there were no adverse side effects of the vaccine. On Saturday, there were 22 minor incidents of side effects like headache, tenderness and dizziness. “This is normal in all kinds of vaccination where such minor side effects are recorded. There is no case of severe or major side effects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/senior-doctors-in-mumbai-receive-vaccine-shots-motivate-healthcare-staff-101610824612690.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||FRA gives temporary relief to students of Mira Road management institute regarding fees||The state Fee Regulatory Authority (FRA) has asked students of a suburban management college to not pay any fee above the approved amount until the matter regarding illegal collection of fees by the institute is resolved by the authority. In a temporary relief to management studies students of NL Dalmia Institute of Management Studies and Research, Mira Road who had alleged illegal collection of fee by the institute, the FRA issued a notification on Thursday stating, “It is clarified that students in 2019-20 batch are not required to pay any amount, on any count, more than whatever approved by the FRA till the issue is decided by the FRA.” HT has reviewed the notification. Seema Saini, chief executive officer and administrative head of NL Dalmia Institute of Management Studies and Research, was unavailable for a comment. FRA had approved an annual fee of ₹1.87 lakh for the academic year 2019-20. Several students from the 2019-20 batch had earlier written to FRA complaining that the institute was charging almost ₹2.3 lakh over and above what was approved by the regulatory body. Based on the complaints, FRA, which regulates fees of all professional courses offered by colleges in Maharashtra, had sought a response from the college. “The college has admitted that for the value-added course, they (the institute) are collecting an extra fee from students. The entitlement to collect extra fees is under consideration of FRA,” the body said in its notification. Meanwhile, students alleged they were being forced to withdraw their complaints. “The institute is forcing us to sign letters to FRA withdrawing our complaints unconditionally. We have been threatened with consequences in our placement drive. We don’t know what to do anymore,” said a student, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fra-gives-temporary-relief-to-students-of-mira-road-management-institute-regarding-fees-101610824552369.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Protests staged in Mumbai to oppose Centre’s farm laws||The Kisan Alliance Morcha (KAM) organised a rally in Mumbai to support the protesting farmers at Delhi, demanding to repeal the farm laws.The morcha organised from Islam Gymkhana in Marina Drive to Azad Maidan was attended by farmer’s leader Raju Shetti and social activist Medha Patkar. Farid Shaikh, coordinator, KAM said, “We want to express our support to the farmers and tell the Central government that Mumbai citizens are supporting the farmers,” said Shaikh. “Our next stop will be Delhi,” he added. Around 5,000 citizens representing various groups took part in the agitation.Shetti said that the farmers are determined to take their agitation to the logical end. “All attempts are made to defame us. We farmers assure you that if you stand behind us, we will provide adequate food for you,” said Shetti.Medha Patkar said three laws are being framed to suit the needs of the multinational companies. “These laws are framed to ensure the snatching of our farming land. They are not ready to discuss these laws in Parliament. They are against democratic norms,” said Patkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/protests-staged-in-mumbai-to-oppose-centre-s-farm-laws-101610824431952.html
17-01-2021||Other||Technical glitches mark vaccination drive across Thane district||Though the entire vaccination drive in Mumbai Metropolitan Region was conducted smoothly, it was not without a few technical glitches. Most municipal corporations had to conduct the drive manually as the server was down. Thane district had to temporarily suspend the vaccination process for more than an hour on Saturday.Kailas Pawar, civil health surgeon, Thane district, said, “Despite the delay at the start, we managed to complete vaccination of all the 100 beneficiaries by 4.30pm. As the CoWIN portal was overloaded, we had to resort to manually feeding the data of all the beneficiaries. However, we managed to successfully complete the first day of vaccination with no major hurdles.”Pawar was the first to get vaccinated at the civil hospital followed by which there was a delay of around one-and-a-half hours.“We arrived at around 10.45am at the hospital for the vaccination but had to wait till 1pm to get vaccinated due to the technical glitch. However, the vaccination was a pain-free process and it was executed smoothly,” said Dr Jinal Rokade, dental surgeon.The Thane Municipal Corporation and Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation authorities had to individually call all the beneficiaries on Friday night to inform about the vaccination process and allot time slots accordingly due to the issues faced by the CoWIN portal. Glitches were seen in three centres of Kalyan-Dombivli, where the drive was conducted manually from 10.50am.“There was a guideline from the state on Friday that if the online system doesn’t work, vaccination should be carried out on time and the details of the beneficiaries shall be recorded manually. We followed the same. We will update the data on the server later,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.Meanwhile, a major delay was observed in Navi Mumbai as the vaccination drive at its four centres began only at around 1pm due to technical error. The entire process was finally carried out offline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/technical-glitches-mark-vaccination-drive-across-thane-district-101610824313144.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||CoWIN loses: Maharashtra Covid vaccination drive on halt for 2 days||The day Maharashtra kickstarted the Covid-19 immunisation programme, it was put on hold for two days to fix the glitches in the CoWIN app, even as the state vaccinated 18,338 or 64.34% of the targeted health workers on Saturday.The next session will be held on Tuesday, according to the press release issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “We expect the issue to be resolved by Sunday evening, but we wouldn’t be in position to reach out to the beneficiaries to resume it on Monday. As the government wants the data entry online only, we have decided to not resume it before Tuesday,” a health department official said.Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare, and director, National Health Mission, said, “As no vaccination sessions were planned on January 17 or 18, the question of cancellation does not arise. The sessions will be organised next week as per the Centre’s guidelines.”Many districts faced technical glitches in the CoWIN app that resulted in communication lags. “The server went slow leading to difficulties in uploading the data at many centres. In Dhule district, all four centres faced the problem. We have now directed the vaccination teams to register the details offline and upload them subsequently. We had to use hard copies of data on beneficiaries,” said Dr PD Gandal, deputy director, health services, Nashik division. “We couldn’t send out messages as the server slowed down on Friday night. The issue was resolved by 2am,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department. Health officials also said the low turnout was a result of technical glitches in the app and concerns among beneficiaries. Barring 10 cases of mild reaction in some districts, no major side effects or Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported in the state. The state is holding four sessions a week and is expected to complete about 4.4 lakh health care workers in 15 sessions over 28 days. The stock of 963,000 vials could cover about 4.4 lakh health workers with two doses each. Based on the allotted stock, the state plans to carry out the immunisation drive over the next 28 days and will demand additional stock at the earliest. Mumbai vaccinated 48.5% – 1,926 of 4,000 – of the people planned, Pune (1,795 of 3,100), Nagpur (776 of 1,200), Nashik (745 of 1,300) and Aurangabad (647 of 1,000). Districts like Hingoli (100%), Beed (90.2%) and Buldhana (95.83%) saw a high percentage of inoculation. “We always expect 100% turnout, but technical glitches in the app led to delay in sending alerts to the beneficiaries about their turn, which in turn hit the response. We have sent messages to the beneficiaries only a day prior to the vaccination, which may be why many couldn’t make it,” said Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer. According to another official from the state health department, some beneficiaries are in ‘wait and watch’ mindset and are expected to turn up gauging the results of the vaccination in the initial days. In six districts of Nagpur division, the turnout percentage was 63%, while in four districts of Latur division it was 68%. “We will accommodate the beneficiaries left out today in the next few days. The response from the beneficiaries will increase from next week,” said Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, deputy director, health services, Nagpur division. Thane district saw 79.39% vaccination, as 1,826 of the 2,300 beneficiaries got vaccinated in 23 centres. The district saw no major glitches apart from a server error. Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation was the only corporation in the city to complete 100% vaccination target, as the drive began on time and ended on time with no chaos. Mira-Bhayander reported 89.33%, Thane city 88.25%, Navi Mumbai 75.75%, Ulhasnagar 71%, Thane rural 69.40% and Bhiwandi Nizampur 61.33%. Abhijeet Bangar, NMMC commissioner, said the number is likely to increase in the coming days. Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar inaugurated the vaccination drive in the city. “This is a day of pride and happiness,” said Narvekar. Dr Patil said very few complained of giddiness, nausea and inflammation. “We vaccinated 2.92 crore people during our measles and rubella mass vaccination drive last year. The backup machinery to take care of any reaction was ready for any major reaction, but no beneficiary was required to be admitted,” he said. When asked about the short supply of the vaccines, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said it was the responsibility of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that all states get proportionate number of vaccines. “I do not want to politicise it,” he said. Thackeray, who inaugurated the drive at BKC in Mumbai at 11.30am on Saturday, said there was no clarity if common people will get free vaccine as the call has to be taken by the Centre. “People are happy to get inoculated and have been waiting for their turn. I am sure once the prioritised groups are vaccinated in next three-four months, the vaccine will be available for even general public. We are also going to ask for the additional stock of the vaccines during our video conference with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan,” said Rajesh Tope, state health minister. Dr Padmaja Saraf was the first beneficiary at the Jalna district hospital. She said, “After having gone through very challenging times at the hospital when the pandemic was at the peak, I am happy that the vaccine is now available. The vaccine is very safe and everybody should go for it whenever available,” she said. Meanwhile, the state reported 2,910 cases and 52 deaths on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,987,678 and toll to 50,388. Mumbai clocked 571 cases and 8 new deaths taking the tally to 3,02,226 and toll to 11,237. Maharashtra has 51,965 active patients, with the highest number of patients in Pune, 15,887, followed by 9,608 in Thane and 6,966 in Mumbai. The state’s recovery rate stands at 94.79% as 18,84,127 patients have been recovered. The state’s case fatality rate stands at 2.54%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cowin-loses-maharashtra-covid-vaccination-drive-on-halt-for-2-days-101610824252801.html
17-01-2021||Other||Thane city schools to remain shut||Schools in Thane city will remain closed for physical classes until further orders, as per a circulation issued on Saturday by Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). This comes at the backdrop of the Maharashtra government allowing schools to reopen on January 27 for physical sessions for students of classes 5 to 8.“Although the Covid-19 cases are in control in the city, with cases growing in other parts of the world and the risks involved, it has been decided to keep schools in the city closed for physical classes until further orders,” said the order issued by TMC.As per earlier guidelines, city schools had to remain closed until January 15. Meanwhile, Thane district collectorate has not yet taken a decision related to reopening of schools within the district. The decision is on hold as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-city-schools-to-remain-shut-101610824012234.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Lower turnout likely to lead to Covid vaccine wastage, say health officers in Maharashtra||rupsa.chakraborty@htlive.com The Maharashtra government on Saturday morning cited concerns over the possible wastage of vaccine vials if the turnout of healthcare workers (HCW) for inoculation was lower than the registrations. Each of the 10 vaccination centre is capable of inoculating 100 HCWs. The health department has provided 10 vials of vaccine for every unit and each vial can vaccinate 10 people. Once opened, a vial cannot be preserved more than eight hours. Thus, if vaccination centres get fewer healthcare workers, the remaining opened dosages will go to waste. For instance, if any vaccination unit gets 92 HCWs, then the remaining eight dosages will get wasted. “It is expected that if the vaccination centres don’t get a calculated number of HCWs, then it will lead to wastage of dosages. But this won’t happen always. As we start the immunisation programme for a higher number of people, we can make optimum use of vaccine doses,” said Dr Archana Patil, director of state health services. Dr Patil urged all registered HCWs to come forward and get vaccinated. “All HCWs have worked round the clock during the pandemic, risking their lives. It is now time to come forward and set an example for the general public. This will boost up the citizens’ confidence too in the vaccine,” she added. Additional commissioner Suresh Kakani, who has worked throughout the pandemic, said it is an emotional day. “We have been waiting for months for a vaccine that can bring an end to the pandemic. Now, finally the day has come...We hope to complete vaccinating the HCWs in the next 10-15 days. I would urge the registered HCWs to get themselves vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lower-turnout-likely-to-lead-to-covid-vaccine-wastage-say-health-officers-in-maharashtra-101610823714240.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body starts inoculation as healthcare workers queue up for Covid-19 vaccine jab||The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive reached the city on Saturday morning. The drive in India is the largest inoculation exercise in the world. In Mumbai, 40 vaccination booths have been set up in 10 vaccination centres. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) achieved 48.15% of its target of administering vaccines to 4,000 frontline workers on the first day before the vaccination drive was suspended till January 18 due to glitches in the Covid vaccine intelligence network (CoWIN) app.The 10 vaccination centres in Mumbai were decked up on the first day of the vaccination drive. Some, like the centres at BYL Nair Hospital and the Covid-19 jumbo centre at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), had selfie spots where people can take photos with the message “I got my Covid-19 vaccine” in the background. “Since it was the first day of vaccination, some centres reported crowding but the system will be gradually be channelised better to stop the gathering of beneficiaries,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.At around 8.30am, the “vaccine van” carrying 500 units of Covishield reached Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital at Vile Parle, where it was welcomed by cheering staffers. Covishield is the Indian variant of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford. Cooper Hospital’s nursing staff welcomed the vaccine van with arti, applause and sweets. After the vaccines were unloaded, the sweets were distributed and cheers of “hip hip hurray” could be heard.At Sion Hospital, before starting the vaccination drive, dean Dr Mohan Joshi gave an emotional lecture to staffers, in which he recounted the past 10 months of the Covid-19 pandemic and thanked all medical staffers for their tireless service. Despite last-minute delays in informing registered healthcare workers (HCWs) of the timing and location of vaccination centres, 1,926 HCWs (including doctors, nurses, accredited social health activists (ASHA) and Anganwadi workers were able to reach the centres. BMC had said it would vaccinate 4,000 HCWs on the first day, but around 48.15% HCWs received the vaccines.Owing to the slow server, health officers couldn’t send messages about the place and timing for the vaccination using the CoWin app, which has been developed by the Centre to monitor the inoculation drive. “This [technical failure] will further increase the work of officers. So, the decision has been taken to halt it [vaccination] for two days. The final decision will be taken on Monday if the app starts functioning properly,” said Kakani. Due to these glitches, none of the beneficiaries got vaccination certificates on Saturday and BMC officials said they were unable to update data manually on the excel sheet recording beneficiaries, which is maintained by the state health department. After a low turnout in the first few hours, footfall increased in the afternoon. Among senior citizen HCWs was Dr Devadhvala Dilnazj, 75, a retired anaesthetist reached BYL Nair Hospital by 9.30am and was the first to get vaccinated at the hospital. Beneficiaries had to show identity cards (most showed PAN cards), following which they were given token numbers. Until their token number was called, they had to wait in the waiting areas which were quickly overcrowded and the requisite distancing could not be maintained. There were long queues at vaccination centres in Cooper and Shatabdi hospitals, and at the jumbo centre in BKC.Dr Dilip Patil, state surveillance officer said there was no adverse side effects of the vaccine. On Saturday, there were 22 minor incidents of side effects like headache, pain at a local side, tenderness and dizziness . “This is normal in all kinds of vaccination where such minor side effects are recorded. There is no case of severe or major side effects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-starts-inoculation-as-healthcare-workers-queue-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-jab-101610823593978.html
17-01-2021||Other||Navi Mumbai: Plea to form panel to check air quality in Kharghar-Taloja belt||Panvel mayor Kavita Choutmal has demanded an expert committee to study the deteriorating air quality in Kharghar after the Waatavaran Foundation revealed that the residents of Kharghar-Taloja-Panvel belt were breathing polluted air for 17 hours a day.The NGO installed a giant-sized billboard with ‘breathing’ lungs at Kharghar’s Utsav chowk on January 15 to demonstrate the lethal impact of polluted air on human health. Choutmal visited the giant-sized billboard on Saturday.“Air pollution is a major concern and the civic body’s environment department will work on finding measures. We will try to form an expert committee in the coming days with the help of the environment department of the civic body ,” said Choutmal.Titled as ‘The Billboard that Breathes’ these artificial lungs have been put up near Sector 7. Kharghar.The giant pair of lungs are made up of a white filter medium. A pair of fans are fixed at the back of the billboard, which suck in the air. Gradually, particulate matter will get trapped in the filters and change colour from chalk-white to brown to black. The billboard is also fitted with a digital air quality monitor that records and displays the real-time Air Quality Index (AQI).“In 15 days, it will show how much pollution exists in the area. The giant lungs billboard is a way to create awareness about the health impacts of air pollution. When we placed a similar billboard in Bandra, Mumbai it took 14 days to go completely black but in Kharghar the colour has begun changing a day after installation itself,” said Bhagwan Keshbhat, founder of the foundation.Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB, said, “Such visuals are important to raise awareness about finer particles bringing out a vivid image on how they impact the lungs. Air quality spikes could be mostly due to vehicular emissions in these areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navi-mumbai-plea-to-form-panel-to-check-air-quality-in-kharghar-taloja-belt-101610823592324.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Don’t believe in rumours, get vaccinated, say medical workers||Covid-19 inoculation drive for health workers, which kick started on Saturday, saw a lower than expected turnout. Around 50% of beneficiaries visited the 10 vaccination centres in the city. While all the centres had set a target of inoculating 500 people each on Saturday, only around 200 on an average reached the centres for their vaccination. The vaccination process started from 11am after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed health workers across the nation.Initially, some of the prime vaccination centres such as the one at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) and RN Cooper Hospital at Juhu witnessed chaos due to overcrowding, which fizzled out later in the day.While the overcrowding due to the presence of media persons, beneficiaries and medical staff at the centres did not deter the vaccination process, some mismanagement was reported which inconvenienced beneficiaries. Many beneficiaries said they were informed about the vaccination at the eleventh hour. This, however, was due to the snag reported in CoWIN application on Friday evening.The beneficiaries appealed to the citizens to volunteer for vaccination when it starts and not believe in rumours.With 10 booths at the vaccination centre in Cooper hospital, some beneficiaries faced inconvenience while some got emotional.While the general public dealt with some bad situations during the lockdown, health workers witnessed numbers of Covid deaths and felt helpless most of the time: This is how Dr Naina Dalvi, anaesthesia professor and Covid ICU in-charge at Cooper hospital, recalls the initial days of the pandemic.Dalvi was the fourth one to get vaccinated at Cooper hospital and has supervised the dry run carried out at the Cooper vaccination centre. “It was an emotional moment to get vaccinated. For the past 10 months, we have seen people dying. There were times when we were helpless. It was a painful situation. Today, I can see that battle coming to an end and nothing can be better than this,” Dalvi said who almost broke into tears.On the other hand, Vitthal Pardeshi, mukadam at Nanavati Hospital, faced inconvenience as he had to wait for three hours after pulling all-nighters at his workplace. The 60-year-old commutes for two hours every day to reach his home in Kalyan. “I had reached at 9.30am and could only get vaccinated by 12.30pm. I stood for three hours in the queue and now I have to go home and come back to office for my 10pm-7am shift. It’s ridiculous,” Pardeshi said. The turnout of beneficiaries was equally low at BKC centre. A couple of patients had also complained.Dr Sachin Jain from Hinduja Hospital, Khar said, “I was informed in the morning at around 6.30am that I have to go out and get vaccinated at BKC on Saturday between 10am to 5pm. Hence, I went ahead and got myself vaccinated. I understand that even for BMC this is a new thing and we all are figuring it out, but I would appeal to everyone to go and get vaccinated.”He added, “The vaccine has just launched, and I am sure that there are health workers who are anxious about getting vaccinated, but now is the time. The whole nation was waiting for the vaccine, and now when we have the vaccine, we should go ahead and get vaccinated.”Dr Shashank Joshi from Lilavati Hospital and member of Covid-19 task force, another senior health worker who got vaccinated, said, “By keeping faith and trust on the government and scientists who have worked tirelessly to get us a vaccine, I appeal to all health and frontline workers along with citizens to go out and get vaccinated as the vaccine is rolled out for all.”Dr Rajesh Dere, dean at BKC Covid-19 vaccination centre, said, “No adverse effect has been reported in any of the vaccine beneficiaries yet. But one 32-year-old health worker had reported anxiety post-vaccination. We counselled her, and she is fine now.”He added, “Today we will vaccinate 500 volunteers considering it’s the first day. Gradually, from tomorrow, we will increase the capacity to vaccinate.”Another health worker, Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital, said, “The year 2021 has come with the good news of vaccination. Hence, we should take it in a positive spirit by going ahead and getting vaccinated. Scientists have worked hard for the vaccine. Hence, citizens should not believe in any rumours.”Present at the launch of Covid-19 vaccination drive, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “I pray that this Covid centre remains vacant like it is now. I don’t want to do politics over Covid-19 vaccination. Citizens of all states should be equal and are equal for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, so there is no question of inequality.”Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, who also was also present at launch, said, “We have a capacity to store 10 million vaccines, and currently have the capacity to vaccinate 15,000 persons daily. This capacity will increase to over one lakh being vaccinated daily as private institutions will later be involved in the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaidont-believe-in-rumours-get-vaccinated-say-medical-workers-101610823292704.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo reports first bird flu death, doubles down on safety measures||Delhi Zoo on Saturday confirmed its first case of bird flu, after samples taken from an owl that was found dead on its premises on Monday, came out to positive. Senior zoo officials said that all safety protocol laid down by the Centre was being followed.Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park, said, “The zoo witnessed the death of a brown fish owl in its captivity. Its cloacal, tracheal and ocular swabs were sent to the animal husbandry unit of the Delhi government for serological examination, which returned positive for H5N8 avian influenza.”“As per standard protocol and guidelines issued by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), ministry of environment forests and climate change (MoEFCC) and the animal husbandry department of Delhi government, sanitation and surveillance drills have been intensified in the zoo and all possible preventive and prophylactic measures are being taken,” he added.Environment ministry officials confirmed that with the positive case at Delhi zoo, safety protocol at the premises had been intensified. The only solace this time, as compared to the last avian flu breakout at the zoo in 2016, is that this time the zoo is already closed for the general public. This will make managing the flu among the inhabitants a lot easier, according to officials.“Two barn owls, which were next to the enclosure of the owl that tested positive, have been isolated. A close watch is being kept on the migratory birds, who may be carriers. Zoo staff have been distributed special drapers and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. They are following our advisory and are in constant touch with the ministry of animal husbandry. The zoo is closed, so there is no fear of transmission to people,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, environment ministry’s additional director-general.In a statement issued, the ministry also said that the zoo authorities have been directed to use disinfectant spray of lime juice, Virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite, and foot bath of potassium permanganate is being done at regular intervals.“Chicken feed to raptors and entry of vehicles inside the zoo had already been stopped. This is being further reinforced and intensified. Movement of staff and workers in zoo is also being restricted and regulated keeping in view the animal influenza threats,” the ministry statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-reports-first-bird-flu-death-doubles-down-on-safety-measures-101610822292723.html
17-01-2021||Bhopal||Man dies after friend inserts air compressor into rectum to relieve constipation||By Monika PandeyA man died allegedly after his friend inserted an air compressor into his rectum to relieve his constipation in Katni district, 462 kilometres east of Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, said police.The accused has been identified as Vinod Thakur, 35, resident of Umaria. He worked at a processing unit of pulses in Bharoli village of the district. The victim, Sukhram Yadav, died on Saturday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Jabalpur.Madhav Nagar police station in-charge Sanjay Dubey said, “An FIR has been registered under section 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of Indian Penal Code against Vinod Thakur on Saturday. Thakur has been arrested by the police.”The police officer said, “Thakur confessed his crime and said Yadav was upset with constipation. He asked Thakur to relieve constipation by pumping air into his rectum. Without thinking about consequences, I inserted the air compressor in his rectum. He went unconscious. He was rushed to a nearby hospital. Later, he was referred to another hospital where a team of doctor performed three surgeries but he couldn’t survive.”The police are investigating the matter.This is the second such incident in Madhya Pradesh. Last year, a 40-year-old labourer was killed by three people by inserting an air compressor into his rectum in Shivpuri district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-dies-after-friend-inserts-air-compressor-into-rectum-to-relieve-constipation-101610821972966.html
17-01-2021||Kolkata||'Will bear cost': Mamata Banerjee requests Centre for adequate supply of vaccine||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has requested the Union government to send adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines for all citizens in the state and said that her government is ready to bear the cost.Top officials of the state health department said that around 15,707 people could be vaccinated on the first day out of which 14 developed Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI). The health condition of one recipient turned serious after vaccination but was later said to be stable.The state had set a target of vaccinating 20,700 people at 207 centres across the state. In Kolkata, the turnout was 92 per cent.“She (Banerjee) has already requested the Union government to supply an adequate number of vaccines for not only the frontline workers but also for all the people of West Bengal. She strongly felt that all the people of West Bengal should get vaccines free of cost as early as possible. If needed, the state might bear the financial burden,” said a statement issued by the state government.Also read: Maharashtra suspends Covid-19 vaccine drive till Jan 18 due to CoWIN app glitchBanerjee said this at a program organised at the state secretariat from where she virtually addressed all the healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, support staff, ASHA and students among others, who gathered at the vaccination centres.At least 14 people complained of AEFI, which is less than one in 1,000 persons. The health condition of one recipient, who works as a nurse in a state-run hospital, was slightly serious. Later her condition was stated to be stable.“She started shivering and was rushed to the NRS Hospital. She was doing fine. Her husband said that she was allergic to some drugs since childhood. This is not alarming and such AEFI is normal if anyone is allergic to some drugs,” said a top health official."The nurse developed rigor and had to be rushed to the NRS Hospital. This could be an acute allergic reaction. She has a history of drug allergy and in such cases, it is expected but rare. She is undergoing treatment and there is no reason to worry. The AEFI committee swung into action," said a senior doctor of the hospital.Starting next week, the vaccination drive would be carried out four days a week – Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday.Meanwhile, at least two Trinamool Congress MLAs, Rabindranath Chatterjee and Subhas Mondal, took the vaccine in Purba Burdwan district on Saturday triggering a political row.The BJP attacked the chief minister and said that she has a habit of complaining without finding any solutions.“She has a habit of complaining and doesn’t want to find any solutions. If TMC MLAs take the vaccine then there is bound to be a shortfall. Has she developed any factory in her locality or she wants to bring vaccines from China? What’s the guarantee that the vaccine, which she wants to give, would not be real vaccine and not water from the river Ganges?” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP state president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/will-bear-cost-mamata-banerjee-requests-centre-for-adequate-supply-of-vaccine-101610821150306.html
17-01-2021||India||One severe adverse impact in Delhi: Person is stable, AIIMS says||A 20-year-old man had a severe allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis, after receiving a Covid-19 vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), the only severe reaction reported in Delhi on the first day of the national vaccine roll-out. Anaphylaxis causes skin rash, nausea, vomiting, difficulty breathing, and shock, if not treated promptly.The hospital had been administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.“An AIIMS security guard has developed an allergic reaction after receiving Covid-19 vaccination here today. He is kept under observation of doctors at the hospital,” an AIIMS official said.In all, Delhi reported 51 minor reactions such as rashes, swelling at the site of injection, or fever.A senior NDMC official, who asked not to be named, said two cases of mild AEFI (adverse effects following immunisation) symptoms were reported at Charak Palika Hospital. Two of the hospital’s health care workers who took the Covid-19 vaccine in the afternoon, reported slight tightness in the chest during the observation period.“They were immediately attended to by the AEFI team and kept under observation. They felt normal within half-an-hour and were discharged. There is nothing to be worried about AEFI cases, as such symptoms are normal to occur after any vaccination,” the official said.Hospitals across the city said they were equipped to deal with any adverse events.At Lok Nayak, two consultation rooms in the observation area were converted to high-dependence units with all emergency medications and oxygen support available.“The rooms are like mini emergency centres in themselves and can handle any adverse events that may take place during vaccination. The patient will not even have to be moved from the vaccination site,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, the hospital’s medical director.At GTB hospital, intensive care unit beds were kept ready just above the vaccination site on the first floor of the emergency building. And at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, a resuscitation centre was set up – similar to the one in Lok Nayak – at the vaccination site, which was also close to the ICU facility at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-severe-adverse-impact-in-delhi-person-is-stable-aiims-says-101610819631564.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||RML resident docs raise concerns over Covaxin shots||A section of resident doctors at the Central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital expressed apprehension regarding the use of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on the first day of Covid-19 vaccination drive, and requested the hospital’s medical director to give them a shot of Covishield instead.“We would like to bring to your notice that the residents are a bit apprehensive about the lack of complete trial in case of Covaxin and might not participate in huge numbers thus defeating the purpose of vaccination. We request you to vaccinate us with Covishield, which has completed all stages of trial before its roll out,” the letter written by some of the representative of the resident doctors’ association at the hospital said.The letter was not on the official letterhead of the Resident Doctors’ Association and had not been signed by the president of the organisation.Dr Nirmalaya Mohapatra, the vice president of the organisation and one of the signatories of Saturday’s letter said, “We have been having regular discussions about the vaccination drive with the resident doctors and realised that they were not very enthusiastic about Covaxin. This will only hamper the vaccination drive. We are not against any vaccine; however safety data from phase III is not available for Covaxin. So, Covishield is the logical choice.”“We came to know only last night that the hospital has received Covaxin and hence wrote the letter on Saturday,” he said.The medical superintendent of the hospital Dr AK Singh Rana said that the hospital did a “decent job” during the vaccination drive on Saturday. The hospital saw 31 health care workers receive the shot after signing an informed consent form as mandated by the country’s apex drug regulator that gave the vaccine an approval in “clinical trial mode.”“The numbers are of course less than expected, and that is the case everywhere. Whenever something new happens, people are a little hesitant and that is the reason probably we saw fewer beneficiaries coming in. As for which vaccine the hospital gets, the decision is taken by senior level officers and it is not my place to question that. However, I will try to speak to the resident doctors on Monday and allay their concerns,” said Dr Rana, who himself received the shot on Saturday.“If I did not think the vaccine was safe, I would not have taken it. Perhaps they will see this and decide to get the vaccine,” he added.The hospital was one of the 81 centres across the city that was to vaccinate 100 people each on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rmlresident-docs-raise-concerns-over-covaxin-shots-101610819511114.html
17-01-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccine drive kicks off in national capital, 53% turn out for jabs||A total of 4,319 healthcare workers -- 53.3% of those registered -- received the Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi on Saturday, becoming the first batch of people to be inoculated as India launched one of the biggest immunisation campaigns to control the coronavirus disease.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal assured people about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines, saying “there is no need to worry” and urged people to continue to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. Health minister Satyendar Jain described the drive as successful.The beneficiaries on Saturday included some of the leading doctors of Delhi who volunteered to take the first jab at various centres to build confidence about the two vaccines among the healthcare workers and the general public.Of the 11 districts in Delhi, the highest turnout was recorded at 71.44% in south Delhi where 668 of the 935 total registered beneficiaries were vaccinated. This was followed by the northwest district where 706 (64%) of the 1,100 healthcare workers were given the first dose. The north district vaccinated 116 (32.1%) of the total target of 361 persons -- the lowest among the 11 districts. Experts attributed the low turnout mostly to vaccine hesitancy, pointing out that since no major adverse events were reported on Saturday, more people will join the drive on Monday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Lok Nayak hospital where 32 healthcare workers turned up for vaccination. While the next Covid-19 vaccination will be held on Monday at the same centres, each site has been allowed to vaccinate a maximum of 100 people a day.“I want to say to all not to pay attention to rumours and misinformation. The experts say vaccines are safe and there is no need to worry,” Kejriwal said.“Every person who has been vaccinated is happy, nobody is experiencing any problems. We have started this at 81 sites, and we will increase this number to 175 sites in the coming days. As and when the vaccine supply increases, we will start the vaccination process at 1,000 sites,” Kejriwal said after inspecting the arrangements at Lok Nayak hospital.The inoculation drive was launched at 81 centres or vaccination sites in Delhi with just one serious adverse event following immunization (AEFI) reported in the south district. where a security guard of AIIMS developed an allergic reaction after receiving vaccination.“He complained of palpitations and developed an allergic skin rash within 15-20 mins after being inoculated and was admitted immediately. He is stable and is under observation. He is likely to be released tomorrow,” said a senior AIIMS official.Of the 4,319 beneficiaries, 51 reported minor reactions such as rashes, swelling at the site of injection and fever. South and southwest districts reported the highest number of minor AEFI with each reporting 11 such cases. Northeast and Shahdara districts reported no AEFI cases.The exercise proceeded smoothly at all centres with no major glitch being reported from any centre. Some technical snags that were reported at Lady Hardinge Medical College on Friday led to fewer people turning up. The hospital vaccinated 26 health care workers.The Delhi heath minister said once the 240,000 registered healthcare workers are vaccinated, nearly 600,000 frontline workers will be next in line. “After frontline workers, we will vaccinate people who are above the age of 50 and this will be followed by those below 50 with co-morbidities,” Jain said.Senior government officials said the turnout was better in the city’s private hospitals with Max Saket vaccinating all of its 100 registered beneficiaries. Sir Ganga Ram hospital vaccinated 88 healthcare workers, while Indraprastha Apollo saw 72 of them.“There was some hesitation among the doctors in receiving the vaccine, but if I did not believe that the vaccine was safe why would I take it. I will speak to the doctors and try to allay concerns,” said Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, where only 31 people were vaccinated and some resident doctors asked the hospital for Covishield vaccine.Among the government hospitals, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) vaccinated 95 people with a couple of them being turned away with fever and other symptoms.Even as the centres were opened on time at 9 am, a number of them started the process post 11 am, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation. Almost all centres, including GTB hospital and AIIMS, had installed LED televisions to live broadcast the PM’s speech which was shown to the beneficiaries to boost their morale.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan visited AIIMS where a sanitation worker, Manish Kumar, was the first to get the jab. This was followed by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and NITI Ayog member Dr VK Paul with his wife Dr Shashi Paul – all three were administered the Covaxin dose manufactured by Bharat Biotech.Allaying apprehensions over Covaxin, Dr Paul said, “Both the vaccines are good, very effective, and very safe. I would urge the healthcare workers to take the vaccine assigned to them.”Dr Guleria said, “We may keep arguing about which vaccine is good and which is better, at the end of the day all the vaccines that are safe and efficacious will help in saving lives and reducing mortality. These will evolve over time and we may get second-generation vaccines by the middle of this year that will need only one shot or one that can be a nasal spray.”Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College said, “Vaccine hesitancy had a major role to play when it came to the low vaccination rate on Saturday. Many people were comparing the two vaccines, many people wanted to wait and see what happens, and others wondered whether they needed it, having recovered from the infection recently. When people were asked to sign the consent forms, that also led to a lot of anxiety. But, with no major adverse events reported, I think more people will come forward in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccine-drive-kicks-off-in-national-capital-53-turn-out-for-jabs-101610819391084.html
17-01-2021||Mumbai||In 1 day, giant lung billboard at Kharghar starts to turn black due to pollution||A giant pair of artificial lungs fitted with filters and fans to mimic the human lungs, fitted in Navi Mumbai's Kharghar by an environmental organisation on Friday, started turning black within a day.A similar installation was set up in Bandra last January but it took 14 days to turn completely black. The installation changing colour within a day of being set up has caused concerns of increasing pollution levels among residents.This comes four weeks after a study found that air pollution levels on the outskirts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) along the Kharghar-Panvel-Taloja belt are above safe limits for nearly two-thirds of the day, with peak pollution during early morning hours posing a threat to morning walkers and joggers.Kavita Choutmal, mayor of the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC), who visited the site, has demanded the setting up of an expert committee to study the deteriorating air quality in the area.“There is an urgent need to understand the cause of such high levels of air pollution in this belt and then work on solutions. However, the PCMC and MPCB (Maharashtra Pollution Control Board) needs to immediately take strict action against industries in Taloja MIDC as well as nearby areas that are not following norms and causing air pollution,” said Choutmal.Also read: Maharashtra suspends Covid-19 vaccine drive till Jan 18 due to CoWIN app glitchThe artificial lungs, called the lung billboard, were installed by a non-government organisation called the Waatavaran Foundation in a bid to demonstrate the effect of pollution levels on the lungs. The installation is placed near the Bank of India Chowk at Sector 7.Designed by the digital advocacy group Jhatkaa.org, the artificial lungs are made up of a white filter medium. A pair of fans are fixed at the back of the billboard to suck in the air to mimic the functions of the lungs while breathing.“Such visuals (like the billboard) are important methods to raise awareness about finer particles bringing out a vivid image on how they impact the lungs. Air quality spikes could be mostly due to vehicular emissions in these areas. The impact needs to happen across all stakeholders to understand how various sources of pollution are contributing to this issue,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB.“Over the next few days and weeks, particulate matter from different sources will begin getting trapped in the filters. This will lead to the lungs changing colour - from chalk-white to brown to black. The billboard is also fitted with a digital air quality monitor that will record and display the real-time Air Quality Index (AQI),” said Bhagwan Kesbhat, founder of Waatavaran.On Saturday, even as the overall air quality of Mumbai remained in the moderate category, in Navi Mumbai it was in the very poor category with an AQI of 365.A study released by Waatavaran in December 2020 found extremely high levels of PM2.5 in the air, especially between 6 am and 8 am, and average daily air quality above safe standards for 17 hours in the Kharghar-Panvel-Taloja belt.The data from five locations – Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Taloja; Sector 13, Panvel; Navade, Taloja; Sector 7 and 36, Kharghar - showed average PM2.5 levels over 31 days was 101.12 microgrammes per cubic metre (μg/m3), which is almost twice the national safe standard (60μg/m3), and four times the World Health Organization (WHO) standard (25μg/m3).The highest PM2.5 concentration was recorded at 7 am at 141.1μg/m3 (average data from five monitors). MIDC Taloja had the most polluted air among five locations at 197.4 μg/m3 at 7 am. PM2.5 data was accessed using five low-cost air quality monitors between November 13 and December 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-one-day-giant-lung-billboard-at-kharghar-turns-black-due-to-high-pollution-101610815798898.html
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Raj Bhawan versus Haryana govt:Opposition expresses shock over govt opposing governor||Opposition leaders in Haryana expressed shock over the embarrassing treatment meted out to governor Satyadeo Narain Arya by the state government that termed his orders to extend the services of a Red Cross Society official illegal before the Punjab and Haryana high court. Responding to a report in Hindustan Times, state Congress chief Kumari Selja said a constitutional crisis has been perpetrated in the state. “This is something unheard of. It seems the right hand does not know what the left one is doing. Either the governor or the chief minister should go,’’ Selja said. Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Chautala said it is shameful and the CM should have asked the advocate general to resign. “The governor is the constitutional head. How can his own government term his orders illegal? And what about the arbitrary appointments of BJP cronies made by the chief minister every now and then. Will the advocate general have the courage to term them illegal as well,’’ Chautala said. Expressing shock at the development, former Haryana minister Karan Dalal said that the advocate general and the chief minister should quit for this impropriety. “What kind of a government is this? I have never heard anything like this before. The government has severely undermined the office of the governor, who is the executive head of the state,’’ Dalal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raj-bhawan-versus-haryana-govt-opposition-expresses-shock-over-govt-opposing-governor-101610809970064.html
