20-01-2021||Delhi||Comprehensive one-stop dashboard launched for nationwide air quality monitoring||With an aim to monitor pollution levels and provide readily available air quality data of different cities across the country, a Mumbai-based environment start-up on Wednesday launched a new dashboard to access continuous ambient air quality monitoring standards (CAAQMS). Mumbai firm Carbon Copy and Respirer Living Sciences released the new dashboard at a webinar organised by a Delhi-based climate communications initiative, Climate Trends. The new dashboard presents a comprehensive one-stop platform to access on CAAQMS and is a part of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s nationwide real-time monitoring network. “The dashboard is designed to not only list the data but also to allow users to draw comparisons between the air quality over seasons, calculate monthly and annual averages and even examine hyper local monitoring by zooming into specific cities and neighbourhoods to identify polluted pockets,” said Ronak Sutaria, CEO, Respirer Living Sciences. He further said, “The dashboard has allowed transparency on not just PM2.5 and PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres and 10 micrometres) data, but also on data regarding harmful gases such as nitrogen dioxide (NO2), ozone (O3) and carbon monoxide (CO).” While discussing the need for increased air quality monitoring and increased accountability of government agencies and state pollution control boards, SN Tripathi, head of department (civil engineering) at IIT-Kanpur, said, “Since the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) started in 2019, we are now on a five-year plan with a target to reduce 20%-30% PM2.5 and PM10 by 2024. The measures being taken now are aimed at increasing accountability.” Tripathi is also the nodal officer of the national knowledge network (NKN), which was set up as an advisory board to guide the state and central pollution control boards in implementing the NCAP. Environment experts pointed out that even during the stringent Covid-19 lockdown last year, studies have showed that of the eight major polluting sources, only four -- vehicles, industrial activity, brick kilns and construction activity -- had been shut. Meanwhile, power plants were still operational although at a reduced capacity. Household cooking, open burning and diesel generators all added to ensure that even in the best-case scenario, India’s background pollution levels ranged from 20-30 ug/m3. “Indians have 35% reduced lung capacity due to air pollution in comparison to Caucasians. Air pollution was the second highest risk factor in India, second only to child and maternal malnutrition,” said Dr DJ Christopher, head of pulmonary medicine at Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/comprehensive-one-stop-dashboard-launched-for-nationwide-air-quality-monitoring-101611167299082.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Farmer dies by suicide at Tikri, leaves note behind||A 42-year-old farmer from Rohtak died by suicide at Delhi’s Tikri border on Wednesday. Police said the farmer allegedly consumed poison and was rushed to a hospital in Mangolpuri during the wee hours of Wednesday, but couldn’t be saved. He died at around 3:30 am.The farmer was identified as Jai Baghwan Rana who had been protesting at the Tikri border. “The police were informed that a farmer had consumed poison at the Tikri border at around 2:30am. He was immediately rushed to a hospital in an ambulance that had been deployed at the protest site. He was declared dead at around 3:30 am. The police have initiated a probe,” said a senior police official.According to protesters at the Tikri border, Rana had left behind a note urging the government and the farmers’ union leaders to resolve the ongoing stand-off. The purported suicide note stated, “My name is Jai Bhagwan Rana and I am a small farmer. The government says it is a matter of only two to three states, but farmers from all over the country are protesting against the laws. Sadly, it is not a movement now, but a fight of issues. The talks between the farmers and the Centre also remain deadlocked”“The government should call the farmers from all states and take their opinion in front of the media and decide for itself,” he added. Several farmers have allegedly died by suicide in the last few months at the borders of the national capital, where the ongoing agitation entered day 56 on Wednesday. Last month, a lawyer from Patiala had died by suicide near the Tikri border. A Sikh preacher had also ended his life at the Singhu border over the ongoing agitation in December. The farmer union leaders have been taking several measures to sensitize farmers and keep them motivated. Several posters and banners have also been put up at protest sites requesting agitating farmers to choose life. Earlier on Wednesday, another farmer Dhana Singh (60) also died due to a heart attack at the Tikri border. Singh was a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ugrahan) and belonged to Patiala. Manjeet Singh, district president of Patiala, BKU (Ugrahan), said that the deceased was participating in the protest since November last year. “We have lost so many brothers while protesting on the highways in this bone-chilling weather, but it’s not bothering the government. The government should understand that these sacrifices will further strengthen our movement since now we have to also fight for those who are dying during the protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmer-dies-by-suicide-at-tikri-leaves-note-behind-101611167239549.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi cancer institute holds counselling session to bust myths about Covid-19 vaccine||The Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) on Wednesday conducted a one-on-one counselling session for its health-care workers to dispel myths about the Covid-19 vaccine and to encourage them to take the shot.HT had on Wednesday reported that several hospitals in the national capital were planning to hold such sessions to do away with the myths and fear surrounding the vaccine and improve the overall coverage. The counselling session at the DSCI was attended by 250 health-care workers. The institute also opened a selfie point at its vaccination centre for the use of those who will get inoculated.During the session, many health-care professionals queried about the possible side effects, efficacy and security of the vaccine. Responding to queries, Dr BL Sherwal, director of the institute, said, “The vaccination drive has begun after completing all formalities and trials. As we health-care workers have been working since the start of the pandemic, we are privileged to get vaccinated before anyone else.”Encouraging them to take the vaccine shot, Dr Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council, said, “It’s not the time to be afraid of the vaccine, rather it’s time to fight against our fear. Vaccination drive is an opportunity for us. We should take advantage of this drive to protect ourselves from different types of Covid-19 strain.”Dr Pragya Shukla, the nodal officer at the institute, said, “To strengthen the morale of health-care workers, a selfie point was opened so that they can get themselves clicked after getting vaccinated and post the pictures on social networking sites. This will send a message to the common man.”Among those who attended the counselling session was Vipin Kumar, who works at the DSCI’s pharmacy. He said, “I had many doubts about the vaccine safety since there was no data available on it. We have been told that the vaccine being used here in Delhi hospitals is safe and its clinical trials have also been completed. I am satisfied and will take the shot on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cancer-institute-holds-counselling-session-to-bust-myths-about-covid-19-vaccine-101611167240032.html
20-01-2021||Other||We will not shift the venue of the Republic Day tractor rally, farmers to police||New Delhi: Farmers protesting at Delhi borders on Wednesday reiterated that they will take out a “peaceful” tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road on Republic Day and urged the police not to force them to shift it anywhere else. The Delhi police had urged the farmers to either cancel the rally or shift it to the Kundali-Manesar-Palwal expressway on the periphery of the Capital. With this the second round of talks between the police and the farmers remained inconclusive on Wednesday.The leaders of several farmer unions have announced to conduct a tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road as a part of their ongoing protest against the three new farm laws. Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha in Punjab, said, “The police again asked the farmer unions to shift the proposed tractor march to Western Peripheral Expressway or Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway. But farmers have made it clear that the march will be conducted only on the Outer Ring Road.” “We have assured the police that the march will remain peaceful. We are not going to disrupt peace in the city. We are not marching to the India Gate or the Red Fort. Police should allow us to conduct our peaceful march,” he added.A senior police officer, who was part of the discussion, said, “The talks with farmers are still on. We are yet to reach any consensus.”Earlier on Tuesday, the farmers also shared the route map of their proposed tractor rally and said that the parade will touch all the borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh would be participating in the tractor rally, they said.Another farmer leader and president of Krantikari Kisan Union, Darshan Pal, said another round of talks with the police will be held on Thursday. “The police have apprehensions that the rally can be infiltrated by some anti-social elements. But we have assured that the protest will remain peaceful. We have been protesting for around two months and no incident of violence has been reported from Delhi borders. We have told police that the crowd might get provoked, if they are not allowed to carry out the march,” he said.Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court said it would be “highly irregular and improper” for it to either stop or allow the protesting farmer unions to hold a Republic Day tractor rally in the Capital, forcing the Central government to withdraw its plea to injunct the farmers. The protesters said when the apex court had not stopped them, the police should also not interfere. “Why is the police worried about the safety and security of the farmers only during the tractor march? They are not even bothered to see hundreds of farmers dying every day during the protest. Hundreds of farmers are travelling to Delhi to participate in this rally. Things might get out of control if police interferes,” said Amandeep Sindhu, a farmer protesting at the Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-will-not-shift-the-venue-of-the-republic-day-tractor-rally-farmers-to-police-101611167239106.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Five more persons held for Pitampura jewellery heist, another 2.5 kilo of gold recovered||Five more persons, one of them a 30-year-old woman, have been arrested in connection with last week’s dacoity at a jewellery showroom in north-west Delhi’s Pitampura. Nearly seven kilograms of gold jewellery worth over ₹3.5 crore were looted at gunpoint by a group of eight robbers, with the police terming the heist one of the biggest in Delhi in the recent past.More than one kilogram of stolen jewellery was recovered from the bank locker of the arrested woman -- she is the sister of one of the arrested men -- while another 1.5 kilos of gold was recovered from four persons who were arrested between Monday and Wednesday from West Bengal, Bihar and Delhi.Earlier, the police had recovered 3.5 kilos of gold jewellery from the suspects.The total number of arrests in the case is now 12 -- eight men who were involved in the dacoity and four receivers of the stolen jewellery. Nearly six kilos of the stolen jewellery has been recovered so far, the police said.“One or two suspects are still on the run and their arrests may lead to the recovery of the remaining jewellery. It was one of the biggest dacoity in the recent years in Delhi,” said joint commissioner of police (northern range) Surender Singh Yadav.According to Yadav, two of the arrested men, identified as Pitu Sheikh and Suraj, had committed a burglary at the same jewellery showroom in 2019. They were arrested and the stolen jewellery recovered from them at that time. In the latest dacoity, which happened around 4am on January 15, a group of eight robbers arrived outside the jewellery showroom in Pitampura, held the security guard, Chandan Vinay Shukla, hostage at gunpoint and broke into the showroom. They ransacked the shop and fled with nearly seven kilos of gold jewellery.“The entire heist took just three minutes. The guard informed the police about the dacoity only after the dacoits fled,” said special commissioner of police (law and order, west zone) Sanjay Singh, adding that a case was registered and four teams, including the special staff of north-west and Rohini districts, having around two dozen investigators, were tasked to crack the case and nab the suspects.As the guard had told the police that the dacoits had come in a Honda City car, investigators scanned through the footage of 30 CCTV cameras along a 5km route that the suspects had taken to reach Rithala Metro station, where the vehicle was found abandoned at a vacant plot.“We got the car’s registration number from one of the cameras installed near the showroom. We followed the route and recovered the vehicle -- it has been stolen from Rohini Sector 5 on the night of January 11,” said an investigator, requesting anonymity.During the probe, the officer said investigators learnt about the 2019 burglary at the showroom. They learnt that the three men arrested for that burglary lived in the same neighbourhood from where the Honda City was recovered. Further probe led to the identification of the suspects living in the neighbourhood. Police collected information about their whereabouts and nabbed them from Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal and Bihar.Brothers Pitu Sheikh and Mintu Sheikh were caught from Hazaribagh railway station; they were on a Howrah-bound train and were fleeing to their home town in West Bengal with the stolen jewellery. Another robber Reet Mohammad was caught from West Bengal. His interrogation led to the arrest of his brother Sameer Sheikh from Rithala. One Hakim was caught from Patna on Wednesday, the officer said.The other arrested persons were identified as Shankar, Suraj, Saleem alias Monu, Rahul, Sanu Rehman, Sheikh Ripal.“Suraj’s interrogation led to the arrest of his sister to whom he had given his share of the stolen jewellery. We interrogated her and she led us to her bank locker in which around 1,100 grams of gold jewellery was kept,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/five-more-persons-held-for-pitampura-jewellery-heist-another-2-5-kilo-of-gold-recovered-101611167180076.html
20-01-2021||Other||Kalkaji jewellery showroom burgled by thieves who break in through roof||New Delhi: A jewellery showroom operating out of a three-storey building in south Delhi’s Kalkaji was burgled after thieves broke in through its roof, the Delhi Police said on Wednesday. While the police said the showroom owner is yet to submit an estimation of the loss, local businessmen said put the figure at several crore. HT called on the landline phone of the showroom, Anjali Jewellers, but the person at the other end refused to speak on the matter. The showroom is located in Block H of Kalkaji and is guarded by armed men even when it is not in operation.According to RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (southeast), a phone call to the station house officer (SHO) was made by the showroom owner around 11am on Wednesday. “He informed that the showroom was burgled, but he hasn’t disclosed the total amount yet,” said Meena. The officer said that the burglars broke into the showroom through its roof.“CCTV footage has captured one of the suspects, but we don’t know yet how many thieves were involved in the crime,” said Meena. The officer said that the footage is likely to help the investigators crack the crime soon. Ravinder Singh, who runs an event management firm located at a walking distance from the showroom, said that he got to know of the theft around 11.30am when he was reaching his office. “The market was covered by police personnel. I got to know that jewellery worth several crores had been stolen from the showroom,” said Singh. Anjali Showroom has its corporate office in Kolkata and several shops on that city, other parts of West Bengal and one in the national capital, its website shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kalkaji-jewellery-showroom-burgled-by-thieves-who-break-in-through-roof-101611167179559.html
20-01-2021||Other||AAP alleges fund hike for SDMC councillors, BJP says no change in amount||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday alleged that the BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is increasing the annual funds given to each councillor from ₹50 lakh to ₹1 crore at a time when several employees of the three municipal corporations (MCDs) are on strike over non-payment of salaries. The SDMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) denied ordering any hike, saying the local area development fund for councillors has been ₹1 crore for the past several years. Senior AAP leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said that on Tuesday, the SDMC increased the annual funds for each councillor from ₹50 lakh to ₹1 crore. “Employees of the BJP-ruled MCDs are on strike because doctors, nurses, medical professionals teachers, sanitation workers and others have not got their salaries for several months. On one hand, the BJP-ruled MCD claims they do not have money to pay the salaries of their employees and on the other hand, yesterday (Tuesday) they increased funds for the councillors. Earlier, they had increased this fund from Rs.25 lakh to Rs.50 lakh and now it has become Rs1 crores,” he said. The SDMC said that the councillor fund has always been ₹1 crore and there was no change to it.“The AAP is misleading the people of Delhi. Standing committee chairperson, Rajdutt Gahlot, had on Tuesday merely scrapped the budget proposals put up by additional commissioner Ramesh Verma. Each councillor is anyway entitled to ₹1 crore every year. In fact, even that amount is not disbursed in full most of the time, owing to fund crunch,” said Anamika Mithilesh Singh, mayor of SDMC. In its budget for 2021-22, SDMC additional commissioner Ramesh Verma had proposed reducing the councillor’s area development fund from ₹1 crore to ₹50 lakh. But on Tuesday, Gahlot rejected the proposal. AAP’s Bhardwaj said the Arvind Kejriwal-led party believes that the reason behind this “hike” is just to loot the MCD.“We also believe that the BJP councillors are very scared and they feel that in the upcoming election, the BJP will lose, therefore, they want to loot the MCD before leaving. The BJP councillors also know that they will not get any ticket in the upcoming MCD election because of their corruption,” Bhardwaj said. The Delhi BJP said it is “shocking” how the AAP is “cooking up stories” to allege corruption in the MCDs. “The fact is there is no employees strike in SDMC. It seems that the AAP MLAs are pilfering the annual MLA-LAD funds which is why they are assuming that the councillors too might do the same,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-alleges-fund-hike-for-sdmc-councillors-bjp-says-no-change-in-amount-101611167179127.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Complete road redesign project by early 2023, Kejriwal tells PWD||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday issued directions to officials of the public works department (PWD) to stick to deadlines and ensure that the government’s ongoing project, of redesigning several major roads in the city, is completed by early 2023.Kejriwal issued the directions at a review meeting on the status of the project on Wednesday. The project covers 540km of road length on stretches that are more than 100 foot wide.The aim is to redesign the roads on the lines of those in European cities, the government had said in a statement.“The process of redesigning roads and streetscaping should be done in a swift manner to complete the project within the stipulated time frame. There should be no laxity. The deadline is early 2023. The agency entrusted with the task of construction will also be responsible for the maintenance of roads for a period of 15 years,” Kejriwal said in a statement.The statement further said, “Streetscaping is being done to remove bottlenecks for a smooth flow of traffic, encourage the use of non-motorised vehicles, construct disabled-friendly infrastructure, along with ensuring efficient use of space alongside roads.”In December, the government had appointed a consultant for the project. The consultant is supposed to submit a detailed project report in February, based on which tenders will be given and the operations will begin by June 2021, said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/complete-road-redesign-project-by-early-2023-kejriwal-tells-pwd-101611167119521.html
20-01-2021||Other||Delhi govt gets farmers’ consent to set up solar power plant on 225 acres across nine villages||New Delhi: The Delhi government has got consent from farmers across nine villages in the north-western peripheries of the city for setting up solar plants in 225 acres of agricultural land under a long-awaited scheme that aims to enhance the Capital’s power production and contribute to income of farmers.“We have got consent for 225 acres of agriculture land where solar plants can be set up. The lands are located at villages in areas such as Alipur, Lampur and Narela. The project has been given a go ahead and tenders will be issued soon. We aim to launch the project this year,” said a senior government official.In July 2018, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi had announced the Mukhyamantri Kisan Aay Badhotri Yojana – a scheme to increase income of farmers by setting up solar plants in their agriculture land, which would also enhance power production in the Capital.Under the scheme, farmers would be able to continue with agriculture even after the power plants are set up as the solar panels to be installed would be installed at a minimum height of 3.5 metres from the ground, allowing for farming activities, tractors to ply on the fields and other agriculture-related machinery to be used.The farmers would be paid ₹1 lakh per acre a year, and the rent would increase by 6% compounded annually. Once allowed, the plant would exist for 25 years. The farmers would also get 1,000 units of energy produced by the plant each year for every acre they rent out for the project, the official said.However, the scheme is yet to formally kick off.According to the government’s statistical handbook of Delhi, the total area under agriculture in the national capital is 34,750 hectares, which roughly translates to 85,870 acres. “But most of the land is scattered and that turned out to be a big problem for implementing the project,” said the official who did not wish to be identified.According to government estimates, a full six acres will be needed for setting a 1 MW [or, 1000 kW] solar plant, which would be capable of generating over 1.2 million units of electricity annually, under the scheme.On engaging with farmers for more than a year after the scheme was announced, the government also realised that there were concerns. “The most common one being whether the land would lose fertility, or if yield would reduce after the solar panels are installed. This, they assumed, would deprive the land of direct sunlight,” the government official said.In January 2020, the government set up a demo of the project at the campus of an agriculture institute in Kirari, located in the western peripheries of Delhi. Even though the government had got consent for 150 acres of land by then, the project faced delays because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-gets-farmers-consent-to-set-up-solar-power-plant-on-225-acres-across-nine-villages-101611167120079.html
20-01-2021||Other||With interlinked Metro and RRTS stations, INA Market all set to be major transit hub||New Delhi: The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) will integrate its INA station on the Delhi-Alwar Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor with the Delhi Metro station at the same spot to provide seamless connectivity between two mass transit systems.Last year, the NCRTC had changed location of its station on the RRTS corridor from Jangpura to INA to provide seamless connectivity with two of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) corridors -- Yellow line (Huda City Centre to Samayapur Badli) and Pink line (Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar).An NCRTC spokesperson said, “Station locations have been finalized in such a way that they are seamlessly integrated with other modes of public transport for commuters’ convenience. INA-RRTS station will be integrated with the Delhi Metro’s INA station through subways, thereby providing safe and seamless connectivity (between two rail corridors) to commuters.”With this, INA will become an important transit facility in South Delhi. The station will provide direct high-speed connectivity to residents of NCR suburbs such as Ghaziabad, Modinagar, Meerut, Gurugram, Manesar and Panipat to two major hospitals (AIIMS and Safdarjung), markets and new developments planned in the area such as the commercial complex proposed at Nauroji Nagar.While the Delhi Metro station is located on Aurobindo Marg, INA-RRTS station will be located near DDA’s headquarters on Barapullah road. NCRTC officials said the station will have two entry/exits near DDA headquarters, Vikas Sadan, and Aurobindo Marg.“RRTS stations have been planned and designed to ensure multi-modal integration with other modes of public transport in a way that it will eliminate the need for commuters to step out on roads for switching from one public transport to another. We are closely working with DMRC for an integration of the INA and other stations,” the spokesperson said. DMRC’s INA station on the Yellow Line was opened in 2010 and subsequently was converted into an interchange with the Pink line in 2018. The station caters to a number of important landmarks in the area such as the INA Market and Dilli Haat. At INA, the RRTS corridor, the NCRTC official said, will pass below the two existing DMRC corridors.Anuj Dayal, executive director corporate communication, DMRC said, “NCRTC is going to integrate its upcoming station at INA with the Delhi Metro network’s interchange station there through a subway. This will further boost the connectivity in the area and offer more travelling options to the passengers. The integration of the MRTS and RRTS networks in the NCR will be a major milestone in terms of enhancement of the ease of connectivity in the region.”The 198-km-long Delhi-Alwar RRTS corridor is one of the three priority corridors—Delhi-Meerut and Delhi-Panipat being the other two-- approved by the Centre. The work on the Delhi-Alwar RRTS corridor will be carried out in three stages. In the first stage, 107-km-long corridor between Delhi -Gurugram- Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror (SNB) Urban Complex will be developed.Of the 107kms, 22kms will be in Delhi and it will be completely underground starting from Sarai Kale Khan to Aerocity. “The corridor has got the approval from the state governments and is under active consideration of the central government for approval,” said an NCRTC official.Apart from INA, NCRTC is actively working with DMRC to integrate stations at Sarai Kale Khan, Munirka and Aerocity in Delhi.NCRTC officials said, “Pre-construction activities including geo-technical investigations, initial pile load tests, topographical surveys, shifting of electrical utilities, etc. are being carried out at various locations in Gurugram for this corridor. With a view to save time in executing the Delhi-Gurugram-SNB RRTS corridor, we are focusing on completing most of the pre-construction activities for the corridor so that the civil construction of the corridor can start immediately post the project sanction.”Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said, “The move to integrate RRTS and Metro corridors will provide better connectivity and bring down the use of private vehicles. Efforts should be made to provide for pedestrian movement outside the stations and develop INA as a transit hub.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-interlinked-metro-and-rrts-stations-ina-market-all-set-to-be-major-transit-hub-101611167119087.html
20-01-2021||Other||Whose road it is, asks HC after demolition drive leaves people displaced||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has directed the city government’s Public Welfare Department (PWD) and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) to name the land owning agency of the East Laxmi Nagar Market area where a demolition drive was conducted in July last year to remove encroachment on the service road alongside the nullah road, also known as the Master Plan Road.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, on January 19, 2021, asked the civic body and the PWD to indicate the owner of the land as per records after both them said that the land does not belong to them. The court was hearing a plea by 121 families who had contended that authorities carried out the demolition from July 6 to July 8, 2020 with absolute disregard to the plight of even around 400 residents who were home quarantined on account of Covid-19. They had alleged that they were treated in an inhumane manner and all their means of existence were destroyed.The east civic body had demolished 56 houses constructed on a service road of the Master Plan Road following a court order on clearing encroachments. On July 17, 2020 Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had visited the spot and ordered that the people affected by the drive be immediately shifted to temporary shelters. He had also directed officials to begin an in-depth study of the high court order and whether a court order for demolition can be issued in the times of a pandemic.The residents were rehabilitated temporarily in a Delhi government school. However, according to their counsel, a notice was given in September, 2020 asking them to leave the shelter home in the school as it was in the process of being renovated to resume physical classes, whenever it would be scheduled. While most of them left in September itself, others have vacated the place recently.On Tuesday, senior advocate Salman Khurshid, for the petitioners, told the court that were till now being housed in schools but since the schools now are being reopened, they have been removed. He contended that the authority which claims to be the owner of the land should consider rehabilitating the petitioners and other displaced persons according to their policies.Advocate J Priyadarshini, also counsel for the petitioners, said that her clients are staying in difficult conditions at these alternative accommodations after they were asked to vacate the school.While the counsel for the EDMC said that the land was owned by the PWD, the latter’s counsel denied the claim.The court asked the authorities to file affidavits and posted the matter for further hearing on February 18.Earlier, on July 24, 2020, the high court had said that onus of providing accommodation to displaced families was on the Delhi government, as over the years, officials of the public works department (PWD) or the road owing agency had either not been vigilant or had ignored the extensive encroachments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/whose-road-it-is-asks-hc-after-demolition-drive-leaves-people-displaced-101611167059096.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Govt disburses Covid grant of ₹10K each to 407 more construction workers||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday that the government has disbursed a Covid-19 relief grant of ₹10,000 each to 407 more construction workers in the national capital.These 407 construction workers had registered under the state’s building and other construction workers welfare board till September 30, 2018. The amount disbursed to them is over and above a similar relief granted to 39,600 construction workers in the city, the government said in a statement.The statement further said that at least 2,000 more construction workers will receive 10,00 each in the coming weeks.“When the lockdown was imposed due to the pandemic, the Delhi government was one of the first states to carry out relief disbursement to all 39,600 workers who were registered with the board. In compliance with orders of the Delhi high court, the board decided to disburse the relief amount to those construction workers who were registered with the board as on September 30, 2018,” Sisodia said, before appealing to more construction workers to renew their membership.More than 53,000 construction workers are currently registered with the board but document verification of a large numbers of them is still underway, said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-disburses-covid-grant-of-10k-each-to-407-more-construction-workers-101611166999051.html
20-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad court awards death to 30-year-old man for rape and murder of two-year-old girl||A Ghaziabad fast-track court on Wednesday awarded death to a 30-year-old man for raping and murdering the two-and-half-year-old daughter of his colleague, on the night on October 19, 2020. The court had fast-tracked the case and held the man guilty on January 18, after a trial that had lasted 29 days. While pronouncing the quantum of punishment on Wednesday, Mahendra Srivastava, special judge (Pocso Act), termed the case “rarest of rare” and went on to award the maximum punishment to the convict. According to the prosecution, the crime took place on the night of October 19, 2020, when the convict , who is a colleague of the girl’s father, went to their house and took away the child from her mother on pretext of taking her to a nearby shop. When he did not return till late night, the family went in search of him and also approached the police. The mutilated body of the girl was found the next afternoon, near a drain in an industrial area. The man was nabbed thereafter. The police filed the charge sheet in the case on December 16, 2020, and charges were framed on December 24, 2020, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and also under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302, 201, 376(a), 376(ab). The prosecution said the autopsy report confirmed that child had suffered eight external injuries, including a broken hyoid bone ( U-shaped bone in the front of the neck) pointing to death due to asphyxia from strangling. The court also relied upon the “last seen” theory besides the forensic test reports, which confirmed that the DNA of the man was found on body of the girl. Apart from the death penalty, the man was also awarded life imprisonment for murder (IPC Section 302) and seven years’ imprisonment for destruction of evidence (IPC Section 201). “The man brutally raped the minor girl and murdered her, before hiding her body near a drain at the scene of crime. The prosecution produced 10 witnesses while no one, including the family of the convict, turned up in his defence. We produced witnesses, including the girl’s mother who confirmed that the man took away her daughter despite her trying to stop him. One witness also saw the man carrying the girl on his shoulders near the scene of crime,” said Utkarsh Vats, special public prosecutor (Pocso). The Ghaziabad police also procured CCTV footage from a mobile shop, which confirmed that Pandey between 8.50pm and 8.55pm was seen taking the girl with him. Girl’s father and the man were friends for about 10-12 years and they worked at the same factory. At times, the man would stay with the family and the girl used to call him “Chacha (uncle)”, the police said. “The court relied on several rulings and observed that the act also impacts society at large; besides there is little chance for the convict’s reformation. There was also a high level of brutality perpetrated on the child. Considering all these factors, the court awarded him death penalty,” Vats said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-court-awards-death-to-30-year-old-man-for-rape-and-murder-of-two-year-old-girl-101611166939524.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Front line workers, elderly may have to wait two extra weeks to get Covid jabs||The low turnout of health care workers in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in Delhi is likely to push the vaccine roll out schedule for front line workers and the elderly by at least two weeks, senior officials in the state government said on Wednesday.Since India launched one of the biggest immunisation campaigns to control the coronavirus disease on Saturday, Delhi has been able to vaccinate 12,853 health care workers so far. But this is just 48.72% against the Delhi government’s target to inoculate 26,378 health care workers in three days. Experts have said that if people remain hesitant in coming forward to taking more shots, the government should consider opening up to allow other priority groups – and maybe even the general public – to take doses.Senior government officials said if current trends continue, then front line workers will not get their turn until March. As a result, immunisation of the general public, starting with people above the age of 50 years, can get pushed back to as late as mid-April.“The issue is being closely monitored by the state health department and the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). As of now, on an average 4,284 people are getting vaccinated for Covid-19 each day in the city. If the turnout does not improve soon and more centres are not added, then it will take the entire month of February and the first week of March to complete just the first dose of vaccination for the 120,000 health care workers,” said a senior government official involved in the immunisation programme.As per the initial plan of the Delhi government, the first batch of 120,000 registered health care workers were to be vaccinated by February 13. There are 81 centres in the city, each of which has a target of vaccinating at least 100 people a day. The vaccination happens four days a week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.As of now, the Capital has received 274,500 doses of Covishield (being produced by the Serum Institute of India) vaccine and 20,000 doses of Covaxin (being manufactured by Bharat Biotech), which according to the government is sufficient to inoculate at least 120,000 health care workers. There are 240,000 health care workers registered in the city for taking the vaccine. A Covid-19 vaccination is considered complete if a beneficiary has taken two doses within a gap of 28 days.A government spokesperson said the decision to increase the number of session sites or vaccination centres requires the approval from the Union health ministry. “The session sites are directly regulated by the ministry. So, increasing the number of centres will depend on directions issued by the Centre. The Delhi government is working on extensive IEC campaigns to spread awareness among health care workers regarding the safety of the vaccines. Several districts have started workshops from today (Wednesday) on this,” the spokesperson said.Dr Yogesh Kushwaha, nodal officer for vaccination at Lal Bahadur Shastri (LBS) hospital in east Delhi said at present all the 81 centres, all of which are hospitals, are vaccinating health care workers that belong to their institutions only.“At least 700 health care workers from LBS are to be vaccinated, but in the past three days, less than 150 workers have been immunised. Because of the low turnout, it will now take as much as three weeks to give the first doses of Covid-19 vaccine to all our 700 health workers,” he said.A senior health official said the turnout is likely to improve in the coming days with the government now allowing vaccination on a “walk-in” basis to the registered beneficiaries. “We are hoping to see a turnaround in the next two weeks as now even those registered beneficiaries who are not in the scheduled list for the day can get the jabs if they just walk-in at the session site. Any vaccination campaign always sees a tepid response in the beginning. It will take time. Districts are also carrying out different awareness campaigns and word of mouth plays an important role. As more health care workers take the vaccine shots in the coming days, people will be less scared or apprehensive about the safety of the vaccines,” a health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/front-line-workers-elderly-may-have-to-wait-two-extra-weeks-to-get-covid-jabs-101611166939047.html
20-01-2021||Other||South corp to award ₹10L to RWAs segregating 100% waste at source||New DelhiThe South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to incentivise those Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) that conduct 100% segregation of waste at source in their colonies. The civic body on Tuesday moved a proposal to carry out development works up to ₹10 lakh in the colony or society where 100% waste segregation is done at source.The proposal was moved during the south corporation’s budget presentation on Tuesday, wherein it suggested that a fund of ₹5 crore be marked for this purpose. Municipal officials said as per Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, waste segregation should be done at the source both in commercial and residential areas. Wet waste or kitchen waste should be deposited in green bins and dry waste, such as plastic bottles, milk pouches, in blue bins. Hazardous waste —such as needles, sanitary napkins, among others — are to go in red bins.Rajdutt Gahlot, chairman SDMC standing committee, said that the aim of the proposal is to ensure maximum compliance of the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 so that no waste is dumped on landfill sites. “In the budget for 2021-22, we have proposed to incentivise RWAs that have 100% compliance of waste separation at source. We will not directly give the RWAs the amount directly, but we will carry out development works of ₹10 lakh in the locality or society on the recommendations of the local RWA, if they achieve the target of 100% segregation of waste. We have earmarked an amount of ₹5 crore for this purpose,” he said.Officials from the department of environment management services of SDMC said that the process of waste segregation in residential areas under SDMC’s jurisdiction has begun more than a year ago, but in June last year, the civic body made the process compulsory for RWAs to provide segregated waste to garbage collectors.“To ensure compliance, we have taken a number of measures which include educating public about the importance of waste segregation and also provided them manure in exchange of kitchen waste. Other than this, we had issued notices to RWAs regarding waste segregation and also imposed fines against repeat offenders. Now we have come up with the idea of incentivising RWAs to ensure 100% separation of waste in colonies,” the official said.The civic body had performed poorly in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, ranking 31 out of 47 cities. After this, the corporation had started taking strict steps for compliance and issued notices to RWAs in this connection. Till November end, SDMC had issued more than 1,400 notices to RWAs and had fined 122 residents for not segregating dry, wet and hazardous household waste at source.Sanjay Rana, president RWA Greater Kailash-2 welcomed the initiative and said that it would encourage them to ensure 100% waste segregation.“Incentivising the RWAs is a good concept. At present nearly 50% households in our locality are providing separated waste to garbage collectors. This move will further encourage RWAs to achieve the target and help us get development works — such as beautification of colony, park and road improvement — done,” Rana said.Atul Goyal, president United Residents Joint Action (URJA), said that the move is good but can succeed only if the civic body shows a holistic approach and improves its waste disposal system.“With such an initiative, more RWAs are likely to come forward and start segregation. But the main cause of concern is that it should not get mixed in the tippers by waste collectors as is often seen. So the SDMC will have to show a holistic approach, build trust among residents and ensure that such gaps are filled,” Goyal said.Swati Sambhyal, a Delhi based waste management expert, said, “It is a commendable move. With this, more RWAs will be encouraged to comply with waste management rules and also motivate those which are already doing waste segregation on their own.”She, however, said that municipalities should also ensure that waste segregation exercise is not seen as an optional practice instead they should make efforts to make it a compulsory exercise. She said that barring a few localities, the percentage of waste segregation in residential areas is very low. She said that this initiative will also bring a healthy competition among resident bodies to rank best in terms of waste segregation and management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/south-corp-to-award-rs-10l-to-rwas-segregating-100-waste-at-source-101611166879127.html
20-01-2021||Noida||GB Nagar consumer commission directs company to pay for cost of defective AC to complainant||District consumer disputes redressal commission directed a reputed air conditioner manufacturing company to refund a complainant for shoddy after sales service.Manibala Singh, a resident of Kendriya Vihar Sector 82 Noida, had purchased a 1.5 tonne split AC online in 2018 for ₹28,889, which had a one-year product warranty and five-year compressor warranty. The complainant said that there was an issue with the cooling since the AC was installed and that several complainants were registered with company’s customer care centre.Each time, the complainant said, a company technician would repair the unit, but it would breakdown soon after. The complainant claimed that he asked the company to either replace the product or offer a refund. Unsatisfied by their responses, the customer filed the complaint with the consumer court in 2019.The company did not submit any reply to the court and thereafter the court decided to proceed ex-parte (without the involvement of a party).“The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commsion held the company responsible for deficiency of service and has directed it to pay ₹28,889 to complainant along with 6 percent simple interest, and ₹1000 towards his legal expenses,” Gunjan Sharma, advocate and representative, District consumer courts advocates association, said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-consumer-commission-directs-company-to-pay-for-cost-of-defective-ac-to-complainant-101611166519080.html
20-01-2021||Noida||UP govt sanctions ₹25 crore for 250 CCTV cameras, high-tech equipment under ‘Safe City’ project for GB Nagar||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday sanctioned ₹25 crore for 250 new CCTV cameras and other high-tech equipment for Gautam Budh Nagar under the ‘Safe City’ project. The ‘Safe City’ project is a mission mode initiative of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) for safety of women.“UP CM Yogi Adityanath, resolved to strengthen law and order, has sanctioned ₹25 crore for 250 new cameras and other high-tech equipment for GB Nagar,” the CM’s office tweeted. The chief minister is scheduled to visit Noida on January 25. Alok Singh, GB Nagar police commissioner, said that the ‘Safe City’ project is likely to be inaugurated by the CM during the visit.However, Singh said, “We are yet to receive the letter from Lucknow. We will be able to share more details once we receive the official letter.”. The police commissioner said that the cameras will soon be installed at different places, and other equipment like machines for artificial intelligence, face reading, and control room will also be set up in the district. The project will be implemented by the police commissionerate, along with the three development authorities in the district. The MHA has approved a total budget of ₹180 crore for Noida and the project will be developed with the central and state governments contributing funds in 60:40 ratio.Noida was selected for the project by the home ministry in August last year, and is the second city in the state after Lucknow to get funds under the project. The ‘Safe City’ project aims to create a safe and secure environment for women in public places, to enable them to pursue all opportunities without the threat of gender-based violence and/or harassment. It also aims to prevent and curb all forms of crimes against women and children by providing safer urban infrastructure and efficient access to law enforcement agencies. The framework and guidelines of the project issued by MHA says that the roads, streets and common places should be properly lit up; safety in public transport system; gender sensitization of police, setting up of women cell at all police stations, surveillance through CCTV cameras and technology based interventions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/upgovt-sanctions-25-crore-for-250-cctv-cameras-high-tech-equipment-under-safe-city-project-for-gb-nagar-101611166459687.html
20-01-2021||Noida||Republic Day rehearsal: Restrictions on heavy vehicles in Noida||Noida: Noida Traffic Police has issued an advisory for Republic Day parade rehearsal and said movement of all heavy vehicles going towards Delhi will be restricted from January 22, 10 pm to January 23, 1.30 pm.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, G B Nagar Traffic, said that the heavy vehicles will not be allowed to enter Delhi during the rehearsal. “There will be traffic restrictions at the DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj. The Chilla border connecting Noida to Mayur Vihar is already closed due to farmers’ protest,” he said.Saha said that similar enforcement will be in place during Republic Day. “From January 25, 10 pm to January 26, 1:30 pm, heavy vehicles’ entry will be restricted to Delhi. Similarly, the heavy vehicles will not be allowed to ply New Ashok Nagar route in Sector 1 and Jhundpura-Kondli route in Noida Sector 11. The police teams are making elaborate arrangements as the farmers groups have also planned tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day.Ashutosh Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said that the traffic police have issued a routine advisory ahead of republic day. “This is issued every year on Republic Day and Independence Day. We have not received any specific order for farmers’ rally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/republic-day-rehearsal-restrictions-on-heavy-vehicles-in-noida-101611166459105.html
20-01-2021||Noida||NMRC conducts online survey to improve last-mile connectivity||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) is conducting an online survey and seeking people’s feedback to improve the last mile connectivity and increase its ridership. The survey form is presently available at the NMRC website— www.nmrcnoida.com. The survey asks commuters to furnish details such as name, profession, boarding station, destination, time of travel, mode of transport for last mile connectivity, among others. It also asks if commuters take personal vehicles, cabs, taxies, e-cycles, e-rickshaws or carpool services to reach the boarding station of their choice. Similarly, the commuters are asked to specify the mode of transport they take to reach their final destination after they leave their arrival station. It also seeks suggestions from commuters for improving transportation to and from the boarding and arrival stations. Speaking on the matter, Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said, “The survey data will help us in analysing the situation and improving the facilities. If commuters face problems at last mile connectivity, the NMRC will address the issue,” she said. The Aqua Line achieved the highest ridership of 11,511 on the January 11 of this year, after resuming services post-lockdown. The daily average ridership of Aqua Line before the lockdown in March, 2020, was 22,758. In December, the average daily ridership stood at 7,915.Praveen Mishra, executive director, NMRC, said that they recently took the help of Urban Mass Transit Company Limited (UMTC) to conduct a study on how to increase Aqua Line’s ridership. “The company has submitted its report. He said that the NMRC has also formed a committee to evaluate the report and take necessary measures. “The report recommended the launch of feeder bus service, seamless connectivity, creation of parking lots, along with a host of other facilities. NMRC board in its next meeting will discuss such issues,” he said. The NMRC is currently operating the 29.07km-long Aqua Line from Noida Sector 51 to Greater Noida depot, and consists of 21 elevated stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nmrc-conducts-online-survey-to-improve-last-mile-connectivity-101611166339683.html
20-01-2021||Noida||After 260 days, active Covid-19 cases come below 150-mark in GB Nagar||NOIDA: After a gap of 260 days, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar went down below 150-mark on Tuesday, shows the state government’s Covid-19 data. On May 4 last year, the district had 149 active cases. The data also shows that the active cases in GB Nagar are on a receding trend since December last year. It was the first time since June 10 when the district on December 27 had active cases below the 500-mark. On Tuesday, the district had 144 active cases.On the other hand, the number of cured Covid-19 patients also reached 25,054 in the district on Tuesday, with a recovery rate of over 99%. Till Tuesday, the district has reported 25,289 total cases, as per the state data. District magistrate Suhas LY said that timely ‘tracking and testing’ of the infected patients finally brought positive results. “In the beginning, contact tracing was the biggest problem for us as the district is adjacent to the national capital. But, thanks to the efforts taken by the teams of our doctors and health workers, we put all the areas under strict surveillance and started massive testing, particularly in the critical areas. As a result, the recovery and case fatality rates of the district started receding from July. Now, while our recovery rate is over 99%, the fatality rate is less than 0.36%,” he said. Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that one positive case was reported every seven hours and every 2.5 hours in April and May last year, respectively. “The frequency picked up from June and by October it went worse, when it took only 7.7 minutes for one new case. Till December, it took little less than 20 minutes for detection of one new case in the district. But this year has given us a big relief as the average time for one new positive case has so far been recorded nearly 79 minutes in January so far,” he said. The CMO, however, said that the health officials have been asked to keep strict surveillance in critical areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-260-days-active-covid-19-cases-come-below-150-mark-in-gb-nagar-101611166339053.html
20-01-2021||Noida||GB Nagar targets to vaccinate 12,600 more health care staff till Jan 29||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has outlined a plan to inoculate as many as 12,600 health care personnel in the next three sessions till January 29. District magistrate Suhas LY said that 4,200 persons will be vaccinated on January 22. “The same number of persons will be inoculated each on January 28 and 29. For this purpose, we have identified 13 government and private hospitals in the district. There will be a total of 42 vaccination booths in these hospitals,” he said. Suhas further said that the health department could not ensure 100% participation of health workers on January 16, the first day of vaccination drive, due to some glitches in vaccination portal. “To ensure full attendance of corona warriors on the coming days of vaccination, we have decided to intimate them on their mobile phone numbers, two days before their mandated dates of vaccination,” he said. On January 16, 393 health care workers were vaccinated against the target of 600 personnel. GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that the district health department has already prepared a list of 24,453 doctors and other medical staff, who will be inoculated in the first phase of vaccination. “After the three sessions between January 22 and January 29, we hope to have a few more sessions in February, which will cover the remaining health workers. If any of the identified health workers misses vaccination in these sessions, we’ll organise one special session of vaccination for them,” he said. Ohri also said that the officials deployed in the vaccination drive have been asked to ensure adherence to all government guidelines and parameters during the vaccination. “The district has been provided with 28,840 doses of the Covishield vaccine for the first phase of vaccination,” he said. The hospitals where the vaccination will take place in coming sessions include district hospital, Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute – better known as Child PGI, Kailash hospital (sector 27 and Jewar), Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), ESI hospital, Sharda hospital, Fortis hospital, Yatharth hospital, Jaypee hospital, community health centre (Bisrakh and Bhangel) and primary health centre (Bisrakh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-targets-to-vaccinate-12-600-more-health-care-staff-till-jan-29-101611166278988.html
20-01-2021||Noida||Teen goes missing from Noida boarding school||Noida: A 14-year-old girl from Jharkhand went missing from a boarding school located under sector 49 police jurisdiction on Tuesday night. The Noida police have registered a kidnapping case.The incident came to fore at 2.30am when the girl’s older sister found her missing, the police said.According to the police, the 16-year-old sister said that she had woken up in the middle of the night and found the her (the missing girl) bed empty. She looked around the hostel and in the washroom and when she could not find the girl, she raised an alarm after which a call was made to the police helpline.Based on the sister’s complaint, a case of kidnapping (section 363 of Indian Penal Code) was registered at the sector 49 police station.Police officials said that a search for the girl is on. “We have checked the CCTV footage which shows the girl leaving the premises alone around 11pm through a portion of the gate which was under renovation. Her family has been contacted and teams have been formed to look for her,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The girl studies with her sister and four other cousins at the boarding school. Her mother works as a domestic help in Delhi while her father passed away a few years back, the police said.Officials of the school are trying to reach out to her relatives to find her.“We have spoken to her sisters and friends but no one has any information about her whereabouts. We are trying to contact all her relatives as well to locate her. No one has any idea as to why she might have left,” said Seema Chaudhary, manager for the school.The school had come to limelight in July last year when a 14-year-old girl was found hanging in her room. The school had hushed up the alleged suicide without informing local police, but the Haryana-based family had alleged that there was foul play involved in the matter. Based on their allegations, an FIR was registered at the sector 49 police station against the school management but Noida police had concluded it to be a case of suicide. The note written by the girl was verified by forensics and it was found to be her hand writing. The claims were found to be false and the case was later closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/teen-goes-missing-from-noida-boarding-school-101611166219480.html
20-01-2021||Noida||Two persons booked for felling peepal tree in Greater Noida’s Dadri||Greater Noida: Police have registered a case against two persons for allegedly felling a fully grown peepal tree in the Dadri area on Tuesday. The police said that the tree’s trunk had a 19-foot circumference. The two suspects were identified as Sangeeta, 35, and Johny, 40, residents of Chakrasenpur Madhaiya village. A case was registered at Dadri police station following a complaint by Sajid Ali, a forest guard. Ali said that he had received the information from local people that two persons were illegally cutting a 50-year-old peepal tree on the Gram Sabha land in the village. “I visited the spot and found that the two persons had cut the tree and dismembered its branches. Sangeeta is a local resident while Johny is a tenant at her house. They had also transported the woods in a truck to some places,” he said.When the forest guard objected, the two persons started arguing with him, the police said. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station, said that a case was registered against them under sections 4 and 10 of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “The police are investigating the case. We will arrest the two persons soon,” he said. PK Shrivastava, district forest officer, said that the suspects had neither got permission nor informed the department before felling the tree. He said that for felling or removal of trees, the applicant should submit his/her land ownership to the forest department and also cite a genuine reason. “In case of illegally felling the tree, the suspects can be fined and jailed,” Shrivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-persons-booked-for-felling-peepal-tree-in-greater-noida-s-dadri-101611166218977.html
20-01-2021||Noida||Noida authority offers residents chance to pay for additional area in instalments||In a move that will benefit residents, the Noida authority has allowed them the option of paying for any additional area they get during the allotment of plotted residential areas in instalments. Earlier, plot owners were supposed to pay cost of additional area in 30 days’ time.This facility was already available for the industrial plot owners. Now this change will benefit those, who want to buy a new plot or already has purchased a plot and likely to take possession at the site. The move will particularly benefit those who will be buying plots under an ongoing scheme that offers around 400 residential plots in different sectors. Apart from this, there are thousands of residential plots whose possession the authority is yet to offer.“After allotment, when the authority gives possession to an allottee then there are cases that the plot size is beyond the allotted area,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to media.For example, if a perosn was alloted 100 square metre residential plot owner, but got 110 square metre area instead during possession, then they needs to pay 30% of the plot cost immediately and the remaining 70% in instalments.If the additional area is 30% more (130 sqr mtrs) then allottee can pay 50% immediately and remaining 50% cost of this 30 square metres as per the prevailing circle rate in four years’ time.“The board has taken this decision because the allottees had been demanding this for a long time. The authority had in 200th board approved a proposal in this regard to benefit the plot allottees,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The authority in its 2001th board meeting approved the proposal paving way for the implementation of this new rule, said officials.“The move will benefit many residential plot allottees. Now with this new rule the residential plot allottees, who get bigger area against the allotted plot can pay for additional area in parts,” said Rajiv Gupta, a real estate consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-offers-residents-chance-to-pay-for-additional-area-in-instalments-101611165798932.html
20-01-2021||Noida||Drastic improvement in Noida’s air quality||Noida’s air quality improved on Wednesday from “severe” a day before to the lower range of “very poor”, according to the central pollution control board’s (CPCB’s) air quality index. Its quality is, however, likely to deteriorate again due to fluctuations in the weather for the Delhi-NCR cities over next four days, a pollution monitoring agency said. Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad were the worst polluted cities due to almost stagnant winds and poor ventilation conditions on Tuesday, however the wind picked up on Wednesday. The three cities had earlier been that bad on January 1,2 15 and 17. According to the CPCB, Noida’s AQI, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Wednesday was 310 against 432 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 321 against 434 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 336 against 436 a day earlier. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the weather department, the wind directions have already changed to north-westerly and now caught pace, that will remain for another day, leading to better ventilation conditions. “The wind seed have picked up and reached around 18 kmph on Wednesday for most of the day. This lead to better ventilation and dispersion of the particles. The winds are likely to continue for another day, so the ventilation is likely to continue and air quality may further improve,” said Kuldeep Srivstava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Wednesday, the major pollutant or PM2.5 in the region improved to three times of the safety standards against seven times the standards on Tuesday. The average PM2.5 for Noida on Wednesday was 146 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3) against 334.71 µg/m3 on Tuesday. The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 169.18 µg/m3 against 314.38 µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad was 151.32 µg/m3 against 346.63 µg/m3 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), the air quality is likely to improve towards Thursday but will deteriorate again from Friday onwards. “Surface winds are Westerly and high and forecasted to stay high for the next 36 hrs. Better ventilation coefficients are likely to improve air quality to the Poor category for tomorrow. Marginal deterioration of AQI to Very Poor category is forecasted on 22nd and 23rd January,” said Safar on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/drastic-improvement-in-noida-s-air-quality-101611165738956.html
20-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Boy goes missing from relative’s home||A video of a woman and girl walking with a child was widely shared on social media with many claiming that it was CCTV footage of a “live abduction” in Ghaziabad. Police, however, verified the video and said it was not related to the incident of a three-year-old boy who was reported missing on January 18.The boy, Mohammad Saad, had gone missing from his relative’s house in Nahal area of Masuri in Ghaziabad and, till press time, was yet to be found. His family said he had gone missing in the afternoon.“The video footages which went viral were of locals and they had nothing to do with the incident. On our part, our teams are searching for the boy in neighbourhood areas. We are yet to search a pond near the house from where the boy went missing. The pond is quite big but is shallow and filled with muck,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). “We will rope in some trained people to search the pond.”The missing boy, identified as Mohammad Saad, is second of three siblings and his father had an automobile repair shop in Masuri. “We had shared the video thinking he was abducted by some gang. The family whose members were in the CCTV footages approached us and objected to it saying all seen in the video were their family,” said Mohammad Furkan, the boy’s uncle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabadboy-goes-missing-from-relative-s-home-101611165678920.html
20-01-2021||Noida||Turban tying camp to laundry services, farmers gear up for ‘tractor parade’ on Republic Day||Arshdeep Singh, 19, was on his way home on January 13in Uttarakhand from Punjab’s Patiala when he happened to stop by UP Gate and decided to check out the farmers’ protest. When he heard of the tractor rally scheduled for January 26, he decided to offer his service as a professional turban coach. The turban holds a sacred position among Sikhs but tying it is a difficult art to master. Singh thought it would be a good idea to add turbans to the mix: 2,000 farmers wearing turbans in the colours of the national flag marching up to Delhi would be a sight.“I am now helping farmers learn the art that I learnt from a training institute in Patiala. Those who find it difficult also come to my camp where we help them tie turbans properly. I have also arranged for about 2000 turbans which the farmers will be wearing on the day they take our tractor parade,” Singh, said, while adding that 30 farmers have already joined him for the free class. The turbans will come in three colours --- saffron, white and green. “The turbans will be coming from different gurudwaras and they were enthusiastic about helping me when I proposed my idea for the tractor parade. So, all of us are eagerly waiting for the tractor parade and I want to play a small role in form of tying turbans in the tricolour.” It’s been 53 days since the farmers began their protest against the central government’s laws on agriculture.They had been battling odds -- extreme cold, rain and Covid-19 -- even as the gathering swelled from a few hundreds to now over 10,000.Protesters at the site use everything from streetlights for their power to roadside tents to spend the night.Two free laundry sites too have come up. “There are many who find little time to wash their clothes. So, we have set up six washing machines to be used for free. We wash around 100-125 lots of clothes a day,” said Ranjeet Singh who set up one such site with others from Pilibhit. “We also offer to iron the clothes,” said Surendra Singh from Shahjahanpur who helped set up the other laundry site. “We will wear clean and ironed kurta pajamas along with a coloured turban on our ride to Delhi. Even the tractors will be washed and decked up. Thousands of tractors are expected to arrive from UP, Uttarakhand and other areas and all of these will be lined up on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. Each tractor will also sport the national flag and the rally will be carried out on the outer ring road in Delhi. “Many farmers in villages have not seen Delhi and they are eager to come here on Republic Day. The tractor parade will be peaceful and orderly. We have already done a rehearsal on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway on January 7,” said Rajbir Singh Jadaun, state president of the BKU. The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to pass any order on the plea seeking injunction against the tractor rally proposed by agitating farmers on Republic Day. It said that it was a matter for the police to decide. On Wednesday, the next round of talks between the farmers and the government representatives ended without decision once again as the government proposed for amendments while the farmers’ union leaders sticking to their demand for rollback of three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. “We will continue to hold talks with the government till the time our demands are met. It is like we are having ‘bina mukadme ke tareekh pe tareekh” (date after date when there is no case),” Jadaun, added.POLICE QUOTE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/turban-tying-camp-to-laundry-services-farmers-gear-up-for-tractor-parade-on-republic-day-101611165620711.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination in Mumbai: BMC to allow walk-in entry of healthcare workers||In order to increase its turnout for Covid-19 inoculation, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now allowed walk-in vaccination for health workers registered in its list of 130,000 beneficiaries. This means, if any health worker does not have a slot allotted by the BMC on a particular day, but he reaches the centre for vaccination, the civic body will inoculate him or her based on the fact that he or she is registered in the beneficiary list prepared by the civic body for the first phase.This, BMC officials said, will increase the turnout from the nearly 50% since two days, and will also expedite the process of vaccinating health workers. On Wednesday, the third day of BMC’s drive, 1,728 health workers were vaccinated — 52% of the expected 3,300. A total of 5,251 health workers have been vaccinated so far in Mumbai. Further, on Wednesday, seven cases of minor adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), involving giddiness ,were reported. All seven were kept under observation for 30 minutes and later discharged.According to the BMC’s data, of the 10 vaccination centres, three vaccinated more than 200 citizens each — KEM Hospital (362), Bhabha Hospital, Bandra (306) and Rajawadi Hospital (262).On Saturday, the first day of the drive in Mumbai, 1,926 health workers were vaccinated.A total of 200 staffers, including 80 vaccinators, were working on Saturday. After this, vaccination was suspended for two days on Sunday and Monday owing to “technical glitches” in the Cowin application.However, starting Tuesday, the BMC restarted its drive. On Tuesday, 1,597 health workers were vaccinated, of the 3,200 shortlisted to turn up after the drive was put on. Three of the 1,597 vaccinated had reported giddiness (AEFI) following their shots, and were kept under observation for 30 minutes. None of these beneficiaries had to be hospitalised, said BMC.According to BMC officials, from Wednesday, they have now started vaccinating health care workers on a walk-in basis. Dr Pratima Patil, chief medical officer at the civic-run Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli, said, “We are vaccinating health workers on a walk-in basis. The criterion is that they should be among those who are identified as health workers by the BMC for vaccination in the first phase.”Dr Pradeep Jadhav, medical superintendent, Bandra Bhabha Hospital, said, “We are giving appointments to the identified health workers, but if any health workers whose name reflects in our beneficiary database visits any centre without an appointment, we are vaccinating them. This simply means we are vaccinating even those health workers who are not on the scheduled list, but are present in our database.”There are nine vaccination centres in Mumbai where Covishield vaccine is administered. This includes include four major hospitals — KEM Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper Hospital and Sion Hospital followed by four peripheral hospitals — Bhabha Hospital in Bandra, VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivali; and the Covid-19 facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex. Additionally, one more vaccination centre at J J Hospital was added last week where Covaxin is administered.On how the data of those who visit for vaccination without appointment is handled, Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent, Rajawadi Hospital, said, “We upload all the data of vaccine beneficiaries in the Cowin application of the Central government post vaccination. Also, we have not stopped giving appointments for vaccination. We are also sending messages using the Cowin application.”According to BMC officials, the Cowin application used for vaccination was working slowly on Wednesday but was delivering messages on Wednesday, unlike Friday when not all were getting messages. The turnout on Wednesday, which was the third day of vaccination was also better than the first two days due to this, said BMC officials.Meanwhile, the BMC is aiming to vaccinate around 4,000 health workers on four days of a week. This includes Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. The BMC has maintained it has the capacity to store vaccines for a population of around 10 million people, and can expand its vaccination capacity to 50,000 daily, and this can go up to 100,000 when private hospitals are involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-in-mumbai-bmc-to-allow-walk-in-entry-of-healthcare-workers-101611165619853.html
20-01-2021||Other||Five arrested for extorting ₹1.36 lakh from Zirakpur builder||Five men have been arrested for extorting ₹1.36 lakh from a Zirakpur builder by posing as mining department officials. The accused, identified as Mangu of Patiala, Narinder Singh of Hoshiarpur, and Manoj Kumar and Rajiv Kumar, of Machhli Kalan, Kharar, were arrested on the complaint of Daljit Singh. A resident of Kishanpura, Dhakoli, Daljit is the director of Royal Estate Group, Zirakpur, which is building a project, Oxford, on the Zirakpur-Ambala road. Daljit alleged that the five accused had taken ₹1.36 lakh from him to allow him to dump extracted soil on the vacant land of his GMADA-approved project.Investigators said the accused had been extorting money from private builders using the same modus operandi, as they had the knowhow of mining department’s functioning.They have been booked under Sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused were produced before a Dera Bassi court and remanded to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-arrested-for-extorting-1-36-lakh-from-zirakpur-builder-101611164418869.html
20-01-2021||Gurugram||Heritage structure in Faridabad to come under state protection||The department of museum and archaeology has initiated the process of bringing Faridabad’s Rani ki Chattri under state protection. Located in Ballabgarh, the heritage structure will be the first in Faridabad district to get protection from the state. Other monuments in the region are under the protection of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the tourism department of Haryana. The go-ahead for the move was given by the chief minister last week. Dating back to the 19th century, the heritage structure includes a cenotaph (chattri) and a masonry tank. As per the District Gazetteer, the complex was built by the widow of Anirudh Singh, who was the king of Ballabgarh till 1818, in the memory of her deceased husband. “We received permission from the chief minister last week and will be issuing a preliminary notification for the monument by the next week. After the notification is issued, we will wait for two months to see if any objections are raised. Accordingly, we shall issue the final notification,” said Banani Bhattacharyya deputy director, department of archaeology and museums. “This will be the first monument in Faridabad that will be taken up by us for protection. The chattri is in a good form and we will be able to preserve it,” she said. Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) — an organisation dedicated to preserving monuments— has also been involved in efforts aimed at conservation of the structure. Anand Mehta, convener INTACH, Faridabad, said that the organisation signed an agreement with the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad for restoration work in August 2019. “We worked on the site for six months after which it came to a halt. After the pandemic, we started work again in November last year,” said Mehta. Bhattacharyya said that the department would be responsible for the protection and the municipal corporation will have to take permission from the department for carrying out works, if necessary. “Any heritage property can be taken under protection by the department. Our plans will be not affected,” said Bhattacharyya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/heritage-structure-in-faridabad-to-come-under-state-protection-101611164358809.html
20-01-2021||Gurugram||Autopsy points to murder in Manesar incident, case filed||The police have registered a case of murder in the death of a sub-inspector of the cooperative department based on the post-mortem examination report on Wednesday.The victim, Satyavir Singh, was found dead on a Manesar road, in suspicious circumstances, on the night of January 13. He used to work with the cooperative department, which oversees housing societies.The police said that the autopsy mentioned the cause of death as a head injury, with shock and haemorrhage following ante mortem blunt force impact. Based on the report, a case was registered under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code at Manesar police station. On the day of the incident, Singh had left for work from Manesar in his i10 car around 8am on January 13. “At 5.30pm, I called him to enquire when he would return home. He told me he was waiting for someone and he might be late,” said Amit Singh (32), Singh’s son. He said that he had called his father multiple times between 7.30pm and 9.30 pm, but did not receive a response. A passerby had informed the police regarding a body on a service road near a polytechnic college around 10pm. Singh’s phone was found near the body, while other possessions were found inside the car. “Nothing was missing. So, obviously, it was not a random robbery incident. It was planned murder,” Amit Singh said. Police spokesperson Subhash Boken said that a case has been registered against unidentified persons. “The police are trying to identify and track the accused,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/autopsy-points-to-murder-in-manesar-incident-case-filed-101611164299713.html
20-01-2021||Gurugram||Four key intersections to be made safer||As a part of the ongoing Road Safety Month initiatives, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to redesign four key intersections — Sector 44 intersection, Bristol Chowk, Kanhai Chowk and Ambedkar Chowk — within a month, officials said. While the GMDA will be executing basic infrastructure changes, such as marking pedestrian crossings, installing signage and widening the medians, at Bristol Chowk, Kanhai Chowk, and Ambedkar Chowk, the Sector 44 intersection is set for a complete overhaul. Officials said that these intersections are among the most used, due to traffic from key roads converging at these points. At Bristol Chowk, traffic coming from the Golf Course Road, Gurgaon-Faridabad Road and MG Road converge, while at Kanhai Chowk, traffic coming from Huda City Centre, Golf Course Extension Road and St Thomas Marg converge. Ambedkar Chowk is the first crossing after Hero Honda Chowk for commuters travelling towards Dwarka Expressway, and the Sector 44 intersection is located near Huda City Centre, opposite the GMDA’s office, at the heart of the city. Besides executing the basic infrastructure changes at the Sector 44 intersection, the GMDA plans to compact the intersection and align the stretches with the cycle tracks running parallel to the Netaji Subhash Marg, said officials.“The width of the carriageways varies at each end, hence, the intersection is not aligned. In certain directions, especially for motorists, pedestrians, and cyclists, travelling between Kanhai Chowk and Huda City Centre, it takes commuters longer to cross the intersection. Further, the medians on all three sides end abruptly, leaving the central portion of the intersection exposed and vulnerable. Our aim is to extend the medians at all three sides in such a manner that the gap in the middle is reduced and there is an easy, swift and safe passage from all directions,” said a senior GMDA official privy to the matter.The official said that a traffic island would also be incorporated into the design changes. Currently, cyclists and pedestrians cross the intersections located along the 10-kilometre-long cycle track, between Subhash Chowk and Huda City Centre, by travelling on the main carriageway, without any safe or dedicated crossings. “Road infrastructure redesigning is a fairly complicated process. We have to account for the flow of traffic along with keeping the safety parameters in place. Our top priority is to account for the safety of pedestrians and cyclists, and subsequently, design road infrastructure for public transport followed by motorists. We will start the redesigning process with the Sector 44 intersection,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA. Kundu said that after the redesign of the junctions, GMDA officials will spend the next few months creating awareness among daily users.“Redesigning is only one aspect of the change. We also want to inculcate the habit of daily users to adhere to the new changes, pedestrian crossings, cycle lanes and road designs. Our role will not come to an end with the Road Safety Month, but will continue for the following months as well in regards with conducting awareness programs,” said Kundu.Sarika Panda Bhatt, road-safety expert, Nagarro, said, “In any urban city, the maximum number of fatal crashes occurs at intersections or junctions. Hence, it is vital to redesign intersections and junctions in such a manner that all road users have the highest possible degree of safety. In this regard, introducing traffic signals, compacting intersections or junctions with proper signage and road markings, and constructing traffic islands is the best approach for safeguarding pedestrians, cyclists, and motorists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-key-intersections-to-be-made-safer-101611164300263.html
20-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers’ Tiranga Rally halts traffic on Gurugram roads||Traffic congestion was reported from across the city on Wednesday afternoon as more than 200 farmers took out a Tiranga Rally from Bajghera to Sadar via Palam Vihar and Sector 18, the police said.Hundreds of farmers and political leaders participated in the rally, which was organised on city roads and the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway from noon to 2pm. Traffic movement was affected at Atul Kataria Chowk, MDI Chowk, Sirhaul, Sadar Bazar, Palam Vihar and Sector 5 and normalised by 3pm.Commuters said there was heavy congestion on the stretch between Bijwasan and Sadar Bazar as well as at Pataudi Chowk and the stretch between Rajiv Chowk and the railway station. Suneel Yadav, a resident of Sector 5, said he was stuck in traffic for over 30 minutes near the MDI Chowk. “There was no announcement about the traffic situation and the police did not even divert the routes to ensure smooth traffic,” he said. Another commuter, Devesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 10, said that he was stuck near Sadar Bazar for over 30 minutes due to the rally. “The police personnel were trying to decongest the stretch but the volume of traffic was high and it took time.” Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police, headquarters, said, “The rally was taken out on city routes on Wednesday afternoon and the protesters wanted to go to the National Highway-48. They tried to go towards Kherki Daula and Sirhaul borders, but we did not let them reach the expressway. Only the old city area was affected,” she said. According to the farmers, the rally was held as a show of strength over their opposition to the recently passed farm bills.Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said, “As the police are not allowing us to reach Delhi, we are showing our presence and strength wherever we can. We took out rally in old Gurugram where local leaders and farmers supported us.” Meanwhile, farmers on more than 90 tractors were sent back towards the Rewari border as they tried to bypass border checkpoints by going through agricultural fields. The police said they have deployed personnel on internal roads and fields connecting to other districts ahead of Republic Day, to keep a check on their movements. According to the police, the protesters had conducted a reconnaissance of the neighbouring villages last week to map out their route towards Delhi through fields. Farmers with tractors from at least 25 villages are protesting at the Haryana-Rajasthan border and preparing to hold a tractor rally in Delhi on January 26. Kamlesh Devi, a resident of Rewari, who has been protesting at the interstate border since December 16, said that they will reach Delhi on January 23 by their cars and have arranged tractors in Delhi for the rally. “The police are not allowing us to cross the borders on tractors so we are taking alternative measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-tiranga-rally-halts-traffic-on-gurugram-roads-101611164299210.html
20-01-2021||Gurugram||Two cops suspended for poor performance; five more served notices||The Gurugram Police on Tuesday took action against two station house officers (SHOs) and a head constable, and served show-cause notices to more than five personnel for alleged negligence towards work. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that the action was taken during a quarterly review meeting with top police officials. “Neeraj Kumar, SHO of Bilaspur police station, was suspended for harbouring a casual approach towards work and negligence. He was often found missing from duty. Ajay Malik, SHO, DLF Phase-1, was transferred to police lines for poor performance and being unable to handle challenging situations,” he said. Rao has also marked departmental inquiry against them. He also suspended Manoj Kumar, head constable of Cyber Crime police station, for being allegedly extorting money from a job fraud suspect.Show-cause notices were also served to five more personnel from different police stations. Manoj Kumar had allegedly extorted money, mobile phones, laptops and a gold chain from a suspect in October last year, who later complained to police. Following this, action was taken against him, said the police. “People look up to the police for their safety and security and trust them to take action as per the complaint. Some personnel do not perform their duties well, delay in taking action against the suspect and frame the innocent,” he said. Last year too, a crime-unit in-charge was suspended for negligence. In August last year, Badshahpur police station SHO was suspended as he failed to manage the situation, following the brutal assault of a 25-year-old truck driver by a group of men. In Tuesday’s meeting, the commissioner asked the crime unit heads to keep a close watch on criminals out on parole and bails and take preventive action if required. All the police stations and cyber crime police station officials were directed to undergo a cyber safety expert training so that they can investigate and control such crimes. He directed officers to check social media platforms to get more updates related to the city and be active on the WhatsApp groups created by the residents. Rao asked all the SHOs to prepare an action plan to reduce vehicle thefts, chain-snatching, smuggling of drugs and illicit liquor trade and focus on solving cases of crime against women and children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-cops-suspended-for-poor-performance-five-more-served-notices-101611164239706.html
20-01-2021||Gurugram||Private hospitals to carry out vaccination drive daily till Jan 25||To expedite the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the district, the health department has decided to carry out vaccination every day till January 25 across 17 private hospitals in the city having a higher proportion of workforce as compared to the government facilities, where vaccination will take place for four days in a week.The authorities had initially decided to vaccinate beneficiaries only thrice a week. The recent decision has been taken to expand the coverage of the Covid-19 vaccination. Along with increasing the number of days for vaccination drives, health workers registered on Co-WIN platform can also walk in on any day to get the Covid jab, confirmed the health officials.In Gurugram, as many as 3,489 healthcare workers have been inoculated so far since the vaccine was launched on January 16. In the last two drives, the target was to cover 5,436 workers, out of which nearly 64% took the vaccine jab. Many of the beneficiaries did not turn up due to apprehensions or dropped out to analyse the initial reaction of others before taking the jab themselves. Even some primary front-line workers did not receive timely confirmation regarding the date and location for vaccination due to technical glitches in the Co-WIN platform, thereby missing their turn.Officials said that the recent to expand the vaccination drive can lead to an increase in the footfall and help cover almost 37,000 registered healthcare workers for the first round of vaccination drive — which includes over 32,000 private healthcare staff members.“In the government facilities, vaccination drive will be conducted on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. In private hospitals, on the other hand, vaccination will be carried out regularly till January 25 as they have higher number of workers. Further decision will be taken once their entire workforce is covered,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Starting Thursday, vaccination will be held at 45 session sites, with 31 booths, across 17 hospitals and 14 government facilities. In all the sites, walk-ins for registered vaccine beneficiaries have also been granted after the modifications were made by the central government on the Co-WIN platform. Earlier, health workers were alloted specific slots for inoculation. Since many workers failed to turn up, their slots were wasted. The Co-WIN platform allows only those who are registered for a particular day to be inoculated. It lacked the function to add additional beneficiaries. “With new modifications, any registered health workers can take the jab in their hospital without waiting for their time slot. Private hospitals will have to verify from their list of workers already registered on Co-WIN before giving the jab. If Co-WIN is operational, the data can be fed into the system directly or the entry can be done later within 24 hours,” said Yadav. Confirming the development, Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Hospital, said, “The hospital has the target to vaccinate 200 of its registered health workers every day. The walk-in is currently restricted for our hospital staff members, who are on the list of registered vaccine beneficiaries.” Notably, health care set-ups like nursing homes or diagnostic centres falling within the vicinity of the big private hospitals are also included in the list of these private hospitals mapped as vaccination sites. “Five big hospitals having maximum beneficiaries have not been clubbed with other small health facilities. Workforce from small set-ups like labs or nursing homes are clubbed with other hospitals, who are scheduled for Friday as new vaccination sites will be mapped out,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/private-hospitals-to-carry-out-vaccination-drive-daily-till-jan-25-101611164238790.html
20-01-2021||Gurugram||Haryana receives additional doses of Covid vaccine||The Haryana health department has received 214,000 additional doses of Covishield — one of the two Covid-19 vaccines — for the second dosage to be administered 28 days after the first inoculation, which is currently underway. Out of the total stock, the allocation for Gurugram is still awaited, according to officials, who stated that the district will get doses sufficient to cover its nearly 40,000 registered vaccine beneficiaries. With the arrival of the vaccine at state vaccine storage in Kurukshetra on Tuesday, the district health department has also geared up to cover private healthcare workers in the next five days. As per norms, the two Covid-19 vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — are administered in two doses with an interval of 28 days in between. “The state has received nearly 214,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The stock is sufficient enough to easily conduct the vaccination drive in districts like Gurugram having maximum front-line health care workforce,” said Dr Virender Ahlawat, state immunisation officer.According to Ahlawat, even if the dropping rate is 10% and vaccine wastage is almost 1.1%, the district will get more than 40,000 doses. “The confirmation on the district-wise allocation of the vaccine is still awaited from the ministry of health and family welfare,” he said. Earlier this week, the state got 240,000 doses of Serum Institute’s Covishield, out of which 44,950 doses were allocated for Gurugram. It also received 4,200 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. According to the government data, at least 1,820 were for central healthcare workers and as many as 43,070 were for workers under Haryana government. At least 60 doses were meant for those under Armed Force Medical Services. As per the state directive, almost 50-60% of the doses have to be reserved in every district. At that time, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary said, the target is that by the time the first round is over, vaccine beneficiaries who got the inoculation in the first week can get the second dose on time until the next batch of vaccine arrives. Considering this, the district health department decided to expand the vaccination drive and cover almost 25,000 health care workers before the allocation of the second dose. Dr Virender Yadav, CMO, said, “With the availability of second dose, we can easily utilise the existing stock to vaccinate almost 37,000 healthcare workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-receives-additional-doses-of-covid-vaccine-101611164239225.html
20-01-2021||Other||Four Bishnoi gang members held with arms in Mohali||The Mohali police have arrested four members of the Lawrance Bishnoi gang with arms and ammunition. Identified as Darshan Singh of Dera Bassi, Manish Kumar of Patiala, and Suraj and Bhagat Singh, alias Honey, of Kurali, they work for Sampat Nehra and Deepak Tinu, who are Bishnoi’s close aides, said senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh.The gang has been involved in dacoities, murders and extortion in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Chandigarh. Bishnoi has been running the operations from behind the bars. The accused were arrested in Kurali following of tip-off. Police recovered two 7.65mm pistols, a 12 bore single barrel gun, a .315 bore pistol and 17 live cartridges from them. Police said the accused were involved in a recent firing incident at Malerkotla and had come to Mohali to revive the gang. A case under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act has been registered. The SSP said Darshan and Manish were wanted in separate murder cases. Darshan was absconding in a case registered against him and Deepak Tinu in Bhiwani, Haryana, in November 2017. Manish has a case registered against him in Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-bishnoi-gang-members-held-with-arms-in-mohali-101611162379383.html
20-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator’s advisory council to meet on Feb 10||The Chandigarh administrator’s advisory council is set to meet on February 10. Progress on the city’s second medical college, controversial Tribune flyover, reduction in collector rates, change of land use policy, new route to the international airport and options for mass rapid transit system (MRTS) will be on top of its agenda.It has been more than a year and a half since the council met after its reconstitution in August 2019. The administration had planned a meeting in April first week last year, but it had to be cancelled due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Several key issues have been hanging fire because of the delay.The council is responsible for advising the administration on development issues and policy matters affecting the city. In addition to all senior UT officials, it includes current and former members of parliament, mayor, resident and business association representatives and other prominent citizens. It also has 10 standing committees, which are subject-matter-related groups headed by a chairman.Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “The council will take up the agenda approved by the UT administrator. Its sub-committees will make presentations on different issues, such as Tribune flyover, new route from Chandigarh to the international airport, change of land use, second medical college, MRTS, and law and order.” Important issuesThe long-standing demand of realtors for a cut in collector rates will be taken up by the council. The cut is intended to rationalise prices, especially of commercial properties. It will also make the administration’s property auctions more attractive. The market price of industrial plots and commercial properties in some areas is less than the collector rates. The much-hyped Tribune flyover is likely to be discussed in the meeting. The UT adviser’s report on the project and its alternative will be part of the agenda, said a senior official. The administration has rejected all alternatives suggested by different experts.The administration has also submitted its proposal for setting up a medical college at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. The council will be made abreast about the scope and progress of the project.Reintroduction of the Apartment Act in the city is also likely to be put before council members for discussion. Facing housing shortage and expensive real estate, a section of people has demanded that the Act be reintroduced. It allows bifurcation of big plots, which is in the interest of owners of kanal houses in the city.Another contentious issue – allowing change of land use for opening of nursing homes on residential plots – will be tabled. The sub-committee on urban planning has already rejected the proposal, which was initially pushed by MP Kirron Kher.After the Centre and Punjab government rejected the administration’s proposal for an underpass for giving the city a shorter and direct route to the airport, the proposal is likely to be taken up by the council.It is also likely to brainstorm on the long-pending MRTS project, which has failed to take off because of lack of consensus on different options and lack of funding. After plans for Metro and Skybus were shelved, the UT administration last year pitched for Metrolite to solve traffic congestion and parking problems. No headway could be made due to the pandemic. Metrolite is an urban rail transit system on the pattern of Metro, but much smaller in size and cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administrator-s-advisory-council-to-meet-on-feb-10-101611162079410.html
20-01-2021||Chandigarh||53,000 poultry birds to be culled after avian flu confirmed at two farms in Mohali||The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, has confirmed avian influenza in samples of birds sent from two poultry farms in Mohali’s Dera Bassi subdivision. Not just poultry birds, but also the sample of a dead crow has tested positive.The development comes a day after the Bhopal lab confirmed flu in a migratory bird found dead at the Siswan reserve in the district.The authorities are now gearing up for culling 53,000 poultry birds at the two farms in Behra village: Alpha and Royal.“We have received the confirmation letter from the Bhopal lab. We have constituted 25 teams to begin culling,” said VK Janjua, additional chief secretary, animal husbandry and dairy department, Punjab. The notification in this regard is awaited from the Centre, he said, adding that according to the head count done by the department, 53,000 birds are to be culled. The operations are expected to begin on Thursday.According to the procedure, the department will be sending the number of birds to the Centre, and the compensation will be paid to the poultry farm owners by both the central and state governments in 50:50 ratio.Confirmation comes after 5 daysThe Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, had confirmed bird flu in the samples from the two farms on January 15, but the final report was awaited from Bhopal.“As per the protocol, all poultry birds within the radius of 1 kilometre of the infected farms are to be culled. However, there is no other farm within the given radius,” said Janjua. The staff culling the birds will be placed in 14-day quarantine and will be given Tamiflu tablets to ensure their safety. The digging of pits has started to bury the birds after culling. The two farms in question are layer farms, which means birds are reared only for laying eggs and not for their meat. Dera Bassi has around 30 poultry farms, of which 20 are layer farms and 10 are broiler farms, said an owner.Meanwhile, on the bird flu case at Siswan, Janjua said: “There is no farm within 1 kilometre of the spot, but we have asked the wildlife department to be on alert. Samples are being collected of birds being reared by the locals as well.” P’kula admn still awaiting reportsIn the neighbouring Panchkula district, which was the first to confirm bird flu at two farms in Barwala on January 8, the administration is still awaiting reports of other samples sent to the Bhopal lab.As many as 81,000 birds were culled at the two farms besides another one in the infected zone.Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said samples have been were sent from around 40 poultry farms, where mortality was high, but reports are still awaited. Some samples have also been sent to a laboratory in Hisar.In Chandigarh, 16 dead crows and an eagle were found in different areas on Wednesday, taking the total to 140 since a migratory bird’s carcass was found floating in Sukhna Lake a couple of weeks back. Debendra Dalai, chief conservator of forest, said that reports of all samples sent for testing till now have been negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/53000-poultry-birds-to-be-culled-after-avian-flu-confirmed-at-two-farms-in-mohali-101611162019545.html
20-01-2021||Pune||60 more gardens to open in Pune from January 25||Pune: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will reopen 60 more public gardens from January 25, almost three months after it opened the gates of 81 gardens across the city. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar issued the order on Wednesday. The timings for gardens to be operational have also been increased. Gardens will be kept open from 6am-10am and 4pm to 8pm, according to the order issued by Kumar. However, group activities like yoga sessions, laughter clubs, photo shoots, community or cultural events still remain prohibited at garden premises. In his order, Kumar stated that gym equipment in the gardens will not be permitted to be used. “The entry for children’s below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years is still prohibited,” the order stated. Earlier, PMC had permitted to open 81 gardens in the city from November 1, 2020. However, there was growing demand from various citizens to open more gardens in the city. The closure of gardens had led to crowding on hills such as Taljai at Sahakarnagar and Vetal tekdi at Kothrud in the city. Many residents had voiced their demand citing that all other sectors, including schools and restaurants, had reopened in Pune. The Pune civic body’s elected representatives had also raised the issue, backing the demand from citizens. Aditya Malave, corporator from Shivajinagar area, had written to PMC commissioner to reopen all the gardens in the city. “I am happy that PMC administration has taken the decision to reopen more gardens. It will reduce the burden on existing gardens which have reopened. Timings have also been increased. Citizens will have more options now,” Malave said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/60-more-gardens-to-open-in-pune-from-january-25-101611161418524.html
20-01-2021||Pune||Pune Natyasattak cut short due to Covid-19||Pune: Pune Natyasattak, an innovative and exclusive event of theatre organised in the city, will begin from January 23 and conclude on midnight of January 26 this year. Though the event is popular for its night-long marathon of live plays and performances, the festival organiser Wide Wings Media has decided to shorten the duration of the event this year because of the Covid-19 situation.“The festival kick-starts at “The Box” theatre on January 23 with Aaj Kal’s storytelling show “Storiyaan” at 4 pm. It will be followed with the Scoe Art Circle’s Natyavachan Shortcut/Longcut. It will be followed by International Association for Performing Arts and Research’s (IAPAR) solo act play “’Fall Again/ Fly Better” and Chakkri Pune Presents “Athavanitil Natyavachan” at 8:30 pm. Natyasattak Rajani overnight performances will be showcased from 7:30 pm on January 25 till 1:30 am on January 26,” said Kushal Khot, organiser of the event.Pune Natyasattak Rajani will start with senior artist Chandrakant Kale’s “Aparichit Pula”. It is starring actors like Girish Kulkarni, Satish Alekar and Chandrakant Kale. The theatrical night will be continuing with Firodiya Karandak winning play “Itihas Gavah Hai?”.Pune Natyasattak 2021 schedule January 23, 4.30PM to 5.30PM - “Storiyaan” (Story Telling)January 23, 5.45PM to 6.15PM - “Shortcut/Longcut” (Natyavachan)January 23, 6.30PM to 7.30PM - “Fall Again/Fly Better” (Solo Act Play)January 23, 8.30PM to 9.30PM - “Athavanitil Patra” (Abhivachan)Pune Natyasattak Rajani 2021January 25, 7.30PM to 9.00PM - “Aparichit Pula” (Abhivachan)January 25, 9.30PM to 10.30PM - “Itihas Gavah Hai?” (One Act Play)January 25, 10.45PM to 11.45PM - “Bhumika” (One Act Play)January 25, 12.00PM to 1.30AM - “Rakas” (One Act Play)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-natyasattak-cut-short-due-to-covid19-101611157218130.html
20-01-2021||Pune||Early Punekars hunt & fish… and settle down!||Dr DD Kosambi was no ordinary man who saw the connections of living communities and long-forgotten cultures in his backyard of his home in Pune. As a polymath well versed in fields of Mathematics, Sciences, Numismatics, and Religion and so on, he is credited with extensive explorations in the vicinity of Pune. As he studied the spaces occupied by humble folk deities in and around Pune, he observed the material aspects of religious worships, their migrations and associated communities.Kosambi is known for his unique Marxist approach to study of Indian history through critical analysis, changing means of production of various societies. It was no wonder that he took great interest when he stumbled upon the stone tools of prehistoric humans of Pune during his explorations. The ubiquitous stone tools and carved remains found in the vicinity of the primitive cult sites convinced him of the vibrant cultural association of certain communities with these prehistoric places. Environment of Pune started to change around 10,000 to 4,000 years ago due to strong monsoon, leading to more water flows in the rivers, more black soil deposition and fertile landscapes. The vegetation around the river banks and valleys flourished, birds and animals bred providing better game, in turn to form the conducive atmosphere for man to not just survive, but also to thrive. This period hence saw significant rise in human and animal populations. This Mesolithic period is generous in terms of availability of food, water and shelter. The tool technology changed from bigger awkward tools to smaller micro stone tools. In absence of metal objects, it was pertinent to use stones to get sharper, effective edges. The smaller parts were scraped from strong material such as flint, quartz, chalcedony, etc. These tools were sharper and are set in wood, horn or bone with gum adhesive to make a blade for cutting or piercing tool. Sickles, harpoons, javelins, arrows, knives, needles and many such tools were made with this technology. It is however not easy to date these tools accurately unless found in stratified context. But, as we see the environment of Pune in context of changing Deccan environment, it provides us with broad trends.The prehistoric man is, thus, cutting the grain stalks, hunting fish, scraping the animal hide to make leather, stitching the leather, etc. The stone tools indirectly indicate the activities of cattle rearing undertaken on hills tracks of Pune and fishing done on banks of rivers. Microlithic tools are reported from both east and west of Pune city, for example, Yavat, Bhosari, Loni, Dapodi, Jejuri, Saswad, Theur, Lohagad, Malavali, etc. In Pune city, Kosambi reports such microlithic tools from Vetal hill, Law college hill, Pashan hill, near National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Vaiduwadi in Pune. The continuous stretch of microliths extends towards east to great distance along hill ranges and river valleys. He has tried classifying these two locations in “high-land” and “low-land” cultures based on the crudeness and finesse of the tools found. However, these two varieties of tools may not necessarily represent two different kinds of groups. As one goes further down the river valleys, the average technique improves; many of the specimens are works of art, some as delicate as fine surgical tools. Excavation and erosion show enough of the underlying soil to prove that there are no occupation layers, nor other artefacts such as pottery. A track normally runs along the bottom of the hill at the margin of the river valley. These concentrations of microliths may indicate the seasonal fishing camps along the river pools. One such camp was seen near Poona Mental hospital. Fishing would certainly provide supplement to the primitive diet, but human groups would have to look at main food source in hills of Pune near streams. Such areas around Vetal hill, Prabhat studio and NCL yield sizable microliths indicating human occupation. It would be temporary or seasonal as we do not find significant deposits of settlements representing more permanent occupation. These moving communities are the proverbial ancestors of nomadic Dhangars we see today, moving along the same tracks. Agriculture is not in picture yet, but one sees a prominent shift towards cattle rearing, harvesting the wild grasses, fishing and hunting. As we move further down the Pune’s timeline, we see human cultures in Deccan finally settling down owing to the best environmental conditions. This period is part of proto-historic period of India. Proto history is sandwiched between pre-history and history where some cultures have developed literacy, but is not known to other cultures. This advent of literacy provides a whole new meaning to existence of humans as a civilised society. Between the evolution of script and first historians writing, proto-historic period marks the further development from Stone Age. In northern India, proto-historic period marked by development of first civilisation, the Harappan civilisation. Through presence of the internationally used Harappan script which is yet convincingly deciphered, we get an idea about zenith of urban development they had achieved. This is also the time when Copper is discovered and harnessed by human cultures, thus, leading to combined use of Copper and stone underlining the Chalcolithic culture (2450 BCE – 900 BCE). Contemporary to and slightly later than Harappan culture, numerous Chalcolithic sites in Deccan practised irrigated agriculture through improved tool technologies. In Pune district alone, archaeologists have extensively studied Chalcolithic sites at Inamgaon, Walki, Chandoli, Theur, Koregaon Bhima, Songaon, through excavations. Padmashri Dr M K Dhavalikar is internationally applauded for his landmark study into the social aspects and early farming cultures of Deccan at the site of Inamgaon in Pune district.However, till recently, Pune city had not reported any significant Chalcolithic remains in or around the city which did raise important questions about continuity of human habitation in Pune. But, to our collective delight, archaeologists Varada Kahaladkar and Manjiri Bhalerao during their yet unpublished survey have documented 3,000-year-old chalcolithic pottery from Sangvi in western Pune. This surely is exciting news and we hope that their work would unravel many more secrets pertaining to Pune’s settlements and chalcolithic culture.Thus, so far from large tools wielding Paleolithic humans wandering around banks of rivers, we come to proto-historic man gaining firm footing on the grounds of Pune, gently spreading the wings to settle down permanently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/early-punekars-hunt-fish-and-settle-down-101611153560444.html
20-01-2021||Pune||If your social media account has been compromised, follow these 5 steps||If you get a suspicious email/text from a social media platform that you use, stating that a certain activity has happened, or if you receive an OTP for some change that you have not initiated, it might mean that your account has been compromised.STEP 1Check with the people who have access to your social media/email account if they have initiated some change or activity. Check in person, or via a phone call. Avoid using the social media/email account until you have established what has happenedSTEP 2Check if you have received and/or clicked on a suspicious link that you may have received on your social media account recently. This information will help police in the investigation.STEP 3Immediately contact the cyber cell of the Pune police (or your city police) and report the activity and email. Do not attempt to initiate or continue contact with person(s) and/or company/website who you may suspect to have caused the hack. Do not do so without police consent and guidanceSTEP 4Change all passwords, T-pins, ATM pins, bank details, numerical codes you may have saved or used via your social media/email account. If any personal details are stored in the accounts be sure to remove them and inform key business/personal associates that your account may have been compromised.STEP 5Keep the police informed if there is any more suspicious activity on your account that has been hacked or any linked accounts.Contact: Cyber cell phone number: 02029710097“The security checks and updated security measures that these social media platforms provide should be made use of, as many times as possible. These accounts, if hacked, should be suspended immediately by reporting them to the police - just like with stolen/lost ATMs. Because you never know what these accounts may get used for - anti-national activities, blackmail, identity theft, and multiple other illegal activities,” says Bhagyashree Navtake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber crime cell and economic offences wing (EOW)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/if-your-social-media-account-has-been-compromised-follow-these-5-steps-101611153444168.html
20-01-2021||Pune||MTDC to reopen resort on Sinhagad fort, Pune in a month||The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) is planning to reopen its resort on Sinhagad fort in a month. This resort near Tanaji Kada on the fort premises is 20-years old and has remained closed for the last several years. The renovation work of this resort has been completed by the MTDC and it will be ready to host guests in a month, an MTDC official has informed. “There are two dormitories with a capacity of eight beds in each one. There are three rooms and a kitchen in this resort. There is also a snack centre in the premises. The main part of the renovation is completed and now finishing work is going on. The resort could be opened in a month,” said Deepak Harne regional manager, MTDC Pune. Tourists will be able book the resort online on the MTDC website once the resort is functional. The charges are not yet decided. Once the facility is open, details will be available on the website, officials said. In addition to the Sinhagad MTDC, a resort will also be opened in Akkalkot as well. The MTDC has rolled out an elaborate plan to attract tourists and to make their stay enjoyable. “We are going to tie up with various cultural and adventure groups who can perform at the resort centres. We are planning to give special discounts to people who visit destinations for pre wedding shoots, corporate meetings and work from nature. All the precautions related to Covid-19 will be taken,” said Deepak Harne. Sinhagad is a hill fortress located at around 35 kilometres from Pune. It is one of the most famous tourist destinations and also a popular adventure spot amongst trekkers. Sinhagad was originally known as Kondhana and it has been the site of many battles. It was a strategic location in a chain of important forts for the Maratha Empire such as Rajgad, Purandar and Torna. “Trekkers who want to go to Rajgad and Torna will be able to stay at the Sinhagad resort. As there was no place to live on the fort hill, they had to climb down and live in the villages,” Deepak Harne said. The MTDC is optimistic about the good response from tourists as well as cultural groups. To facilitate the tourist movement, a cement road has been constructed to the Sinhagad fort recently. After the Pune district administration gave permission to open all historic and archaeological sites, the Sinhagad fort was opened for tourists. The MTDC resort on the fort also has an open-air amphitheatre which can be used for cultural performances and adventure sports demonstrations. The renovated resort could be used by tourists or members of performing groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mtdc-to-reopen-resort-on-sinhagad-fort-pune-in-a-month-101611153199385.html
20-01-2021||Pune||Pune metro: Maha-Metro claims reported values of CWPRS report “far from truth”||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) blamed the media and activists for exaggerating the figures mentioned in the Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS) report. Maha Metro issued the press statement on Tuesday and claimed, “The flood levels would increase very normally due to metro work, but to ensure citizens, Mahametro would present and discuss the CWPRS report with an expert committee during the forthcoming meeting under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner.” Some activists including Rajya Sabha MP Vandana Chavan, Anu Aga, Sarang Yadwadkar held a press conference and raised a concern over rising water levels due to ongoing metro work in the Mutha river. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s city unit president Ajay Shinde also demanded a stop work order to the metro in the riverbed area. As activist and political leaders raised concern over the flood level, Maha Metro issued a press statement on Tuesday. Maha Metro said, “The construction work of metro piers along the left bank of the Mutha river is being executed under the supervision of an expert committee appointed by NGT (National Green Tribunal). The matter is sub judice with the NGT. “ Maha Metro said, “The CWPRS report will be presented and discussed with the expert committee during the forthcoming meeting. However, Maha Metro is of the view that the reported values are far from the truth. The CWPRS report compares well with the report submitted to the NGT by Maha Metro.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-maha-metro-claims-reported-values-of-cwprs-report-far-from-truth-101611152958582.html
20-01-2021||Pune||Maha Metro hints at not sharing rent revenue with Pune civic body||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha Metro) has indirectly denied to share income from property development with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).Recently, the PMC’s estate department wrote a letter to the Maha Metro and said, “PMC handed over a lot of prominent land to the Maha Metro, which is being developed and rented out. The rent income should be shared with PMC or instead of asking for a PMC share in metro development, Maha Metro should minimise it.” The Maha Metro replied to the PMC and said, “Maha Metro is a joint project of the Central, state and local body. All over the world, metro projects do not only sustain on ticket revenue and it needs to add non-ticket revenue to make the transport project sustainable.” Maha Metro said, “As per the detailed project report, the total project cost of the metro is ₹11,420 crore. It is borrowing a ₹5,831 crore loan and the PMC is giving ₹951 crore for the project.” Metro said, “The state government would take decisions about the funds and share as Maha Metro would require the revenue from non-ticket sources. Renting out the property is a way to generate non-ticket resource until the metro project is in progress. Instead of discussing rent sharing and other elements, both the organisations need to work to complete the metro project earlier.” The administration on Tuesday submitted the metro’s letter to the standing committee for information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-metro-hints-at-not-sharing-rent-revenue-with-pune-civic-body-101611152718817.html
20-01-2021||Pune||Pune civic body extends contract of 177 medical staff hired during Covid peak||The standing committee for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gave an extension to 177 medical staff for the next three months on Tuesday. The medical professionals were hired when the city was at its Covid-19 peak in the month of September last year. The PMC had appointed 71 BAMS doctors, eight dentists, 62 nurses, 22 lab assistants and 14 pharmacists to offer services in PMC-run hospitals across the city.Despite the completion of their contract, the PMC decided to continue the services of all these 177 medical staff for the next few months.Vikram Kumar, PMC municipal commissioner put the proposal in front of the standing committee and requested it to continue the services of these medical staff for the next few months as a precaution.During September, when the civic body faced a shortage of medical manpower deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had instructed to appoint the medical staff on a contract basis.The PMC even tried to get staff from other places at that time and had recruited these 177 medics on a temporary contract basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-body-extends-contract-of-177-medical-staff-hired-during-covid-peak-101611152478648.html
20-01-2021||Pune||Talegaon: MIDC to build township in a 6,000 acre industrial facility||The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) is set to build a residential township as part of developing a huge industrial facility spanned over 6,000 acres for hardware production in Talegaon Phase IV. In this project, a 60:40 ratio will be applied to build support facilities for the residence, informed MIDC officials. A total of 2,000 acres will be reserved for residential township and the rest 4,000 acres will be used to develop industrial facilities.This facility, along the backwaters of Andra dam in Maval near Pune, is named Talegaon Electronic and Engineering City (TEEC). It is termed as the first electronic park in the state by MIDC officials. The industrial facility is intended for hardware production industries with zero pollution. The most outstanding feature of this project is that MIDC has differed from its usual 80:20 ratio space for the industrial and residential areas.“Usually in an industrial facility, 80 percent space is given to the industry and 20 percent is kept for supporting facilities including residence and other recreational facilities. In this project, we are going to give 40 percent space for support facilities. So, in this project residential area and support facilities will be on almost 2,000 acres. This step has been taken to reduce the additional burden on Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities. The residential area will also have world-class facilities,” said Avinash Hadgal, regional officer of MIDC. This facility is to be constructed in Ambale, Nigade, Pavlewadi and Kalhat in Maval Taluka. According to an MIDC official, the process of land acquisition has almost been completed. TEEC is going to have convenient access from Pune and from Mumbai as well. It will have a water supply from Andra dam and will be developed into a self-sufficient township. “It will have a world-class support system of schools, grounds, theatres, and an international university. Our goal is that maximum people working in the industries in this phase should live here. Residential priority will be given to what we call suitable personalities. The workers, executives in this industry will be given priority,” said Avinash Hadgal. The e-tender has been floated under the international competitive bidding process for the consultancy companies to prepare a detailed master plan and preliminary design report for roads and services for TEEC. The last date to submit the online tender is January 20, 2021. The consultancies must have minimum experience in planning such projects to apply for this tender. From the industries in TEES, 2,00,000 jobs are expected to be created in the course of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/talegaon-midc-to-build-township-in-a-6-000-acre-industrial-facility-101611152238287.html
20-01-2021||Pune||Pune’s Mhalunge-Maan town planning scheme gathers dust two years after groundbreaking||The former BJP Devendra Fadnavis led Maharashtra government announced to develop Mhalunge-Maan as a high-tech city in the vicinity of Hinjewadi IT park under Pune’s first town planning scheme in five decades, however more than two years later the work has only remained on cards. The announcement offered hope for planned development of many other areas. The Pune metropolitan region development authority’s (PMRDA), which is to develop the city said it plans to replicate similar town planning schemes at 40 other places. More than two years later, the work on Pune’s first high-tech city is only on cards except the foundation stone laying, which Fadnavis carried out on November 15, 2018. PMRDA had announced that the town planning scheme is being planned on 250 hectares by spending ₹640 crore and will be complete in the next three years. It was also said that the scheme would attract ₹21,300 crore investments. However, the delay in completing the land acquisition has stalled the project. PMRDA chief executive officer and metropolitan commissioner Suhas Divase said, “The land acquisition work for the town planning scheme is in progress. During Covid-19 pandemic, the work slowed down but now we would ensure that it would be sped up. Even the other planned townships are in the pipeline.” As per the plan, PMRDA was to borrow ₹600 crore loan from Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited (HUDCO) to develop basic infrastructure like roads and other facilities, before allowing private plot owners to develop their plots. The scheme will be implemented on 700 acres divided into nine sectors with plans for roads, water, drainage, school and garden. Divase said, “The land acquisition work is being carried out by another department and we are hoping that it will get completed early.” Former chief minister Fadnavis took interest in the scheme and ring road project to make Pune city as a growth engine for Maharashtra. Fadnavis had promised that Mhalunge Maan would be a world class city but almost after two-years since the ground breaking ceremony no progress is seen on the project.In this scheme, PMRDA will get 70 acres for free while the approach road to Hinjewadi IT park is getting constructed without carrying out any land acquisition. Planning schemesA total of 46 town planning schemes were planned around the proposed 128 kilometre Ring Road project but all schemes are lying idle. On the lines of Ahmedabad city, the PMRDA planned to develop 46 town planning schemes around the Ring road. The town planning schemes and the Ring road will be developed simultaneously and are part of the same project. The schemes are part of the Ring road project and it will help authorities acquire land for the project at minimal cost.Proposal by PMCAfter PMRDA, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also proposed to build three town planning schemes at Fursungi and Uruli Devachi but they are gathering dust too and no progress has been made on the town planning schemes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-mhalunge-maan-town-planning-scheme-gathers-dust-two-years-after-groundbreaking-101611152179028.html
20-01-2021||Other||Taste of life: When the purity of ghee gets a mention as newspaper advertisement in Pune||On the morning of December 17, 1929, Radhaprasad Tiwari Halwai’s wife woke up as usual and entered her kitchen. The moment she stepped inside the room, she slipped and fell on the floor. The entire floor was covered in a thick layer of ghee (clarified butter). A report in the Marathi daily “Jnanaprakash” published on page 6 on December 24 states that the confectioner had stored ghee, which he had purchased from Sangli, in several vats. His son was getting married in a few days. He was also looking to make a profit by selling confections as the wedding season in Pune was in full swing. While the family was sleeping, robbers had entered the house and tried to steal the vats. But since the vats were heavy, they threw some ghee away in the kitchen where the vats were stored and took away all the half-empty vats.Tiwari had his shop in front of Dagdusheth Halwai temple. Even though my attempts to locate the shop and the family have been futile, the story of thieves stealing ghee deserves a narration because of what happened after some people (who would remain anonymous because we do not know who they were!) got to know of the theft. They accused Tiwari of adulterating ghee (which was already stolen!) with animal fat. A scandal erupted in the city.Although the most important milk product in India was ghee, it was difficult to obtain pure ghee in markets in Pune, and most of India till the 1950s. The production of milk and its by-products was minimal and not entirely industrialised. Villagers from Maval and Sangli districts would come with butter and ghee to sell in Pune. These products were mostly purchased by confectioners or the rich for weddings and other ceremonies. There were agents in Sangli and Kolhapur who would send butter and ghee to Pune. A couple of letters written by Lokmanya Tilak in 1892 and 1894 are archived at Nehru Memorial Library in New Delhi. In those letters, he requests his friends in Sangli to send some “good quality ghee” in four tins of 5 lbs each.Ghee was a priced commodity, affordable to few. Till the Second World War ended, ghee was rarely purchased for domestic purposes. It was almost always a by-product, along with curd, butter and buttermilk, of the milk purchased for household usage. After the independent semi-feudal economy changed to a subservient colonial economy, affordability was often linked to conventional religious notions of what was “pure” and what was “impure”. Ghee was used in religious rituals and offerings, hence it had to be “pure”. Which meant that the housewife was supposed to be resourceful and had to manage to make enough ghee from whatever little quantity of milk was made available to her. She was judged by the texture, smell and consistency of the ghee she made.Keeping this in mind, Justice Mahadeo Govind Ranade was trying to build a sustainable dairy industry in Bombay Presidency. The first step was to bring a mechanical cream separator to Pune, which would make the manufacturing of buttermilk, khoa, butter and ghee easier.The Industrial Association of Western India, established by Ranade, MB Namjoshi and Vasukaka Joshi in 1891, had actively pursued this cause. Dr Ozanne, commissioner of Settlements and Agriculture in Bombay, employed a European expert in June 1891 who manufactured two cream separators in Bombay. Ranade and Namjoshi invited Dr Ozanne to Pune where the first ever demonstration of the “made in India” cream separator was held. Ranade, in his address on the occasion of the first Industrial Conference held in August 1891, under the auspices of the Industrial Association, praised the efforts of Dr Ozanne and while accepting that lack of demand was a problem, hoped that Pune would become a hub of dairy industry in the near future. He also made an appeal to form a co-operative society so that a milk processing unit could be established in Pune which would cater to the needs of the British and the Indians in and around Pune and Bombay.The British were not much fond of ghee. They found the smell and texture repulsive. They longed for good butter. Although large quantities of butter were made in Bombay, mostly from cream imported by rail from Ahmedabad and Surat districts, this was distributed over India for European use, or else exported to East Africa, Burma and the Strait settlements. Dairies were also established in many cantonments, including Pune, to fulfil the demand for butter.India also imported a fair amount of butter from Denmark, the United Kingdom and France, in the order named. A large proportion of butter thus imported came in tins. There was some demand for butter after 1910 among wealthy Indians not for consumption as such, but to be used for the manufacture of ghee.A delegation led by the Consul of the United States in Bombay, Mr Henry D Baker, visited Pune in 1914 to check whether cream separators manufactured in the US could find a market in Pune. His report shows that although he was hopeful of setting up dairies in Bombay, he was apprehensive about its utility in Pune because of lack of demand.The Government Dairy at Khadkee, established in 1905, supplied milk to the Sassoon Hospital, to infants and invalids, and to a limited number of private consumers, when circumstances permitted. But the dairy’s daily yield of 550 to 700 pounds of milk was too small to be worked economically. When milk was scarce it often happened that the hospital required all of it. The surplus milk, whenever available, had to be converted into butter and eventually disposed of as ghee at a considerable loss, since it was impossible to produce milk in Pune, where the cost of fodder was high and grazing non-existent, in competition with villages outside Pune or in Sangli, by whom the milk for manufacturing ghee was produced under totally different conditions.The agricultural advisers of the Government therefore recommended that the average daily yield of milk should be raised to 1,000 pounds in order to avoid much of the loss occasioned by the disposal of surplus milk in the form of ghee and efforts should be made to sell it in the markets in Pune. The dairy was made an integral part of the Poona Agricultural College. The buildings of the dairy were enlarged and a thoroughly up-to-date dairy and refrigerating plant was installed. In the budget for 1914-15, the Government of the Bombay Presidency appropriated about $32,000 for the improvements and extensions mentioned, and a special unit for manufacture of ghee was built.In 1915, a couple of shops selling milk products started in Pune. One of them was started by Shivalingappa Gatade and was situated near Babu Genu chowk. This was the first shop to sell hung curd in Pune. Long queues were often seen outside his shop. But it took him twenty more years to start selling ghee. By then, there were a few more shops which had started selling milk products, especially ghee.Gandhian philosophy had gained popularity by then. The diet endorsed by Gandhiji comprised ghee. But it had to be made from cow’s milk. So these shops started stocking ghee made from cow’s milk too.But most of the butter to make ghee still came from outside Pune. And the ghee stocked in these shops was often looked with suspicion.So, when Tiwari was accused of adulterating ghee he had purchased from Sangli, he lodged a complaint with the Poona Municipality. A case was registered under the Bombay Prevention of Adulteration Act, 1925. Samples were sent to Bombay for testing and a month later he got a clean chit. He put an advertisement in “Jnanaprakash” to declare this.Fifteen years later, Dalda, the manufacturer of hydrogenated vegetable oil in India, had to get involved in a similar fight. But that’s another story for another time.Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-when-the-purity-of-ghee-gets-a-mention-as-newspaper-advertisement-in-pune-101611142324901.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Over 1,200 bird deaths reported in Delhi since Jan 6, say officials||Over 1,200 bird deaths have been reported in Delhi in the last 15 days amid the avian influenza situation here, officials said on Wednesday.Of the 201 samples collected from various places in the national capital, 24 have tested positive for bird flu so far, the director of the animal husbandry unit of the Delhi government's Development Department, Dr Rakesh Singh, told PTI."A total of 1,216 bird deaths have been reported in Delhi since January 6. However, all the deaths cannot be attributed to bird flu. Cold stress is another major reason," he said.On Tuesday, authorities restricted the entry of public into the Red Fort till Friday after a sample of a dead crow tested positive for bird flu.Around 15 crows were found dead in the premises of the Red Fort on January 10."Four cranes were found dead in the Delhi zoo a few days ago. Twelve samples were collected on Monday and sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research for testing," Singh said.Authorities have not received the test results yet from the Bhopal-based lab.On Saturday, samples from a dead owl in the Delhi zoo had tested positive for avian influenza.Last week, municipal corporations in the city had imposed a temporary ban on sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat after samples taken from crows and ducks at parks and lakes in the national capital tested positive for bird flu.Around 400 ducks were culled at Sanjay Lake on January 11.The Delhi government had also banned the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city and ordered the closure of the Ghazipur poultry market in east Delhi for 10 days.However, the ban was lifted on Thursday after all the 100 samples taken from Ghazipur, Asia's largest poultry market, tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-1-200-bird-deaths-reported-in-delhi-since-jan-6-say-officials-101611140814932.html
20-01-2021||Other||Drug smuggling module busted with arrest of 3 from Kashmir in Punjab’s Kapurthala||An international narcotic smuggling module was busted in Kapurthala on Wednesday with the arrest of three residents of Kashmir after 3.5 kg of heroin was recovered from a truck. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police Kanwardeep Kaur told reporters that the police team intercepted the truck at a checkpoint in the district and recovered the contraband. The three accused have been identified as Salman Sheikh and Shahbaz Shah, both from Baramulla, and Peer Mohammad Makbool from Kupwara. The SSP said preliminary investigation suggests the module was being run by a Dubai-based entity for smuggling narcotics. The accused procured the contraband from Jammu and Kashmir-based smugglers, who in turn got it from across the border. “Investigation is on to trace the backward and forward linkages,” she added. A case was registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-smuggling-module-busted-with-arrest-of-3-from-kashmir-in-punjab-s-kapurthala-101611139925493.html
20-01-2021||Other||3 Delhi residents face charges for taking over school fraudulently on agriculture university campus in Solan||The state anti-corruption and vigilance bureau filed a chargesheet before the Solan chief judicial magistrate against three persons who conspired to fraudulently take over the school of the Delhi Chinmaya Sewa Trust on the campus of the Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Forestry and Agriculture, Nauni. In 2014, the bureau registered a case after a probe found that the three Delhi residents had fraudulently taken over the management of the school, which was given to the trust by the university. The three had been running boarding schools on commercial basis in collusion with university officials. Investigation found that an agreement was executed in 1992 between the university and the trust whereby the three-storeyed school building along with 10 acres on its campus was given to the trust by the university on lease for 99 years for a nominal Re 1 a year but no lease deed was actually executed and registered. The purpose of handing over the school to the trust, which was started by the university in 1984 as a primary school, was to upgrade the school to senior secondary level with better management. The then trust head entered into an agreement with the accused in 2000 as a result of which the management of the school got transferred to that person without the knowledge of the university. The main accused had surreptitiously inducted his own relatives and acquaintances in the society meant to run the school and gradually turned the school into a commercial enterprise by constructing hostel accommodation, whereas the actual purpose of the school was to educate children of the university staff and thus used the assets of the university for his private gain. The university filed a petition before the court against the trust that it had sold the school to a third party without the knowledge and consent of the university in violation of the agreement. Incidentally, the trust had also gone to the court to take the school back from the third party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-delhi-residents-face-charges-for-taking-over-school-fraudulently-on-agriculture-university-campus-in-solan-101611137946302.html
20-01-2021||Patna||Bihar power plant mulls temporary closure after staff held hostage by villagers||The NTPC was mulling temporary closure of its Barauni Thermal Power Station (BTPS), located in Bihar’s Begusarai district, after villagers laid siege to the power plant, demanding compensation for the accidental death of a contractual labourer on national highway (NH) 28, on Tuesday afternoon.Incensed villagers blocked all entry and exit points to the BTPS plant and virtually held around 750 plant officials and CISF security staff hostage. The Begusarai district administration hasn’t yet intervened to deescalate the situation.Earlier on Tuesday, the district administration had removed the blockade from NH-28 but allowed the protesting villagers to squat in front of the BTPS gate on the adjacent road, hampering the functioning of the power plant.“We may have to temporarily shut the plant if the villagers do not lift the blockade, which has continued for 22 hours now. Our personnel are fatigued, as they are continuously working since yesterday,” said NTPC spokesman Vishwanath Chandan.“Essential supplies to our campus like milk and medicines have also been blocked. Many of our personnel are over 50 years of age and need medication. They are unable to go home as protestors have blocked their exit and at the same time are also not allowing workmen of other shifts to enter our premises. The NTPC has absolutely no correlation with the road traffic accident on NH-28,” he added.Ramashish Thakur, 56, a contractual labourer with an outsourced firm, working for the NTPC, was killed after being hit by a speeding vehicle while returning home from work Tuesday afternoon. The villagers are now demanding compensation to the bereaved family.“It’s difficult to understand why the NTPC Barauni employees, deployed on essential services, have been made hostage for the last 22 hours when the contractual worker died in a road accident on NH 28,” said Chandan.Begusarai district magistrate Arvind Kumar Verma, said, “We are going to give an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh to the next of the kin of the deceased under the disaster management act. The NTPC or its contractor has to fulfil some insurance obligations. Our officers, representatives of the NTPC and the police are presently having talks with the protesting villagers. We will resolve the issue within an hour.”The NTPC, however, did not see any reason for the protesting villagers to hold their staff at ransom.“The contractor, who engaged the said worker, has to fulfil statutory compliances under the labour law, which also includes extending benefits under the Employees’ State Insurance scheme, etc. There is no question of denial of his (worker’s) legitimate dues; so there should not be any reason for protest,” added Chandan.The BTPS, which the state had transferred to the NTPC in December 2018, has an installed capacity of 360 MW presently. Bihar would be deprived of 150 MW power if the NTPC were to shut down its BTPS plant. The NTPC supplies almost 70% of the state’s average daily allocation of power from central utilities that was between 4,000 MW and 4,500 MW.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-power-plant-mulls-temporary-closure-after-staff-held-hostage-by-villagers-101611135841688.html
20-01-2021||Other||High court notice to Haryana on plea challenging capping women’s quota in panchayati raj institutions||The Punjab and Haryana high court has put the Haryana government on notice on a plea challenging amendment in the state’s panchayati raj law, which bars women from contesting on general seats. The bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli on Tuesday sought response from the state government by April 20. The law was enacted recently by the state government, providing 50% reservation to women in panchayati raj institutions (PRIs). The plea was filed by two women, Kailash Bai and Sneh Lata, who have challenged the Haryana Panchayati Raj (second amendment) Act, particularly relating to the scheme of reservation of seats in gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zila parishad. Now all wards are to be sequentially numbered odd and even for the purpose of reservation of seats. Even numbers are to be reserved for women. The Act provides that “persons other than women” can contest from odd numbered wards. The term “persons other than woman” has not been defined under the amendment and would logically include males and transgenders and exclude women. The amendment thus restricts women candidates from contesting from odd numbered wards, which are otherwise open or general wards, said lawyer Deepkaran Dalal. The amendment discriminates between eligible women and their male counterparts, which violates Articles 14 and 15 of Constitution, he said. The court was also told that Chapter 9 of the Constitution, which deals with panchayati raj institutions, provides for reservation of not less than 1/3rd seats for women and does not prescribe any upper limit on the number of women candidates who may contest elections from open or general category seats but the amendment restricts women candidates from contesting only on 50% of the seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-notice-to-haryana-on-plea-challenging-capping-women-s-quota-in-panchayati-raj-institutions-101611135364867.html
20-01-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow's first jaggery festival likely next month||Famous for its culture, tradition, monuments and delicious food, Lucknow will be holding a jaggery festival or the 'Gur Mahotsav' for the very first time in the month of February. While the exact dates of the event are still not finalised, but, it is expected that the festival could take place on February 13 and 14, said a government press statement."The jaggery festival was scheduled to take place last year but it could not be held due to the pandemic. It will be taking place this year now. The date for the event, however, is still not finalised. The sugar industry and sugarcane development department has started gearing up for this big event," said additional chief secretary, sugarcane development department, Sanjay Bhoosreddy in the statement.Last week, Bhoosreddy held a meeting, where the format and purpose of the Gur Mahotsav was discussed in detail. "The government is sparing no efforts for the publicity of the event so that more and more people can join the festival and become aware of the quality and range of jaggery," read the statement.The festival will be showcasing the branding of jaggery and its related products. Progressive sugarcane farmers from every corner of the state will be invited and it is expected that many specialist producers of the agriculture and food processing sector will also visit the festival and share their knowledge."It will have stalls of jaggery chocolates, sweets, candies, and kheer. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Sugarcane Research Institute have jointly prepared chocolates and other products from jaggery in different flavours," said the statement.According to experts, this natural sweetening food has enormous health benefits. Along with its medicinal properties, 'Gur' is a rich source of energy, and many nutrients including iron, calcium and phosphorus. Vitamin A and B are also found in sufficient amounts in Gur. Malnutrition can also be eliminated by fortifying jaggery with vitamins according to the need, the statement said.Jaggery is the ODOP (one district, one product) product of Muzaffarnagar and Ayodhya and the Gur Mahotsav has already been organised in Muzaffarnagar. Muzaffarnagar has over a hundred jaggery processed products and these products will be displayed in the 'Gur Mahotsav'. Farmers who will visit the event will be made aware of them. Also, interested farmers will be given training in this regard later, said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknows-first-jaggery-festival-likely-next-month-101611134374562.html
20-01-2021||Patna||Without chairperson and members, Bihar women’s commission is failing victims||Without a chairperson and members since November 2020, the Bihar state women commission is failing in its mandate to watch over women’s rights as it is forced to turn away scores of female victims that knock on its doors on a daily basis, according to a staff of the commission.The former team running the office of the state women commission, including its chairperson, completed its full three- year term on October 31, 2020.“In absence of the chairperson and the members, cases cannot be registered in person at the commission. In fact, the complaints have to be entered into the register only in the presence of the officials. This is why complainants are not being allowed access to the complaint register,” said Vinita Kumari, an employee at the state women commission.Staff members like Vinita Kumari have to face the wrath of dozens of complainants, several of whom turn up at the commission’s Patna office from other districts, with hopes of justice, only to be told that their complaints cannot be registered with the rights body.“When refused to be allowed to make an entry, many often lose the patience and temper,” Vinita Kumari said.The current situation only complicates the existing challenges for the commission that is already grappling with cases pending for the last several months due to the restrictions imposed during the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.“Though the cases sent through the posts were being received, the hearing of cases could not be possible due to the norms of social distancing. The complainants and other parties involved were not given the dates to appear in person at the family court held at the women commission’s office. For months, there has been no hearing,” Vinita said.Since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, over 3000 complaints have been received by the commission and only 1,618 of these could be disposed of. Even in 2019, only 2,695 cases were sorted out from amongst the 3,344 complaints received.“It’s mainly the victims who are at the receiving end. They turn up with high hopes and here they are not allowed even to make an entry of their grievances since we are not authorised to receive it,” Vinita added.The social welfare minister, Ashok Chaudhary, could not be contacted for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/without-chairperson-and-members-bihar-women-s-commission-is-failing-victims-101611129525168.html
20-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to get 92k Covid doses this week to cover entire healthcare force||The Uttarakhand state health department will be getting 92,500 more doses of Covishield vaccine from Centre this week for continuation of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 that started on January 16, said Dr Kuldeep Martoliya, nodal officer for state’s extended programme for immunization.“We will be getting another 92,500 doses of Covishield vaccine in another two to three days as the Central government gave its approval for the same on Tuesday. These doses will be sufficient for 46,000 health workers, covering the total health care workers of the state,” said Dr. Martoliya.On Tuesday, Uttarakhand reported 58.2% vaccination by the end of the day. So far 6,119 health workers have been vaccinated in the state. A total of 1,882 health workers were vaccinated on Tuesday in 34 sessions across the state.Since Saturday, the vaccination percentage has been on a decline in the state. On the first day, over 72% health workers were vaccinated.Speaking on the reason for the low turnout, Martoliya said, “There are two main reasons, one is that many health workers from different districts have been sent to the Maha Kumbh fair, but they were registered (for vaccination) in the districts of their original posting. We have requested the Central government to allow us to edit their registrations so that they can be vaccinated in Haridwar.”He further said that the reduction is also because ASHA and ANM workers, associated with the vaccination drive, are not able to reach the vaccination sites due to the distance involved. The health department is looking into the matter to help these vaccinators reach the vaccination sites.Doctors and officials at vaccination booths in Dehradun have started counselling registered candidates to encourage them to get inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-get-92k-covid-doses-this-week-to-cover-entire-healthcare-force-101611126961232.html
20-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat dies after prolonged illness||Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar in Udaipur district, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, died after a prolonged illness on Wednesday. He was 48.Shaktawat, a two-time MLA was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi about a month ago for treatment of a liver problem.He is the son of former home minister and Congress stalwart Gulab Singh Shaktawat.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot expressed grief over the demise of Shaktawat.“My deep condolences on the untimely demise of Congress MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat. He was ill for a long time. I was in touch with his family and Dr Shiv Sareen about his health,” Gehlot tweeted.Pilot tweeted, “I am deeply saddened by the devastating news of the passing away of my colleague and MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat. He was a humble and a kind soul, always dedicated to the development of his constituency. My heartfelt condolences to his family.”Shaktawat was among the Congress MLAs, led by Sachin Pilot, who had revolted against the leadership of Gehlot in July 2020.He was the third Congress and the fourth sitting MLA of the Rajasthan Assembly to have died in the past few months.Also Read: Rajasthan, Bihar seek on-spot registration to bypass Co-WIN glitches, reluctanceEarlier, Congress MLAs Master Bhanwar lal Meghwal (Sujangarh in Churu), Kailash Trivedi (Saharda in Bhilwara) and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari (Rajsamand) had died.Meghwal, who was then the social justice and empowerment minister, had a brain haemorrhage; while Kailash Trivedi and Kiran Maheshwari died due to Corona infection in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-congress-mla-gajendra-singh-shaktawat-dies-after-prolonged-illness-101611122633335.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers' tractor rally: Group of farm union leaders to meet police officials||A group of farm union leaders will meet top officials of Delhi, Haryana and UP police on Wednesday to discuss the route and arrangements for their scheduled tractor rally on January 26 to protests against the three farm laws, a farmer union leader said.Farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for the last 56 days on the borders of the national capital.Leaders of all 40 farm unions which are taking part in the protest will meet three cabinet ministers of the government for the 10th round of talks this afternoon in an effort to end the impasse."A group of farm union leaders including Balbir Singh Rajewal and others will meet top officials of Delhi Police to discuss the route and other arrangements for their protest march on Republic Day against the three farm laws," Jamuri Kisan Union leader, Kalwant Singh Sandhu, told PTI.The Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) SS Yadav will coordinate the meeting from Delhi Police, according to sources.Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will also be present at the meeting, sources said.Farmer unions agitating against the new agri laws have said their preparations are in full gear and authorities should facilitate the "peaceful march", instead of stopping it.After the Delhi Police sought an injunction on the tractor rally, the Supreme Court on Monday said the decision on it has to be taken by the Centre and the police, and the official permission is yet to be worked out.Protesting unions, which plan to hold the rally on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on January 26, have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the parade and and said more farmers will be heading to the national capital in batches later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-tractor-rally-group-of-farm-union-leaders-to-meet-police-officials-101611121784196.html
20-01-2021||Lucknow||BJP, SP candidates step closer to unopposed election to UP legislative council||Independent candidate Mahesh Chandra Sharma’s nomination for the biennial election for 12 legislative council seats in Uttar Pradesh was rejected during the scrutiny of papers on Tuesday in Lucknow. It has bolstered the possibility of unopposed election of all the 10 BJP and the two Samajwadi Party (SP) candidates on Thursday.Soon after BJP’s 10 candidates filed their nomination papers on Monday, Sharma threw his hat in the ring, becoming the 13th candidate in the fray, creating a distinct possibility of forcing a voting on January 28.The returning officer, however, found his papers to be incomplete and rejected his nomination. “Nomination of Mahesh Chandra Sharma was rejected on the ground of several deficiencies. For example, he did not have even a single MLA as a proposer and neither did he submit the security deposit,” said special secretary, UP Assembly, Braj Bhushan Dubey.“Under the current provisions, a candidate for the legislative council needs 10 MLAs as proposers and ₹10,000 as security deposit if he belongs to the general caste category or ₹5,000 in case he belongs to SC or ST category when he files nomination papers,” Dubey added.With this, the unopposed election of all 10 BJP and two SP candidates is being seen as a foregone conclusion, provided none of the remaining candidates withdraw, which will make voting necessary.“Unopposed election of all the 12 candidates is certain after 3pm on Thursday when the time for withdrawing names is over,” people in the know of the developments said.The 10 BJP candidates are deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, state president Swatantra Dev Singh, ex-bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma, Laxman Acharya, Govind Narayan Shukla, Salil Vishnoi, Ashwini Tyagi, Surendra Chaudhary, Dharamvir Prajapati and Kunwar Manvendra Singh.SP has fielded Ahmad Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary and they are also expected to get elected unopposed on Thursday.“In the event of a voting, it could have been difficult for both the BJP and the SP to get their 10th and the second candidate elected respectively, purely on the basis of their own numerical strength in the legislative assembly,” officials pointed out.Also Read: UP Police team reaches Mumbai, will question 'Tandav' makers: ReportEach candidate needs 32 votes from MLAs to get elected to the upper House. BJP has 310 MLAs in the lower House and the SP has 49. Apana Dal, BJP’s ally, has nine MLAs while SP’ ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party has four. The Congress has seven members.“In case of polling, the BJP and the SP ran the risk of their members cross-voting, causing a big embarrassment to both,” said a leader, who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-sp-candidates-step-closer-to-unopposed-election-to-up-legislative-council-101611115357965.html
20-01-2021||Kolkata||13 dead, 18 injured in road accident due to fog in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri||Due to reduced visibility caused by fog, 13 people were killed in an accident at Dhupguri city in Jalpaiguri district in West Bengal on Tuesday night. As many as 18 people also sustained injuries in the accident."A vehicle collided head-on with a boulder loaded truck whose driver lost control of the vehicle and hit the divider and slipped towards its right side. Two other vehicles coming from the wrong side collided into the body of the truck due to which boulders loaded in the vehicle fell on them. Another small lorry in front of the truck was also damaged. In all, four vehicles got damaged," Sumant Roy, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Jalpaiguri said."Circle inspector of Dhupguri and his team reached the place of accident in less than 10 minutes and multiple cranes were brought. I believe that there was some fog on the road which reduced visibility," he addedLocals along with police officials assisted in rescuing the injured at the spot."The road is now cleared. The driver of the truck survived the accident and has been detained. Treatment of injured at the nearby hospital is being monitored," Roy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/13-dead-18-injured-in-road-accident-due-to-fog-in-west-bengal-s-jalpaiguri-101611113371954.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An evening in Babu Lal’s village||It’s freezing at the moment, around 8.30pm. “You should see the roads at midnight, when it’s totally foggy,” mutters auto rickshaw driver Babu Lal, on his way to drop a passenger in Connaught Place. He says he will stay on the road for a few more hours before going back to his rented quarter in Mahipalpur.Responding to a request, Mr Lal, who is in his 40s, agrees to share his impressions about what his family must be doing back home, in his village in Bihar.“Shrimati Sheetal Devi must be having her dinner. She is my wife. In the village, the day ends earlier than in the city—and the night comes earlier too. She starts cooking the meal by 6, with the help of Babita, her younger sister. Babita’s husband passed away two months after her wedding so my wife called her to our home. This way she gets to be with her sister, and Babita also finds a distraction from her loss. About an hour later, at 7pm, both sisters serve food to Amma, my mother. These days it’s very cold and she stays in her room—we have two rooms, our house is of bricks. After Amma is finished with her dinner, Shrimati Sheetal Devi serves food to Siddhartha and Gautam, my two sons. Siddhartha is 14 and Gautam is 10. The kids eat in the other room, where there is TV. And only then do Shrimati Sheetal Devi and Babita sit down in the kitchen for dinner. Earlier we had no kitchen in our home. The food was cooked outside, in a yard. My father was a farmer. I made a good decision to come to Delhi some 20 years ago. I earned enough to convert our kutcha house into a pucca makaan, and later we also built the kitchen. Some years ago, during my annual trip home, I bought a washing machine and now Shrimati Sheetal Devi doesn’t have to wash clothes by hands. Our whole family is asleep by 10pm. If you happened to be in my village right now, you would feel the darkness and silence so complete that you can never experience the same in Delhi.”Mr Lal last saw his family during the Dussehra. His wife and children have never visited him in Delhi. “The travel would be too expensive. Besides, I share my room with another driver,” he says, as the auto nears its destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-an-evening-in-babu-lal-s-village-101611093539382.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Bird flu: Red Fort shut till January 26 after sample of dead crow tests positive||The historic Red Fort has been shut for the public at least till January 26 (Republic Day) as carcasses of dead crows found within the premises of the monument tested positive for the H5N1 virus that causes bird flu.The Delhi government’s animal husbandry department said around 15 crows were found dead on the premises of the Red Fort last week after which their samples were sent to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar, Punjab.“The result of at least one of the samples is positive for avian influenza. We have directed the authorities to restrict public entry into the monument’s premises. This will be in place till January 26 until further orders are issued,” said a senior official of the department.Also Read: Bird flu confirmed in 5 states for poultry, culling operations underway“Deep sanitisation and cleaning of the area is now being carried out,” the official said.Following the letter from Delhi government’s animal husbandry unit, the Archeological Survey of India issued an order to keep Red Fort shut for visitors till Thursday (January 21).The report from the Red Fort comes just three days after an owl, found dead in the Delhi zoo, tested positive for bird flu on Saturday.There are no major restrictions on the sale or consumption of chicken or eggs in Delhi at the moment. Preventive measures such as shutting of the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market, ban on sale of chicken or processed chicken or eggs and import of live birds were revoked last week by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bird-flu-red-fort-shut-till-january-26-after-sample-of-dead-crow-tests-positive-101611089347162.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder case: CBI court refuses to exempt Indrani Mukerjea from wearing jail uniform sari||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Tuesday rejected an application filed by Indrani Mukerjea, seeking exemption from wearing the green saree – a uniform for women prisoners across Maharashtra.Mukerjea has been lodged at Byculla jail since her arrest in August 2015, in the Sheena Bora murder case.On December 22, 2020, Mukerjea’s lawyer Gunjan Mangla had approached the special CBI court with a plea that Mukerjea be permitted to wear regular clothes. Earlier this month, the authorities at Byculla jail submitted a reply to Mukerjea’s plea, stating that as per the rules, undertrial persons booked in a murder case fall under the category of prisoners, and have to wear the jail uniform.Mangla opposed this and argued that there is no specified rule as to what uniform should be worn. “Indrani suffers from mental health issues since her arrest. If she is asked to wear the prison uniform, it would affect her further. Besides, undertrial prisoners are allowed to wear their regular clothes,” she argued.Mangala also questioned why after almost five years, was Mukerjea being forced to wear the prison uniform.The court, however, rejected Mukerjea’s contention and refused to grant her any relief. Sheena Bora, 24, was allegedly strangled in a car by Mukerjea, her then driver Shyamvar Rai and her former husband Sanjeev Khanna, on April 2012. Her body was later burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-cbi-court-refuses-to-exempt-indrani-mukerjea-from-wearing-jail-uniform-sari-101611088737421.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Gram panchayats across Maharashtra get a shot of fresh blood as youngsters win elections||When 22-year-old Sandhya Sonawane decided to contest the gram panchayat polls from Naigaon, Ahmednagar, many ridiculed her for the decision. A law graduate, Sonawane works as the Pune region president of a leading student wing. “Many questioned my decision of going back to my village to contest the local body polls, and said that I was leaving behind my prospects in the city, but I knew what I was doing. It was a difficult fight being a woman and a scheduled caste candidate fighting from a constituency with a high non-reserved population. But I am happy I did it. I now wish to work on improving the schools and roads here,” said Sonawane, who won the elections with a lead of 123 votes.This year, a large number of young men and women contested and won the elections to local bodies recently held in more than 14,000 gram panchayats across the state. Like Sonawane, many young men and women, most of whom had no political background, contested the polls from their respective villages and emerged victorious as results were announced on Monday.Possibly the youngest among all the candidates, Ruturaj Deshmukh, a 21-year-old science graduate, won the election from Ghatne village in Mohol, Solapur. Deshmukh, whose parents are farmers, said that the urge to address local issues pushed him to contest the polls. “I want to address the electricity issues in my village. We have frequent load shedding here, and most nights, there is no light. I want to provide an alternative of solar electricity to address this issue,” he added. Having cleared his law entrance, he wishes to pursue his LLB and work for the village at the same time.Kishor More, 28, who runs a small transport business in Koparkhairane, won the election from Chikhlewadi, Kumbhargaon in Satara, with a lead of 115 votes. “I was always interested in social work. Being a member of the local body will allow me to make direct interventions to solve local issues. For years, politicians have used elections only to their advantage. I want to change that and work for people by addressing basic issues,” he added. Sanjay Bhoiwar, a 33-year-old local painting contractor from Antapur, Nanded, also won the election with a lead of 124 votes. “I come from the Matang community and have no political backing; hence this victory is important for me. I want to work for the betterment of my village,” he said.The young class of elected local officials is made up of a mix of those who live in villages and others who especially moved back to their hometowns, setting aside their education and work in cities. Akash Dounde, a postgraduate from Savitribai Phule Pune University, won the elections from his village Somthane Nalawade in Pathardi, Ahmednagar, with a lead of 120 votes. Both his parents worked as cane cutters, and for him, contesting the elections was a big challenge. “I did not have the money, nor the same resources as my opponents from big parties did. I told my voters that all I could promise them was good work if elected, and it worked. Active politics is crucial to bring about a real change and I am hoping to do just that,” he said.Vivek Ghotale, a Pune-based political analyst and researcher, said that multiple factors are responsible for the increasing participation of youngsters in local body polls. “One reason is that gram panchayats get direct funds under provisions of the 14th finance commission which makes elections more competitive. And this time, due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, a large number of youngsters had gone to their villages, which might have led to more participation. Whatever the reason, it is good to see that a young leadership is emerging to challenge the status quo,” he said.While some candidates were backed by political parties, many also took the plunge independently. Ali Malegaonkar, 29, who works as an assistant professor at a college in Pune, had put up an entire panel for the elections in his village Markhel in Nanded. “We were getting a good response as our candidates were chosen by the people themselves. We did not distribute liquor or money and only spoke about addressing issues. Ahead of the polls, however, some of them were poached by leading parties and we had to look for last-minute replacements. Despite that, many of our candidates lost only by a small margin,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gram-panchayats-across-maharashtra-get-a-shot-of-fresh-blood-as-youngsters-win-elections-101611088377371.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Inter-state vehicle racket busted by Mumbai Police: 7 arrested, 19 high-end cars seized||The Mumbai crime branch has busted an inter-state racket by arresting seven people, who allegedly purchase high-end cars after getting them financed by reputed private banks using forged documents. The crime branch has seized a total of 19 cars including two Mercedes Benz, two Audi, one Mini Cooper and some other cars, worth about ₹7 crore from Mumbai, Bengaluru, Indore and other cities. According to police, after the purchase, the accused would then mortgage the cars and borrow money from individuals under the guise of some urgent requirements like sister’s marriage etc. The accused would later stop paying bank instalments and also would not repay their private lenders.The arrested accused are identified as Dharambeer Sharma alias Waseem Nazimuddin Shaikh alias Bhaskar Gauda, 31, Mrigesh Navidhar, 42, Sainath Ganji alias Sandeep Borate alias, 26, Pradeep Maurya, 46, Dilshaad Ansari, 44, Vijay Verma, 39 and Salam Khan, 42. Maurya is suspected to be the mastermind of the racket. He earlier worked in a loan department of HDFC Bank and knew all about the functioning of the department. Few other accused have worked with car dealers. The gang was operating for the last two years, said a crime branch officer. Senior inspector Jagdish Sail of the unit 5 along with his team arrested the accused from Mumbai, Thane and Bhiwandi area.The gang made forged documents like Aadhar Card, PAN card, bank statements and income tax returns required for obtaining a loan. They would then apply for a loan in reputed private and nationalised banks. They would rent a house where few of them would stay two to three months till the loan verification was done by banks, said crime branch officer. “Once the loan verification was completed, the accused bought the cars from dealers after sanctioning of loans. Meanwhile, other members of the gang would identify people in need of cars or could give money by mortgaging cars,” said deputy commissioner Prakash Jadhav of the crime branch.They mortgaged the cars at half the price after making an agreement, claiming that they required money for sister’s marriage or such other purpose.The accused assured the lenders that they would continue to pay the bank EMI, but after paying two to three EMIs, they would simply change their mobile numbers to ensure that neither the bank nor the lenders could trace them.A case has been registered in this regard with Kurla police station on January 13. The accused have been arrested under the charges of cheating, forgery and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code in the case. “There are more accused involved in the case and further investigation is on. It appears that a bank employee could be involved in the racket for clearing car loan and submitting false verification report for a loan” said crime branch officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/interstate-vehicle-racket-busted-by-mumbai-police-7-arrested-19-high-end-cars-seized-101611087717522.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gram panchayat elections: Shiv Sena, BJP claim they won highest number of victories||Both the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday claimed they had won the highest number of gram panchayats (village council), as results to the elections to 12,711 gram panchayats that went to polls on January 15 were announced. At the time of going to print, the Sena claimed to have won 2,908 gram panchayats, while the BJP claimed to have bagged 5,781. While the Sena said the election results were a mandate for the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government, the BJP said the results showed people support their party. The three allies in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) – Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party – have won close to 80% of the seats. According to a senior Sena functionary, the Sena has bagged close to 3,000 gram panchayats. The BJP claimed to have bagged over 6,000 village panchayats to emerge as the number one, party-wise. Although village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, parties claim victory on the basis of local panels formed by the candidates affiliated to them. “The MVA has dominated the gram panchayat elections, with the Shiv Sena getting 3,000 village councils. This is the best performance of the Shiv Sena in panchayat elections. We will surely consolidate this going forward with the zilla parishad and municipal body polls,” a senior functionary said. Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye, in a press conference held in Mumbai, said, “We had said that the BJP will win over 6,000 gram panchayats, which has come true.” The Sena, in an editorial in party mouthpiece, took a dig at BJP saying that it cannot bring in “political revolution” in the state with “workers” like ED, CBI and IT department. The dig was in reference to Enforcement Directorate notice to Sena and NCP legislators. “If this is not a mandate for the state’s Thackeray government then what is,” the editorial asked. “The Sena has prevailed in Konkan region, but there were setbacks at some places,” the editorial said, referring to loss of some gram panchayats in Sena bete-noire Narayan Rane’s village in Sindhudurg district. It added that the BJP leaders faced defeat at their home ground, including Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil who lost Loni Khurd in Ahmednagar after 20 years. BJP MP Raosaheb Danve lost at Bhokardan in Jalna. At Chondi gram panchayat, former BJP minister Ram Shinde suffered a setback as NCP MLA Rohit Pawar’s panel won seven out of nine seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gram-panchayat-elections-shiv-sena-bjp-claim-they-won-highest-number-of-victories-101611087537456.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government mulls action against Arnab Goswami over leaked chats||Maharashtra has sought legal opinion on taking action against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami for allegedly leaking sensitive information related to the 2019 Pulwama attack and Balakot airstrike on Pakistan, based on transcripts of the journalist’s WhatsApp conversation released by Mumbai Police last week, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday.Goswami, however, in a statement said that “it is beyond absurd to suggest that expecting India to strike back at Pakistan, after the Pulwama attack, was a crime”.Deshmukh said the state government was taking legal opinion on the possibility of action under the 1923 Official Secrets Act, a colonial-era anti-espionage statute with punishments ranging between three and 14 years, because the WhatsApp conversation related to national security.“We have taken serious note of the 500 pages of leaked WhatsApp messages between Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) chief Partho Dasgupta. In the messages, Arnab speaks about the Balakot airstrike two days before it happened. It is a serious threat to national security if such sensitive information was leaked to the media house,” said Deshmukh, whose Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) asked the Centre to set up a joint parliamentary committee to probe the purported chats.Deshmukh also called on the Centre to initiate strict action in the matter. “On the state level, we are checking if Maharashtra Police can initiate action. I am speaking to senior police officers and have sought legal opinion if action can be initiated under section 5 of the Official Secrets Act, 1923,” said Deshmukh.The chat transcripts were part of a 3,600-page charge sheet filed by Mumbai Police in connection with alleged manipulation of TRP (Television Rating Points) and became public last week.Deshmukh’s comments came after he met a delegation led by Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant, who demanded action against Goswami. Sawant also demanded Goswami’s immediate arrest for what he described as an act of “treason”.According to the purported chat transcripts, Goswami texted Dasgupta three days before the February 26, 2019 Balakot airstrike, saying “something big will happen” and “on Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated.”Reacting to the above developments, Goswami, in a statement, said: “I am horrified that the Congress party actually thinks that any journalist in India expressing the views publicly stated by the Government is committing a crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-mulls-action-against-republic-tv-s-arnab-goswami-in-leaked-chats-case-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101611087297172.html
20-01-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body ward offices abuzz with Covid-19 vaccine enquiries||Civic officials had a busy day throughout Tuesday as the phones at the ward offices were buzzing with queries about vaccination. Officials said there has been a growing awareness among the general public about the vaccine and the turnout of the beneficiaries will improve gradually. Officials said the number of enquiries on the helpline numbers of the 24 ward offices has increased after January 16, the first day of the vaccination drive, with each office recording around 50 such calls since then. Meanwhile, on Tuesday – Day-2 of the vaccination drive – the turnout of beneficiaries at the 10 vaccine centres stood below 50%. But civic officials said this was expected as there are several speculations over the new vaccines. “There is a growing eagerness among the general public about the vaccine. Most of the callers seek information on when they will be called for the vaccination,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “So we believe that with the growing awareness and trust among citizens, the turnout of the beneficiaries will increase,” she added.Meanwhile, owing to the technical glitch on CoWIN app, BMC has directed its ward offices to call 4,000 beneficiaries who will be vaccinated daily. “The names of the beneficiaries are automatically generated by the app. Then we send the list to the ward offices to call the beneficiaries. So if anyone doesn’t get the message from the app, they are being informed individually through calls,” Dr Gomare added.BMC is also providing its list of potential beneficiaries to the state-run Sir JJ Hospital, which is administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. “Most of the centres, including ours, are getting the list of in-house healthcare workers. We have over 4,000 registered healthcare workers,” said Dr Sanjay Surase, medical superintendent of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-ward-offices-abuzz-with-covid-19-vaccine-enquiries-101611086577656.html
20-01-2021||Other||Skipped Covid-19 vaccine day because of fear? Mumbai civic body to counsel you||On Tuesday – Day 2 of the vaccination drive – the city recorded only 50% turnout of registered healthcare workers (HCWs). To encourage those HCWs who skip the vaccination process owing to fears to take the shot, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning to counsel them. “Firstly, we will have to record the reason why shortlisted candidates couldn’t take the vaccine on the given date. If they refuse to take it, we will counsel them and try to answer their queries to help them regain trust in the vaccine. Anyway, the vaccination is voluntary and we can’t force anyone to take it,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. Considering the two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are among the first set of Covid-19 vaccines, there is a fear and speculation among many. Several HCWs are opting to wait and watch and then decide whether or not to take the shot, depending on the efficiency of the vaccine. “In the UK (United Kingdom) and the US (United States), the beneficiaries are being provided with many details, such as the efficiency of the vaccines and its possible side effects. But in India, there is limited transparency, especially on Covaxin. So it is expected that the initial turnout will be less,” said Anant Bhan, public health expert. However, senior doctors who had being administered the shots on the first day (January 16), believe that the vaccines are completely safe. Dr Sanjay Surase, medical superintendent of the government-run Sir JJ Hospital, who had taken Covaxin on Saturday, said, “I am a living example that the vaccine is safe. I didn’t have any kind of adverse effect.” Dr Rahul Pandit, director-critical care, Fortis Hospital, who took Covishield, said nutritious diet, ample hydration and rest were the key to tackle post-vaccination impact. “Some who received the vaccine, experienced nausea, vomiting, body ache, headache and mild rash. But they didn’t need any active treatment. Regular medicines helped. It’s important to understand that these symptoms are expected, and they make scientific sense. It shows that our body is responding. These symptoms should be looked at positively, and people should go ahead and take the vaccination without hesitation,” said Dr Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/skipped-covid-19-vaccine-day-because-of-fear-mumbai-civic-body-to-counsel-you-101611086399679.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Speculations over Nana Patole as new Maharashtra Congress chief||Speculations were rife in the Delhi about the appointment of the Maharashtra Assembly speaker Nana Patole as new state unit chief of Maharashtra Congress, though party leadership has clarified that no official decision has yet been taken.According to the reports, Patole’s appointment to head Maharashtra Congress had got the party’s top leadership’s nod. Along with Patole, Rajya Sabha’s member of Parliament (MP) Rajiv Satava and state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar are other top contenders for the post.“There is no communication from the party leadership as yet, on this subject. I think there will be a formal discussion by the leadership with me if they decide to appoint me to head the state unit. The reports are baseless,” said Patole.Party leaders in Delhi have said that no such official announcement has been made by the party. “The process of selecting state unit chief is yet to be completed. There would be a round of formal talks between top leaders from state and central leadership, before the decision,” a party leader in Delhi said.The leader said that the Congress leadership will also have to take other two parties into confidence as Patole’s appointment will necessitate the election of a new speaker. He said in such a scenario, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party’s leadership will be formally informed about the decision. He also added that the formal announcement is expected to be done by the party in the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/speculations-over-nana-patole-as-new-maharashtra-congress-chief-101611086397063.html
20-01-2021||Other||5% of healthcare staff in Mumbai not eligible for Covid-19 shot?||Day 2 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai ended on Tuesday, officials at the vaccine centres, who did not wish to be named, estimate that almost 5% of the healthcare workers (HCWs) are likely to be ineligible for the Covid-19 jab as they do not qualify the parameters required for the inoculation.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), however, said that it has no cumulative data yet to ascertain the figures. “We have to check all the medical history to ensure an HCW doesn’t develop any severe reaction due to the vaccine. In a very limited number of cases, potential beneficiaries are refused vaccine for their own good. But currently, I don’t have the accumulated data with me,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.Dr Anilkumar Gondale, a medical officer at Shatabdi hospital, Govandi, has been diagnosed with oesophagus cancer and is undergoing treatment at Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), Parel. On Day-1 of the vaccination (January 16), Dr Gondale was asked to visit the Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital) for immunisation. However, Dr Gondale was unable to go as he was undergoing chemotherapy at TMH on the day. On Tuesday, he went to the hospital along with his wife Dr Asha Lata to get the Covishield jab, but had to return home without getting the vaccine. “The doctors checked his medicines and his health parameters. But later the hospital asked us to get a medical certificate from TMH to get him vaccinated,” said Dr Lata.Like Dr Gondale, several HCWs have not been able to qualify for the immunisation owing to their medical history. The Union health ministry has issued some vaccine specific contraindications – symptoms or health conditions that make inoculation risky. These contraindications prohibit pregnant women, lactating mothers, patients with a history of allergic reaction to injectable therapies and pharmaceutical products as well as individuals with clotting or coagulation disorders, among others, from getting the shot. “When a beneficiary comes to a vaccination centre, we record their medical history, including all the contraindications specified by the ministry. We also check their health parameters such as blood pressure, oxygen saturation and fever,” said Dr Rajesh Dere, in-charge of the vaccine centre at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre.Doctors said there is a need to sensitise the public and advise citizens to read about the vaccines before the process. “The vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) are made of different components. For example, Covishield has ingredients such as magnesium chloride hexahydrate, ethanol, sucrose, sodium chloride, among others. If anyone has a history of allergic reaction to either of these ingredients, they should inform the health officers stationed at the centres,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital. In case anyone develops any adverse effect after the vaccine, they should call their respective ward offices. The telephone numbers are available on the official website of BMC. “We keep an observation on the beneficiaries for 48 hours. Our health officers follow up with them over the phone to check if they develop any adverse reactions,” said BMC’s immunisation officer Dr Sheela Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-of-healthcare-staff-in-mumbai-not-eligible-for-covid-19-shot-101611086157893.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to complete work at 291 flood-prone spots before monsoon||To reduce flood-like situations in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been increasing its efforts to tackle flooding spots in the city. It has completed work at 171 flood-prone areas and has set a target of completing work at 291 flood-prone spots before this monsoon. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray also directed the civic body to ensure no flooding occurs in the city, by taking up preventive measures such as deepening and widening of existing stormwater drains.On Tuesday, Thackeray reviewed the ongoing development works in the city with senior BMC officials. The move assumes significance considering the elections for the BMC will be held next year. “There should be no flooding during monsoon. The civic body should focus on widening, deepening, as well as desilting and cleaning of the stormwater drains,” the CM said.“We have identified a total of 386 flood-prone spots that lead to waterlogging in the city. Works undertaken at 171 spots have been completed whereas works at 120 spots are in progress. We are expecting to complete work at 291 spots before monsoon,” said BMC commissioner IS Chahal during the meeting.Mumbai has been facing problems of waterlogging in many areas during monsoon. Over the past six years, the flooding spots in the city have increased from 40 in 2014, to 273 in 2019. During the municipal commissioner’s budget speech of 2014-15, the civic body had listed 40 flooding spots. However, in the budget speech of 2017-18, the number increased to 66, and in 2018-19, it was upped to 146. However, before the monsoon of 2018, BMC declared that there were 225 flooding spots, and the number further shot up to 273 after 48 new flooding spots were added to the list during the 2018 monsoon. In February 2020, the BMC budget, presented by the then civic chief Praveen Pardeshi, listed 273 waterlogging spots for the city.BMC has also taken up beautification work of pedestrian walkway, flyovers, transport islanders and bus stops. It has also identified 62 streets which will be converted into street food hubs, informed the commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-complete-work-at-291-flood-prone-spots-before-monsoon-101611086037066.html
20-01-2021||Other||64% get the Covid-19 jab in Thane district on second day||On Tuesday, Day 2 of the immunisation drive, Thane district witnessed a dip in the turnout, as only 63.82 % healthcare workers (HCWs) visited the vaccination centres, as compared to around 79% beneficiaries who received the jab on Day 1 (Saturday).Around 2,247 HCWs had registered for the vaccination drive for Tuesday, of which only 1,434 were immunised against Covid-19 at the 23 vaccination centres across the district. “Each centre has capacity to vaccinate 100 people and the process is conducted from 9am to 5pm. Even if each beneficiary takes six minutes for the vaccination process, the eight-hour period is not sufficient for completing the immunisation. We also need to calculate the time taken for lunch breaks or to counsel those who are nervous and had to ensure that none of the registered HCWs are left out. Those who were not immunised on Tuesday, can complete the process the next day,” said Thane district information officer Manisha Pingale. Saturday’s turnout was higher despite technical glitches in the CoWIN app server, forcing health officers to conduct the registrations manually. On Tuesday, none of the centres faced any technical glitches and the complete process was conducted online through the CoWIN portal. Of the 1,434 beneficiaries who were vaccinated on Tuesday, none complained of any Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said officials. Across the district, centres under Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) witnessed a 58% turnout, while those under the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) immunised 67% of the registered HCWs. On Day 1 of the drive, KDMC centres had seen a 100% turnout. At Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation centres, 65% of the registered HCWs were vaccinated, while in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, 59% people turned up for the process. Similarly, the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation saw 53% turnout, while the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation had 85% beneficiaries. Thane’s rural areas immunised 65% HCWs on the second day of the vaccination.Tuesday, Day 2 of the immunisation drive, only 63.82 % healthcare workers (HCWs) in Thane district were vaccinated, as compared to around 79% beneficiaries on Day 1 (Saturday).Around 2,247 HCWs had registered for the vaccination drive for Tuesday, of which only 1,434 were immunised against Covid-19 at the 23 vaccination centres across the district. “Each centre has the capacity to vaccinate 100 people and the process is held from 9am to 5pm. Even if each beneficiary takes six minutes for the vaccination process, the eight-hour period is not sufficient for completing the immunisation. We also need to calculate the time taken for lunch breaks or to counsel those who are nervous and had to ensure that none of the registered HCWs are left out. Those who were not immunised on Tuesday, can complete the process the next day,” said district information officer Manisha Pingale. On Tuesday, none of the centres faced any technical glitches and the complete process was conducted online through the CoWIN portal. Of the 1,434 beneficiaries who were vaccinated, none complained of any Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said officials. Across the district, centres under Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) witnessed a 58% vaccination, while those under the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) 67% HCWs were immunised. On Day 1 of the drive, KDMC centres had seen 100% immunisation. At Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation centres, 65% HCWs were vaccinated, while in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, 59% received the shot. Similarly, the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation saw 53% beneficiaries, while at centres under the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation, the number was 85%. Thane’s rural areas immunised 65% HCWs on the second day of the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/64-get-the-covid-19-jab-in-thane-district-on-second-day-101611085497149.html
20-01-2021||Other||Day 2 of Covid-19 vaccination process in Mumbai: 800 names repeated on CoWIN||Mumbai, the CoWIN app continued to face glitches on Tuesday too, the second day of the vaccination drive. The app, which generates the time and centre the healthcare workers (HCWs) need to report at for the inoculation process, repeated the names of 800 people who were to take the jab on Day 1 (January 16). Of these 700 had to receive the Covishield shot on January 16, while the remaining names were of all the 100 people registered for Covaxin at Sir JJ Hospital. “The app is still not functioning with 100% efficiency. It has minor glitches. It will take a day or two to solve the problems,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. The civic body is aiming to immunise 4,000 HCWs each day in Mumbai across 10 centres with the two vaccines. On Saturday, 1,926 of the 4,000 HCWs who were to receive the vaccine for the first time were administered Covishield. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) rules, HCWs who did not turn up to receive the vaccine on Saturday will be administered the shot only after the first phase of the process ends. However on Tuesday, the CoWIN app listed the names of 800 HCWs who were on the registration list for the Covishield vaccine on Saturday but had not turned up. The app also failed to generate messages to those HCWs who had been chosen for the vaccine at a stipulated time. On Saturday, of the 100 healthcare workers who were enlisted, 39 were administered Covaxin. “The list we received had the same names as on Saturday. Of the 61 shortlisted people who could not get vaccinated on Saturday, 13 got inoculated today,” Dr Sankhe Lalit, in-charge of the vaccination, at Sir JJ Hospital, said, on Tuesday. The app is supposed to inform a registered HCW if their names were among those enlisted for the vaccination. However, it has not been generating these messages, prompting BMC to opt for a mechanism in which civic officials have to call each HCW and inform them of their chance to get vaccinated. “For Tuesday’s vaccination process, many of the shortlisted HCWs received calls after 11.30 pm on Monday night, while several others got messages after 6am on Tuesday morning,” said an official who is looking after the vaccine drive at BYL Nair Hospital, where 165 beneficiaries were immunised against Covid-19 on Tuesday. The technical glitches in the app led to the vaccination of mere 48% of the shortlisted candidates on day one. Thus, to iron out the loop holes, the drive was kept on hold on Sunday and Monday. A health department senior official, requesting anonymity, said, “We are speculating that the app can’t identify similar names which have been generated already. So it only takes instructions to generate automated names without identifying the old names.” Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said the central government has been informed about the problem. “The app is designed by the central government and we have intimidated them about the issue,” he said. Until the issue gets sorted, BMC has decided to follow dual intimidation methods to avoid relying only on technology. “Along with the CoWIN messages, we will individually call the registered HCWs from the ward offices,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-2-of-covid-19-vaccination-process-in-mumbai-800-names-repeated-on-cowin-101611084836424.html
20-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai restarts vaccination drive, 1,597 get their shots||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday vaccinated 1,597 health workers, of the 3,200 shortlisted to turn up for the Covid-19 inoculation drive’s restart after it was put on hold owing to “technical glitches” following the first day on Saturday.Mumbai resumed its drive across 40 booths at nine civic body-run vaccination centres and the state-run JJ hospital at 9am. Three of the 1,597 vaccinated reported giddiness following their shots, termed adverse event following immunization (AEFI), and were kept under observation for 30 minutes. None of these beneficiaries had to be hospitalised, said BMC.Mangala Gomare, BMC executive health officer, said, “Vaccination restarted in Mumbai on Tuesday morning at all 10 centres. We saw a 50% turnout of beneficiaries, as was noticed on day one as well. The drive will continue on Wednesday as well, between 9am and 5pm.”After the nation-wide drive was inaugurated on January 16, vaccination was halted on Sunday and Monday, due to technical glitches in the CoWin app — the automated system launched by the Central government to systematically administer vaccine shots across the country.While BMC intended to go ahead with its drive on Sunday, the state government informed the civic body on Saturday night to halt the drive. On day one, BMC vaccinated 1,926 health workers, from among 125,000 workers registered by the civic body for the first phase.The ten vaccination centres in Mumbai are: The four major hospitals — KEM Hospital where 307 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, BYL Nair Hospital where 165 people were vaccinated, Cooper Hospital where 229 people were vaccinated, and Sion Hospital where 110 people were vaccinated; four peripheral hospitals — Bhabha Hospital in Bandra where 90 people were vaccinated, VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz where 59 people were vaccinated, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar where 285 people were vaccinated, and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli where 236 people were vaccinated on Tuesday; the Covid-19 facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) where 103 people were vaccinated, and the JJ hospital where 13 people were vaccinated.On Wednesday last week, Mumbai received 139,500 vaccine vials from Serum Institute of India (SII). These are being stored at a cold storage facility in Patel’s F-South ward office building, which also has the headquarters of the public health department. From here, BMC transported doses to all centres on Thursday last week, sufficient to last an entire week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-restarts-vaccination-drive-1-597-get-their-shots-101611083583279.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi air ‘severe’ for the sixth time in 19 days||Delhi’s air quality slipped into the “severe” zone on Tuesday, for the sixth time since New Year, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show. In comparison, Delhi had only two “ severe” air days for the month of January in 2020.Records on Tuesday showed that the overall air quality index (AQI) of the city was 404, in the ”severe” category. This was a deterioration from Monday’s AQI of 372, in the “very poor” category. On a scale of 0 to 500, a reading between 300 and 400 is considered “very poor”, while a reading between 400 and 500 is considered “severe”.This was the sixth time in the 19 days of January that the AQI has deteriorated to the “severe” level. In 2020, the month of January had only two such days.Scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said this deterioration in air quality was “unforeseen” and was caused mainly by the dense fog that enveloped the city in the early hours of Tuesday.VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said after the fog layer lifted, wind speed picked up and dispersion of pollutants started. The impact of this ventilation would be seen on Wednesday, when the average AQI is expected to climb down to the ”very poor” zone.“The dense fog that we saw in the morning was not something that we had anticipated -- it had drifted in from neighbouring states. However, around 10am Tuesday, Delhi started getting winds of considerably high speed from the north-western side. The wind speed during the day was between 12kmph and 15kmph,” Soni said.He said the air quality will improve over the next two days but will remain in the ”very poor” zone. From January 21, a western disturbance passing over the western Himalayas will also speed up winds over Delhi and thereby bring down the pollution levels further.From Wednesday, the IMD has forecasted moderate fog over Delhi. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 6.9 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 20.4 degrees Celsius, one degree above the season’s normal.Meanwhile, as the pollution levels spiked in the national capital, the pollution control boards of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh submitted inspection reports of a drive against construction and demolition (C&D) waste in Delhi-NCR, as directed by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).The CAQM had directed the CPCB, and the state pollution control boards of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to constitute special teams and inspect construction sites in Delhi-NCR. In their respective reports of inspections, conducted between December 31 and January 15, 1,600 sites were penalised for not abiding by the C&D waste management rules.“Between December 31 and January 15, agencies constituted 174 teams, and an amount of nearly ₹51 lakh was collected as environment compensation charges from defaulting parties, besides issuing orders for stoppage of work at 27 locations,” a statement from the CPCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-severe-for-the-sixth-time-in-19-days-101611081239706.html
20-01-2021||City||15 accused in Delhi riots tell city court that they haven’t been given copy of charge sheet||Some of the 15 accused booked for allegedly conspiring in the north east Delhi riots alleged before a city court on Tuesday that they have not been given access to the charge sheet in jail despite its orders.Some of the other accused, who have got the access to it, sought the court’s directions to the jail authorities for a uniform time limit, preferably more than an hour a day, for reading the voluminous charge sheet on the computer system in prison.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, while expressing displeasure, has put up the matter for further hearing on February 2.“What’s the point of uploading it on the computer if the accused cannot access it? Why are they given different time slots?” the judge remarked.During the hearing, accused Khalid Saifi, Shifa Ur-Rehman, and Shadab Ahmed claimed that the charge sheet has been uploaded in the jail computer as per the court’s orders but they have not been given access to it.“Police officials have uploaded the charge sheet in the computer but the jail authorities have not given me access to it,” said Saifi, who was produced from Mandoli jail, said.Rehman, lodged in Tihar jail, said the prison authorities did not inform him till date that the charge sheet has been uploaded and he can get read it. Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain also claimed he has not been able to read the charge sheet as the computer system was always occupied.Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid submitted he had been given three hours some day while one hour the next day for reading the charge sheet.While JNU student Sharjeel Imam claimed he has been given two hours to read the charge sheet, former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan said she was given one hour and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha said he has been given access to the computer for half an hour only.When the judge asked the Tihar jail authorities, who were present during the virtual hearing, about the concerns raised by the accused, he failed to give any answer.Meanwhile, another city court on Tuesday directed the police to preserve the call detail records (CDRs) of 10 accused from February 20-28 last year in a north-east Delhi riots case.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar said the CDRs of the mobile phone numbers of the accused persons were required to be preserved as it would not be possible in future to call them during evidence. The court directed the investigating officer (IO) to take all the necessary steps within 10 days for CDR preservation and file a compliance report on February 1.It was hearing a plea moved by accused Shadab Alam for directions to the police for preservation of CDRs of all the accused in the case as it was available only for a year with the mobile service providers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-accused-in-delhi-riots-tell-city-court-that-they-haven-t-been-given-copy-of-charge-sheet-101611081475937.html
20-01-2021||City||Girl who fled home to avoid marriage found at Anand Vihar ISBT||Four years after a minor girl left her uncle’s home in Delhi as she was not ready for early marriage and wanted to study further, the Delhi Police crime branch on Tuesday said they had found her at the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal (ISBT), where she had come from Bihar.The woman, now aged 21, had gone to her grandmother’s home in Bihar’s Samastipur after she left her uncle’s house in 2017. She had been living with her grandmother and completed her Class 12 while neither her family members nor the police had ever searched her there since she went missing. In 2019, the city police had declared a reward of R50,000 for providing information to find her, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh.DCP Singh said that the girl’s missing complaint was filed in 2017 at the Shalimar Bagh police station, where a case of kidnapping was registered and an investigation was initiated. “Our team was also working on the case. Investigators contacted and examined the girl’s relatives and friends. Recently, we learnt about her whereabouts in Bihar. We were planning to send a team there when it was leant that she had left for Delhi,” said Singh.On Monday, the DCP said, the team received information that the woman would reach Anand Vihar bus terminal in a bus. Accordingly, a team reached there and found her. She was unaware of her missing case and that the police had been searching her. The woman told the police that her parents died when she was a child. She along with her brother started living with her maternal uncle in Delhi.“When she was in Class 10, her maternal uncle was forcing her to marry a person of his choice. But she did not want to marry as she was interested in further studies. In May 2017, she left her maternal uncle’s house without telling anyone and reached her maternal grandmother’s house in Samastipur district, Bihar,” he said.None of the relatives visited her maternal grandmother’s house and her maternal grandmother also did not inform anyone about her stay and supported her in pursuing her studies. She completed her school education and took admission in a nursing course in Samastipur, the DCP said.The woman was handed over to the Shalimar Bagh police for further legal action.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/girl-who-fled-home-to-avoid-marriage-found-at-anand-vihar-isbt-101611081295900.html
20-01-2021||City||Marshals equipped with real-time monitoring software to enforce Covid rules at Delhi airport||If you’re at the Delhi airport and not maintaining social distancing, or sitting on a seat that needs to be left vacant, or not following the floor markings, then a team of marshals, armed with a device monitoring your movement, will reach you within minutes to make sure you follow the Covid norms. As many as 200 marshals have been deployed with hand-held devices and walkie-talkies to keep eye on passengers, airport authorities said.Officials from the Delhi airport said the passenger tracking system, known as XOVIS, buzzes an alarm, directing marshals to the area where social distancing is being violated. The real-time movement of a passenger is tracked with the help of more than 500 sensors that the airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Limited) has got installed across Terminal 3 (T3). The facility currently is only working at T3 and, if deemed successful, will be extended to the other two terminals, officials said.An official in the know of the matter said the device was already being used in T3 to calculate time taken by passengers at check-in queues or for security checks so that such processes can be further streamlined and expedited. Around 516 sensors have been installed in T3 and 16 more are going to be installed at the terminal’s entry gates. Officials said more sensors will be installed outside the terminal, in the parking and forecourt area.CEO, DIAL, Videh Jaipuriar said on Tuesday that keeping in mind the resumption of international flights, which may happen any time now, the passenger tracking system is being used to monitor social distancing since last week.“Based on images, computed directly by the ceiling-mounted sensors, passengers, seen as a dots on the screens, are counted and tracked anonymously. This allows authorities to quickly identify crowded areas and bottlenecks. The system generates auto alerts and prompts airport officials to act swiftly as soon as it identifies a crowd at the terminal. If the situation is not brought under control within a stipulated time, it again issues alerts, this time to higher management,” Jaipuriar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/marshals-equipped-with-real-time-monitoring-software-to-enforce-covid-rules-at-delhi-airport-101611081057799.html
20-01-2021||Other||Man throws ‘acid-like substance’ at 22-year-old’s face, arrested||New DelhiA 22-year-old woman sustained burns after her estranged husband allegedly threw acid-like substance on her on Sunday night in east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar. Police said the man, who had been living separately in Madhya Pradesh’s Chitrakoot, was arrested from the spot.According to the police, the man and the woman, who are neighbours in their native village in Chitrakoot, got married to each other six years ago. The couple had then moved to Delhi where the woman delivered a boy, who is four-year-old now.Police said, as per the woman’s complaint, she had started working at a private firm in Delhi and her husband had decided to go back to their village in Madhya Pradesh last year. “When she disapproved of his decision, he took their son and went to his village. She said soon after her husband returned home, the Covid pandemic broke out, following which a nationwide lockdown was imposed because of which she could not travel to her in-law’s house in Chitrakoot. She said after the lockdown, when she visited them, they did not allow her in and asked her to return to Delhi,” said a senior police officer, who wished not to be named.The officer said, after staying at her parent’s house in the same village for a few weeks, the woman returned to her east Delhi house. “On Sunday, her husband called her and told her that he is in Delhi and wants to see her. The woman asked him to come meet him at her home. Around 9pm, the man turned up with some chemical in his hand and as soon as the woman opened the door, he threw the acid-like chemical on her face. The woman immediately cried for help, alerting the neighbours, who rushed to help. The matter was reported to the police and she was taken to a hospital where her condition is said to be stable,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said the husband was arrested from the spot and has been booked under IPC section 326A for the acid attack.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-throws-acid-like-substance-at-22-year-old-s-face-arrested-101611081056344.html
20-01-2021||Other||JNU teachers allege varsity passed decisions without consulting them||New DelhiThe Jawaharlal Nehru University teachers association (JNUTA) alleged that the administration on Monday conducted a meeting of the executive council (EC) — the highest decision-making body of the university — and passed several “controversial decisions”, including a reduction in financial assistance to students to attend seminars, without any discussion. In a statement, the teachers’ body said, “JNUTA has learned as to how the vice-chancellor literally rushed through the agendas, which contained important items, without allowing some of the elected representatives a chance to speak...While the autocratic style is unethical by itself, the fact that it is being done by a vice chancellor whose term is officially coming to an end, renders it all the more troubling.”JNU vice chancellor Jagadesh Kumar’s term is ending on January 26 officially. Despite several attempts, Kumar did not respond to calls and texts.The elected teacher representative of the executive council, Atul Sood, also wrote a letter to his colleagues alleging that the microphones of all members were muted by the chat admin. “The only way for any member to speak, or even to communicate his/her desire to speak to the chair, was to raise his/her hand in front of the camera. Our hands were ignored for virtually every agenda item by the chair in both the meetings held so far.”Sood alleged that several decisions were passed without any discussion and debate. “The controversial decisions that impact the future of the students and teachers of the university include approval of utilization of corpus fund, by which the head ‘participation by faculty in seminars’ has been cut back by three-fourths, support to EWS students is reduced by two thirds, and financial assistance to students for participation in conferences is reduced across schools from 50 to 80 per cent. Since no discussion is permitted, we could not even raise the issue of how these funds can be used for providing support to needy students to improve access to online education,” he said.A senior official at the university said, “Some people were trying to disrupt the meeting and were raising topics other than the agenda items. That’s why some people were muted. Besides, all these decisions they are talking about were not on the agenda.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jnu-teachers-allege-varsity-passed-decisions-without-consulting-them-101611081056870.html
20-01-2021||City||North civic body inks MoU with Indian Oil to set up waste to energy plant in outer Delhi||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) to set up integrated waste to energy (WTE) plant in outer Delhi. Municipal officials said the plant will not only help the corporation deal with its daily garbage but also help reduce the civic body’s dependency on the Bhalswa landfill site. The total waste generated in the north corporation area is around 4,500-4,600 metric tonnes a day.Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, the facility is likely to come up at one of the municipal land available in Ranikhera near Mundka or in the Narela-Bawana area.“The MoU was signed through video conferencing in the presence of Union minister of petroleum Dharmendra Pradhan and lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal. We are hoping that construction of this plant will be completed in a year’s time,” Prakash said.The waste to energy plant will help in the disposal of 2,200 metric tonnes of waste collected from City-Sadar Paharganj, Karol Bagh and Narela zones, which is currently being dumped at the Bhalswa landfill site. The garbage will be segregated as organic waste and refuse-derived fuel (RDF) to produce compressed biogas (CBG) and plastic or syngas. The existing WTE plant at Narela-Bawana disposes of 2,300 metric tonnes of waste daily as per the Solid Waste Management Rules of 2016. The role of IOCL would be to facilitate identification of technology partner, selection and appointment of the concessionaire for setting up the plant and an arrangement to purchase products manufactured at the plant which may include CBG, plastics, ethanol, electricity, synthetic methane, and hydrogen.“The concessionaire selected by IOCL will develop the plant, arrange finance for the implementation of the project, its operation and maintenance. The concessionaire would also pay the north corporation an amount per tonne of of solid waste supplied. However, the north corporation will provide suitable land, municipal solid waste and help in obtaining grants from the Centre under various schemes,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-civic-body-inks-mou-with-indian-oil-to-set-up-waste-to-energy-plant-in-outer-delhi-101611081057312.html
20-01-2021||Other||Centre, Haryana blame Delhi for Yamuna pollution||New Delhi: The Centre and Haryana government on Tuesday blamed Delhi for polluting the Yamuna even as the CPCB called the city state a habitual offender during a hearing by the Supreme Court on the falling quality of river’s water. On January 13, the Supreme Court had initiated suo moto proceedings on the issue, seeking responses from Centre, CPCB, Delhi government and states of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. On that day, a petition filed by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) pointed out alarming levels of ammonia in Yamuna, way beyond the permissible limits of 0.5 ppm. The DJB requested the court to direct Haryana government not to release pollutants into the water and squarely blamed the non-functional sewage treatment plants in Haryana behind the increased ammonia content in the river. Amicus curiae Meenakshi Arora suggested the court to call for a report from the Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC), which working under the National Green Tribunal (NGT) since 2018, to get a clear picture on the shortfalls in implementing steps to keep the river clean.Senior advocate Shyam Divan who represented Haryana contradicted the allegations in the DJB petition. Divan said, “We supply unpolluted water. This projection about ammonia pollution in water is not at our end. The problem is happening not in Haryana, but in Delhi.”The DJB did not comment on the allegations by Haryana and Centre.The 3-judge bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran allowed two weeks for Haryana to file its response. The statement by Haryana found concurrence from the Centre as well.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati representing the Centre as well as CPCB said, “The affidavit by CPCB is getting ready. The figures give out a stark picture. Delhi is a habitual offender as far as pollution in river Yamuna is concerned.” The court also allowed CPCB two weeks time to prepare its report as per the last order by identifying the municipalities along the stretch of the river which are yet to install sewage treatment plants (STP) or common effluent treatment plants.Amicus curiae Meenakshi Arora informed the court that since 2018, the NGT had entrusted the Yamuna Monitoring Committee to monitor pollution in the river. She requested the court to seek a report on the steps carried out so far by the two-member committee comprising former Delhi Chief Secretary Shailaja Chandra and former expert member of NGT, BS Sajawan.The bench said, “We direct the Yamuna Monitoring Committee to submit its report regarding recommendations made for improvement of water in Yamuna and the extent to which its recommendations were implemented.” Interestingly, this is the second time the apex court is suo moto examining pollution in river Yamuna. In July 1994, the Court took suo moto notice of a HT report “And Quiet Flows the Maili Yamuna”, monitored it for 23 years, and transferred it to NGT on April 24, 2017 to monitor further progress. The Delhi government was also represented by senior advocate Mohan Katarki. He pointed out that in the suo moto proceedings, two other states – Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh also need to be added.Ironically, on a day when the states sparred in the top court over ammonia pollution in Yamuna, Arora pointed out that as on January 18, water quality was “excellent” with ammonia level dropping to as low as 0.3 ppm. She said, “Where there is a will, there is a way. The court may observe that low level of ammonia concentration should be maintained.” On December 25 last year, ammonia concentration peaked to 13 ppm as against the permissible limit of 0.5 ppm. The DJB had stated on the last occasion that due to high ammonia content, its water treatment plants at Chandrawal, Wazirabad and Okhla functioned at nearly 50 per cent capacity. It had even accused Haryana of supplying less water than its promised share of 450 cusecs at Wazirabad. Divan appearing for Haryana denied the charges and said, “This petition is not maintainable. We are supplying far more water than the projected share.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-haryana-blame-delhi-for-yamuna-pollution-101611081055890.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Nearly 47,000 register to buy flats in DDA housing scheme||Close to 47,000 people have registered with the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) for its new housing scheme, which was launched on January 2, in which 1,354 flats mostly in Dwarka and Jasola have been put on sale. DDA officials say that the draw of lots for the housing scheme will be held in March.Of the 1,354 flats, 1,011 are in the High Income Group (HIG) and Middle Income Group (MIG) categories. The 254 HIG flats are located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka. There are 757 two and three-bedroom MIG flats located in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Jahangirpuri and Madipur.With a majority of flats in the HIG and MIG categories located in areas such as Dwarka and Jasola, which are well-connected with the public transport system, including Delhi Metro, DDA officials are expecting a good response to the scheme.Apart from the location, DDA officials said that the quality of construction, facilities at the housing complex, including two parking spots per HIG flat are some of the reasons why people are keen on applying for these flats.A senior DDA official said, “We have received 46,500 registrations of which close to 9,000 people have already submitted their applications. Till Monday, 2,325 applicants had made the payment. A majority of people make payments in the last few days. Going by the number of people who have registered, the response has been good so far.”Despite the slump in the real estate market, DDA officials are optimistic that 254 HIG flats in Jasola will find many takers. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9 sqm to 177.3 sqm in size, varies between ₹69.62 lakh to ₹2.14 crore. “These are spacious flats, located on Delhi-Noida border and well-connected to the rest of the city via Metro and other public transport system. There is a dual piping system as the complex has its own Sewerage Treatment Plant. The most important thing is that each flat has two parking slots. The ₹2.1 crore cost is as per the market rate,” said a senior DDA official.Spread over 64.04 sqm to 129.98 sqm, the cost of MIG flats varies between ₹40.64 lakh to ₹1.24 crore. Of the 757 flats, 711 are located in Dwarka sub-city—one of the planned residential areas developed by the DDA. There are 291 flats for the Economically Weaker Section and 52 in the lower income group category in Dwarka and Rohini. It is after nearly a decade, a senior DDA official said, that MIG flats in such large numbers have been put on sale in Dwarka.The last date to apply is February 16 and senior DDA officials said that the draw of lots for the new scheme will be held at the end of February or first week of March.DDA’s past few housing schemes did not get a good response from the public. While its housing scheme of 2014 in which close to 25,000 flats were put on sale saw close to one million applications, over 50% of the allottees had returned the flats citing small size of the flats, location related issues, etc.In the subsequent housing schemes in 2017 and 2019, the DDA had tried to re-sell these flats, but was unsuccessful.In its 2019 housing scheme, the DDA had put 18,000 flats on sale. But it had to reduce the number of flats in the scheme to 10,294, as it didn’t get the desired response. The land-owning agency had received 45,012 applications for its flats despite extending the last date to apply twice.Of the 10,294 flats, it could sell only 8,438 flats—488 HIG, 1,555 in MIG, 5,172 LIG and 1,223 EWS category flats--- of which close to 6,000 flats have been returned till December end, according to a senior official aware of the development.“This time, a majority of the flats have been put on sale for the first time. Given that these are HIG and MIG category flats, we are hopeful of getting a good response and selling all the flats,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-47-000-register-to-buy-flats-in-dda-housing-scheme-101611080875878.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||40% students attend classes on Day 2 of Delhi govt schools reopening||Around 40% government school students from classes 10 and 12 attended schools on Tuesday – the second day of reopening of capital’s schools for board exam preparations. Officials from Directorate of Education explained that this might be due to the flexibility offered to schools while planning the multiple batches of students to be called on alternate days.“General trends show that around 40% of students from classes 10 and 12 came to school on Tuesday. Schools have been asked to call students in a staggered manner and this is what the data reflects,” a senior official from the education department said.“We did not issue any circular on how many students should be called on each day. So schools have charted the plan depending upon the space they have. So the ones which are spacious could have called 100% students and the ones who did not have space can call even 50%,” the official said.Principals across several government schools in the capital reported varying percentages of attendance. This was due to various factors including cold weather, the upcoming Joint Entrance Examination scheduled in February, and correlation between the number of students in the school and the available space.For instance, Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Dwarka Sector 10, which has around 240 class 10 and 12 students, saw 85% of students attending classes on Tuesday.Principal Rajpal Singh explained, “RPVV schools only allow 35 students per section. So we arranged the batches accordingly because we had the space and infrastructure to allow classes while maintaining physical distancing and all Covid-19 protocols. The numbers are likely to go up in the coming days as we have been focusing more on connecting with students coming back to schools instead of just academics. These students are connected to their peers and will motivate them to join schools as well.”At Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, which has around 285 students in class 10 and 273 students in class 12, the attendance has been around 42%. “While class 10 students are still recording an attendance of 50% on both days, fewer class 12 students are coming to school, particularly from the Science stream. For class 12, we had around 43% attendance on Monday and 32% attendance on Tuesday. This is because they want to prepare for their upcoming entrance examinations,” said principal Awadhesh Kumar Jha. “We have been engaging with them and expect numbers to go up soon.”While most private schools in the capital will be reopening gradually this week, the ones which opened noted an average attendance of 50%. For instance, Mount Abu Public School in Rohini saw 65% of its class 12 attending the classes on Monday and the number went down to 55% on Tuesday. The trend was reversed in class 10, where 40% students attended the class on the first day and 55% attended classes on the second day.Principal Jyoti Arora said, “We are establishing a strong communication channel with our parents and students through regular messages, orientations, and social media platforms. They are being updated on safety measures being undertaken by the school. Students attending classes are also being asked to share their experiences with their peers who are apprehensive to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40-students-attend-classes-on-day-2-of-delhi-govt-schools-reopening-101611080816402.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||South Delhi Municipal Corporation drops plan to hike property tax||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation will not hike property tax and halve the funds granted to the councillors for local area development as proposed in it budget, the chairman of the civic body’s highest decision making panel said on Tuesday.Gahlot also announced that SDMC will install ATMs and kiosks at toilet complexes managed by the civic body and launch yoga classes in its parks for minimal fee. He added that a quarter of the revenue from advertisements on the publicity of works done during the financial year.In the budget proposals for 2021-22, presented by SDMC additional commissioner Ramesh Verma had on December 7, it was proposed to create two categories of property for the levy of tax -- instead of the existing three -- which would have meant more tax for thousands of residential neighbourhoods.The municipal budgets are made by the commissioners and are then tabled before the standing committee for approval and then sent to the House for final nod. This would be at least 10th consecutive year when SDMC has not revised the rates of property tax -- one of the main components of its annual revenue.During a discussion on the budget, Gahlot said increasing tax on properties cannot be the only solution to enhance revenue. “There are other ways to increase revenue, so instead of hiking property tax we have decided to bring more people under the tax net of the SDMC. To boost revenue, fixed compactor transfer stations (FCTS) of SDMC will be used as advertisement sites,” he said.He added that to ensure maximum collection of revenue, SDMC has decided to start doorstep collection of property tax from the 2021-22 financial year.The SDMC also proposed to organise Yoga classes in all its parks on minimal payment. “Yoga teachers will be appointed to teach students and other participants. With the move, the corporation will not only help people to stay fit but also generate revenue,” Gahlot added.Gahlot also said that the proposal to reduce the amount of local area development (LAD) fund, given to councillors, to ₹50 lakh per ward from existing ₹1 crore per ward, will be scrapped.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader further said SDMC will charge a fine, if the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) fails to restore SDMC roads after cutting and digging for sewer and water-related works. “The corporation is also making a provision to collect restoration charges from DJB for carrying out work on municipality roads but not restoring or repairing the same,” he said.The Delhi government or the Aam Aadmi Party did not comment on the issue despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/south-delhi-municipal-corporation-drops-plan-to-hike-property-tax-101611080755811.html
20-01-2021||Other||Covid vaccination: 16 minor adverse events on Tuesday||On the third day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Tuesday, when 4,936 beneficiaries got the jab, Delhi reported 16 minor adverse events from across the 81 sites in the city.Of the sixteen, 15 had received Covishield which is being administered at 75 of the 81 vaccination sites.The highest number of adverse events following immunisation (AEFi) – four -- was reported in Central district, followed by two each in North, Shahdara, South, and Southwest Delhi. One AEFI was reported each from East, Northwest and West Delhi districts.Adverse events are observed with most vaccines and can range from pain, mild swelling at injection site and body ache to breathlessness and hospi. Experts said AEFIs needed to be evaluated in the context of risk-and-benefits associated with immunization.In the case of coronavirus vaccines, the government has said that there can be mild AEFIs, such as pain and swelling at the site of injection, mild fever, nausea, giddiness and mild rashes. Serious AEFIs can be a severe allergic reaction, such as an anaphylactic shock, which could potentially require hospitalisation.In comparison, there were 52 adverse events reported on the first day of vaccination when 4,319 people received the jab in Delhi. Of these, one was a severe allergic reaction in a 22-year-old security guard at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. He had to be admitted to the hospital’s intensive care unit and was discharged a day later. He had received Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.The next day the hospital saw just eight people turning up to get the shot. This increased to 55 persons on Tuesday.Two other severe adverse event – requiring hospitalisation or hospital based observation – after Saturday’s vaccination drive was reported a day later by the hospitals. One from Northern Railway hospital and another in a security guard from Max Hospital Patparganj who fainted after receiving the shot.On Monday, two more severe adverse events reported among the total 26 such reactions after the vaccination. One was in a 27-year-old doctor from Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital whose heartbeat turned irregular after getting the shot. The second reaction was reported in a 45 year-old doctor at south-west Delhi’s Venkateshwar hospital who had anaphylaxis.Both had received Serum Institute of India’s Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vaccination-16-minor-adverse-events-on-tuesday-101611080696249.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||One-third of Delhi Police force aged above 50, will be shots first||At least one-third of the Delhi Police personnel are above 50 years of age and will be first ones to get the vaccine in the second phase of the vaccination drive, senior officers said. While updating its internal database for the drive, the Delhi Police headquarters found that at least 26,540 personnel across all ranks, out of a total strength of 80,070, are aged above 50 years.During the process, along with the contact numbers of the personnel, their date of birth and place of posting are also fed into the system, a senior officer said.While all personnel will be covered under the second phase, those above the age of 50 years will be the first ones to get vaccinated, followed by others.Currently, there are 81 private and government hospitals, where the vaccination drive is being held for health personnel such as doctors, nurses, lab technicians, hospital sanitation staff -- identified under the first category. The drive will be expanded to an additional 600 locations across the city in the coming weeks.In the second phase, the drive will be held for the front-line workers such as police, fire safety personnel, teachers and civil defence volunteers.“The candidates for vaccination will be selected at random. The Co-WIN app will choose the police personnel based on their year of birth. These 26,546 personnel will get the vaccines first. We have also given the place of posting of each personnel so that (s)he does not have to travel far on the day of vaccination. The vaccination point nearest to a personnel would be chosen for the exercise,” said the senior police officer quoted above, who did not wish to be named.Rolling out the vaccination plan for the national capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said last month that after health-care and front-line workers, the third category of people who would receive the vaccine are those above the age of 50 years as well those who below the age of 50 but with co-morbid conditions.Till date, 7,615 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 while 32 succumbed to the disease.“We have conducted two dry runs at different police stations to ensure that there is no hiccup when the time comes. We have noticed that it takes less than two hours for an officer to get vaccinated and return to work. The places allotted will also be the nearest to the place of the officer’s posting. In the coming days, we will keep conducting such dry runs and also raise awareness across police stations and colonies,” said a second officer, who did not wish to be named||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/onethird-of-delhi-police-force-aged-above-50-will-be-vaccinated-first-under-phase-2-101611080637056.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Amit Shah reviews Delhi Police, lauds them for their handling of riots, farmer agitations||Union home minister Amit Shah met senior officers of the Delhi Police on Tuesday at the force’s headquarters on Jai Singh Road, and also took stock of the city police force’s performance in the past one year.Shah lauded Delhi Police for their role in tackling the Delhi riots in February 2020, the handling of the ongoing farmer agitations at Delhi border points, and the enforcement of the Covid-19 lockdown last March.He also made a slew of announcements related to policing in the city. Later in the afternoon, Shah held a meeting along with home secretary Ajay Bhalla, police commissioner SN Shrivastava, Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar and other police brass.While addressing the 80,000-strong Delhi Police force -- police stations had connected to the event at the police headquarters on Jai Singh Road via video conferencing — Shah said a web of 15,000 more cameras would be installed across the city for crime prevention and detention.He said the cameras would be linked with those installed by the Delhi government and those that are at railway stations. The home minister announced that the government has approved procurement of more than 4,500 new vehicles and over 1,500 motorcycles for the Delhi Police.Shah said the country had faced several challenges last year. “In Delhi, too, there were many tests. Be it the north-east Delhi riots, dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, ensuing lockdown measures, feeding the hungry, dealing with the migrant crisis or the ongoing farmer agitations, the Delhi Police has set an example by handling every situation professionally and in an exemplary manner. I want to thank every person -- from the constable to the commissioner -- from the bottom of my heart,” he said.The home minister also gave a task to every police station ahead of the 75th Independence Day anniversary celebrations that will start on August 15.Shah also felicitated some junior police officers for going beyond the call of duty during the early months of the lockdown. He stressed on more scientific evidence based policing while ensuring transparency.The home minister also said that initiatives such as “e-beat book” has strengthened Delhi Police’s functioning along with other digital platforms such as the Himmat app.The e-beat book is an app that has facial recognition software and dossiers of criminals. The details of the suspects and wanted criminals will be synchronised with the e-book and can be access on a real-time basis. This is currently being used by select police stations in Delhi. The Himmat app was launched by the police for women safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amit-shah-reviews-delhi-police-lauds-them-for-their-handling-of-riots-farmer-agitations-101611080635826.html
20-01-2021||Delhi||Counselling, selfie points, badges, nodal officers step in to counter vaccine myths||One-on-one counselling sessions, selfie points at vaccination centres, badges declaring “I am safe, I am vaccinated” among beneficiaries and sharing first-hand experiences of people already vaccinated — nodal officers at vaccination centres in capital are prepared to go the distance to burst myths about Covid-19 jabs and improve coverage.On Tuesday, the number of beneficiaries turning up to get inoculated continued to remain low in the national capital for the third day in a row, with only 4936 health care workers vaccinated at 81 centres.The next round of the vaccination drive will now be held on Thursday and Saturday.Dr Pragya Shukla, the nodal officer at Delhi State Cancer Institute, is scheduled to conduct a one-on-one session with health care workers on the “myths and reality of Covid -19 vaccine” on Wednesday. Only 21 health care workers had turned up at the Delhi State Cancer Institutecentre for the jabs on Tuesday. “We thought that it’s very important to conduct counselling sessions to burst the prevailing myths and to provide psychological support to health care workers scheduled to get the vaccine shot in the coming days. We had a meeting with the district administration on Tuesday, where we suggested several other initiatives that can be taken to increase the number of people turning up,” she said.“We had suggested that the district administration install a selfie point at all the vaccination centres, just like voting centres. People who get the jab, can take their pictures and share them on social media. It will help develop confidence among others. We will start the installation process in the next few days at our centres,” she added.Ajeet Jain, the nodal officer at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (RGSS) hospital, where only nine health care workers turned up for the jab on Tuesday, said, “We are planning to hold sessions where health care workers, who have already been vaccinated, will share their first-hand experiences with others. We had also suggested the district administration to conduct such sessions across hospitals to counter the existing vaccine hesitancy.”“We are also planning to distribute badges among beneficiaries with messages like “I am safe” or “I am vaccinated” so that they get noticed in public and feel proud about it,” he added.The vaccination numbers remained low at other centres with only 28 health care workers taking the shot at GTB hospital.Dr Sweta, the nodal officer at the hospital, said, “We have been conducting online sensitisation meetings regularly for the health care workers. We have also started sharing experience of beneficiaries on our WhatsApp groups so that other health care workers, who are registered, get motivated.”Meanwhile, several health care workers on Tuesday said they felt as if a “human trial” was being conducted on them. “I am not against getting a shot, but I will wait for a while. I am already a Covid-19 survivor and I do not think the vaccine is of any use to me. We can’t be a part of this human trial, without any proper data available on its success rate,” said a doctor at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/counselling-selfie-points-badges-nodal-officers-step-in-to-counter-vaccine-myths-101611080636270.html
20-01-2021||Kolkata||BJP as venomous as cobra, says Banerjee as rhetoric sharpens in Bengal||Sharp rhetoric at back-to-back rallies and sporadic violence marked the rising aggressiveness in Bengal politics on Tuesday, a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that she will contest the Nandigram seat in the coming assembly elections against her aide-turned adversary Suvendu Adhikari who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in December.While addressing a Trinamool Congress (TMC) rally in Purulia district, Banerjee compared the BJP to a cobra and said, “The BJP is so venomous that it can kill you with only one bite. They are more dangerous than the Maoists.”“The BJP fooled you with false promises and won the Purulia Lok Sabha seat in 2019. But it has done nothing for the district. Now its leaders are visiting the homes of Dalits and having food brought from hotels. Have you ever seen a Dalit buying a bottle of mineral water that costs ₹100? People of Purulia will never surrender to outsiders,” said Banerjee and announced a number of welfare schemes.“There will be more hotels and markets in Purulia. Tourism will flourish. There will be so many jobs that people won’t have to leave the district for employment,” said Banerjee before raising slogans against the new citizenship law, National Register of Citizens and the National Population Register.BJP was quick to react. "By comparing the BJP with a cobra the chief minister has made it clear that she is extremely worried about her imminent defeat. She is talking metaphorically about perils humans face because she cannot fight her fears," Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar told HT.Also read: 9 states, UTs among better performing areas during Covid-19 vaccination driveTo counter Banerjee’s Monday rally in East Midnapore district’s Nandigram, the constituency he represented till his resignation from the assembly last month, Adhikari held a rally in the Khejuri area of Nandigram on Tuesday.Delivering a vitriolic speech, Adhikari said, “Banerjee’s rally on Monday appeared to be one held by the Hyderabad-based All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi. She sounded confused and disappointed.”Without naming any community, Adhikari said, “Can she win the Nandigram seat with those 62,000 votes? I know those villages. We will win with the support of 2,13,000 voters for whom Jai Sri Ram is the clarion call. We will not let Mamata Banerjee contest from Bhawanipore (in Kolkata) as well. She has to contest from Nandigram only and she will lose.”Naming the TMC workers who died in the violent land movement in Nandigram during the Left Front rule, Adhikari said, “Yesterday the chief minister was reading out the names from a piece of paper and still made a mistake. I know all the names by heart. The families of 30 martyrs are present here today. Banerjee talks of Nandigram but she did not include the land movement in the state’s school syllabus although the movement at Singur found its place.”The TMC-led movement against acquisition of farmland for a chemical hub at Nandigram witnessed unprecedented violence in the last years of the Left Front government and helped Banerjee come to power in 2011. A similar role was played by the prolonged agitation she led against the proposed Tata small car plant at Singur in Hooghly district.While Adhikari’s rally was on, there were clashes between TMC and BJP workers at several places in Khejuri where TMC leader and former minister Madan Mitra also held a rally.Rapid Action Force had to be deployed to disperse workers of the two parties. Several people were injured, alleged Adhikari. He said he will start an agitation on Monday if the culprits are not arrested by then. Local TMC leader Ramkrishna Das denied the charge, saying BJP workers attacked supporters of the ruling party.On Tuesday, Adhikari mentioned the chief minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee by the latter’s name instead of calling him bhaipo (nephew in Bengali). “The award for being the biggest extortionist will go to Abhishek Banerjee,” said the former transport minister.BJP leaders said their supporters were also attacked at Joynagar in South 24 Parganas and Purbasthali in East Burdwan district on Tuesday night. No death was however reported from anywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-more-venomous-than-cobra-says-banerjee-as-rhetoric-sharpens-in-bengal-101611079726998.html
20-01-2021||Pune||PMC undecided on reopening schools for Class 5-8||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is yet to decide whether or not to reopen classes 5 to 8 from next week. Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that the school education department has issued a notification to allow schools across the state to reopen for classes 5 to 8 from January 27. However, PMC is still collecting primary data. Suresh Jagtap, PMC additional commissioner, said that the authorities are yet to decide on reopening schools. “We are still collecting primary data. Though the state government has given its nod, we are collecting information, including social distancing and sanitisation norms, that will be followed when schools reopen,” said Jagtap. He said that PMC is still reviewing the number of students that will be allowed in schools and how they can be accommodated. “The number of students for Class 5 to Class 8 is almost four times that for Class 9 to Class 10. And each class has at least three or more divisions. There are strict rules to follow social distancing and maintain sanitisation at school campuses,” he said. The classes for 9 to 12 reopened within PMC limits on January 4. Till date, 414 private schools out of 500 were given permission by the civic administration to reopen after an inspection by officials. A total of 453 schools were inspected by civic staff in the past one and a half weeks. As per PMC officials, with only fifty per cent students allowed in schools, the response from students has been good. The attendance on an average is around 65 per cent, according to civic officials. Precautions to be followed by schools Schools should run in two sessions One session should be a maximum of three hours Each bench should accommodate only one student Government guidelines to be followed Parents’ consent is a must Teachers and other staff should undergo RT-PCR test and it should be negative Sanitisation of campuses must be done Thermal screening of students, teachers and staff should be done every day Gathering, sports events must not be conducted||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-undecided-on-reopening-schools-for-class-58-101611068552775.html
