21-01-2021||Noida||Man kills self after murdering wife in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: A day after he allegedly murdered his 40-year-old wife, the body of the 45-year-old man, who was on run, was found in Modinagar’s Patla area on Thursday morning. The police said that the man is suspected to have killed self.The police said the couple had a strained relationship ever since they got married in February 2002. Officers added that the man had taken his wife to a doctor on Wednesday and while returning, the man asked his wife to de-board the two-wheeler and took her to nearby fields where he allegedly killed her, around 4pm on Wednesday.“The body of the woman had injuries probably inflicted with some sharp object like a knife, as well as with bricks as well. The injuries were on her face and head. The body was recovered from fields. After a complaint by the woman’s family, we launched a search. It was found that the suspect had come home after the incident and left his mobile phone at his house before fleeing,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).On Thursday morning, locals informed the police about a body found near Patla. “The body was of the same man we were searching for. It seems that he killed self,” the SP added. The couple lived in a locality under the jurisdiction of the Niwari police station.Ghaziabad does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-kills-self-after-murdering-wife-in-ghaziabad-101611253651432.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Awareness drive begins to reduce mishaps on Yamuna Expressway||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida), along with the traffic police, on Thursday started an awareness drive for commuters to reduce accidents on the Yamuna Expressway.The awareness drive is part of the ongoing road safety month that started on January 19 and will end on February 17. Arun Vir Singh, Yeida CEO, has directed the staff to remove all hoardings and take effective measures so that the road accidents can be reduced on the expressway. According to the officials, the expressway has witnessed at least 750 deaths since it opened in August 2012.Yeida organized an event for road safety at Jewar toll plaza. “We have decided to intensify the awareness campaign about safety of the motorists. The violation of traffic rules on road often leads to accidents affecting the lives of many. And if we follow the traffic rules, then we can help in reducing the road accidents,” said Singh.Yeida has roped in some private agencies, which will send 18 lakh messages to make people aware about the precautions for road safety.“These messages will be sent in a month’s time and the firms will send these messages under their social obligation. Pamphlets will be distributed to commuters at toll plazas to make people aware about road safety. Apart from this, we have directed the e-way operator to take all measures to avoid the accidents,” said Singh, who also directed the enforcement wing to conduct inspection along the expressway.The data provided by Yeida shows that 45% of accidents are a result of drivers falling asleep at the wheel. Also, speeding and violation of traffic rules account for 19% and 11% accidents, respectively, on the expressway, the data shows. The stationary vehicles on the expressway have also been found as a major cause of accidents. Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh also participated in the month-long drive. “Drinking and driving is also one of the major causes of accident on Yamuna Expressway. We should take pledge to avoid breaking the rules on roads,” said the MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/awareness-drive-begins-to-reduce-mishaps-on-yamuna-expressway-101611253651007.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Installation of crash barriers on Yamuna E-way: Agency to be hired on Jan 27||GREATER NOIDA: The Jaypee Infratech Limited (JIL), operator of the Yamuna Expressway, is likely to finalise an agency on January 27 for the installation work of crash barriers on the two sides of divider on the 165km expressway. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), the monitoring agency, on Thursday said it will make sure that the work on the ₹75 crore project starts at the earliest as the crash barrier will help in providing safety to commuters on the expressway. In December last year, JIL had issued a tender inviting bids for the project.“We have directed JIL to start installation of the crash barrier in February after selection of an agency on January 27. We do not want this to be delayed because providing the safety to motorists is of utmost priority,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.Yeida had, in August 2018, hired Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi for conducting the safety audit of the expressway that passes through six districts of Uttar Pradesh that include Gautam Budh Nagar, Aligarh, Mahtura, Hathras, Agra and Bulandshahr. In March 2019, IIT-Delhi had submitted its initial report suggesting several measures.“We have already implemented the 80% recommendations made by the IIT-Delhi. Under the remaining 20% safety measures, we need to install crash barriers, increase the number of high definition cameras and some other steps. These steps will be taken up at the earliest,” said Santosh Panwar, a JIL spokesperson.The expressway operator will spend ₹75 crore on crash barrier installation and ₹2 crore on installation of cameras at 20 more locations, the officials said. So far, JIL has installed CCTV cameras at 10 locations. In case of an accident, the crash barrier stops a vehicle from going to other side, preventing multiple accidents, said the Yeida officials. Following criticism from the Supreme Court on a petition seeking motorists’ safety on the expressway in early 2018, the Uttar Pradesh government had directed officials concerned to beef up enforcement to contain speeding and other traffic violations to check the incidents of accidents.“We are taking adequate steps to provide safety and working to implement suggestions of the safety audit,” said Panwar.The seven points suggested (by IIT Delhi) in the draft report are additional signage (distance bar markings) before the exit ramps, remove lane system, installation of rumble strips at the entry and exit ramps, installation of crash attenuators at the exit ramps, audible shoulder marking throughout the corridor, remove all sign posts from the shoulder, shoulder guard rail to be reinstalled as per the standard specifications and replacement of raised median (divider) with flush median and central guard rail as per the standard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/installation-of-crash-barriers-on-yamuna-e-way-agency-to-be-hired-on-jan-27-101611253470983.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to vaccinate 4,000 health-care workers across 31 centres today||Ghaziabad: The district has planned to vaccinate 11,846 health-care workers in the second round of Covid-19 vaccination drive scheduled on January 22, 28 and 29. Officials said on Thursday that they have increased vaccination centres to 31 (from 26 decided earlier) to cover more people.The officials also said that the present stock of Covishield vaccine will be able to cater to two doses each for the 11,846 beneficiaries. The district on January 14 had received 2,741 vials, each having 10 doses, from the vaccine reserve at Meerut. Ghaziabad had achieved 94.75% target during the inaugural session held on January 16 when 379 of 400 beneficiaries took the shots. “The 11,846 beneficiaries will be equally vaccinated on each of three days during the next round of vaccination. The vaccination sessions will be held at 31 centres on all three days. Those who have missed the inaugural session on January 16 will be able to get the vaccine in the second round. We aim to achieve more than 94.75% coverage which we achieved during the inaugural session,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The district has also prepared a “micro plan” in which it is listed that 40 sessions each will be held on January 22 and 28, while 39 sessions will be held across all centres on January 29, the officials said, adding that 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated in each session. With this, the district aims to vaccinate 4,000 health-care workers on January 22 and 28, while 3,900 will be inoculated on January 29. Officials of the district health department said that there were nine cases reported after the inaugural session under the adverse event following immunization (AEFI) but none of them faced any severe conditions. “The nine incidents reported under AEFI were those who complained of mild fever, headache, myalgia, etc., and the symptoms subsided. These were minor AEFI incidents. For better coverage in coming rounds, we have held meetings with health-care workers and associations, and intend to vaccinate maximum of the listed beneficiaries,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The district during the inaugural session exhausted 40 vials of Covishield vaccine while the rest of the stock was despatched to the vaccination centres on Thursday. State officials said that they had received about 911,000 doses under the second round while they had received about 1,075,000 doses before the start of inaugural session. “So, we have received about 2 million doses so far. It is estimated that we have about 855,000 to 900,000 health-care workers and two doses to each of them will be about 1.8 million doses. So, we have sufficient stock available. Those who have missed the inaugural session will be able to participate in the second round,” said Alok Kumar, UP’s principal secretary (health). During the inaugural session on January 16, a total of 22,643 out of 31,700 listed health-care workers were vaccinated across 317 centres with a coverage of about 71%, and 98 events of AEFI were also reported from across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-vaccinate-4-000-health-care-workers-across-31-centres-today-101611253470480.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Discom to pull the plug on 12,000 consumers over outstanding electricity bills||NOIDA: Irked with the lacklustre response shown by consumers towards payment of pending bills despite schemes and rebates offered, the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has decided to disconnect power lines of over 12,000 defaulting consumers who owe the discom a total of ₹10 crore. Officials said these consumers have not deposited any amount against their electricity bills in the last two years, officials said.In the first week of December last year, the discom has called off its disconnection drive against another 65,000 consumers for not clearing their outstanding power dues of ₹3.25 crore, upon instructions by state energy minister Shrikant Sharma.PVVNL chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said that these 12,000 defaulter consumers have been identified by the discom’s portal. “We had sent mandatory notices to them before launching the crackdown against them. But all our requests for clearing outstanding dues fell on deaf ears. As a result, we started pulling plugs from Wednesday and within three weeks, we’ll disconnect power lines of all those 12,000 major defaulters,” he said.He further said that after the disconnection drive, recovery penalties will be issued against these defaulters to ensure recovery through the legal route. “The PVVNL had been offering many schemes like easy instalments and one-time settlement to them so that defaulters can clear their outstanding bills easily. We had also decided to waive off the interest on their outstanding bills but even then, they didn’t pay any attention. Finally, we had no option other than to pull the plug permanently and initiate legal action against them,” he said. The PVVNL has 3.25 lakh consumers in Gautam Budh Nagar district and the total outstanding dues of these consumers stand at over ₹25 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidadiscom-to-pull-the-plug-on-12-000-consumers-over-outstanding-electricity-bills-101611253411712.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Four persons arrested from illicit liquor factory in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: The police on Thursday arrested four persons from an illicit liquor factory in the Sigma 4 area. The suspects allegedly used the premises to manufacture adulterated liquor and sold them to people in Western UP, said officers. The arrests were part of a joint operation of the Hapur police and the Greater Noida police.The suspects have been identified as Deepak Lal, 25, a resident of Bulandshahr; Deepak, 26, a resident of Meerut; Manish Kumar, 28, a resident of Surajpur; and Kuldeep, 27, a resident of Sigma 4 in Greater Noida.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the police are alert and checking for illicit liquor in the area. “On Thursday, we received information from the Hapur police about an illegal liquor factory running from Sector Sigma 4 in Greater Noida. A joint team of Greater Noida and Hapur police conducted a search operation on the premises and arrested four persons,” he said.Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP, Hapur, said his team had arrested some suspects involved in manufacture and supply of illicit liquor last week in Simbhawali area. “Those suspects had revealed that an illegal factory was functioning in Greater Noida. We sent a team to Greater Noida which conducted a joint operation with the Noida police and busted the gang,” he said. He added that the gang had been selling the illicit liquor in Hapur, Bulandshahr and other neighbouring districts.The police seized 720 bottles of liquor, five bags full of bottle caps, two drums, two bottle chemicals, 10 kg of urea and a Maruti Swift Dzire from the spot. Police said the suspects had allegedly been functioning since the last three months in the area. “Kuldeep and Manish are locals. They had shared the information to their accomplices to get the premises on rent, produce the liquor, and make easy money,” said the police. The arrested persons allegedly revealed that six more suspects are involved in the gang, said officers. Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO Beta 2 police station, said: “The property owner is a co-accused because he had given the property on rent without proper verification,” he said. A case has been registered against the ten suspects under Section 420 (cheating), Section 467 (forgery), Section 471 (using as genuine a forged document), Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC, and sections 60-A, 62 and 72 of the UP Excise Act. The four persons were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. “We have launched a search for the absconding persons,” the SHO said. On January 11, two persons were found dead in an illicit liquor factory in Greater Noida’s Site V area. It appeared the two persons had consumed the spurious liquor and died, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-persons-arrested-from-illicit-liquor-factory-in-greater-noida-101611253410438.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Nearly 10% kids in Capital between ages 6 and 17 are out of school, Delhi socio-economic survey finds||Of nearly 10% children aged between 6 and 17 in the city who are out of school, the Delhi government’s socio-economic survey has found that the highest percentage of dropouts is between ages 16 and 17.“Of the total population, 22.15% are in the age group of 6-17 years. In this age group, 9.76% children are reported to be out of school i.e. dropout/discontinued/never attended…It has been noticed that the highest proportion of out of school children is reported as 33.55% in the age group of 16-17 years followed by 29% in 6-10 years, 18.92% in the age group 11-13 years and 18.53% in the age group of 14-15 years,” the report noted.The highest percentage of dropouts or children not attending school (6.89%) has been reported in North district, which also has the highest percentage (5.30%) of children in the ‘never attended/never enrolled’ category.The report on the socio-economic profile of residents of Delhi has been prepared on the basis of data of around 10 million individuals from about two million Delhi households collected between November 2018 and November 2019 by the state’s directorate of economics and statistics. Delhi government officials said the government is focusing on reducing dropouts. During an international education conference that concluded last week, education directorate officials said 40% of the students who failed to clear class 9 were dropping out of school.Addressing these concerns, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said, “Struggling children who leave the system to pick up jobs outside is where we need to figure out how skill training can come into play, and how we can provide support to them.”Around 52.54% of students in the age group 6-17 years are enrolled in schools run by Delhi government followed by 26.31% which study in private schools.The report also found that only 55.4% of children below six years of age are attending anganwadi centres which provide supplementary nutrition as well as early childhood education to those from working-class families.Delhi’s literacy rate meanwhile is higher than the national average as per the report which stated that effective literacy rate in the capital stood at 88.54%. The national literacy rate among persons (aged seven years and above) is around 77.7%, according to the 75th round of National Sample Survey (NSS). In rural areas, the literacy rate was 73.5% compared to 87.7% in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nearly-10-kids-in-capital-between-ages-6-and-17-are-out-of-school-delhi-socio-economic-survey-finds-101611253410995.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Six of family injured as LPG cylinder catches fire in Bisrakh village; one critical||Greater Noida: As many as six persons, including three children, were injured when an LPG cylinder caught fire due to a gas leak Thursday morning in Patwari village in Greater Noida west. Police said it appears gas had been leaking since the night before but the family could not spot it. They said the incident took place when one of the victims went to the kitchen to make tea and lit a matchbox, and the room went up in flames.Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station, said the incident took place around 6am. Twenty-five-old Rubi was home with her two sons Jigar, 8, and Love, 4, while her husband, Laxman, was at work. Their three relatives – Chandni, 20, along with her son Guddu, 4, and Muskan, 18 – were also sleeping in the same room.The SHO said that Rubi allegedly went to the stove to prepare tea. “Since the gas had already spread in the room, it swiftly caught fire. All six persons in the room received burn injuries,” he said. Locals and the police later doused the fire and sent the victims to the community health centre in Bisrakh. Doctors later referred the six to the district hospital in Noida for better treatment. Police said the cylinder did not burst during the incident. The SHO said five of the victims were discharged after treatment as they were not critically injured. “Rubi has received serious burn injuries and is admitted to the district hospital. The family has not filed any complaint in this regard,” said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-of-family-injured-as-lpg-cylinder-catches-fire-in-bisrakh-village-one-critical-101611253351437.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Residents suffer as Sector 63 park turns into dump yard||Noida: Residents of Bahlolpur colony in Sector 63 have alleged that the area’s only park has become a garbage dumping site due to apathy of the Noida authority. The residents said that garbage is also dumped at different spots along roadside. They also stated that the garbage is often set afire, and that despite several complaints, the issue persists. “The entire park, along with several road stretches such as near Bahlolpur underpass, Chijarsi road, Pushta road to count a few, are hardly ever cleaned and over the time have been converted into a dump yard. There are no dustbins and some miscreants often set the garbage at the roadside on fire. We are suffering the mismanagement by the authority that seldom collects the garbage,” said Sonu Yadav, vice-president of Bahlolpur RWA, Sector 63. He added that while the children’s play area in the park is full of solid waste, the rising stink from the park dissuades parents from sending their wards to the park. “The wind often carries foul smell from the garbage in the park or on roadside to our houses. The condition is very unhygienic. There used to be some big dustbins in the park, but most of them were removed. The authority’s sanitation workers do come daily to collect waste from houses, but nobody comes to remove the garbage from the roadsides,” said Paramveer Singh, president of Bahlolpur RWA. Another resident stated that despite several complaints no action had been taken. “There are a number of makeshift colonies in the region, mostly occupied by scrap dealers. They throw the waste on their wish and often set it afire,” said Ranbir Singh, a resident of sector 63. According to Noida authority officials, the garbage collection is happening from each area, but a number of residents especially the villagers in several colonies do improper disposal. “We will get the area cleaned in the next three days and ensure that solid waste is removed from all such spots, including the park. But there are also issues such as lack of awareness. A number of residents, especially the tenants in the colonies, often throw garbage as per their convenience, and many do this to save ₹50 that is charged every month for door-to-door collection,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty (health), Noida authority. Noida generates around 700 tonnes of domestic waste daily. The door-to-door garbage collection covers 220 high-rises with 1,40,000 apartments, about 98 RWAs having 40,000 houses and about 70 small and big villages within the city, the officials said. After collection, the garbage goes to 21 different ‘transfer stations’ of the Noida authority where the unsegregated is separated manually with help of ragpickers and later sent to the main storage facility at Sector 145.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residents-suffer-as-sector-63-park-turns-into-dump-yard-101611253350387.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Farmers at UP Gate, Chilla border reject govt proposal of temporary suspension of farm laws; protest to continue||Noida/Ghaziabad: Protesting farmers stationed at border areas of Ghaziabad and Noida refused to end their agitation, saying they have not accepted the government’s offer of temporary suspension of the three farm laws. They said they will not budge till the government completely withdraws these laws which “aim to benefit corporates and not farmers”.During the tenth round of talks on Wednesday, the government had proposed to stay the implementation of the three laws for one-and-a-half years and the farmer union leaders are to reply to the proposal during the next meeting scheduled on January 22. In the wake of this offer, a detailed meeting was held at the Singhu Border to discuss the proposal. On Thursday as well, farmer union leaders held day-long discussions over the government’s proposal. “We still demand repeal of the three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). All protest sites are together and core-committee members are busy discussing the proposal at the Singhu border. They will decide about the reply to be given to the government on January 22. The government has given a proposal and we have not accepted it,” said Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is stationed at UP Gate. He said that the proposed tractor parade on Republic Day will be held. The farmers had proposed that the route will be the outer Ring Road of Delhi. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Bhanu faction on Thursday rehearsed for the rally.Farmers have been stationed at the Chilla border and the Dalit Prerna Sthal in Noida, and the UP Gate in Ghaziabad since last year demanding a complete rollback of the three new farm laws.The Supreme Court on January 12 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and also directed for the formation of a committee.Protest sites were abuzz Thursday morning with farmers holding discussions in their tents, on their tractors and trolleys and on roads.“The committee during its meeting decided that the proposal put forward by the government is not acceptable. The farmers’ union leaders will meet government representatives on Friday and will convey the decision taken today by our committee. Majority of farmers protesting at different sites were demanding repeal of laws and new law on MSP,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand who attended the core-committee meeting at Singhu border on Thursday. “It was also decided that the tractor parade will be held and some committees have also been formed to take up preparations,” he added.Rakesh Kumar, pradhan of Parsauli village in Mathura, who had come with a group of villagers, said, “We are of the view that the government wants us to end the protest and return. If the protest is called off, farmers will disintegrate and after one-and-a-half years, it will become difficult to bring them again at a common platform, in case the government wishes to implement the laws again”. He said he donated ₹3.51 lakh to the protesting farmers at UP Gate.“Farmers should not go back. With the proposal it seems that the government is feeling the heat of such massive protests. People are supporting farmers like anything. On Wednesday we went across to our village and people donated ₹10, ₹20, ₹50 and even more as per their capacity. So, the farmers also have the support of people in villages and must continue the protest,” said Leela Dhar, a 75-year-old member of Rakesh Kumar’s group from Mathura. At the Chilla border, Thakur Bhanu Pratap, president BKU-Bhanu, said he wonders why the government suspended these laws for only one-a-half-year years instead of withdrawing them permanently. “The Supreme Court staying the implementation of the contentious farm laws is a clear message for the government that these laws are not good for farmers. If our petition had no merit, the apex court would have rejected it. The government should admit that these laws were wrongly framed and that they should be withdrawn,” he said.He said he had sent a team to Singhu border for Thursday’s meeting. “We have received information that the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions, has rejected the government’s proposal. I am yet to meet my team members who had gone to a meeting held in Delhi. But it is now clear that the protest will continue till the farm laws are repealed,” he said. Master Shyoraj Singh, BKU-Lokshakti president, said the government had proposed to form a committee in the initial meetings as well. “The government should repeal the laws and promise MSPs on crops. If the government does not agree, we are resolved to fight longer,” he said. He said that the farmers are readying for the tractor rally on Republic Day.He said that as of now, the protest will continue. “We want the government to completely cancel these laws,” he said.Gaurav Tikait, another BKU leader at UP Gate and president of the youth wing, said that farmers are now fighting for their honour. “There were many terms used against farmers and now it is a fight for our honour. The government’s proposal seems vague and intended to derail the agitation. Every common farmer understands this. Even if not for the farm laws, farmers were inclined to hold protests demanding a new law on MSP and implementation of the Swaminathan Committee report. So, we are inclined to continue,” he added. The UP Gate has many camps run by NGOs, social organisations and other entities. A group of veterans from the Indian Army and other paramilitary forces is also camping at the site since December 16.“It seems that the government is under pressure and these are positive signs. What we feel is that the farmers should continue their protest and the government will finally budge and take back three laws. So, there should be no going back home till the three laws are rolled back,” said Manidev Chaturvedi, a retired inspector from the Border Security Force.Retired Hawaldar Desa Singh, who is from Pilibhit and served during the 1965 and 1971 wars, came to UP Gate to support the farmers, saying that farmers have already braved adverse weather and stiff opposition from the government so far. “Now, there is no going back. If farmers return, the protest will disintegrate. There should be a resolution and there is no going back,” he added. Subedar Major (retired) JP Mishra, the founder and national president of the Veterans’ Association, said that the conditions farmers were facing were dangerous.“If the new laws get implemented, the corporates will get a better hold on them. We came here as most of us are from farming backgrounds. Our group has people who have joined from different cities in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Haryana,” he added at UP Gate.A farmer, Kali Charan Chaturvedi from Firozabad, had come to the Chilla border protest site with a ‘gada’ (blunt mace) at the Chilla border. “Gada was Hanuman’s weapon which used for victory over Lanka. I have planned to use the gada for farmers’ victory against farm laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-at-up-gate-chilla-border-reject-govt-proposal-of-temporary-suspension-of-farm-laws-protest-to-continue-101611253290939.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||DMRC starts first tunnelling work at Vikaspuri under Phase-IV expansion||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) started the tunnelling work on its Phase-IV Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor on Thursday.Using the Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM), which was lowered in October last year, the Metro will bore two parallel tunnels of 1.4km in length between Vikaspuri and Krishna Park extension on the above corridor.The tunnel work, which started in the presence of DMRC managing director Mangu Singh, started at Vikaspuri and is expected to be completed by January-end next year.The tunnels are part of the 2.2km-long underground section from Janakpuri West to Keshopur, Metro officials said.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “The tunnelling has started from the Vikaspuri area in continuation of the Magenta line tunnel that has been already constructed for the presently operational Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West corridor. The tunnel will be constructed approximately at a depth of 14 to 16 metres.”He added, “The alignment of the tunnel runs along the Outer Ring Road and is below the multi-storied built up structures. All necessary safety precautions are being taken while constructing the tunnel below built up structures by monitoring the ground movements with highly sensitive instruments fixed on nearby structures.”DMRC officials said that about 27km of underground section will be constructed in the corridors approved so far under Phase-IV. The Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor will have underground sections of 7.74 kilometres in total.In Phase 3, when about 50 kilometres of underground sections were built, about 30 TBMs were pressed into service in the national capital, Dayal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-starts-first-tunnelling-work-at-vikaspuri-under-phase-iv-expansion-101611252990963.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Elderly man held for role in fraudulently obtaining ₹2 crore bank loan||Delhi Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) has arrested an elderly man for his alleged connivance in fraudulently obtaining a loan of ₹2 crore from a nationalised bank in Delhi by submitting forged and fabricated property documents. The forgery had come to light in 2015 and main accused and the mastermind behind the forgery, Satish Sharma, has already been arrested by the police.Police have identified the man arrested on Wednesday as 64-year-old Suresh Kumar Pruthi, a resident of Sonepat, Haryana. Joint commissioner of police (EOW) OP Mishra said the forgery had come to light in 2015 when an assistant general manager of the nationalised bank, from its branch on Parliament Street, alleged that Sharma had taken a loan of ₹2 crore from the bank to purchase a school, Bramshakti Model School, in Sonepat. The loan was secured by mortgaging a property in Narender Nagar area of Sonepat as collateral, Mishra said.“Later, it was found that Sharma has already availed of another loan of ₹4 crore from another public-sector bank in Mayapuri, Delhi, by mortgaging the same property. The fact regarding the mortgaging of the same property to the other bank was not disclosed by Sharma. On this, the bank gave a police complaint against Sharma,” Mishra said.The officer said during investigation, it was revealed that the documents of the Narender Nagar property submitted by Sharma to the bank as security did not match with the record at the sub-registrar’s office in Sonepat. “Following years of probe, Sharma was arrested last August. Further investigation revealed that one Suresh Pruthi who originally sold that property to Sharma in 1998 has also signed forged papers of sale deed of the same property on which Sharma availed of the loan of ₹2 crore,” the joint commissioner said.Further searches were conducted and Pruthi was also arrested on Wednesday, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/elderly-man-held-for-role-in-fraudulently-obtaining-2-crore-bank-loan-101611252990249.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt hands over cheques amounting to ₹7.48 crore to 307 sportspersons||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday distributed cheques worth ₹7.48 crore among 307 sportspersons as financial assistance, and urged them to make the capital city proud by their achievements in the field of sports.Sisodia said the Delhi government is ensuring world-class training as well as nutritional requirement of young sportspersons. “Sports play a crucial role in education. On the one hand, Delhi has been at the top in school games for the past three years. On the other hand, it is receiving accolades for its improved education system. NITI Aayog, a central government agency, ranked Delhi government schools the best in the country. This is a proud achievement for Delhi,” he said.Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said under the Delhi government’s “Play and Progress” scheme, financial assistance of ₹2 lakh is provided to sportspersons under 14 categories and ₹3 lakh is provided to sportspersons under another 17 categories. “The Delhi government provides assistance of up to ₹16 lakh to talented sportspersons from Delhi. It is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s dream that every student plays at least one sport, and every talented sportsperson gets all kinds of assistance from the government to excel. That is why the Delhi government is running different schemes to promote sports and prepare sportspersons to win medals,” he said.Outlining the achievements of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the field of education, a statement released by the deputy CM’s office said, “The Delhi government has done a lot of work to improve sports infrastructure in the city. There are 17 operational swimming pools under the sports branch and eight are under construction. There are many synthetic athletic tracks, synthetic hockey turfs, archery fields, and other sports facilities that are already operational. Two sports hostels with training facilities have also been sanctioned at the cost of approximately ₹100 crore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-hands-over-cheques-amounting-to-7-48-crore-to-307-sportspersons-101611252933334.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Curtailed by pandemic, the Republic Day parade is different this year||Many events that were a regular feature of the Republic Day Celebrations in the national capital will be missing this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the social distancing measures put in place to contain its spread, said government officials.One prominent event that drew crowds and cheers – stunts on motorcycles by the army and the personnel of the paramilitary forces – have been cancelled this year. The veterans’ parade by ex-servicemen and women, too, has been knocked off the programme chart, and so is the parade by recipients of the national bravery awards. In the 2020 Republic Day parade, veterans as old as 99 and 100 years had participated in the parade and the motorcycle stunts were performed by women officers of the Central Reserve Police Force.Government officials, who did not wish to be named, said these events were cancelled because the elderly and children are more susceptible to contract Covid-19. “There will be no enclosure for schoolchildren this year either. The total number of the enclosures has also been reduced -- from 36 to 22. The number of attendees will be 25,000 as against 150,000 until last year. Only 4,000 entries will be through tickets, the others would be invitation-based. The motorcycle stunt event was cancelled as it involved the participants sitting closely together and supporting each other while staying in close proximity on moving motorcycles,” said a senior official involved in the Republic Day arrangements.The official further said no children below the age of 15 years would be allowed at the venue on the India Gate lawns on January 26. Unlike the 12X12 format of the marching contingent with 124 participants, the format this year is 8X12, with only 96 participants.“Not just the spectators but the number of media persons has also been reduced from 300 to 100. The workers on the lawns are currently being tested at the Covid booth set up at the venue. Police personnel who will be at the gates and in charge of frisking will be wearing personal protective equipment suits and will carry thermal scanners. Officers from the security unit, who will guard the VIPs, will undergo Covid-19 testing and are already in quarantine for seven days before the Republic Day function,” a second official, privy to the arrangement details, said.Also, this year, instead of a gallery (benches arranged in rows and raised on platforms) for spectators, the ministry of defence has arranged for chairs -- so that they can be kept apart on the lawns to ensure a distance of six feet between spectators. “Another change is that only the tableaux will go to the Red Fort. The parade will culminate at the National Stadium at the C-Hexagon of India Gate,” the second official said.But there is an addition as well this year. At least 122 soldiers of the Bangladesh Armed Forces will be taking part in the parade. According to a press statement issued by the High Commission of India in Dhaka, this is only the third time since Independence that a foreign military contingent has been invited to participate in the national parade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/curtailed-by-pandemic-the-republic-day-parade-is-different-this-year-101611252930829.html
21-01-2021||Other||AAP, BJP spar over allegations of financial irregularities||New Delhi: A war of words broke out between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday after the former alleged financial irregularities in the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). While Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta claimed unaccounted funds of ₹26,000 crore in the water utility, the AAP hit back saying the allegation was completely “bogus and frivolous”. The BJP demanded a two-day-long special session of the Delhi assembly to discuss the issue. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Gupta said, “ ₹26,000 crore was transferred from Delhi government’s account to DJB’s accounts in the last five years, but the government is not ready to give any account for this amount.”In a statement, the AAP said, “It’s not even clear what scam are they referring to? The truth is that BJP is completely rattled by the ₹2500 crore scam uncovered by the AAP in the MCD, and is indulging in trash talk to only distract the public attention from this issue.”While Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said that the party will start a door-to-door campaign to tell people in this regard, leader of the opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the allegations are “very serious”The AAP said the opposition party knows the writing on the wall, referring to the MCD polls scheduled next year. “The allegation by BJP is completely bogus and frivolous. If there was any scam in DJB, BJP would have already unleased the Delhi Police, CBI and Anti Corruption Bureau but they instead chose to talk to media. BJP knows the writing is on the wall and that the people of Delhi are going to vote for the AAP in the upcoming MCD elections, giving a historic mandate,” the party said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-bjp-spar-over-allegations-of-financial-irregularities-101611252930316.html
21-01-2021||Other||SDMC may allow only five food carts per ward, provide permanent licence||New Delhi: The BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Wednesday proposed to provide permanent licences to at least five smart food eateries, including food trucks, vans, e-carts in each municipal ward, officials said on Wednesday. The opposition AAP criticised the move, saying the scheme will lead to chaos on roads. The SDMC House passed the proposal on Wednesday with the officials saying that a policy will be drafted to fix licence fee and lay down other modalities. “Keeping in view the revenue of the corporation as well as employment avenues in 104 wards in the jurisdiction of SDMC, it is proposed that a licence process for selling and serving food items through e-food cart, food truck and bus as well as having new restaurants ideas of these types (such as aeroplane, train, double-decked bus) be issued… lands of corporations and other institutions lying vacant can be put to good use,” the proposal passed by SDMC read. It was moved by BJP councillor from Malviya Nagar, Nandini Sharma.Sharma said the scheme is at a “nascent stage” and its modalities are yet to be worked out. “It will be a good source of income to the corporation,” she said.Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a senior SDMC official said applicants will have to produce a no-objection-certificate (NOC) from the traffic department at the time of application to ensure that the cart or food truck will not hinder traffic movement in the area. “We will take all necessary steps to keep the application process hassle-free. While issuing licences we will also make sure that such eateries do not become a traffic nuisance. The civic body’s licensing department will be the only authority to issue the permit,” the official said.Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said the scheme is aimed at promoting self-employment among people and that the corporation will “organise” such eateries that are running illegally. “Such food vans or e-food carts are already operating illegally in many areas of the city. They do not have any kind of permit and hence create chaos on roads. Under this scheme, we aim to resolve this problem and legalise and organise such food joints. We will cap the number of such carts to five per ward, so it does not create chaos in the area. Plus, SDMC will also get additional revenue with this move,” Chawla said. Reacting to the proposal, senior AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said the initiative will only lead to chaos on streets. He also alleged that the civic body has given “power of issuing licence to councillors” which would lead to corruption.“Before leaving the MCD, the BJP wants to monetise every inch of land in the city. The BJP-ruled MCD is trying to set up permanent restaurants on all the land available under its jurisdiction. A condition of the scheme is that permission for these restaurants can be taken from the local councillor. This is ample indication that the BJP-ruled MCD is trying to give absolute powers to the local councillor so that he or she can earn crores of money,” Bharadwaj alleged.He further said that earlier the central government had formulated the Street Vendors’ Protection Act. As per this law, the authorities were to identify all street vendors and issue licences for shops in their respective zones but that did not happen, Bharadwaj said.Reacting to AAP allegations, Chawla stressed that there will be no chaos on roads as applicants will have to get a no objection certificate from the traffic department. “The AAP is levelling baseless allegations. It has now become their habit that they start a negative propaganda as soon as we try to start something good. The allegations of councillors issuing licences is not true. Licensing process will be completely online and transparent. Councillors can only give recommendations for setting up carts or food vans in their areas,” Chawla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sdmc-may-allow-only-five-food-carts-per-ward-provide-permanent-licence-101611252811279.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Traffic to be restricted in New Delhi from Friday evening to Saturday noon||There will be traffic restrictions in parts of New Delhi area from Friday evening until Saturday afternoon to facilitate the full dress rehearsal ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, the traffic police said.The rehearsal is scheduled from 9.50am until noon on Saturday and the parade will begin from Vijay Chowk and end at the National Stadium after passing through Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate and Tilak Marg Radial Road.Restrictions will begin at 6pm on Friday on Vijay Chowk and will continue till the end of parade around 12.30pm on Saturday, said Manish Kumar Agrawal, joint commissioner of Delhi traffic police.After that, no cross traffic will be allowed on Rajpath intersection from 11pm on Friday at Rafi Marg, Janpath and Mansingh Road until the end of the parade.The traffic around the C-Hexagon of India Gate will be halted from 9.15am on Saturday till the parade and the tableaux enter the stadium.Other roads will be open for regular traffic although there will be restrictions on buses, auto-rickshaws and taxis in certain parts on New Delhi area on Saturday morning until afternoon.Traffic police officers advised citizens to check the police’s social media feed before stepping out. The traffic police will be out in full force to regulate the movement of vehicles, said Agrawal.The restrictions on Metro trains will be limited to Kendriya Sachivalaya and Udyog Bhawan stations where deboarding won’t be permitted from 5am to noon on Saturday, said Agrawal.The officer advised motorists to avoid these roads and keep extra time in hand to deal with jams and restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-to-be-restricted-in-new-delhi-from-friday-evening-to-saturday-noon-101611252810745.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Sharp jump in vaccine turnout in Capital as Delhi hospitals opt for out-of-turn jabs for health staff||The city recorded its highest turnout for the Covid-19 vaccination drive so far, with 5,942 health care workers out of the targeted 8,100 receiving the shot on Thursday. Officials said the 73.36% turnout, a nearly 25 percentage point increase from Wednesday was due largely to the government’s Co-WIN platform being tweaked to allow out-of-turn jabs for registered beneficiaries. With 100 vaccinations on Thursday, the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital became the first major government facility to record a 100% turnout. The highest-ever turnout at a public hospital so far was 95 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Saturday, when the vaccination drive was rolled out nationally.To be sure, private hospitals such as Max-Saket and Sir Ganga Ram hospital have seen 100% turnouts before. “We were able to vaccinate 100% people on Thursday. Of course, the ‘add beneficiary’ function, which allows registered health care workers to get the shot even if their name is not slotted for the day, has helped. Along with that, we are also working on motivating our staff members and we are addressing all their concerns. Those who have already received the vaccines are also motivating others,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital. The hospital had administered doses of the coronavirus vaccine to 31 people on Saturday, a number that dropped to 12 on the second day of the drive, and later increased to 35 persons on the third day. Although the turnout at Lady Hardinge Medical College was slightly lower on Thursday, the ‘walk-in’ option has helped it drive up numbers. At the hospital, 69 people were given jabs on Thursday, in comparison to 76 on Tuesday. The hospital, along with Ram Manohar Lohia, was one of the first to allow these out-of-turn shots.“Earlier we had to turn away people who were not on the list of beneficiaries for the day. Now the portal allows us to add beneficiaries as they come to the centre. Now the portal also allows us to register people from our hospital on the spot and administer the shot. There were some contractual employees whose registrations were not completed earlier,” said Dr NN Mathur, director, Lady Hardinge Medical College. Of the 11 revenue districts in Delhi, the highest turnout on Thursday (91.5%) was in north-east Delhi, where 183 out of 200 targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated, followed by south-east district (90.88%) where 727 of 800 beneficiaries were given jabs. The Shahdara district vaccinated 264 (44%) out of a targeted 600 persons — the lowest among the 11 districts, showed government data. The low turnout for the first three days was attributed to hesitance among beneficiaries and several instances of technical glitches which, officials said, were largely fixed by Thursday. So far, 18,795 healthcare workers in Delhi have taken the shots out of a targeted 34,497, reflecting an average turnout of 54.48%, government records showed. While the turnout was 53.3% on the first day of vaccination, it dropped down to 44.2% on Monday. However, with continuing reports of vaccine hesitancy among employees, hospitals have asked senior doctors to take the shot and motivate those working under them to get the jab. “The government is focusing on information campaign to combat the vaccine hesitancy in a big way; the situation should improve within the week. We are asking all the senior doctors to talk to those working under them to address any concern they might have. We will also put up banners with what beneficiaries who have already received the vaccine are saying,” said Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. The hospital, which is one of the six centres administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, has been faced vaccine hesitancy, especially among the resident doctor who wrote to the medical superintendent asking that they be given Covishield. The centres with Covaxin have been seeing a lower turnout than those administering Serum Institute of India’s Covishield. On Thursday, the turnout at centres giving Covaxin shots was 45.67% in comparison to 75.57% at centres giving Covishield shots, government record showed. Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department at Maulana Azad Medical College, said: “The government’s policy to allow centres to administer the vaccines to beneficiaries registered for slots in future dates have helped immensely in increasing the turnout on Thursday. High turnout numbers at this stage will contribute to confidence building among the masses and ensure that the turnout remains decently high in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharp-jump-in-vaccine-turnout-in-capital-as-delhi-hospitals-opt-for-out-of-turn-jabs-for-health-staff-101611252810336.html
21-01-2021||Other||All polluting industries in Capital will likely switch to PNG by month-end: Delhi pollution control body||New Delhi: All industries in the Capital will likely switch to petroleum natural gas (PNG), a cleaner alternative to polluting fuels, by January 31, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said on Thursday. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and Adjoining Areas had in December last year directed all industrial units in Delhi to switch to PNG by January 31, and had directed the DPCC to inspect and identify industries using polluting fuels and act against those found violating the directive. In the latest report, the DPCC said out of the total 1,644 polluting industries identified in the national capital, 1,624 have converted to PNG, as on Thursday. Officials said the remaining units will be inspected in the coming weeks and a status report will be filed before the CAQM on January 31. “At least 1,624 industrial units in Delhi have converted to PNG, a safer and non-polluting fuel out of 1644 units using polluting fuels. This is a major step in controlling the city’s industrial emissions. We are hoping that by January 31, when the deadline set by the CAQM will be completed, we can make a complete switch to clean fuel,” a DPCC official said. The official said a status report has also been submitted to the CAQM and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). In an air review meeting conducted on December 22, the commission reviewed the progress of switching over of industries operating in Delhi to PNG. Representatives of the Delhi government, DPCC, Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), and Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) had attended the meeting to chalk out a plan to switch these industrial units to cleaner fuels as a long term initiative to reduce the pollution levels in Delhi. “About 1,644 of the industrial units spread across 50 industrial areas in Delhi had been identified for the switch over to PNG. The Commission stressed the need to switch over by all identified industries in Delhi considering the sector is one of the major contributors to air pollution in Delhi and the NCR or the National Capital Region,” the minutes of the meeting read. IGL and GAIL have also been directed to complete the pipeline network, metering, and associated infrastructure by January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-polluting-industries-in-capital-will-likely-switch-to-png-by-month-end-delhi-pollution-control-body-101611252751510.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Twenty-four adverse reactions reported on Day 4, two require hospitalisation||On the fourth day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, 24 people — or 0.40% of the total number of people receiving the jabs —showed adverse events. On Thursday, Delhi had witnessed its highest number of vaccinations ever since the drive started on January 16 with 73.36% or 5,942 health care workers getting inoculated.At least 22 of the 24 adverse reactions reported were minor, whereas two people needed hospitalisation. Both the people to be hospitalised had received Covaxin shots, as per data seen by HT. However, senior district officials claimed that both the hospitalisations had happened on Wednesday – when Delhi did not have an immunisation drive – following vaccinations that were done on Tuesday. “There were two people who were admitted for observation on Wednesday and were discharged soon after. Both the people had minor symptoms, such as fever for which they had been admitted. No serious adverse event has been reported in the district,” said a senior official from south-west district that showed the two hospitalisations. So far, there has been only one severe adverse event following vaccination using Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. A 22-year-old security guard at the All India Institute of Medial Sciences had developed serious allergic reaction and had to be admitted after getting the shot on January 16. There have been cases of abnormal heart rate, severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis, and faintings reported after Serum Institute of India’s Covishield being administered as well. The vaccine is received by people at 75 centres across the city in comparison to six centre that give Covaxin, under the trial mode. Sixteen cases of AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) were recorded on Tuesday, 26 on Monday and 52 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/twentyfour-adverse-reactions-reported-on-day-4-two-require-hospitalisation-101611252750353.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Chill to replace warm, windy days in Delhi from Sunday, air remains ‘poor’||After experiencing warm but windy days, Delhi’s temperature is expected to plummet again from January 24, a day after a fresh western disturbance passes over the western Himalayas, India Meteorological Department said. On Thursday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 7.4 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 22.8 degrees Celsius, which was a notch above what is considered to be the season’s normal. At the Palam weather station, the minimum temperature was 7.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 20.2 degrees Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that till Saturday, the minimum temperature is likely to hover around 6-7 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperatures will be around 20 degrees Celsius. “From January 24 (Sunday), the minimum temperature will start falling and from January 25, the maximum temperature will also see a fall. This will primarily be because of the cold winds blowing from Jammu Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh after spells of rain and snow on January 23,” said Srivastava. Meanwhile, the air quality in Delhi is likely to deteriorate briefly on January 23, but winds are expected to pick up again and improve the air from January 24. On Thursday, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 296, in the ‘poor’ zone. On Wednesday, the average AQI was 283, also in the ‘poor’ category. According to IMD scientists, this improvement has been because of strong winds blowing over the national capital. The wind speeds have been high on Wednesday and Thursday primarily because of a difference in the maximum and minimum temperatures, scientists explained. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that the surface winds on Thursday were south-westerly and moderate, but will slow down on Friday leading to deterioration in pollution levels. “The AQI is forecasted to be in the ‘poor’ category on January 22. Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, winds are forecasted to increase on January 23 and marginal improvement in AQI is forecasted for January 23 and January 24. However, despite the improvement, the AQI will remain within the ‘very poor’ category,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chill-to-replace-warm-windy-days-in-delhi-from-sunday-air-remains-poor-101611252750897.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Sisodia requests Union education minister to extend contracts of SSA teachers||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, requesting him to extend the contracts of 2,766 teachers working in the national capital under the Centre’s Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) till March 31, 2021. The SSA is a flagship programme of the government of India to support states and Union territories in developing and strengthening formal primary and upper primary education. In his letter, Sisoida said, “I would like to draw your attention towards 2,766 teachers serving as contractual teachers under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan in Delhi. Among them, 1,673 serve in schools run by the directorate of education, and 1,093 serve in schools run by east and south Delhi municipal corporations. Against the annual work plan and budget for the year 2020-21, proposed by the Delhi government in its meeting with the officials of the ministry of education, government of India, on May 27, 2020, the salary of contract teachers was approved only for six months and was conveyed to us on August 20, 2020, by the ministry.”“All of these contractual teachers are central teachers eligibility test (CTET) qualified and till now, they are actively engaged in supporting the semi-online teaching-learning of students in their respective schools. Their six months’ service period was completed on January 19, 2021,” he said. Sisodia, who is also the deputy chief minister of Delhi, said front-line workers, including teachers, have played a major role in the past year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He said it will be unfair if any of them would be asked to leave their services at this point in time. “I urge you to kindly extend the financial support to these teachers till at least March 31, 2021, on the existing cost-sharing basis between the Union and the Delhi government,” Sisodia wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-requests-union-education-minister-to-extend-contracts-of-ssa-teachers-101611252690851.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Covid vaccine: Govt will lean on its socio-economic survey to find people with comorbidities||Findings of Delhi government’s socio-economic survey – which suggests that 2.60% of the population of the Capital have chronic illnesses – is being considered for ascertaining the number of people with comorbidities, who will be in line for getting the Covid-19 vaccination in the third phase along with people aged over 50 years.The survey took place between took place between November 2018 and November 2019.The first phase of the vaccination drive – meant for health workers—is currently underway in the city. Delhi has around 300,000 health care workers of whom 240,000 have registered for the vaccine shots. The overall actual turnout so far since January 16 (the first day of the vaccination drive) has remained around 54.5%, because of what experts attribute as vaccine hesitance. (updated)The second group set to be inoculated are front line workers – which includes the police, sanitation workers, fire officials, teachers, and staff in departments which were engaged in Covid-19 management. Their number is estimated at 600,000 and the registration process for this category is currently underway.The third phase is supposed to cover people aged over 50 years and people with comorbidities, irrespective of their age. While the government estimates the number of people aged over 50 years to be around 4.2 million through electoral rolls, they are yet to ascertain the number of people with comorbidities. Registration for this category (which includes both people aged over 50 years and people with comorbidities) is yet to begin.“For people with comorbidities, so far, the government was relying on hospital data, records obtained from departments such as health and social welfare, and findings of door-to-door health surveys which were launched across all 11 revenue districts during the Covid-19 pandemic. The findings of the socio-economic survey will now help in ascertaining the numbers under this category,” said a senior government official.According to the survey – which covered a sample size of around 10.2 million people, roughly half of Delhi’s population – around 2.60% of Delhi suffers from chronic illnesses that qualify as comorbid conditions. Of those who have comorbid conditions, 36.33% have diabetes, 21.75% have diseases that concern cardiac issues, hypertension and blood circulation, 9.17% have respiratory diseases, 2.33% have thalassemia, 2.02% have tuberculosis, 1.40% have leprosy, 1.33% have some form of cancer, 1.12% have haemophilia, 0.26% have HIV and the remaining 24.29% have been clubbed under “other diseases’’.The report on the survey, which HT has seen, further said, “The highest proportion of diabetes patients in Delhi has been reported as 43.34% from (the) central district and the highest proportion of cardiac patients is 26.20% in north-west district. Further, the highest proportion of patients with respiratory disease is 11.56% in (the) north district.”The findings of the survey have been uploaded on Delhi government’s website. While the Delhi government publishes an economic survey every year, this is the first such socio-economic survey with a much larger ambit beyond economic and welfare indicators, which includes schooling, nutrition, access to resources ranging from drinking water to mobile phones and television, transportation, housing and health indicators, among several others.Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said, “The findings of the survey have the potential to contribute in several fronts of governance. Assessment of the report is underway. We are examining all aspects of it.”The survey was ordered by Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in 2018 after three girls – aged between two and eight years – of a family were found to have died of severe malnutrition in east Delhi’s Mandawli. The project, however, faced delays because of the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 and Delhi Assembly polls in February 2020, said the senior government official.Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department at Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet commission for Covid-19 India vaccination task force, said: “The findings of the government report will be very useful in ascertaining an estimated number of people in the category for people with comorbidities. So far, to identify people in this category, governments across states are digging into hospital records and departmental records. The government is also planning to take data from the Aarogya Setu application in this regard.”To ensure that no person aged over 50 years or those with comorbidities gets excluded from the vaccination drive, the government will also be opening up windows for people to get registered on their own – both online and offline. “But that window will open up after vaccines are administered to front line workers across the country. The approval will be given by the Central government. Provisions, such as giving the general public limited access to the Co-Win system through applications and setting up help desks in government offices, have been discussed in several review meetings,” said a senior official in the Delhi government’s health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-vaccine-govt-will-lean-on-its-socio-economic-survey-to-find-people-with-comorbidities-101611252690231.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal reviews progress of flat construction for slum dwellers||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday directed officials of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to expedite the process of construction and allocation of flats under the government’s “Jahaan Jhuggi Wahin Makaan” (in-situ slum rehabilitation) policy.The directions were issued by Kejriwal during a review meeting, which he had chaired. “The chief minister has instructed officials to expeditiously allot flats that have been constructed for the EWS (economically weaker sections) and slum dwellers. He said all obstacles in the allotment of land required for the construction of upcoming flats should be removed. A total of 9,315 houses are in a ready-to-move condition for 14 identified slum clusters,” the government said in a statement.Apart from these, a total of 28,910 flats are being constructed for 73 identified slum clusters, it said.“We have to ensure that the construction of EWS flats for the in-situ rehabilitation of people is completed within the stipulated timeline. This has to be ensured so that we can provide shelter for every poor person in Delhi,” Kejriwal said during the meeting. Officials of DUSIB said 9,315 houses are in a ready-to-move condition for 14 identified slum clusters. Of these, 9,315 houses, 7,400 are in Bhalswa Jahangirpuri area, where people from seven slum clusters will be relocated. , Another 1,060 houses are in Sultanpuri area for four slum clusters, and 855 houses have been proposed in Bawana area for three slum clusters.In the previous meetings, it was decided that the construction project will be taken up in three phases, and the EWS flats will be constructed on the vacant land available with DUSIB.“The 89,400 houses will be constructed in three phases. In the first phase, 41,400 houses will be constructed by the year 2022. In the second phase, 18,000 houses will be constructed. In the third phase, 30,000 EWS houses will be constructed across Delhi,” the government said. The houses will be multi-storeyed, and five separate tenders will be floated in the first phase, each for a lot of 8,000 houses ( the remaining 1,400 flats are already completed). The time frame for the construction of houses in the first phase is 24 months, with a construction cost of ₹3,312 crore for 41,400 flats, which comes to ₹8 lakh per flat.The project is being executed under the Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-reviews-progress-of-flat-construction-for-slum-dwellers-101611252630948.html
21-01-2021||Other||The burglar who made away with jewellery worth ₹20 crore, but got caught within 24 hours||New Delhi: An electrician-cum-technician working for a jewellery showroom in South Delhi’s Kalkaji used his professional skills and supplemented them by watching YouTube videos to break into the same shop to steal 25 kilos of gold and diamond jewellery worth ₹20 crore, the Delhi Police said on Thursday after arresting the suspect and recovering the entire stolen items.RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said prima facie it appears that the suspect, 25-year-old Sheikh Nur Rahman, operated all alone in a heist that lasted a little over six hours, including over four hours inside the showroom and over 90 minutes that Rahman spent just waiting on the roof of a nearby building.Though the entire stolen jewellery weighed 25kilos, the DCP said that a lot of it was studded with diamonds because of which the market price of the booty was ₹20 crore. “This is one of the biggest seizures of stolen jewellery in India in the recent years,” the officer said. PLANNINGRahman, for the last one year, had been employed at the Kalkaji store of Anjali Jewellers, a Kolkata-based firm which primarily caters to jewellery of Bengali tradition, said the showroom manager Arijit Chakravarty. “He would come across as any other employee, there was nothing in his appearance or mannerism to suggest he plan and execute such a heist,” said Chakravarty. But Rahman allegedly had other plans. “In one year of work, he got to know the showroom inside out. And he used his knowledge and skills to plan the heist for three months. He thought he had a foolproof plan,” said Suvashis Choudhary, joint commissioner of police (southern range).In the last three months, Rahman allegedly studied the layout of the entry and exit points, the position of the guards, the screws that needed to be opened, the CCTV cameras that needed to be disconnected and all other fine details, Choudhary said. “He then invested about ₹50,000 on buying equipment such as hydraulic iron cutters, gas cutters, suitcase, backpack, rope, etc,” said the officer. Then, Rahman created an alibi for himself by taking a 15-day leave -- beginning January 10 -- in which he would visit his home in Hooghly in West Bengal.The DCP said Rahman did book a train ticket and he even went home, but he quietly returned to Delhi within a week. But he stayed away from his residential quarter in Govindpuri that was provided by his employer.THE HEISTAround 9.30pm on Tuesday, he donned a PPE kit to ensure no one would approach him or suspect him on the streets, wore a large face mask, carried a suitcase and the burglary tools in the backpack and reached near the showroom by an auto-rickshaw.“Since he had done his survey, he reached the terrace of a mostly vacant structure located two buildings away from the four-storey jewellery showroom. He then waited on the terrace until 11pm so that the residents of the next two buildings were in their homes,” the DCP said. Once all was quiet, he easily scaled the terrace of the next two buildings and reached the roof of the showroom. He used hydraulic iron cutters to remove the fibre and tin sheets of a small opening in the roof that allowed him access to the generator room on the top floor. He lowered the heavy tools and bags using a rope. Police said Rahman took his time to operate without any noise.Once he was inside, he used the same cutter to break open an iron grill and an iron shutter to gain entry into the actual showroom which was spread over the ground, first and second floors. He didn’t even need the gas cutter he had brought along. Rahman did not touch the jewellery on the first and second floors and went directly to the ground floor because he was targeting jewellery of “low volume and high value”, said JCP Choudhary. “He cut the wires of only one CCTV camera that could have probably given away his identity. He left the other cameras, lest the management check the footage and find it suspicious that so many cameras went off at the same time,” said the officer. He then stuffed as much jewellery he could carry in his bags and left the same way he had come -- using a rope to haul up the heavy bags from the generator room to the terrace. The police said he hired an auto-rickshaw and reached his friend’s home in Karol Bagh even as he planned to leave for Kolkata on Thursday by train. The crime was detected around 11am on Wednesday when the showroom was opened. IN POLICE NETThe police formed 10 teams of about 100 police personnel and began with probing the 35-odd employees of the showroom, other people who visited occasionally for work and local criminals. The CCTV cameras threw up a lot of footage that suggested the role of an insider. For example, the thief had no trouble in finding a particular CCTV camera in the generator room to change its direction. He also knew exactly where to find drinking water on the third floor. “Most importantly, the thief knew which size screwdriver was needed for opening the screws. All this pointed to someone with particular technical skills,” JCP Choudhary said. And Rahman was the only employee who the police believed had the skills and knowledge to execute such a heist.Though Rahman had allegedly prepared an alibi, his absence came across as suspicious to the police. “Our local enquiry revealed that Rahman was seen in Delhi at a time when he was supposed to be in his hometown. He then became the primary suspect,” DCP Meena said. Thereafter, the police used his call detail records and other technical analysis to catch him from his friend’s home in Karol Bagh and recover all the stolen booty from him -- within 24 hours of him leaving the showroom. Rahman has been booked for theft in a dwelling house and trespassing. If convicted, he could land in jail for up to seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-burglar-who-made-away-with-jewellery-worth-rs-20-crore-but-got-caught-within-24-hours-101611252630337.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Temperature to rise till next week under influence of western disturbance||The city woke up to cold and foggy conditions on Thursday morning, when the minimum temperature settled at 7.2 degrees Celsius — down from 9 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. Warmer conditions soon took over, giving way to clear, sunny skies, which pushed the maximum daytime temperature to 20.2 degrees Celsius as against 16.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. While dense to moderate fog will continue to prevail during early morning hours over the next week, official forecasts by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predict that the minimum temperature will rise to about 10 degrees Celsius till January 25 under the influence of a fresh western disturbance.“From Friday a fresh weather system will start forming over the Himalayas. There will be a dense cloud cover over entire North India which will trap heat and push up the minimum temperature, which is expected to remain above normal until January 25,” said Kuldip Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in Gurugram is expected to remain between 20 to 22 degrees Celsius, as per official forecasts.However, following the passage of this weather system — which is expected to bring fresh snowfall to India’s hilly states — cold, northwesterly winds will once again begin to blow over Delhi-NCR, causing the mercury to dip. As per the IMD’s forecasts, the minimum temperature in Gururgam is expected to dip to as little as six degrees between January 25 and 27, while the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 17 degrees Celsius.Gurugram’s air quality, meanwhile, settled in the “poor” category on Thursday, with 234 on the CPCB’s daily air quality index bulletin. This was up slightly from 207 the previous day. With wind speeds expected to range between 15 to 20 kmph over the next two days, there will not be any significant deterioration in air quality until early next week. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “air quality is likely to remain in Poor to lower end of very Poor category on 22.01.2021. The air quality is likely deteriorate marginally but remain in lower end of very Poor category on 23.01.2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/temperature-to-rise-till-next-week-under-influence-of-western-disturbance-101611251070544.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Illegal shops on green belts along Golf Course Ext Road demolished||In a drive to demolish encroachments and illegal establishments on green belts, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on Thursday demolished 35 shops on green belts along the Golf Course Extension Road.The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) and GMDA have decided to rid encroachments in all green belts in their areas of jurisdiction. Officials said that they have identified encroachments along major roads, wherein which shops, vends and other such establishments have come up on green belts. The shops demolished on Thursday included nurseries, furniture showrooms and auto spare parts stores, among several others. RS Bhath, district town planner, GMDA, said that they have identified roads and stretches in GMDA areas and private licensed colonies, where green belts and government land have been illegally encroached upon. “We have received complaints from residents and our officials have surveyed these roads. An inspection of this stretch (Golf Course Extension Road) was carried out a day earlier and similar action would be taken in other areas,” he said. Bhath has appealed to owners of shops and vends that have come up illegally in green belts to start vacating the same. “The drive against illegal encroachments would soon be started in areas under the newly formed municipal corporation in Manesar too,” he said. The GMDA team, which carried out the demolition drive, was supported by a large contingent of police as well as estate officer Rajeev Lamba and duty magistrate Ajay Malik. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, who was part of the team said that the shop owners and those living in tenements were allowed to remove the goods from their establishments before the structures were demolished. “We asked the owners to remove their goods and carried out demolition thereafter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-shops-on-green-belts-along-golf-course-ext-road-demolished-101611251070034.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Haryana govt revises scheduled rates for construction items||Almost three decades after the last revision of Haryana Schedule of Rates (HSR) — the prices paid by the government to contractors for purchasing raw material —the state government on Wednesday announced that a revised list of rates shall be effective from March1.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that, apart from revision of HSR, the government will also introduce reforms in the contract system that include online registration of contractors, payment of bills within 30 days, online evaluation and allotment of contracts to make the system more transparent and accountable. The new HSR will become effective from March, and these would now form the base for inviting new tenders and evaluating work performance. The new HSR would also be revised every five years, said Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) officials. HSR determines the prices that the government pays to contractors for purchasing raw material, such as steel, cement, bricks, etc, used in construction and other works.Khattar, who made the announcement in Chandigarh, said that a new IT regime for tenders will also be introduced in the state from April 1, under which the contractors would have to get registered. Thereafter, they won’t be required to deposit a bid security. He also announced that the tendering process is being made digital, and the evaluation and allotment of work would also be made online. Under the new regime, the state government has also made it mandatory that bills submitted by contractors will be passed in 21 days and payment be made within 30 days from the day the bill is passed. Apart from such changes, the government will also set up an online complaint portal to address the grievances of contractors. The announcements made by the government have been welcomed by contractors in Gurugram and across the state as these would bridge the gap between the market and government rates, which were last revised in 1987.Contractors also said that online registration will end the requirement of paying earnest money but maintained that these decisions would be effective only if these are implemented in letter and spirit. Commenting on the changes introduced by the state government, Shailesh Khatana, chairman, HSVP Contractors Association, said that revision of rates was a long overdue as the rates fixed in 1987 along with premium used to fix the rates of tenders. “The rates of cement, steel, bricks under the previous HSR were quite less despite the addition of premium. Although the premium was increased every three years, it was still difficult to manage the cost. Many items, required now, were absent in the 1987 list. As such, it was difficult for contractors to execute the work” said Khatana. The contractors further said the online registration and stopping the condition of paying earnest money would greatly help them. “Earlier, the contractors were required to pay earnest money fees even before bidding for the tender. There has also been reduction in security deposit from five to two percent. All these steps will greatly help in boosting business and confidence in government contracts,” said Satender Thakran, who is a contractor with MCG, Gurugram. Hari Dutt Sharma, superintending engineer, HSVP said that the revision in HSR was sorely needed and that the new list will include many items that are not present in the existing list. “The revision will ensure that there is not a significant gap in the market rates and schedule rates. The changes announced in the tendering system would also bring in more transparency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-govt-revises-scheduled-rates-for-construction-items-101611251012791.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Six members of Tota Gang arrested from Dwarka Expressway||The police arrested six men of a gang wanted for a slew of crimes, ranging from illegal water business in newer sectors to extortion, robbery, look, kidnapping and murder, from the Dwarka Expressway on Wednesday night.The police said that they are members of the Tota Gang, which has more than 30 members, based in Dhanwapur in Sector 104. There are more than 60 cases registered against them in Delhi, Gurugram, Jhajjar and Sonepat for supplying drugs, illegal liquor, kidnapping, robbery, loot and murder. The police had previously announced a reward of ₹5,000, each, for information leading to their arrest.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the gang controls the water supply to commercial buildings as well as residential societies in the area. “There are more than two gangs that are running illegal water supply and are intolerant of newcomers to the business. They have often resorted to violence against them. They not only threaten newcomers but have assaulted over 15 people, who tried to supply water in these areas, in the last two weeks,” he said.Illegal water extraction is rampant in Ullawas village, Sector 61, Palam Vihar, Pataudi, Badshahpur, Kadipur, developing sectors located along the Dwarka Expressway, including sectors 104, 109 and 111, the police said.“The mafia has a lot of muscle power. The developers and people constructing houses are dependent on them for water tankers. They do not share their office address and visiting their spots is not easy for anyone who is not a part of the trade,” said Sangwan.In an incident of violence on January 13, allegedly perpetrated by the gang, a resident of Garhi Hasaru village in Sector 10, who used to supply water tankers, was severely injured and admitted to a private hospital in Manesar.Sangwan said that the victim could not record his statement as he was brutally beaten by the gang members after he refused to stop water supply. “Pankaj Kumar’s father, in a statement to police, said that his son worked with a water tanker company and supplied water to areas along Dwarka Expressway and Sector 10. A few men from the area had approached him to quit the job but he refused, following which, on January 12, they assaulted him with weapons and iron rods, and robbed him of his money. When the father reached the spot, they fled in their cars,” he said.The police said that Kumar has suffered several fractures and is still unable to walk. Similar incidents have been reported from areas along the Dwarka Expressway, following which the police started tracking the gang members. The gang also used to threaten residents if they refused water supply by them, and were also forced to pay extra.Cases under sections 148 (unlawful assembly), 149 (common objective) 323 (causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 395 (dacoity) and 397 (robbery or dacoity with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code were registered against them at the Sector 10 police station.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the Palam Vihar crime unit arrested them from Dwarka Expressway when they were allegedly trying to rob a commuter on Wednesday night. “This gang remains active at night to rob commuters and during the day, controls the water supply. There have been at least 20 incidents, wherein residents from various new and developing sectors have complained that the water mafia allegedly sabotaged civic water supply to stay in business. They are forced to purchase water from this informal sector at a rate 40 times that of the GMDA’s,” he said.Rao said that there are at least 20 illegal borewells in the area, from which they get their supply.The suspects were identified as Hitesh alias Sonu, Rahul alias Lambu, Rohit Kumar, Neeraj Singh, Lalit alias Kalu and Neeraj Katiya. The police recovered two revolvers, one countrymade pistol, 28 live cartridges, iron rods and pipes, and a Scorpio from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/six-members-of-tota-gang-arrested-from-dwarka-expressway-101611251011689.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Lab results for suspected bird flu samples may take another week||Laboratory reports of two wild bird carcasses — a crow and an egret — which were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal to be tested for bird flu, are likely to take another week to arrive, said officials in the district animal husbandry department on Thursday. This is despite the preliminary tests conducted by the Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab in Jalandhar, following which the samples were suspected to be positive for avian influenza. Suspicions regarding a possible outbreak of avian influenza arose earlier in January and had prompted Haryana government to notify an outbreak of influenza strain H5N8, with Panchkula’s Ganauli and Kheri villages as the epicentre. On January 8, the district wildlife department retrieved four wild bird carcasses, of which two were sent to the lab in Jalandhar for testing. A senior official in the district animal husbandry department, seeking anonymity, said, “We have not yet received any confirmatory statement on whether the samples are indeed positive for bird flu. There seems to be a large backlog of samples sent to the lab from other states that is slowing down the process. It may also be that the samples in fact turned out negative for avian influenza, and therefore the lab is expediting positive reports so that containment operations can be started, wherever needed. We have been told to expect the reports in a week.” Dr Punita Gahlot, the animal husbandry department’s deputy director in Gurugram, confirmed that there have not been any unusual, or excess, deaths among poultry birds in the district. She also confirmed that the department is going to step up clinical surveillance of poultry farms this week, bringing smaller backyard units into the rotation (as opposed to only those farms with a high density of birds). This is being done after a suspected outbreak from Kohand village in Karnal district was reported on Tuesday. Punjab, too, has begun culling poultry this week after confirmation of bird flu at two farms in Dera Bassi. Wildlife inspector Rajesh Chahal, who is the forest department’s nodal officer for all bird flu-related matters, also said that no unusual mortality of wild birds (whether domestic or migratory) has so far been reported from Najafgarh, Basai and Sultanpur wetlands in Gurugram. “We are also in touch with wildlife department staff in neighbouring districts. For now, our orders are to keep doing daily patrols, but there doesn’t seem to be any cause for alarm, “ said Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lab-results-for-suspected-bird-flu-samples-may-take-another-week-101611251012272.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram receives 39K additional doses of Covid-19 vaccine||Over 39,000 additional doses of Covishield — one of the two Covid-19 vaccines approved for emergency use — have been allocated for Gurugram to be given to the front-line healthcare workers as the second dose 28 days after their first vaccine shot, said district health department officials on Thursday. Despite the reluctance among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccine that has led to vaccine wastage of almost 10% in the state, the district health department has been focusing on utilising the available doses by increasing the daily turnout. The state on Tuesday received a stock of 214,000 doses of Covishield vaccine. “As many as 38,980 doses will arrive in Gurugram on Friday. The stock includes almost 1,500 doses for healthcare workers commissioned by the Central government and 37,480 doses for the state healthcare workers,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said. Three vaccination drives have been held so far in Gurugram since the launch on January 16 and over 7,500 health care workers have been covered. In the previous drives, the turnout has been almost 60% in district, which increased to 80% on Thursday. Senior state officials said that due to hesitancy among healthcare workers, several vaccine vials have been wasted. According to them, a vial once opened has to be used in five hours. A single vial of Covishield has 10 doses, while Covaxin has 20.“The open-vial concept is not applicable for Covid-19 vaccine, in which the remaining doses can be used later,” said Dr Virender Ahlawat, state immunisation officer. “The vaccine wastage is almost 10% presently. Wastage is mostly reported in the last hours of the vaccination. If a vial is opened and not many people turn up, then the doses get wasted. Therefore, in districts with lower turnout, limited vials are being used. Only two to three cases of vials breakage before or during the inoculation have been reported so far.”A few officials privy to the matter, however, said that the vaccine wastage is higher than 10%. “The vaccine wastage could have been avoided if front-line workers like police and urban civic body workers were included along with the health staff. Currently, due to lower footfall of health workers, many police personnel are also getting skeptical,” said a senior official of the Gurugram Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-receives-39k-additional-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-101611251010556.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Grey-winged blackbird spotted for first time in Gurugram||Birders this week confirmed the first sighting of a male grey-winged blackbird in Gurugram, in the Aravalli forests near Bhondsi Nature Park, on Bharat Yatra Kendra Road.Prior to this, the species was last spotted in the region in 2016, in New Delhi. Experts said the sighting, though rare, isn’t surprising, as there has been an increase in the number of Himalayan birds spotted during winter months in Delhi and Gurugram, in recent years.The grey-winged blackbird is a large, passerine bird belonging to the thrush family, and may be recognised from its silvery wings and bright orange bill. It is a resident of the northern Indian subcontinent, with a habitat that extends all the way to parts of South-East Asia (including Myanmar and Thailand). While commonly seen in India’s Himalayan states, the bird has been previously photographed in Delhi-NCR on just one occasion — at the Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary on January 4, 2016.Amit Sharma, the Gurugram-based birder who first spotted the male blackbird on Tuesday, said, “There is also another sighting of the same species, recorded by veteran birder Suresh Sharma, over three decades ago, from Sultanpur during the winter season. More recently, another fellow birdwatcher, Pritpal Panjeta, has seen the bird near Damdama lake. But this week’s sighting at Bhondsi is the first photographic record of the species in Gurugram. We also saw the bird again at the same place on Thursday.”Sharma also happened to photograph three other rare species in Bhondsi this week, including a black-throated thrush, Tickell’s thrush, and an orange-headed thrush. “This forest in Bhondsi has yielded some very interesting finds recently. I have especially noticed that there is a very healthy population of thrushes there in the winter season. There are only a few remaining patches of Aravalli wilderness left like this and protection for them needs to be increased,” Sharma said.Experts said that the blackbird’s sighting bolsters the theory that Himalayan birds are seeking habitats with little anthropogenic stress, after similar sightings of the Himalayan bluetail in Faridabad and the Himalayan desert finch in Sirsa, this winter. Last year, a flock of fire-capped tit (another Himalayan species) was also seen in Bhondsi, while birders in Delhi had sighted two black-hooded orioles (also native to the Himalayas) at Buddha Jayanti Park. More recently, in 2021, a sub-adult of the same species was spotted at the Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary as well.Dr Surya Prakash, a former head of the School of Life Sciences at Jawahar Lal Nehru University, said, “It isn’t that there are more birds migrating to Delhi from the Himalayas during winter. My sense is that this might have been happening all along, and we are only observing it now because of an increased number of birders. We have recently also seen the Tickell’s blue flycatcher in Delhi, another rare sighting. It seems that these birds are seeking out places in the Aravalli hills, like Bhondsi and Mangar, with very little anthropogenic stress that resemble their native habitats in the lower Himalayan foothills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/greywinged-blackbird-spotted-for-first-time-in-gurugram-101611251010989.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||79% coverage recorded on third day of vaccination drive||At least 4,001 front-line healthcare workers in the district took the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday, according to the district health department. Nearly 79% turned up for a shot after walk-in vaccination of the registered beneficiaries was permitted by the government earlier this week. In the last vaccination drive on Monday, only 60% of the targeted workforce received inoculation. The health department expects to retain Thursday’s accelerated pace by covering healthcare workers from nursing homes and small clinics from Friday onwards. Only healthcare workers in government facilities and private hospitals have been covered so far in the three vaccination drives held in the city. On Thursday, against the target of inoculating 4,661 people with Covishield, almost 3,786 (81%) took the jab at 49 vaccination sites. The takers for Covaxin, on the other hand, remained low, with 215 people getting inoculated out of 400 (54%) as hesitancy to fill the consent form continued to persist among health workers. The vaccination took place in at least 53 sites, which included 14 government sites and 17 big private hospitals, where multiple booths were set up. Till now, a total of 7,490 health staff have received the Covid-19 vaccine in Gurugram— the highest in the state. In Haryana, at least 45, 893 people have received the first dose and are awaiting the second one to be administered 28 days later. “We are still not satisfied with the vaccination numbers. More motivation is required to get rid of apprehensions regarding the vaccine. As Friday is the day for the routine immunisation, it is likely the vaccination numbers may fall. Inoculation will take place only in private hospitals,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Among various private hospitals, Columbia Asia Hospital vaccinated at least 120 health staff members, completing their Thursday’s target. Dr Nikhil Mishra, chief medical superintendent, Columbia Asia Hospital, said, “On Wednesday, the health department provided the hospital with the entire list of the staff registered on Co-WIN platform. We posted the information on the hospital’s social media group, apprising the staff about the walk-in. This expedited the process in comparison to Monday’s drive.”Max Hospital also managed to achieve 95% of its target to vaccinate 330 health care staff. Arpita Mukherjee, vice president, operations, Max Hospital, said, “The new approach of walk-in has been helpful in conducting the vaccination drive. Three counters were set up for the vaccination, where doctors and staff directly came and got vaccinated within five minutes. Their phone numbers and ID proof were identified on Co-WIN platform.”Mukherjee added that jab taken by many senior doctors of the hospital instilled confidence among the other health staff. “Considering the response received, we expect to cover our 2,400 health care workers by January 25,” said Mukherjee. According to Mishra, vaccination being a voluntary exercise cannot be imposed on employees having apprehensions about taking the shot. The total staff of the Columbia Asia Hospital is 454, out of over 175 have been inoculated. “The drive will continue every day for the next few days in the hospitals. We not only have to cover our own staff but also an additional lot of 400 health workers from nursing homes and diagnostic centres within the vicinity,” said Mishra.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “From Friday onwards, the health staff from small nursing homes and clinics will be inoculated. They have been alloted vaccination sites in at least 12 private hospitals. Messages have been delivered to them through Indian Medical Association and to the medical officers.” Meanwhile, in the government facilities, the process of inoculating staff from ESIC hospital and government dispensaries has already started. In community centre in Sector 10, pharmacists, ambulance drivers, doctors and their assisting staff from Islampur, Civil Lines received inoculation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/79-coverage-recorded-on-third-day-of-vaccination-drive-101611251010054.html
21-01-2021||Other||Labourer killed, two injured in Ambala building collapse||A 35-year-old labourer was killed and his two coworkers were injured after an under-construction building collapsed in Ambala Cantonment’s Patel Nagar on Thursday night. The labourers were laying the slabs of the roof, when it suddenly caved in, burying three of them under the debris. Locals rushed one of the workers to the hospital, while the police rescued two later, one of whom died on the way to the Ambala civil hospital.The deceased was identified as Siya Ram and injured as Ram Singh, 50 and Gopal, 40. They are natives of Uttar Pradesh and currently living in Ambala for work. According to doctors, Ram was brought dead, while the other two had sustained head and spinal injuries, but are stable. Mahesh Nagar police station in-charge Ajiab Singh said, “We are investigating the matter and will be registering an FIR against the contractor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/labourer-killed-two-injured-in-ambala-building-collapse-101611249149852.html
21-01-2021||Other||Poor turnout in Pune district leads to vaccine wastage||PUNE The experts have cited concerns over wastage of vaccine vials due to poor turnout in the Pune district.Each vial has ten doses and vials need to be used up within four hours once opened.At Kasarwadi site in Pimpri, just one health care worker turned up on Wednesday leading to waste of nine doses.Overall, Pune city reported 47 per cent turnout on the third day (Wednesday), forcing Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to halt inoculation drive on Thursday.According to officials, 14 doses of Covaxin vaccines were wasted during three days of the vaccination drive in Pune City and 89 doses in total in the state.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune Zilla Parishad, said that though the turnout in Pune district is around 70 per cent, the authorities are taking measures to address the hesitancy among healthcare workers.“We have seen some hesitancy among healthcare workers with comorbidities. They are unsure about whether to continue medication from conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure and others. We are trying to address this by appointing ambassadors inside the hospital who will help clarify their doubts. We are also organising meetings with associations to spread awareness among various groups,” he said.He also added that the doubts of high-risk groups among healthcare workers are addressed by the doctors to ensure that they have more clarity.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief, health department, PMC, said that the department is making all efforts to ensure that the vaccines are not wasted.“We have cleared the glitch in the Co-WIN application and the messages for inoculation were sent on Thursday so that the beneficiaries can visit the centres on Friday. We are hopeful that the turnout will be good on Friday. And once the number is achieved there will be no wastage of vaccine,” he said.He added that the centres have slots which ensure that at least a few beneficiaries are there before a few vials are opened to reduce wastage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poor-turnout-in-pune-district-leads-to-vaccine-wastage-101611249089773.html
21-01-2021||Other||Alarm bells ring over safety of Covishield manufacturing unit amid fire incident||PUNE The building inside Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) Manjri plant where the fire broke out during afternoon hours on Thursday may have been an alarm for the vaccine manufacturer even as the facility where Covishield vaccine is being manufactured and stored is one-kilometre away through aerial distance though, by road, it is estimated to be two kilometres away.Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector, who visited SII, said, “The fire broke out at a new under-construction building which is built under the special economic zone (SEZ). The Covishield facility is completely safe and nothing to worry about.”The building was being readied for SII’s rotavirus and BCG vaccines.Chetan Tupe, MLA, Hadapsar, who is representing the area and was among first to reach the spot, said, “The fire broke out at Manjari site the Covishield plant is located at Hadapsar facility.”The company had connected both the campuses by internal road and in between, there are some residential areas of private people.The two facilities – Hadapsar and Manjri- are being used by world’s largest manufacturer to produce 1.5 billion doses of various vaccines including Covishield, Polio, Diphtheria, Tetanus, Pertussis, Hib, BCG, r-Hepatitis B, Measles, Mumps and Rubella.According to SII website, “ It is estimated that about 65 per cent of the children in the world receive at least one vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute. The vaccines manufactured by SII are accredited by the World Health Organisation (WHO), Geneva and are being used in around 170 countries across the globe in their national immunization programmes, saving millions of lives throughout the world.”The Manjri facility is part of the first biotech park in the state as part of Special Economic Zone (SEZ).The Manjri area where the fire broke up was falling in the Grampanchyat area. Last month Maharashtra government gave nod to merge 23 surrounding villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).“As per the state government’s decision, the Serum Institute would become part of the PMC limit,” said Tupe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alarm-bells-ring-over-safety-of-covishield-manufacturing-unit-amid-fire-incident-101611249030382.html
21-01-2021||Other||PMC fire department battles staff crunch||PUNE The shortage of manpower at Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) fire department came to light amid the fire incident at Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) Manjri facility on Thursday.According to the official data, at least 510 posts are lying vacant in the fire department.Out of the sanctioned 910 posts of different ranks like officers, technicians and firemen, only 400 posts have been filled while 510 posts are still lying vacant which is putting a strain on the current functioning of the fire department, said officials.The fire department has stated that currently, a staff of at least 12 persons is managing the control room while the requirement is around 50 persons.Prashant Ranpise, head, PM fire department, said, “The department is operating at nearly half the manpower.”He said, “ We lack trained drivers, assistants, firemen and other skilled fire staff for carrying out firefighting operations. We have communicated to the government, but there has been no development. Our work has been affected due to manpower shortage.”The fire department has recorded 750 small and big fire and natural hazard incidents in 2020, while in 2019 as many as 650 such incidents were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-fire-department-battles-staff-crunch-101611249030830.html
21-01-2021||Other||Expert panel will probe fire incident at SII: Ajit Pawar||PUNE An audit will be conducted in the fire incident at Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) Manjari plant that claimed five lives, while an expert panel will determine the cause of the fire, according to Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister of Maharashtra and Pune guardian minister who visited the facility on Thursday night.While Pawar in Pune said that the experts’ opinion was required to determine the cause, health minister Rajesh Tope, in Mumbai, said that the sparks that flew due to the welding work had caused the fire while the material inside the room had aggravated it.“An audit will be conducted to see if the structure, which is a special economic zone (SEZ), had all the required facilities in place. A team of experts will also determine the cause. A further probe will be launched if anything is found amiss in the audit,” said Pawar.“Crime branch Unit 5 will be conducting an investigation in the matter.We have approached various fire agencies to look into the matter,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police.The deceased labourers were identified as Rama Shankar Harijan, Bipin Saroj, both residents of Uttar Pradesh; Sushil Kumar Pandey from Bihar; Mahendra Ingle, and Pratik Pashte from Pune, according to the NDRF team which was present during the rescue operation.Meanwhile, for the bereaved families of the labourers, SII has announced a payment of ₹25 lakh each along with the other procedural ex-gratia, according to a statement issued by the organisation. The state has, however, not made any ex-gratia-related announcement.“We were all working on the fourth and fifth floor when the fire broke out and we saw smoke filling in space. Some of us managed to escape the situation. However, my brother and others could not come out quickly. Now I am being told by others here that he has died in the tragedy,” said Sudhanshu Kumar, brother of Sushil Kumar Pandey, a resident of Bihar, who died in the fire incident.It was the construction contractor who told the rescue officials that some of his men were missing, according to Chetan Tupe, a legislator from Manjari.“After the dousing process was over, the officials went back inside and found the men on the top floor of the building. The fire started on the top two floors and they got stuck there with no way of escaping,” said Tupe.“The bodies were found in the second sweep conducted after the fire dousing and cooling was done,” said Murlidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune.Hours after the fire was doused, sparks were flying during the cooling process at the building which had caught fire in the afternoon. “We have vehicles on standby to deal with these remnant fires,” said Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, Pune fire brigade.While a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and a private team of Amanora group were also involved in the rescue process along with the Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expert-panel-will-probe-fire-incident-at-sii-ajit-pawar-101611249029803.html
21-01-2021||Other||Pune district reports 455 new cases, 7 deaths||PUNE The district reported 455 new cases of Covid-19 and seven deaths on Thursday, according to the state health department.At least five deaths were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and one each in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural.The district has so far reported a total of 383,883 lakh Covid cases out of which 362,848 patients have recovered, 7,923 are reported dead and 13,112 are active cases.PMC has so far reported 196,628 Covid cases and 4,466 deaths, while PCMC has reported 96,092 cases so far and a total of 1,303 deaths. Pune rural has reported 91,163 total cases and 2,116 deaths.As per the state health department, 3,980 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 18,84,127 and the recovery rate is 94.79%.Across Maharashtra, 2,886 new cases of Covid-19 and 52 deaths were reported on Thursday.The case fatality rate in the state is 2.53%.The state health department stated out of 1,40,19,188 laboratory samples, 20,00,878 have tested positive till Thursday i.e 14.27% patients.Currently, 2,12,023 people are in home quarantine and 1,936 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-455-new-cases-7-deaths-101611248969739.html
21-01-2021||Pune||College students in Pune demand restart of offline classes||Pune: Students pursing college and university studies have sought resumption of campus studies after the state government allowed offline classes for Class 9 to Class 12 students from November last year. Offline classes for Class 5 to Class 8 will also resume from January 27. The state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had announced that a decision will be taken by January 20 about reopening universities. The state higher education directorate is waiting for orders. “One semester is complete and soon there will be exams, but still lectures at colleges have not started. I came from Latur to Pune just to attend college, as it is always better than online education. Back in our village, there is internet connectivity issue. With news of university and college campuses reopening making the rounds, I returned to Pune.” said Siddharth Kamble, a second year Arts students at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). With schools and colleges in the state closed since March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, classes were conducted online. With the online mode of teaching having limitations, Samant had said that he will meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and a decision to reopen colleges will be made soon. “We are getting many emails from students to start the traditional way of teaching of offline classes, practical and other classroom learnings. Many principals and faculty have showed their readiness to resume campus studies and we are waiting for the nod from the state government,” said SPPU pro vice-chancellor NS Umrani. Dhanraj Mane, state director of higher education, said, “We have yet to receive any order to restart offline lectures in universities and colleges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/college-students-in-pune-demand-restart-of-offline-classes-101611246929535.html
21-01-2021||Pune||Station masters hold protest outside Pune DRM office||Pune: Many railway station masters staged a protest outside the Pune divisional railway manger (DRM) office near the Pune railway station on Thursday to press for their demands being heard and addressed. The protestors’ demand include opposition to privatisation of Railways, implementing old pension scheme, insurance cover up to ₹50 lakh for those employees who worked during the Covid lockdown. The one-day protest is part of the national stir organised by All India Station Masters’ Association (AISMA). It is the sixth phase of the protest. On October 7, through email, the association had sent their demands and opposed the railway board’s decisions. The association staged a “night protest” by lighting lamps at workplace on October 15. From October 20 to 26, station masters tied black ribbon on shoulder in protest. “We sat on one-day hunger strike on October 31 and later agitated outside the DRM offices across the country. Today, again, we did a hunger strike protest for our demands and it is seen that despite repeated protests, the railway administration is not considering our demands. Now we plan to go on an indefinite strike soon. Then it will be the responsibility of railways if the railways’ work is disrupted,” said association national president Dhananjay Chandratre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/station-masters-hold-protest-outside-pune-drm-office-101611245549398.html
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER Chandigarh doctors endoscopically remove brain tumour from 16-month-old girl||Doctors at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research claim to have removed a large brain tumour through the nose from the world’s “youngest-ever patient”.The girl, aged 16 months, was referred to PGIMER from Uttarakhand, with loss of vision.“The child was normal and playful a few months back. For the last 20 days, her mother noticed that she was not following anything shown to her. The child’s MRI revealed a calcified brain tumour at the base of the skull, suggestive of craniopharyngioma of size 3cm, large for a child of one year, close to critical neural structures, such as optic nerves and hypothalamus,” PGIMER stated in a release.“These tumours are usually operated on through open surgery and the remaining part is treated with radiation therapy. Over the last few years, such tumours are being removed through the nose endoscopically by neurosurgeons teaming with ENT surgeons among patients older than six years. However, endoscopic removal through the nose is highly challenging in small children because of small nostrils, immature bones at the skull base and proximity to crucial blood vessels,” the release added.The operation was conducted by a team of endoscopic skull base surgeons, including Dr Dhandapani SS and Dr Sushant from the department of neurosurgery, and Dr Rijuneeta from the department of ENT. “The youngest child reported to date having undergone endoscopic surgery through the nose for such tumours was 2 years old, operated at Stanford, USA, in 2019,” PGIMER said.On how the operation was conducted, doctors said extensive drilling of the immature bones was carried out using a diamond drill and computer navigation, and a tumour-removal corridor was created. The tumour was dissected from critical structures using angled endoscopes and removed through the nose despite very little working space.After a six-hour-long surgery, the child was moved to the ICU and recovered well. After 10 days of surgery, she has improved vision and no complications, with a CT scan showing almost complete removal, doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-chandigarh-doctors-endoscopically-remove-brain-tumour-from-16-month-old-girl-101611244529437.html
21-01-2021||Pune||Pune district records state’s lowest offline school attendance||Pune: Pune district has registered mere 10.1 per cent offline attendance of students — the lowest turnout across Maharashtra, according to the state education department. The dismal figure is recorded even as 68.4 per cent schools, for Class 9 to Class 12, have reopened in the district. The poor student attendance on school campuses reflects the fear and anxiety of Covid spread in the minds of parents. As per the education department, Maharashtra has reopened 95.9 per cent schools in the state for Class 9 to Class 12 and the turnout by students is just 38.4 per cent. Sunanda Wakhare, education officer, Pune zilla parishad, said that the turnout of students in rural areas of Pune district has been good. “We saw that initially when the schools reopened for Class 9 to Class 12, the student turnout was relatively less due to the virus fear in the minds of parents. The consent letters were also less. With time the turnout of students has improved significantly. We hope city schools also follow the example set by their counterparts in rural areas,” said Wakhare. She noted that the Pune rural has better turnout of students as compared to Pune city. “The schools for Class 9 to Class 12 within Pune municipal limits reopened from January 4. The turnout and consent of parents is increasing gradually. It is likely to get better,” said Wakhare. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) additional commissioner Suresh Jagtap said that schools within civic limits have seen around 40 per cent consent letters from parents. “Some schools have touched as much as 60 per cent. An increase in student attendance has also been reported at some schools,” said Jagtap. Student turnout at school campuses District==Schools Reopened (in %)==Turnout (in %) Parbhani==89.5==99.6 Yevatmal==83.7==96.7 Solapur=99.8==78.7 Kolhapur==94==70.1 Jalna==99==65.3 Ahmednagar==90.8==33.1 Amravati==88.4==16.5 Akola==91.3==10.7 Pune==68.4==10.1 Maharashtra==95.6==38.4 Source: State education department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-records-state-s-lowest-offline-school-attendance-101611244109323.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally crosses 20-lakh mark with fresh 2,886 cases||More than 10 months after reporting its first Covid-19 case, Maharashtra reached the grim milestone of 20 lakh infections on Thursday after 2,886 people tested positive for the infection, while 52 patients died due to the disease, said a state health official.With the new cases, Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 20,00,878. The grim milestone was reached more than 10 months after the first coronavirus case was reported in the state in second week of March 2020.The state had crossed the 10-lakh case mark in second week of September.Maharashtra has also become the first state in the country to reach the 20-lakh Covid-19 caseload mark.The state reported 52 more deaths due to the infection, taking the fatality count to 50,634, the official said.Also, 3,980 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, pushing the tally of recovered people to 19,03,408, the official said.The state now has 45,622 active cases of Covid-19, he said.Mumbai city reported 527 new cases, which pushed its overall count to 3,04,653, while its death toll rose to 11,278 after 10 more patients succumbed to the infection, the official said.With 61,719 new tests, the number of samples examined in the state so far has gone up to 1,40,19,188, he said.The Mumbai division, which consists of the city and its satellite towns, reported 942 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total count to 6,86,152.A total of 19,427 people have died due to the infection so far in the region, the official said.The Nashik division's cumulative case tally stood at 2,73,232 and the death toll at 5,050.The number of cases in the Pune division stood at 4,95,129 and the Covid-19 deaths at 11,495, he said.The Kolhapur division has reported 1,17,412 cases and 4,004 deaths till now, while the Aurangabad division's infection tally stood at 74,406 and the fatality count at 1,980, the official said.The Latur division has reported 81,235 cases and 2,452 fatalities until now.The Akola division has registered 69,293 cases, while 1,561 people have succumbed to the disease so far.The Nagpur division has recorded 2,03,869 infections and 4,585 fatalities till date, the official informed.So far, there have been 150 Covid-19 cases where patients from other states received treatment in Maharashtra. Of these, 80 have died, he said.Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 20,00,878, new cases: 2,886, deaths: 50,634, discharged: 19,03,408, active cases: 45,622, people tested so far: 1,40,19,188.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-19-tally-crosses-20-lakh-mark-with-fresh-2-886-cases-101611243348248.html
21-01-2021||Other||Maneka Gandhi gets civic chief to change order on pet waste in public domain||PUNE BJP leader and animal activist Maneka Gandhi, on Thursday, asked the Pune municipal commissioner to alter a notice the PMC put out on pet waste, after receiving complaints from Pune residents.An order which comes under the part of Swachh Bharat campaign states that owners of pets found relieving themselves on the road will be fined ₹180.However, residents have now complained about officials levying the fine.Nupur Ghandekar, a resident of Kalyani nagar, received a notice from the PMC to pay a fine of ₹200 for pet waste.Ghandekar raised the issue with Gandhi.An email from Maneka Gandhi reads: “I have spoken to the Municipal Commissioner (PMC) to amend the notice and remover the urination part as no one can do anything about dog urinating and no bathrooms have been made for dogs, so what should they do? He has said he will amend it immediately.”“Instead of harassing people during morning walks, PMC should provide poop bins on the roads which will make things easy for pet parents. On the peeing part, PMC should seriously rethink and change the previous order,” said Vineeta Tandon, co-founder and trustee, Animal rescue trust.PMC commissioner, Vikram Kumar said, “Yes, the necessary changes will be made and a fresh notice will be issued on pet waste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maneka-gandhi-gets-civic-chief-to-change-order-on-pet-waste-in-public-domain-101611243689190.html
21-01-2021||Pune||Three Pune schools yet to submit audit report: DyDE||Pune: The office of deputy director of education (DyDE) is yet to receive audit report from three of the seven private schools that it sought following allegations by Parents Association of Pune of overcharging of fees and denial of online education to students. The schools were expected to submit the report by January 20. While two of the schools have sought stay by the court for submission of audit report, the remaining one had stated to release it on January 21 (Friday). Deputy director of education Audumbar Ukirde said, “We have asked the schools who have got the court stay order to share a copy with us for official use. We will be compiling the audit reports of the rest of the four schools and submit it to the director.” While the department is following up the matter with schools, the delay in submission of audit report and not a conclusion in sight have left some students of Class 10 and their parents to face the issue of uncertainty. Jayshree Deshpande, president, Parents Association of Pune, said the audit reports submitted by schools are critical pieces of document. “We have been protesting against overcharging of fees by many schools. The audit report will be an official document that will clarify how much fees are charged. Parents have been charged exorbitant fees by private schools. Authorities must address the grievances of parents,” said Deshpande. She said that action should be taken at the earliest to ensure that students are not at a loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-pune-schools-yet-to-submit-audit-report-dyde-101611232828177.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Bird flu won’t scare away avid birders||Birdwatching has gained popularity over the last year as Nature took centrestage amid the lockdown. And as India is abode to a variety of resident birds and migratory ones in winters, this is the ideal season for birdwatching. Even the recent bird flu outbreak hasn’t significantly dented the enthusiasm of bird watchers, who are also taking precautionary measures.“There hasn’t been much of an impact (of bird flu scare) in terms of birders going out because we are aware of the situation. There hasn’t been human transmission of the flu till now, but we need to take safety measures. Sanctuaries were shut, but we went to other places such as Najafgarh Jheel, Yamuna bank, etc.,” says Pankaj Gupta, from Delhi Bird Foundation, who adds that there hasn’t been a dip in queries for walks from professionals, but newbies are a little hesitant.Abhishek Gulshan, nature educator and founder Ninox - Owl about Nature, which conducts nature walks and workshops says, “We’re still conducting walks. One doesn’t have to be so worried. There are certain precautions you need to take. We’re wearing masks already, so that helps. Concerns do come and we address them. The motive is to not increase business but as an educator, it is my responsibility to provide adequate information.” He shares that one photo walk was cancelled last week amid the outbreak, but he “wanted to collect information, educate the participants, give a clear picture as we can’t jeopardise lives”. Gupta and Gulshan advise maintaining distance from birds and roosting spots, avoid touching dead/dying birds and request attendees to inform authorities about the same. Participants, too, are being cautious. Ishita Sachdeva, an avid birder who recently returned from Bandhavgarh National Park, says, “As long as we don’t come in contact (with birds), it’s fine. We don’t go too close anyway...”Wildlife researcher Roshan Puranik cautions, “It’s a great time to spot migratory birds, but if you see a rare one, don’t run carelessly. Maintain social distancing, wear a mask. Make sure everyone in the group has their own binoculars, water, eatables, etc.” To beginners, he suggests a good pair of binoculars and getting familiar with calls of common birds at least.Interact with author/sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bird-flu-won-t-scare-away-avid-birders-101611232300051.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government orders probe into Serum Institute fire; clarifies Covid-19 vaccine plant is safe||The Maharashtra government has ordered a detailed investigation into the fire incident which occurred at Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Thursday afternoon. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said directives have been issued for a detailed probe into the incident. He also clarified that the plant where the Covid-19 vaccination is being manufactured is safe. “Efforts to douse the fire at Serum Institute of India are going on war footing. The city and district administrations have been activated to help with the operation. Directives have been issued to the Pune Police commissioner (Amitabh Gupta) for a detailed investigation into the incident,” Pawar said in a statement. “People in the country and abroad have expressed concerns over the incident. I would like to clarify that I have been informed that the plant where the Covid-19 vaccination is being manufactured is safe. At present, our focus is to douse the fire and minimise the damage caused,” he said. Chief Minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray also took stock of the situation and directed authorities to control the situation. “CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray is in touch with the Pune municipal commissioner and is taking complete on-ground updates. He has directed the state machinery to coordinate and ensure that the situation is under control,” tweeted the CM’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-orders-probe-into-serum-institute-fire-clarifies-covid-19-vaccine-plant-is-safe-101611230488964.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav, Raj expected to share stage at Bal Thackeray’s birth anniversary event||Maharashtra chief Uddhav Thackeray and his estranged cousin, Raj Thackeray, are expected to share the stage on Saturday at the inauguration of Bal Thackeray’s statue in Mumbai on the occasion of Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena founder’s 95th birth anniversary, people aware of the matter said.The cousins earlier attended a virtual all-party meeting called to discuss the Covid-19 situation in May.Uddhav Thackeray will unveil the nine-feet-tall statue bronze statue on an 11-feet pedestal. Residents have opposed the installation citing a 2013 Supreme Court order that said statues cannot be installed on roads.The statue installed by the Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will be the first in Mumbai, where Bal Thackeray established the party. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis have also been invited for the unveiling event.Raj Thackeray was seen as his political heir, but Bal Thackeray chose his son, Uddhav Thackeray, to lead the party in 2003, leading to a split in the Shiv Sena. He launched Maharashtra Navnirman Sena in March 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-raj-expected-to-share-stage-at-bal-thackeray-s-birth-anniversary-event-101611229828408.html
21-01-2021||Other||Joint political front needed to solve industrial issues in Chakan: German Consul General||PUNE Dr Jurgen Morhard, Germany’s Consul General to India, on Thursday, stressed the need for a joint political front for solving problems related to bad roads in the Chakan industrial area. “We need a joint effort by all political forces to address the issue of bad roads and the companies are facing problems due to the highly deteriorated conditions of the roads in the industrial area. We need long-term sustainable roads of high quality as part of the solid infrastructure development plan for Chakan industrial hub,” he said.Morhard expressed the need for a robust infrastructural development plan for Pune, while addressing mediapersons on the sidelines of the inauguration of h2e’s official website and the plant’s production facility at the company premises near Sangam Bridge on Thursday. h2e Power Systems is India’s first fuel cell company.He further said, “There is a need for a joint effort to understand that Pune is the number one industrial hub in Maharashtra and thus it needs very best roads which are not dilapidated every year after the monsoon. This is not happening at other places. We need a solid infrastructure for Pune. We have to look into smart traffic management systems to manage traffic at vital junctions in Chakan.” “We need to have solid infrastructure, including 24- hour power supply, uninterrupted internet. All these things have to be in place and only then, can we continue to be world class,” he added.When asked about his previous complaint to the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, regarding crime in the Chakan industrial belt, he said, “We can observe some political influence in the way companies are running their operations. How the tenders and contract for transport and particularly scrap are released. European companies have to be openly transparent and cannot do political favours. We need a joint effort to leapfrog the quality of infrastructure in Pune.” With a portfolio of clean energy solutions, the new pilot facility will produce SOFC (Solid Oxide Fuel Cells) Power Generators and SOEC (Solid Oxide Electrolyser) for production of Green Hydrogen and other e-Fuels, with a initial capacity of 2MW per annum. It is building a greenfield manufacturing facility with a capacity of 100MW per annum in Manjri near Pune, which will be state-of-art and one of the largest facilities in the world.Founder and managing director of h2e Power, Siddharth R Mayur said, “2021 brings with it renewed hope among the people of the world. Some of the biggest learnings from the past year have led us to push further and bring about global impact with sustainable solutions for a clean and green environment. With that thought, we are launching the h2e Climate Change Vaccine plan, with which we aim to bring impactful change via clean and green energy solutions for enterprises of all scales.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/joint-political-front-needed-to-solve-industrial-issues-in-chakan-german-consul-general-101611229407867.html
21-01-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal Guv, wife donate ₹5,00,001 for Ram Mandir construction in Ayodhya||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and his wife on Thursday donated ₹5,00,001 for construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.A Raj Bhavan statement said a signed cheque was handed over to a team of the VHP and RSS, adding, the donation was made in their personal capacity.All India Working President of VHP Alok Kumar flew from Delhi to Kolkata this morning and called on the governor, leading a seven-member delegation.The donation was made in the name of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, which has been mandated to collect funds for the temple, Dhankhar said in the statement.He also termed the construction of the Ram Mandir as an epochal development."The fact that it is in pursuance to the unanimous verdict of the highest court of the largest democracy in the world, is a tribute to richness and resilience of our age old ethos and civilisation. The intent and spirit of donation, rather than the amount, is all important," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-guv-wife-donate-rs-5-00-001-for-ram-mandir-construction-in-ayodhya-101611227809010.html
21-01-2021||Patna||Family, friends remember Sushant Singh Rajput on his 35th birthday||On Sushant Singh Rajput's birth anniversary, family and friends celebrated the late actor's legacy by sharing photographs, memories and moments from his life.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14, 2020, leaving the film industry and his fans shocked.The actor’s sister Shweta posted a photo of young Rajput with his mother and wrote on Twitter, “This smile can melt every heart Happy #SushantDay.”Shweta also announced a scholarship programme for aspiring students to pursue studies at the Department of Physics at the University of California, US.“I am happy to announce that on 35th Birthday of Bhai, a step has been taken towards fulfilling one of his dreams. The Sushant Singh Rajput Memorial Fund of $35,000 has been set up in UC Berkeley. #SushantDay,” she said.Rajput’s former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande said she would like to remember him as a happy, intelligent, romantic, mad and adorable person.Sharing a throwback video of Rajput playing with his dog in their house, she said, “I don’t know how to start and what to say but yes today I’m gonna share few of your old videos Sushant to celebrate you. These are the only memories I have with you and I will always remember you Like this happy, intelligent, romantic, mad and adorable #HappyBirthdaySSR.”Rajput’s friend and co-star Kriti Sanon said she would like to remember him as a smiling child.“This is how I’ll remember you.. Smiling like a child! Happy Birthday Sush. I hope you are smiling and at peace wherever you are..” Sanon tweeted alongside a smiling photo of Rajput.Actor Manoj Bajpayee shared a poster of “Sonchiriya”, a film in which he worked with Rajput.“Always remember you celebrate you, your work and cherish all the time that we all spent with you Sushant Singh Rajput!! Jahan bhi ho tum khush raho,” he wrote.TV-film producer Ekta Kapoor shared a short video clip of Rajput as Manav from her popular show “Pavitra Rishta”, which made the actor a household name. “Sushi forever! Shining bright like a star! Love n light wherever u r! Happie birth on earth day!,” she tweeted.The actor’s longtime friend, casting director-filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra, who directed his last film “Dil Bechara”, posted an animated video of Rajput of all his films and wished him happy birthday and said, “Miss you bro.”Filmmaker Abhishek Kapoor, who helmed Rajput’s debut film “Kai Po Che” and later worked again with him on “Kedarnath”, said he is missing him a lot.Rajput’s co-star from his debut film “Kai Po Che” Rakummar Rao shared a picture on his Instagram Stories of the actor playing a guitar with a heart emoji to express his sentiment.Bhumi Pednekar too took to her Instagram stories and shared a picture of a smiling Rajput and captioned the post with a heart emoji. The two have worked together in 2019 movie “Sonchiriya”.Rajput's death had sparked a debate about the treatment of outsiders in Bollywood with allegations of nepotism. The speculation around the actor's death, however, took a turn when his father K K Singh had lodged a complaint against the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty for his suicide.The CBI had taken over the probe from Bihar Police into the alleged abetment to suicide case.In October, the medical board of the New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had ruled out murder in the death of Rajput, terming it "a case of hanging and death by suicide"Actor Kangana Ranaut, who had accused prominent producers in Bollywood for Rajput's death, took to Twitter to reiterate her claims."Dear Sushant, movie mafia banned you bullied you and harassed you, many times on social media you aksed for help and I regret not being there for you. I wish I didn’t assume you are strong enough to handle mafia torture on your own. I wish ...Happy Birthday dear one #SushantDay," she wrote.Rajput's last film “Dil Bechara”, released on Disney Hotstar last year on July 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/family-friends-remember-sushant-singh-rajput-on-his-35th-birthday-101611227293207.html
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||10 months after Covid outbreak, colleges reopen to poor response in Punjab||Ten months after they were shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, higher education institutions reopened to a poor response in Punjab on Thursday. Less than 10% of the students reported for classes at private and government institutes in Bathinda and its adjoining districts on the first day. Heads of the institutions said that the students and faculty members were yet to warm up to offline classes. Government Rajindra College principal Surjit Singh said of the 4,300 students, less than 10% attended college on Thursday. “The college has been restarted in a phased manner since November but the attendance has remained thin. Students need time to build confidence. The first year exams start from January 25. We hope to see improvement in attendance from February,” he said. Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University registrar Gurinder Pal Singh said classes would begin from February as exams are underway. The university has announced it will allot hostel rooms to students from places located more than 40 km from the campus. “There is hardly anyone who has opted for the offline mode of examination and we are proceeding accordingly. We are gearing up to conduct classroom teaching after the exams,” he said. Gurmeet Singh Dhaliwal, the chairperson of the Baba Farid Group of Institutions, one of the largest colleges in the area with nearly 10,000 students in different streams, said it is difficult to implement the state government’s decision to resume higher institutes fully. Dhaliwal said with the given infrastructure and transport facilities, maintaining social distancing is not easy. ONLINE AND OFFLINE MODES ADD TO PRESSURE The state government’s directive is with a rider that students will be allowed to take classes according to their choice and no institute should compel them to attend the classes physically. “It is not possible to run both offline and online mode for classes or exams with the given strength of teachers and facilities. Teachers have expressed concern over holding offline classes when the pandemic is still not over. We need uniformity,” he said. Earlier, the state government allowed the phased reopening of universities and colleges from November 16. In the first phase, only departments with hands-on training such as sciences and medicines were allowed to open and only final year students were called for physical classes with 50% attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-months-after-covid-outbreak-colleges-reopen-to-poor-response-in-punjab-101611226948291.html
21-01-2021||Pune||Pune-based woman’s painting raises awareness during US election||PUNE The artwork of city-based youth, Vaidehi Reddy (21), was used to create awareness among women voters during the recently held US election.Think Woman, a Maryland-based organisation that creates awareness among women regarding early voting in the US presidential election, used Reddy’s painting during their campaigns.The painting was used for their online and offline campaigns.“The organisation saw my artwork online and approached me for the painting. It is an honour for me that the painting was selected and used by the organisation for a noble cause”, said Reddy who made the painting in 2018.“The painting is abstract contemporary and reflects independent thinking, inspiration and dreams of 21st-century women, which I think very few paintings have explored in the recent past,” she said.According to the organisation, the painting helped them to attract attention and create awareness during the elections and received a good response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punebased-woman-s-painting-raises-awareness-during-us-election-101611226168626.html
21-01-2021||Other||“Godman” booked for duping man of Rs3.80 lakh||PUNE A 36-year-old man has been booked under Anti Black Magic Act and for cheating the family of an ailing IT professional in Kondhwa by posing as a self-proclaimed “godman” and promising cure through magical pigeons.The accused has been identified as Kutubuddin Najmi (36), a resident of Mithanagar in Kondhwa-Khurd, according to the police.The complaint in the matter was lodged by Abizar Juzar Fatehpurwala (36), a resident of Sanlunkhe Vihar while the ailing man has been identified as his brother Huzefa Fatehpurwala (38).The ailing man had been visiting multiple doctors after having suffered for the past several months, according to the complaint in the matter lodged by his brother. On November 25, 2020, the office in Fakri Hills, Huzefa’s mother met a man named Shaikh Hakimuddin Raj Malegaonwala who asked for her number and promised to introduce her to a godman who would cure her son of his ailment.The godman, Najmi, came to their house that evening and asked Huzefa’s father to come to a house in Mithanagar. As his father, mother, and the ailing brother went to the specified house in Mithanagar, Najmi told them that Huzefa’s estranged wife, who had been living away from him since 2017, had performed black magic on him. The family members believed him as Najmi produced details about the woman that were not revealed to him by the family. He also told them that two other members of the family could be under the influence of her black magic.Over the next few weeks, the man promised them a miracle treatment with the help of four magical pigeons which will be sourced from Mumbai at the cost of ₹6,80,000. The family paid a sum and later suspected the man’s promises to be fake. When they asked for their money back, Najmi paid ₹3,00,000, but failed to return the remaining amount.“This case was registered yesterday (Tuesday). The man scared the family that the ailing man could even die. He promised wrongfully to the family that the pigeons would save his life,” said Milind Deshmukh of Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti which helped the family lodge a complaint.A case under Sections 386, 420, 506, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(2) of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 was registered at Kondhwa police station. Police sub-inspector PU Kapure of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/godman-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs3-80-lakh-101611226109219.html
21-01-2021||Other||PNG Jewellers duped of ₹1.6 crore||PUNE PN Gadgil Jewellers has been duped of ₹1.6 crore by a person who promised them help with procuring a loan for expansion. The incident happened between October 2018 and February 2019, according to the complaint. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Saurabh Gadgil (43), chairman and managing director, PNG Jewellers, a resident of Sadashiv peth. The accused has been identified as Rohit Sharma, a resident of Chandigarh, one of the areas in North India where the store is trying to expand.While a case has been registered at Vishrambaug police station, Pune police crime branch Unit 1 officials will be investigating the case, according to Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune police.The jeweller had loaned ₹56,50,000 to a man in order for him to start a business of his own. Additionally, he also promised to help the jeweller in procuring a loan of ₹50 crore in order to launch a store in Chandigarh, Punjab, according to the complainant.“Rohit Sharma, a resident of Chandigarh, approached us in 2018 to help generate interest in our brand through the franchisee route with relevant local investors. The project required him to help raise investments of up to 50 crore for the purpose of setting up four-five franchisee stores. The deal with Sharma required us to pay an upfront brokerage of two per cent. A total of 1.6 crore was paid to Sharma in 2019, subject to a full refund in case the deliverables were not met by Sharma within a stipulated time frame. Security cheques to the tune of the sum paid were also taken by our management from him. When the deliverables were not met and the promises of Sharma fell apart, we decided to deposit the security cheques, which bounced,” read a statement from Amit Jitendra Vaidya, head of franchising, PNG Jewellers.A case under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Vishrambaug police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/png-jewellers-duped-of-rs-1-6-crore-101611226108657.html
21-01-2021||Other||SII dispatches Covishield to Bhutan, Maldives||PUNE Covid vaccine export from India began with a maiden long-haul journey to Bhutan followed by the Maldives on Wednesday. The Oxford university-AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine left Serum Institute of India, Pune, on Tuesday night by road before being dispatched to Paro, Bhutan, in an Indian Air Force aircraft, according to an Airports Authority of India (AAI) official. A statement from the Indian Air Force is awaited.“The first consignment takes off for Bhutan! India begins supply of Covid vaccines to its neighbouring and key partner countries,” wrote Anurag Srivastava, ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson, on Twitter as a SpiceJet aircraft left from Mumbai on Wednesday.Srivastava has also confirmed flight movement to the Maldives from India. The vaccines were sent to the two countries under the Vaccine Maitri initiative, as referred to by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday.“India is deeply honoured to be a long-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community. Supplies of Covid vaccines to several countries will commence tomorrow (Wednesday), and more will follow in the days ahead,” PM Modi had tweeted on Tuesday night.The vials reached from Pune to Mumbai airport on a truck that left from Pune on Tuesday night, according to Kunal Agarwal, co-founder, Koolex Cold Chain Solution which undertook the road transport.From Mumbai airport, the vials were transported to Bagdogra airport, West Bengal on a SpiceJet flight, according to an Airport Authority of India official.A Pawan Hans helicopter was also supposed to be involved in carrying the vaccines to Paro in Bhutan.“The vaccine boxes were supposed to go from Bagdogra airport to Paro, Bhutan on a Pawan Hans helicopter which was supposed to come from Gangtok, Sikkim. However, due to heavy rainfall in Gangtok, the Pawan Hans could not leave from there. Finally, with a go-ahead from MEA, the flights left on an Indian Air Force aircraft,” said Subramani P, director, Bagdogra International Airport.From Bagdogra, there were multiple options on standby for the final phase of transport to Bhutan. An emergency truck was called from Koolex Cold Chain Solution to carry the boxes by road to Thimphu in Bhutan.“There was a truck that was kept on standby on a late-night request from the Ministry of External Affairs to carry the boxes from Bagdogra airport to Thimphu in Bhutan. However, it was finally not used,” said Agarwal.Further shipments will be done by India to Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles, according to a statement by MEA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sii-dispatches-covishield-to-bhutan-maldives-101611226049213.html
21-01-2021||Other||State govt to withdraw offences under Section 188 against lockdown violators||PUNE After opposition from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), state home minister Anil Deshmukh said the government will withdraw cases against people booked for violating Covid-induced lockdown norms.“The state government will withdraw the offences filed under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 188 against violators amidst Covid-19 following judicial norms,” tweeted Deshmukh.Section 188 of the IPC states that any person who disobeys an order given by a public servant will be punished with imprisonment up to one month.Earlier NCP members met the minister nad submitted an application regarding the same.“The minister told us that he will consult with the home department on taking back the notices sent to various persons under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said Pradeep Deshmukh, member of state executive committee of NCP.Currently, 28,000 residents are under investigation of Pune police for violating Section 188 during the lockdown period curfew following the outbreak of Covid-19.The offences were lodged mainly during March, April, May and June, when Pune, along with other parts of Maharashtra were under strict lockdown for violating rules such as not wearing masks, stepping out of the home during curfew orders, and keeping shops open beyond deadlines.The NCP leader in his petition has pointed out that the cases against the violators must be cancelled as they had stepped out to perform their daily chores.He said, “This would put a heavy strain on the police machinery. The citizens booked are living under the fear that they will face legal action. However, since the citizens have helped the government in combating Covid-19 crisis, we demand that the notices be cancelled on humanitarian grounds. The minister has sent our request to the secretary and we are sure about positive action in this regard,” he said.Earlier, Right to Information (RTI) activist Vivek Velankar had criticized the city police for initiating the process to prosecute the citizens and said that the policemen were visiting the address provided by citizens when they were booked under IPC 188 where their address proof and photo identity was being taken.The visiting policemen have been asking the citizens to remain present in the court for hearing of their respective cases.Earlier, NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade had written to the home minister requesting him to ask the Pune police chief not to go ahead with the action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-govt-to-withdraw-offences-under-section-188-against-lockdown-violators-101611226048478.html
21-01-2021||Other||Vaccination drive: Better turnout in rural areas of Pune district than city||PUNE On the third day of phase one drive on Wednesday more beneficiaries were vaccinated in rural Pune as compared to the city area.According to the district health office, 184 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) out of the targeted 600 healthcare workers, while in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) 213 were vaccinated out of the targeted 800 beneficiaries.In rural Pune, 958 workers were vaccinated out of the targeted 1,500 workers.As many as 30.66 per cent were vaccinated in Pune city, while 60 per cent were vaccinated in the rural area.For the first three days of the vaccination drive, Pune rural has reported a higher percentage of more than 60 per cent, than the city areas both from PMC and PCMC.The civic authorities have blamed glitches in Co-Win app for low turnout in city area because of which late messages are being sent to the beneficiaries.Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said, “We are trying to get every beneficiary targeted to be vaccinated on the same day. We do design the session two days prior to the vaccination so that the messages reach the beneficiaries well in advance so that they reach the site on time. For Friday we will plan the session Wednesday night itself so that the portal sends the message and the beneficiaries can reach the site on time and plan the day accordingly since they are all healthcare workers.”Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC health chief, said, “The reason for the low turnout is due to the software glitches because of which the messages are reaching the beneficiaries late. The software sends the messages based on random selection and on Wednesday the messages were sent too late.”“The five vaccination centres started functioning after 10am which resulted in only 184 beneficiaries being vaccinated. Once the messages reach the beneficiaries after 10 am it is difficult for the beneficiary to report to the site. This app cannot be controlled by us in any way,” he said.“It would be difficult to say if there is any hesitancy because this is a voluntary vaccination process and when we say whether we need counselling or not then these are our own healthcare workers. We can do the counselling for the general public, but the reason for low turnout is purely technical,” he said.The PMC which had eight vaccination centres on Saturday, January 16, and had targeted to vaccinate 800 beneficiaries, on Monday and Tuesday reduced three private hospitals and brought down the centres to five with six sites by adding an additional site at its own Kamala Nehru hospital.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, had said that the Covid vaccination at private hospitals was shut because there were some problems in private hospital site creation.On Tuesday a total of 2,900 beneficiaries were to be vaccinated out of which only 47% or 1,355 were vaccinated of which 958 (64%) were from Pune rural, 184 (31%) from Pune city and 213 (27%) from PCMC. The district office reported only one minor adverse effect through the day at New Bhosari Hospital in the PCMC area.No vaccination drive todayDr Ashish Bharti, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health chief, said, that there would be no Covid-19 vaccination on Thursday and on Friday and Saturday the drive will continue.“There is no further instruction on which days the vaccination would take place for the next week. The uncertainty on the vaccination days is also leading to a lower turnout,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-drive-better-turnout-in-rural-areas-of-pune-district-than-city-101611226047975.html
21-01-2021||Other||Pune district reports 5 deaths, 582 new Covid-19 cases||PUNE The district reported 582 new cases and five deaths due to Covid-19 infection on Wednesday, according to the state health department. The total number of cases now stands at 3.83 lakh of which 3.61 lakh have recovered, 7,916 have been reported dead and 13,807 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The city reported 323 new cases taking the total caseload to 196,399 and one death which took the death toll to 4,461. While Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 106 new cases taking the total to 95,992 while no deaths were reported so the toll is 1,302. Pune rural reported 153 new cases which took the cases to 91,037 while four deaths were reported which took the death toll to 2.115.The department reported that 4,589 patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.99 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.07%. Also, 3,015 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 19.97 lakh. In addition, 59 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 51,795. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.53%. Out of 1,39,57,469 laboratory samples, 19,97,992 have been tested positive (14.31%) for Covid-19 until January 20. Currently 2,18,325 people are in home quarantine and 2,230 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-5-deaths-582-new-covid-19-cases-101611226047427.html
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt gives ₹5 lakh each to kin of four farmers who died during protest||A compensation of ₹5 lakh each has been given to the families of four farmers from Ludhiana who lost their lives while participating in the ongoing protest against the Centre's agricultural reforms, a senior officer said on Thursday.Braving cold weather conditions and rain, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three farm laws.Several farmers participating in the agitation have died due to different reasons including heart attack and road accidents.On the directions of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, ₹5 lakh compensation is being provided to the families of farmers who unfortunately lost their lives during the protest against the Centre's farm laws, said Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.Till date, he said, five farmers from Ludhiana district have lost their lives while participating in the agitation.While ₹5 lakh compensation has already been provided to families of four farmers from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund, the case of the fifth farmer is under process, he added.Farmer groups have alleged the three farm laws will end the minimum support price (MSP) and mandi procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.The farmers have refused to end their agitation till these laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-gives-rs-5-lakh-each-to-kin-of-four-farmers-who-died-during-protest-101611223242932.html
21-01-2021||Pune||Fire at Serum Institute’s Manjri plant in Pune; 10 fire tenders at the spot||A fire broke out at the Manjri plant Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune, on Thursday afternoon. While the plant produces multiple vaccines, the facility affected by fire did not have any production work on at the time of the incident, said the police. The cause of fire is being investigated, said fire brigade officials.The call was received at 2.50pm after which 10 fire tenders and at least two tankers were rushed to the spot, said Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol.Later, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office tweeted, “CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray is in touch with the Pune Municipal Commissioner and is taking complete on-ground updates. He has directed the state machinery to coordinate and ensure that the situation is under control.” Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said in a statement, “Efforts to douse fire at Serum Institute of India are on at a war footing. The city and district administration have been activated in helping the operation. Directives have been issued to the Pune Police commissioner for detailed investigation into the incident. Following the incident, concerns have been expressed in the country and abroad. I have been told that the plant where Covid-19 vaccine is being manufactured is safe. At present, our focus is to douse the fire and minimize the damage.” Pune Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta confirmed that the facility had nothing to do with Covid vaccine. “The primary information was that there’s a fire on the fourth and fifth floor of the building in the Manjri plant of the institute. No production was going on at the moment. Fortunately, there is no casualty. The first count of people has been done and a second count is going on. We are hoping that the fire will be brought under control in the next hour.” SII official Vivek Pradhan also confirmed that the plant wasn’t involved in Covishied production.“This plant has nothing to do with Covishield. The Covishield plant is at least a km away from this building. Only raw material was inside this building. Nobody is trapped there. There were not more than 5-6 people in that space,” he said.SII CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted, “Thank you everyone for your concern and prayers. So far the most important thing is that there have been no lives lost or major injuries due to the fire, despite a few floors being destroyed.” Local MLA Chetan Tupe said after reaching the spot, “I checked with fire brigade officials and they told me no casualty has been reported so far. The fire broke out at M SEZ-3, a newly constructed building. It is a part of Special Economic Zone developed by the Serum Institute. No vaccine production was going on there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-at-sii-s-manjri-plant-in-pune-3-people-rescued-101611223347816.html
21-01-2021||Other||Manipur celebrates 50th statehood day with a parade||Manipur celebrated its 50th statehood day by holding a parade at the 1st Manipur Rifles ground in Imphal on Thursday.Chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh, deputy chief minister Y Joykumar, other ministers, MLAs, the Chief Secretary, the DGP and other top civil and police officials attended the parade.The chief minister inspected the parade and received the salute from eight contingents, including the 5th Battalion Manipur Rifles, 8th Indian Reserve Battalion,Combined Civil Police (male) Imphal East and Imphal West,9th Indian Reserve Mahila Battalion,Home Guard (male),Combined Village Defence Force Imphal East and Imphal West, Traffic Police and CID-Technical and Bomb Squad Contingent.Also Read: First sewage treatment plant in northeast India starts functioning in ManipurSpeaking on the occasion, chief minister Singh said that Manipur had been positioned in the top three among the northeast and the hilly states in India Innovative Index 2020, released by Niti Aayog on January 20.Giving credit for the achievement to everyone who had contributed to the development of the state, he stated that the recognition given by Niti Aayog had proved that the state is moving towards upward growth trend with new ideas, development at grassroots level and considerable improvement in law and order.He also observed that Manipur would be one of the best states in the country if everyone, regardless of their position, worked with sincerity and transparency and stood together against the evil of corruption.Singh also presented a cheque of ₹5 lakh to the sister of (late) Major Laishram Jyotin as part of the Major Jyotin Bravery Award.Major Laishram Jyotin, a doctor with the Indian Army from Manipur, who died in fighting a suicide bomber in Kabul on February 26, 2010. He was also conferred the country’s highest peacetime gallantry medal, Ashok Chakra, posthumously in 2011.Earlier in the day, the President of India and Prime Minister had separately greeted the people of Manipur on the occasion of statehood day.In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday wrote, “Statehood Day greetings to the people of Manipur. India is proud of Manipur’s contribution to national development. Manipur is a powerhouse of innovation and sporting talent. I wish the state the very best in its journey towards progress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-celebrates-50th-statehood-day-with-a-parade-101611222988194.html
21-01-2021||Pune||Fire at SII's Manjri plant in Pune: 'No loss of life', tweets Adar Poonawalla||A fire broke at a plant of Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Thursday afternoon.The blaze was reported on the fifth floor of SII's Manjri plant, where BCG vaccine-related work was underway. The facility where Covishield vaccine is manufactured and stored is far away from this facility, said SII executive director Suresh Jadhav.Pune's Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said a call was received at 2.50pm following which 10 fire tenders and two extra tankers were rushed to the spot.“There were four people inside the building. We have rescued three persons so far although smoke is hampering the work. The fire has so far spread to the third, fourth and the fifth floors. We have sent ten fire tenders so far,” Chief fire officer, PMC, Prashant Ranpise said.Maharashtra chief minister's office has issued a statement in this regard. "CM Uddhav Thackeray is in touch with Pune Municipal Commissioner and is taking complete on-ground updates. He has directed state machinery to coordinate and ensure that situation is under control," the statement read.Hours after the incident, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted that despite a few floors being destroyed in the fire, there was no loss of life."Thank you everyone for your concern and prayers. So far the most important thing is that there have been no lives lost or major injuries due to the fire, despite a few floors being destroyed," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-breaks-out-on-5th-floor-of-sii-building-in-pune-5-fire-tenders-on-the-spot-101611221671279.html
21-01-2021||Patna||Bihar seeks Nafed’s help for procurement of pulses, maize at MSP||The Bihar government is planning to rope in national agriculture cooperative marketing federation (Nafed) to facilitate procurement of pulses and maize on the minimum support price (MSP) from the farmers in Bihar.Nafed had discontinued procurement of maize, pulses and oilseeds from farmers after the state government froze its account operations, following the tax dispute in procurement of paddy on behalf of the food corporation of India (FCI) in 2012.Secretary, food and consumer protection department, Vinay Kumar has led several rounds of talks with Nafed officials in this regard. The department is likely to send a proposal to the Central government soon to finalise the procurement modalities. “The department aims to launch procurement of pulses from this season, if everything goes as per the plan,” said the secretary.Nafed branch manager, Patna, Yatendra Singh said that the federation was capable of procuring farm produce from the farmers, if the state government demonstrated its willingness. “As per the talks with the state government officials, Nafed is readying its network to purchase maize and pulses in the upcoming season,” said Singh.Nafed has supplied about 1.36 lakh metric tonne of chana dal (split chickpea lentils) to Bihar government under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyann Ann Yojna (PMGKAY) for its distribution to the poor during the pandemic phase last year.Officials said that the farmers of Bihar were estimated to produce more than five lakh MT of pulses, despite decreasing acreage of farming area. With procurement of pulses discontinued for nearly a decade, farmers have shifted focus on cultivation of MSP assured crops like paddy and wheat. Currently, pulses are being grown on 4.39 lakh hectare as compared to 10.83 lakh hectare in 1991-92.Also Read: Bihar: Hanged in 1857, Waris Ali of Tirhut finally added to Dictionary of MartyrsMaize growing farmers of the state are also likely to benefit from the Nafed’s expected re-launch of its procurement. Last year, farmers of the Seemanchal region were compelled to sell maize at throw away prices against the MSP of ₹1850 per quintal. Sporadic protests were made across the region by the farmers against the state government’s apathy towards their demand for maize procurement.An agricultural activist Mahendra Yadav, who had filed a petition in the Patna high court to restart procurement of maize, attributed the state government’s readiness to engage with Nafed for procurement of farm produce, other than paddy and wheat, to the ongoing farmers’ protest in the national capital.“Farmers had explored all options, from democratic protests to legal recourse, to sell their maize on the MSP, but the food and consumer protection department officials refused to take any notice,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-seeks-nafed-s-help-for-procurement-of-pulses-maize-at-msp-101611221329226.html
21-01-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government weighing quota formulas for panchayat polls||The Uttar Pradesh government was unsure over which mathematical formula to use for allocating different castes and class categories to village panchayats, causing the delay in finalisation of the reservation policy for the three-tier panchayat polls, people aware of the issue said.This situation had arisen even as potential candidates were anxiously waiting for the categorisation, they added. The state government had earlier indicated it wanted to hold panchayat polls in the state in March-April and preparations were being made accordingly. The real election activities including campaigning in rural areas will begin only after the category status of the village panchayats is known.Currently, two formulas are being discussed to finalise the reservation policy, according to those in the know of things. One is to adopt the rotation formula under which panchayats can be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes (STs), the Scheduled Castes (STs) and the Backward Classes (BCs) on the basis of the strength of their population under a block in the descending order but in a way, as far as possible, that a village panchayat is not reserved for the same category for which it was reserved in the previous election.The second formula being discussed suggested afresh allocations without taking the status of Panchayats in the previous elections into account and treating them as if they were never reserved or categorised earlier.State panchayati raj minister Bhupendra Singh Chaudhary said the reservation options were being discussed before a policy was framed to allot posts/seats to the reserved categories in village panchayats and wards.“We have to decide between rotation and the Zero Formula,” he said, adding, “The policy will be finalised soon.”Officials in the panchayati raj department disclosed that the government wanted to drive the Zero Formula to reserve village panchayats afresh as if they were being reserved for the first time.“If this is done, then village panchayats under the block will be reserved for STs, SCs and BCs on the basis of the strength of their population in the descending order as per entitlement which is, for example, 21.5% for SCs,” the officials explained.“The panchayats/posts that are left after the quota allotment is over are allotted to the general or the unreserved category where a candidate belonging to any caste or class is entitled to contest,” they added.Also Read: Savarkar’s portrait in Uttar Pradesh House triggers rowA government order issued in 2015, however, is coming in the way of applying the Zero Formula and the government, officials said, may have to amend the old rules to have its way.As per the rules laid down under The Uttar Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation and Allotment of Seats and Offices) (Tenth Amendment) Rules, 2015, the number of offices of pradhans for the STs, SCs, and the BCs “shall” be allotted to different gram panchayats under the development block on the basis of the ratio of their population in the panchayat area in the descending order, that is, from amongst the gram panchayat in the block.The gram panchayat, in the territorial area of which the ratio of population of the STs is the highest “shall” be allotted to them and gram panchayats, in the territorial area of which the ratio of population the SCs is the highest “shall” be allocated to them and the same for the BCs.And in the subsequent election, the allotment “shall” be made in the same manner but in a way, as far as possible that a gram panchayat is not allotted to the category to which that panchayat was reserved in the previous election, the rules clarify.The rules provide for fresh reservation or adoption of a Zero Formula in a situation when the general delimitation of the state makes massive changes in the boundaries of village panchayats.As many as 7,315 new village panchayats and around 10,000 new territorial constituencies (wards) were carved out following a general delimitation ordered by the then Akhilesh Yadav government in 2015 in the wake of Census in 2011.“Widespread changes made it necessary for the then government to go for reserving village panchayats afresh without factoring in their categorisation in previous elections,” those privy to the matter said.Prior to 2015, the general delimitation was done in 1995.“Logically, the government should proceed further from 2015 and adopt the rotation formula to reserve village panchayats and wards. The same formula should continue till there is general delimitation after 15 years or so,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-government-weighing-quota-formulas-for-panchayat-polls-101611220184868.html
21-01-2021||Pune||Citizens demand relaxing mask compulsion in private vehicles||A week after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) expunged the fine for not wearing masks inside private vehicles, similar demand is gathering steam in Pune. The Anti-Helmet Compulsion Action Committee (AHCAC) which has members from various political parties and social activists, on Wednesday, issued a joint statement addressing the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar, urging him to stop collecting fines from people for not wearing masks in private vehicles. Last week, the BMC announced that passengers and driver riding a private vehicle will not have the compulsion of wearing masks inside. The AHCAC statement highlighted the decision taken by BMC in Mumbai. “In PMC region, a fine of ₹500 is still being collected from those not wearing masks in four-wheelers. The Pune Municipal Commissioner should take a decision to stop this,” stated the AHCAC in its statement. NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade, BJP leader Sandeep Khardekar, and RTI activist Vivek Velankar are among members of the AHCAC. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta stated he doesn’t have an objection in not fining travellers in private vehicles for not wearing mask. According to Gupta, it’s up to the PMC commissioner to take a call. “I have had consultation with the municipal commissioner this afternoon. I have clarified that I do not have any objection regarding this decision. It’s up to the PMC to decide now,” said Gupta.Citizens have in the recent past complained about the fines being collected from them for not wearing masks in private vehicles. Some have also said that a fine has been imposed if the mask was slipped below the nose. PMC chief Kumar said that the decision is under consideration. While BMC proceeded with the decision, PMC officials said the relaxation is still under consideration. “We have not taken such a decision yet. We are thinking about it. We will surely let you know if we decide something,” said Kumar. Many demanded that the enforcement of this fine has become a draconian exercise. “I had to pay ₹500 fine near agricultural college signal when I was traveling in my car with my driver. I was wearing a mask but it had dropped down below my nose. I had not realized it. Police stopped us and demanded to pay the fine which I paid. This does not make any sense. Wearing a mask is necessary but why such unnecessary harassment while traveling by a private vehicle?” asked Pandurang Kulkarni, a resident of Kothrud. There are also incidents of corruption in this process. “A passenger in my car was fined but then he gave ₹200 and was let off,” said Chetan Karote, a driver in a private transportation service in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/citizens-demand-relaxing-mask-compulsion-in-private-vehicles-101611220286805.html
21-01-2021||Pune||MNS agitates over blackbuck deaths in Katraj zoo, raises safety concerns||The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena(MNS) on Wednesday held an agitation in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) general body meeting over the safety of Katraj zoo and other public gardens in the city. Earlier this month, four blackbucks died after they were attacked by stray dogs in Katraj zoo. The Blackbuck is a protected animal under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, which prohibits their hunting and poaching.Referring to the Katraj zoo incident, MNS elected members on Wednesday raised safety concerns of all gardens across the city. MNS leader Vasant More said, “The administration is responsible for the deaths of blackbuck. It’s the negligence of the administration. The Municipal commissioner must take action against the concerned persons.” The zoo currently has 448 animals and about 100 staffers who keep the zoo guarded and take care of animals. The Raj-Thackeray led party also raised the issue of public safety in other gardens across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mns-agitates-over-blackbuck-deaths-in-katraj-zoo-raises-safety-concerns-101611220226912.html
21-01-2021||Pune||MSEDCL begins serving notices to defaulters; Fadnavis and Shetti oppose move||Despite the opposition parties and farmers’ outfits threatening a backlash, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) has released figures of dues of ₹2359.13 crore in the western Maharashtra region while sending notices to consumers to pay bills or face disconnections. According to MSEDCL, there are a total of 30,92,370 defaulters in western Maharashtra. Of the total consumer base, there are 8.33 lakh defaulters in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area alone. The MSEDCL has appealed consumers to pay bills as early as possible failing which there will be disconnections of power supply as per electricity act 2003. At present, the MSEDCL has served notices as per the act to industrial and commercial defaulters. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) strongly objected to the notices saying the government is changing its stand. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had earlier promised to waive off inflated power bills sent during lockdown though it later changed its stand and decided not to offer any incentive. “The government had earlier promised to waive off the bill but instead of doing that it has served notices to people. We will not let this happen,” said SSS leader Raju Shetti, who is part of MVA. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis also accused the MVA government of double standards. “Now, that the gram panchayat polls are over, the government has instructed to disconnect the power supply. During the lockdown period, MSEDCL gave hefty bills to consumers and now they have decided to disconnect electrical connections. The MSEDCL has given a concession to builders and developers in bills and now they are pressuring the common man to pay bills,” said Fadnavis in Mumbai. According to MSEDCL officials, the arrears amount has been increased from the last three months in western Maharashtra region that includes Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur districts. In the last three months from October to December-2020, there was an addition of around 15 lakh defaulters taking the outstanding amount to ₹693 crore. Now, it has reached 2,059 crore in the western Maharashtra region. In Pune district, there are a total of 13, 86,000 defaulters. MSEDCL has calculated an amount of ₹682 crore as arrears. The defaulters comprise of those in residential, industrial, commercial and public services, some have-not paid electricity bills in pre-Covid and post-Covid period (till date). Anukush Nale, regional director of MSEDCL of Western Maharashtra region said, the MSEDCL is facing a financial crunch. “We are appealing defaulters to pay electricity bills. At present, we are appealing to residential consumers. However, we have started sending notices to industrial and commercial consumers. We are not taking any action on residential consumers right now. However, if they fail to pay bills despite the repeated appeal, we have to take action as per the electricity act and it includes disconnection.” Box-1 Pune District – Total consumers- around 36 lakh Types of consumers No of consumers Amount ( ₹in cr) Residential– 11, 56.750- ₹635 Commercial - 1, 94,287- ₹295.55 Industrial 27,970 ₹150.35 Public services 6995 ₹15.60 Total 13, 86,000 1,096.90 Box-2 In PMC and PCMC area – Total consumers- appox 25 lakh Types of consumers No of consumers Amount ( ₹in cr) Residential– 6, 80,330 400.25 Commercial - 1, 35,000 206.00 Industrial 16,220 70.55 Public services 14, 2200 5.18 Total 8, 33,000 682.00||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-begins-serving-notices-to-defaulters-fadnavis-and-shetti-oppose-move-101611220167584.html
21-01-2021||Pune||PMC proposes bicycle track on 10 routes, plans to expand network||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to revamp the existing bicycle track network in the city and introduce 22 new cycle tracks on various city roads. The civic body this week floated tenders inviting bids to build bicycle tracks on 10 routes including Swargate to Khadakwasla, which will be around 30 kilometres. The 10 streets identified by PMC for laying either new bicycle track or revamping existing ones are part of 22 routes where the civic body plans to build a 100-kilometre-long network of bicycle tracks. According to city mayor Murlidhar Mohol, due to the lack of political and administrative will, the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) could not be implemented, the bicycle scheme was part of the CMP. “We had planned to restore around 55 kilometres of the cycle track. However, the PMC had earlier dug roads to lay water pipelines for a 24x7 water supply project as a result of which work on the cycle track was affected. Now the civic body has completed 450 kilometres of water pipeline work, we have decided to restart cycle track work on those roads where PMC has laid pipelines. We have decided to revamp the bicycle scheme and for that, we have decided to propose funds,” said Mohol. The move comes a year after the public bicycle sharing programme launched in the city hit a deadlock despite initial success due to inadequate infrastructure. VG Kulkarni, chief superintendent of the PMC road department said, at present, Pune has a network of 100-kilometre bicycle tracks. “However, most of the tracks need to be redeveloped. In the upcoming budget, we have decided to develop new 25 kilometres of tracks on different roads. We will propose more than ₹20 crore in the budget,” said Kulkarni. In 2017, PMC prepared a comprehensive bicycle plan and launched a bicycle share scheme in various parts of the city. Pune Smart City Development Company Limited (PSCDCL) took credit and started a share scheme in Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on December 5, 2018. After that, PMC continued the scheme in different parts of the city. After two years, all three private bicycle provider companies had withdrawn from the scheme due to a lack of response of public infrastructure and vandalisation of bicycles. Swargate to Khadakwasla track along canal road At present, the civic body has floated a tender to develop a cycle track from Swargate to Khadakwasla (up to Madhuban restaurant near Nanded city where the corporation limit ends). Besides that, the PMC has also proposed a cycle track along the canal from PL Deshpande garden (Sinhagad road) to Fun time multiplex at Wadgaon near Sinhagad road. It is a 4.5-kilometre stretch. Amar Shinde, executive engineer of road department said, “We have floated the tender of Swargate to Khadakwasla cycle route. Actually, we have given the name Swargate to Khadakwasla. But it is up to PMC limit which finishes before Nanded city. From Swaragate to Rajaram bridge, there is space to develop a cycle track as the civic body had made provision for a track on the footpath. It is around a two-kilometre stretch. We have to revamp and make a dedicated track. From Rajaram bridge to Fun time cinema, there are some road widening problems as well as a proposed flyover, so we are not able to develop the track. We have estimated ₹1.74 crore for a track from Abhiruchi where the flyover starts to Lokmat office.” Harshad Abhyankar, who was a member of the advisory committee in the Comprehensive Bicycle Plan (CBP), and present member of the non-motorized transport committee said, “There should be a political determination to make Pune a cycle city. We had completed detailed work in the CBP. As per City Mobility plan (CMP), there should be 90 per cent transport focus on non-motorized transport like walking, bicycle and public transport. We should have to develop footpaths, road crossing and cycle tracks on priority. At present, the cycle is not on priority as compared to fly over and other motorized transport systems. As per CBP, PMC should have to develop an 800 kilometre (both side of roads) cycle track with a total length of 400 kilometres. In the last three years, the corporation has developed around 25 kilometres of the cycle track.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-proposes-bicycle-track-on-10-routes-plans-to-expand-network-101611220166837.html
21-01-2021||Pune||Hinjewadi-Shivajingar metro yet to see work on ground||At least two years have passed since the ground breaking ceremony of the Hinjewadi to Shivajingar Metro corridor by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, however, work on ground is yet to start. Work of the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) has also been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic and deadlines for the two metro lines (PCMC to Swargate and Vanaz to Ramwadi) has been extended.Prime Minister Modi did the ground breaking ceremony on December 18, 2018, for line three of Pune Metro which is in between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar. It was expected that this line would get completed in the period of three years, but there has been no ground work as of now.PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase, said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, some works got delayed but work is in progress. Last week, we made progress in the viability gap funding. Even most of the lands have been handed over to the contract company. The work of the casting yard is in progress. Very soon citizens would be able to see actual pillar works on ground but can’t specify the date for starting civil works. The other necessary works like soil testing, among other things are in progress.”Maha-Metro’s managing director Brijesh Dixit, said, “Due to the pandemic, some deadlines have changed. Labourers have returned to their hometowns. Though the project deadline was 2021 to complete the whole project, some parts would definitely become operational, but authorities would take decisions about commercial rights. The trials of the metro is going on in preferential corridors.”Recently, PMRDA demolished the flyover at University junction and is erecting a new flyover at this busy chowk along with the metro corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hinjewadishivajingar-metro-yet-to-see-work-on-ground-101611220106777.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects Sonu Sood’s appeal to stay demolition notice for Juhu building||The Bombay high court on Thursday rejected an appeal filed by actor Sonu Sood who had sought a stay on the demolition notice issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on October 27, 2020 against the alleged structural changes he had made to the Shakti Sagar building in Juhu.The actor had approached the high court after the city civil court at Dindoshi rejected his application in December last year. The single-judge bench of justice Prithviraj Chavan had heard the actor’s application on January 13 wherein he had sought a restraint against the BMC from taking any action based on its October 27 notice and also sought a stay on the operation of the city civil court order. Also Read: Bombay HC grants three weeks transit pre-arrest bail to Tandav makersOn October 27 last year, BMC had issued a notice under Section 53 (1) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act to Sood and his wife Sonali, directing them to restore the property as per the approved plan or get approval for the changes they had made to the structure within a month.The actor had approached the city civil court seeking a stay on the BMC notice; however,on December 19 the civil court refused to grant him any relief and hence he moved the high court.In their application before the high court, Sood and his wife informed the court through advocate DP Singh that they did not carry out any illegal or unauthorised construction in the six-storey Shakti Sagar building. The actor had submitted that the city civil court had failed to consider that the notice was issued by BMC as its illegal demands were not satisfied.Advocate Amogh Singh, appearing for the actor, told the court that the BMC notice was vague as it did not mention the nature of the alleged alterations and the BMC official concerned had not responded to the actor’s reply to the notice and hence the BMC notice had malafide intent and was in contravention of the provisions of the MRTP Act.However BMC refuted the allegations made by the actor and submitted that the actor and his wife were “habitual offenders”. An affidavit filed by the designated officer of the K-West ward through advocate Joel Carlos submitted, “It is stated that the appellants are habitual offenders and want to enjoy the commercial proceeds of their unauthorized work and therefore once again started reconstructing the demolished portion in order to make it operational as the hotel albeit illegally and without permission from the License Department.”The affidavit added that as the hotel was being run without even the mandatory license under Section 394 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, the prosecution was initiated by the Public Health Department, BMC.Senior counsel Anil Sakhare, appearing for the BMC, argued that Sood had constructed hotel rooms under the pretext of “beautification” and approached the court with “unclean hands”. Sakhare submitted that Sood could be permitted to continue with the commercial activity of running a residential hotel and hence sought dismissal of his application.After hearing the arguments, the bench refused to accept the request of Sood’s lawyer for 10 weeks’ time to comply with the BMC’s process as the relevant clearance from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While dismissing the application the court observed, “You (Sonu Sood) are too late. You’ve ample opportunity and law helps those who are diligent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-sonu-sood-s-appeal-to-stay-demolition-notice-for-juhu-building-101611218187331.html
21-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP leader, two other workers held for raising ‘goli maro’ slogans in rally||A leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s youth wing and two other workers were arrested for allegedly raising “Goli Maro [shoot them]” slogans at a rally in West Bengal’s Hooghly district on Wednesday.“Three persons have been arrested. A case has been initiated against them for raising some slogans,” said police commissioner Humayun Kabir.BJP leaders said similar slogans were raised at a rally of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Tuesday but no one has been arrested for them. “This proves how police are acting in a biased manner. BJP workers are being arrested. TMC leaders are not arrested. We have informed the ECI [Election Commission of India] about this biased attitude of the police,” said a BJP leader.Also read | Full EC bench in Bengal to take stock of poll preparedness, law and orderTMC leader Saugata Roy said the local police have taken a suo motu action against the three as slogans to incite violence were raised. “The law will take its own course.”A Kolkata police officer said as no complaints were received about the TMC rally, none was arrested.In March, Kolkata Police arrested three BJP supporters for raising similar slogans and booked them under non-bailable sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-leader-two-other-workers-held-for-raising-goli-maro-slogans-in-rally-101611218007322.html
21-01-2021||Lucknow||IIT-Kanpur professor nominated to National Start-up Advisory Council||The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) has nominated Prof Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, professor in-charge, Innovation and Incubation, IIT Kanpur, to the National Start-up Advisory Council.The National Start-up Advisory Council has been set up to advice the government on nurturing entrepreneurship across the country and boost employment opportunities by giving a well-deserved push to the sector.Prof Bandyopadhyay said, "I am humbled to be a part of this august body. I shall devote my sincere efforts to help realize the council's objectives while upholding the value, culture, and pioneering spirit of technology-driven innovation at the helm of solving civic challenges. I passionately look forward to working with the entire team on fostering in a new era of promoting innovation and transformation in entrepreneurship."Prof Bandyopadhyay is one among the 28 non-official members nominated to the council. They have been nominated to account for the multidisciplinary representation of the ecosystem's stakeholders, including start-up founders, people responsible for investments and industry associations and incubators.The nominated members will promote multi-sectoral innovations across industries and academia to bring purpose-driven ideation under the purview of the public and private stakeholders. The council, through the collective insight of all the members, will target challenges from promoting ease of accessing capital to navigating regulatory compliances for start-ups and entrepreneurs.Prof Bandyopadhyay, a member of the biological sciences and bioengineering faculty of IIT Kanpur is the current occupant of KENT Entrepreneurship and Innovation Chair.He spearheaded the task force that delivered world-class ventilators in 90 days when the country's health systems were under pressure from the challenges posed by Covid -19. He was also instrumental in facilitating the production of N-95 grade SWASA masks from the premises of SIIC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitkanpur-professor-nominated-to-national-start-up-advisory-council-101611217129668.html
21-01-2021||Other||Nearly 46% seats in Punjab Technical University vacant this academic session||Nearly 46% seats in colleges affiliated to the Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKG-PTU) in the current academic session (2020-21) are vacant. The university managed to fill only 28,155 of the total 52,753 seats (which comes around 54%) even after extended round of counselling and direct admissions concluded on December 31 last year. The university authorities, however, say there was a jump of 4% in student intake as compared to the corresponding year when 35,166 of the total 68,801 seats (nearly 50%) were filled. This year, PTU offered nearly 16,048 less seats as compared to 2019-20, data shared by the PTU shows. Data shows that nearly 38% and 54% seats in the AICTE and non-AICTE courses this session remain vacant (See chart). More than 270 colleges, technical and non-technical institiutes in the state are affiliated to the PTU. Of the 15,626 BTech seats (10,773 of BTech and 4,853 BTech lateral entry in second year), 46% seats (7,118) remain vacant. The varsity authorities said it got very good response in BTech (lateral entry) as they could fill 48% seats while last year, 65% seats remained vacant. PTU main campus in Kapurthala district has nearly 34% more students as compared to 2019-20 as more than 1,500 students are currently studying there. PTU vice-chancellor Ajay Kumar Sharma said, “We developed PTU campus here in Kapurthala and the varsity’s ranking and perception among students improved with better infrastructure. We roped in top-end multinational companies during placement drives.” Experts say more students from Punjab are opting for overseas varsities for higher education and dearth of employment opportunities are two main reasons behind the trend. Pandemic also played a role in lesser student intake, especially those from outside the state. Other reason is pending dues of the post-matric scholarship scheme as students didn’t want to get harassed as degrees of students from the said category were being held back over non-payment of fee. As per the joint action committee of private colleges, nearly 1.25 lakh SC students dropped out of the colleges from 2016-17 to 2019-20 sessions because of scholarship issue as nearly 1,650 private colleges are yet to receive ₹1,800 crore from the Punjab government. A senior PTU functionary said there was need to improve the education standard in the affiliated colleges and create more employment opportunities. Narender Singh, former director of Guru Gobind Singh engineering college, Talwandi Sabo, said, “Our regulatory bodies, including the AICTE, are increasing seats without market research for job options. The private players for survival are recruiting under-qualified teachers at paltry salary and government couldn’t fix pay grade for them, leading to fall in the education standard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-46-seats-in-punjab-technical-university-vacant-this-academic-session-101611217648760.html
21-01-2021||Other||Kashmir’s annual saffron yield crosses 13 metric tonnes for the first time in a decade||Kashmir’s annual saffron yield has crossed 13 metric tonnes for the first time in a decade with officials crediting a scheme launched in 2010 to boost its cultivation and introduction of sprinkle irrigation for the increase in the production. Saffron is considered to be the world’s most expensive spice and is known as the king of spices. It fetches between ₹1.5 lakh and ₹2.5 lakh a kilogram. Saffron production peaked in Kashmir in the 1990s with an annual average of around 15.5 tonnes. It has since declined as saffron fields mostly in Pampore near Srinagar depended on rain for irrigation particularly in September and October. Either too much or little rain has been among the reasons for the decline in production. Kashmir is the only place in India, where saffron is cultivated. It is the region’s second-largest industry after horticulture and estimated to support around 20,000 families. Iran and Spain are among the only other places where the spice is grown in the world.Chief agriculture officer Mohammad Qasim Ghani said the credit for the increase in the production goes to the National Mission on Saffron launched in 2010 under which root rejuvenation of the crop and sprinkle irrigation has been undertaken. He added there has more than 4.5 to 5 kilograms per hectare increase in the yield in the area where the scheme was implemented. “Kashmir has the potential to produce 6 to 7 kilograms of saffron per hectare. Earlier in the 1980s, our production was over 6 kilograms.”Ghani blamed dry weather spells and a decline in the area under saffron cultivation among the reasons for the earlier dip in the yield.In a tweet, Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s office lauded the achievement. “Great Achievement: Annual yield of the world’s costliest spice, #Saffron, cultivated in Kashmir has crossed 13 metric tonnes for the first time in the last 10 years.”Zahoor Ahmad, a grower, said timely rain and snow has led to good production this year. “We hope that from now onwards the production will keep rising.”Officials said saffron is grown on 3,700 hectares of land in Kashmir compared to 5,500 hectares. The ₹410 crore National Mission on Saffron Mission has been implemented on 3,500 hectares of the land. Of this, 3,200 hectares of the land is located in Pampore, and the rest in Srinagar and Budgam.Officials said the mission has helped bring more land under the saffron cultivation as many growers had earlier started converting saffron fields into apple orchards and using them for commercial purposes due to their prime locations mostly along the Srinagar-Jammu highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashmirs-annual-saffron-yield-crosses-13-metric-tonnes-for-the-first-time-in-a-decade-101611217647465.html
21-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa allocates portfolios to 7 new ministers||A week after expanding his cabinet, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday allocated portfolios to the seven new inductees and also effected a reshuffle of the departments of some ministers.Among the new Ministers, Umesh Katti gets the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs while S Angara has been given Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport.Murugesh Nirani will be the Mines and Geology minister and Arvind Limbavali gets Forest Department, according to an official gazette notification issued in this regard with the consent of the Governor.Among the others, R Shankar gets Municipal Administration and Sericulture portfolio while MTB Nagaraj would be the Excise Minister and C P Yogeshwar in charge of Minor Irrigation department.In a significant reshuffle, J C Madhuswamy has been divested of Law, Parliamentary Affairs, Legislation and Minor Irrigation portfolios and allocated Medical Education, Kannada and Culture departments.Madhuswamy was the key minister who used to put up a strong defence of the government in the AssemblyThe Law, Parliamentary Affairs and Legislation department has been given to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai as an additional portfolio.The Forest Department has been taken back from Anand Singh, who has now been given the Tourism portfolio in addition to Environment and Ecology; while the responsibility of the Medical Education Department has been taken back from Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar.C C Patil, who earlier held the Mines and Geology portfolio has now been given charge of Small Scale Industries and Information and Public Relations department also.Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari has been relieved from the responsibility of Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport Department and will now have Muzrai and Backward Classes Welfare Department.While Haj and Wakf Department has been taken back from Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan; Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar has been divested of the Sugar department.K Gopalaiah, who has been divested of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs Department, has now been made incharge of Horticulture and Sugar departments and K C Narayana Gowda has been given Youth Empowerment, Sports, Haj and Wakf Departments, while Municipal Administration, Horticulture and Sericulture departments have been taken back from him.The Chief Minister has kept the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR), Cabinet Affairs, Finance, Bangalore Development, Energy, Intelligence, Planning, Programme Monitoring Statistics, Infrastructure Development and all unallocated portfolios with himself.According to sources, there is resentment among some Ministers about portfolios allocated to them and are likely to meet the Chief Minister in this regard.Ending a long wait, Yediyurappa had expanded his 17- month old cabinet on January 13, by inducting seven ministers as he also dropped H Nagesh who was holding the Excise portfolio.Also, several MLAs had expressed serious reservations about MLCs not elected by the people being made Ministers, lack of representation with most Ministers still from Bengaluru and Belagavi districts, and also on their "seniority or sacrifice" not being considered.There are now 33 Ministers in the cabinet, whose total strength is 34.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-allocates-portfolios-to-7-new-ministers-101611215198059.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Illegal construction: Sonu Sood’s appeal against BMC notice dismissed by HC||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood’s appeal and interim application against BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) notice over alleged illegal construction carried out by the actor at his residence in Mumbai’s Juhu was dismissed by the Bombay high court on Thursday.Sood’s lawyer Amogh Singh had sought a time of 10 weeks last October to comply with the directions of the notice. He had also requested the court to direct the BMC against initiating any demolition.The court instructed Singh to ask his client to approach the civic body regarding demolition action. Justice Prithviraj Chavan, while dismissing Sood’s appeal and application said, “Law helps only those who are diligent. The ball is now in the office of the BMC...you may approach them.”“You are too late. You had ample opportunity,” Justice Chavan was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Sood approached the high court earlier this month challenging an order of a city court that had dismissed his suit against the BMC's notice.The BMC had alleged that the actor made structural changes to his six-storey residential building and converted it into a hotel without taking requisite permissions. The civic body also filed a complaint against the actor at the Juhu police station in January. They sought an FIR against the actor for allegedly converting the residential building into a hotel without taking permission from the civic body. Police still have not registered an FIR against the actor.The actor claims that he has not carried out any illegal or unauthorised construction in the building. BMC has denied Sood’s claims and on Wednesday called the actor a ‘habitual offender’.“Sonu Sood is a habitual offender and wants to enjoy commercial proceeds of their unauthorised constructions and therefore has once again started reconstructing the demolished portion in order to make it operational as the hotel albeit illegally and without permission from the licensing department,” BMC said in its plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/illegal-construction-sonu-sood-s-appeal-against-bmc-notice-dismissed-by-hc-101611214008424.html
21-01-2021||Patna||Bihar: Hanged in 1857, Waris Ali of Tirhut finally added to Dictionary of Martyrs||A fresh chapter has been added in the history of Tirhut in the state. Waris Ali, the 1857 war hero from Tirhut has officially been declared a martyr. His name has been included in the Dictionary of Martyrs, India’s Freedom Struggle (1857-1947), published by the ministry of culture in collaboration with the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR). Waris Ali was a jamaadar at Baruraj police station (Muzaffarpur) and was arrested in June 1857 on charges of writing seditious letters to support the rebels who had attempted to break into Muzaffarpur’s Central Jail in 1857. He was tried and hanged on July 7, 1857.But for decades his name remained obscured, confined only to the government records while the sacrifices he had made for the country remained unrecognised. In 2017 efforts were made to get Waris Ali and 27 other freedom fighters from Tirhut the status of martyrs. With the publication of this new list of martyrs, Waris Ali has become the first martyr from Tirhut. Till date Khudiram Bose, the revolutionary who was hanged in 1908, was considered the first martyr from Tirhut. Khudiram was hanged for attempting to assassinate a British judge, Magistrate Douglas Kingsford, by throwing bomb on the carriage he was supposed to be travelling in Muzaffarpur. Two British women had died in that incident “Finally after 162 years, the contributions and sacrifices made by Tirhut in the country’s freedom struggle have been recognised. The publication of the Dictionary of Martyrs has virtually changed the history of Tirhut,” Dr Ashok Anshuman, state coordinator of the Dictionary of Martyrs and a history teacher at the LS College, Muzaffarpur, said. Besides, the 27 freedom fighters of Tirthut who were deported to Port Blair during freedom struggle, too have been given a status of war heroes, the state coordinator of the dictionary, said. “The ICHR has approved their names,” he said. Ranjit Kumar, a local, said initiatives in this direction was taken by former Union minister, late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and Qaiser Imam from New India Foundation. “They wanted Waris Ali and 27 other freedom fighters from Tirhutto be recognised as martyrs and wrote to the Muzaffarpur administration to bring the matter to the notice of the general administration department, Bihar government,” he said. In 2017, the state government recommended the matter to Ministry of Home Affairs, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-hanged-in-1857-waris-ali-of-tirhut-finally-added-to-dictionary-of-martyrs-101611215067166.html
21-01-2021||Lucknow||Politicians, bureaucrats queue up to meet ex-IAS officer who may have key role in UP politics||Lucknow’s National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) guesthouse that normally remains empty has been abuzz since former bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma has checked in there with his family. Hundreds of visitors, including ministers, lawmakers, bureaucrats, and top police officers, have been coming to meet him daily as he is expected to have a key role in Uttar Pradesh’s politics and governance, people aware of the matter said.Sharma, a close aide to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, filed his nomination papers on Monday for the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council polls after joining the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on January 14. Sharma is expected to stay in Lucknow till the results of the polls are out. The biennial elections to the Council’s 12 seats will be held on January 28.The people cited above said Sharma has had a packed schedule as he receives visitors daily from morning till night. Sharma meets the visitors in a hall of the guesthouse or an ante-room, depending on the status of the visitors and the requirement of the situation, they added.The people said about 150-200 visitors have met Sharma daily ever since his arrival. He also has a personal secretary from Gujarat to assist him with his appointments.Also read | Akhilesh Yadav extends support to Mamata Banerjee ahead of Bengal polls“Visitors keep pouring in every day from morning till 10 pm...many of them being SPG [Special Protection Group] protectees,” said one of the persons cited above. “Sometimes he visits the secretariat, the BJP office...to meet people there but when he is at the guesthouse, he is always surrounded by visitors.” He was scheduled to stay at the guest house until January 20 but the reservation can be extended.Sharma, a 1988 batch Indian Administrative Service officer of the Gujarat cadre, is from Uttar Pradesh’s Mau district. An upper caste, Sharma has worked for nearly 20 years with Modi as the Prime Minister and earlier as Gujarat chief minister. He took voluntary retirement this month for the service two years before his due retirement.“ Why would he take VRS [voluntary retirement] from the service two years before his regular retirement only to become MLC [member of legislative assembly]...,” asked a BJP leader, who did not want to be named. “Certainly, he will be given some important assignment in the government and this explains why so many politicians and bureaucrats are queuing up at the NTPC guesthouse to see him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/politicians-bureaucrats-queue-up-to-meet-ex-ias-officer-who-may-have-key-role-in-up-politics-101611212906779.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Driving on wrong side could invite permanent license termination in Gurugram||Gurugram Police has decided to take stern action against those found driving on the wrong side of the road, including permanent termination of the driving license, said Assistant Commissioner of Police Preet Pal Singh on Wednesday."Commissioner of Police has decided that strict legal action will be taken against anyone who drives on the wrong side of a road in Gurugram. Traffic staff has also been directed to challan such drivers along with suspending their license. If the mistake is repeated, it will invite permanent termination of the license and it will not be issued to the person ever again," said Singh while speaking to ANI.While giving the data of road accidents in Gurugram, he said that "Based on Motor Vehicles Act; we challaned 49,671 people in 2019 for driving on the wrong side while the number stood at 39,765 in the year 2020."The police have decided that if any accident happens due to wrong side driving, then the accused will be charged under Section 304 (2) of Indian Penal Code and will be given a minimum of 10 years punishment."The roads are monitored with CCTV cameras. I request everyone to follow safety rules otherwise strict action will be taken. This is to ensure that people do not put their and others lives at risk. Many people lose their lives due to negligence," Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/driving-on-wrong-side-could-invite-permanent-license-termination-in-gurugram-101611210500709.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra varsity teachers’ unions to march against new farm and labour laws||The ongoing farmers’ protests against the three Central farm laws have won the support of the all India teachers’ union including several teachers’ unions in the state of Maharashtra, who will hold a sit-in protest at Azad Maidan on January 24 and a march to the governor’s house on January 25 to extend solidarity with the farmers.“The nation is witnessing the ongoing historic struggle of lakhs of farmers near Delhi since the past two months. The All India Organisation of Teachers and the non-teaching employees of education institutes in the country have expressed their solidarity with this struggle. They have called for a nation-wide protest of all trade unions on January 23 and we too will support the struggle,” said the joint statement by a host of teacher unions including Shikshak Bharti,Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers' Organisation (MFUCTO), Bombay University and College Teachers' Union (BUCTU) among others.The statement further alleges that the introduction of the National Education Policy (NEP) violates the Constitutional mandates of reservation and free and compulsory education. “This new act will systematically break the present structure of education and could also result in the closure of thousands of schools and colleges. Not only will this lead to high drop-out rates among students but also simultaneously push more teachers and non-teaching staff in ad-hoc and contractual appointments,” said a spokesperson for the teacher’s group.Also Read: Maharashtra Police will probe case against Tandav: Home minister Anil DeshmukhThe teachers demand that the government repeals the three farm laws and four labour codes apart from withdrawing the NEP. Teachers will participate in a sit-in at the Azad Maidan on January 24, which will be followed by a protest march from Azad Maidan to the Raj Bhavan on January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-varsity-teachers-unions-to-march-against-new-farm-and-labour-laws-101611209427376.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Govt proposes putting farm laws on hold for 18 months: All you need to know||The Centre on Wednesday took a step back and proposed to suspend for one-and-a-half years the three contentious farm laws enacted in September that have triggered protracted protests. Here is all you need to know about the laws and the proposal to assuage farmers in an attempt to end months-long protests against the legislation: *In the 10th round of negotiations with a 41-member delegation representing protesting farm unions on Wednesday, the government said it will move an affidavit before the Supreme Court to put the laws in abeyance till a solution to the farmers’ demands is found. *Leaders of major farm unions, who took part in the talks, said they will discuss the government’s offer on January 21, and make their stand clear when the next round of talks takes place on January 22.Also read | Farmers likely to meet police officers today over proposed tractor rally*To discuss the farmers’ issues, which include a law guaranteeing assured prices for their produce, the government also told farm unions that it proposed to set up a committee of representatives as well as experts who should be nominated both by the protesters and the government to examine “all agitation-related issues”. *Farm unions have not rejected the government’s offer outright, unlike in the past, and said it was a proposal worth discussing, which offers a glimmer of hope to end the standoff. *The unions will hold a two-tier discussion on January 21 to discuss the government’s proposal. *The government has pushed a set of agricultural laws to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. *Farmers say the laws will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. *On January 12, the Supreme Court suspended the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-proposes-putting-farm-laws-on-hold-for-18-months-all-you-need-to-know-101611209486738.html
21-01-2021||Bhopal||Brother, uncle get double death sentence for raping, beheading 12-year-old girl in MP||A local court in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district has convicted a 12-year-old girl’s brother and uncle for raping, beheading her, and awarded them a double death penalty, calling the case rarest of the rare that warrants nothing less than capital punishment.Special public prosecutor Tahir Khan said special sessions judge Umashankar Agrawal awarded the double death penalty to the 22-year-old brother and 42-year-old uncle under Section 376-A (rape) and Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Also read | TN man gets double death penalty for rape, murder of 7-year-old girlAccording to the prosecution, the girl’s beheaded body was found in an agricultural field a day after she went missing on March 13, 2019. It later emerged that the girl’s brother had abducted and taken her to their uncle’s house where the two convicts raped her before beheading her with a sickle. She was also sodomised.Khan said 29 witnesses recorded their statements and the sickle was recovered from the house of one of the accused. “The DNA and post mortem report corroborated the prosecution’s charges,” he said. “I urged the court that the girl used to tie rakhi on her brother’s wrist for protection but this brother crossed all the limits and committed an inhuman act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/brother-uncle-get-double-death-sentence-for-raping-beheading-12-year-old-girl-in-mp-101611207986152.html
21-01-2021||Other||First sewage treatment plant in northeast India starts functioning in Manipur||For the first time in northeast India, Manipur government has started to implement a sewage treatment plant under the banner of Imphal Sewerage Project phase 1 in Imphal to control pollution.“So far we’ve provided sewerage pipeline connection to 12,000 households and other establishments in nine out of targeted 11 municipal wards,” said executive engineer Arambam Ibohal of public health engineering department (drainage and sewerage division), the implementing agency in the state. “The remaining households will be completed within March 2021.”The primary objective of implementing the sewage treatment plant in Imphal is to control pollution in Nambul River which flows into Loktak, the largest freshwater lake in northeast India, Ibohal said.Also Read: Manipur’s women market’s closure may have wiped off ₹3,879 cr: ResearcherWith a project cost of ₹345 crore, Imphal Sewerage Project phase 1 has a generating capacity of 27 million litres per day and is designed to cover core areas of Imphal through its primary and secondary lines. It was officially commissioned in June last year after conducting a trial run for one-and-a-half years.“In this project, we are targeting to reutilise the sewerage water collected from the households and other establishments after its proper treatment at the plant site at Lamphelpat for different purposes so that only the rain water runs in our drains,” Ibohal said. “So we’re requesting the public to use the facility judiciously.”The department is also planning to begin phase 2 with a generating capacity of 49 million litres per day. This project is to be completed within three years. The cost of the project is ₹1,471 crore. “We’ve already prepared the detailed project report in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-sewage-treatment-plant-in-northeast-india-starts-functioning-in-manipur-101611207688266.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Restaurants must display jhatka and halal distinction, says SDMC||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has now made it mandatory for restaurants and meat shops to display whether the meat they are selling is halal or jhatka. The south civic body passed a proposal regarding this on Wednesday in its House meeting. Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said that it was the right of the consumer to know what type of food he or she is consuming so this proposal is regarding “ensuring the very right” of the consumer. “Many people do not eat jhatka meat while others don’t eat halal but in restaurants, you cannot tell the meat type being served. You may find halal or jhatka meat written on the meat shops but such a practice is rare in restaurants. So it is a healthy exercise to mention whether halal or jhatka meat is being served at restaurants,” Chawla said.Also read | HC directs SDMC, ASI to look into illegal construction near Qutub MinarThe proposal, which was passed in the House, stated, “Thousands of restaurants are in operation in 104 wards of four zone falling under South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Out of these, meat is being served in about 90% of restaurants but it is not displayed by them whether the meat being served by the restaurants is halal or jhatka... Eating halal meat is forbidden and against religion for Hindus and Sikhs. Therefore, this meeting resolves that this direction be given to restaurants and meat shops that they write mandatorily about the meat being sold by them.”However, SDMC Leader of Opposition and Aam Aadmi Party councillor Prem Chauhan said, “It is an unnecessary order. These are tactics to divert attention from real issues related to corruption and non-payment of salaries in the civic body.”A similar proposal is already in place in shops and restaurants under East Delhi Municipal Corporation areas. However, there is no such practice in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restaurants-must-display-jhatka-or-halal-for-meat-served-sdmc-101611206846473.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police summons Kangana Ranaut in defamation case filed by Javed Akhtar||The Mumbai Police has summoned actor Kangana Ranaut in connection with a defamation case filed against her by veteran writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar, news agency agency PTI reported on Thursday. Ranaut has been asked to appear before the Juhu police on Friday, a police official was quoted as saying.This comes after a magistrate court on January 16 gave the police time till February 1 to file a report of their enquiry into the complaint filed by Akhtar.In November 2020, Akhtar had filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut before the Andheri Metropolitan Magistrate, for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in television interviews. He had sought action against the actor under relevant sections of the IPC.In his complaint, Akhtar has alleged that Ranaut had defamed him during one television interview by claiming that he had threatened her to withdraw a case against actor Hrithik Roshan.He added that Ranaut had called him part of an alleged suicide gang and claimed in the interview that Akhtar threatened her that she will have no option but to take her own life, if she didn’t back out. Akhtar claimed that following such comments, he received several hate calls and messages and was also trolled on social media. He argued that the messages and comments caused damage to his reputation.Akhtar alleged that the actor dragged his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood. Her remarks came in the backdrop of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June last year. She had also claimed that Akhtar had threatened her to not speak about her alleged relationship with actor Hrithik Roshan, the complaint stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-summons-kangana-ranaut-in-defamation-case-filed-by-javed-akhtar-101611204882208.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Ahead of Budget Session, BJP leaders meet as Oppn seeks to corner govt||Top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders met at Union minister Rajnath Singh’s residence on Wednesday to discuss the strategy for parliament’s Budget Session from January 29. The party is preparing to face a belligerent Opposition seeking to corner the government on the farm laws, the Chinese aggression and the leaked WhatsApp messages of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an all-party meeting virtually on January 30. The Opposition’s demands and the government’s legislative plans for the session are expected to be discussed at the meeting. All party meetings are customary affairs before every parliament session.A BJP functionary said the Opposition will raise the issue of protests against the three farm laws passed in September even as the government has maintained repeatedly that they benefit the farmers and that the provisions of the legislation were suggested by several parties including the Congress.Also read | RT-PCR tests for MPs; Zero, Question hours back in Budget Session“The Congress has been misleading the farmers by alleging that the laws will benefit cooperates but the truth is that they themselves had made similar suggestions such as abolishing the APMC [Agricultural Produce Market Committee] Act when they were in power,” said the functionary, who did not want to be named.Union ministers S Jaishankar, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Pralhad Joshi, and Thawar Chand Gehlot were among others who attended the meeting.The Congress has said it will raise the issue of Goswami’s chats during the session. The opposition has suggested the leaked messages point to collusion and leak of classified security information. The Congress has accused Modi and top ministers of violating the Official Secrets Act and demanded a probe and action against those who allegedly leaked sensitive information to Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ahead-of-budget-session-bjp-leaders-meet-as-oppn-seeks-to-corner-govt-over-farm-laws-china-101611204986351.html
21-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan appeals to healthcare staff to come forward for Covid vaccination||In view of the low turnout for Covid-19 vaccination, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to the healthcare workers to come forward to take the jab. The three days of vaccination which started on January 16 has witnessed participation of 32,379 healthcare workers against the target of 49,131.The program has witnessed a steady decline in participation against the set targets for all three days with 73.79% of the intended beneficiaries taking the jab on day 1, followed by a dip on Day 2 to 68.72% and 54.89% on Tuesday. The health official held the technical glitch in the Co-Win app as the chief cause for the declining number of participants.However, the CM held the verbal exchange between the two vaccine manufacturers as the reason behind the decline in participation.“Health workers have come in fewer numbers for vaccination. This is also due to the exchange of words done for commercial reasons between the two vaccine manufacturers. Yesterday, Bharat Biotech released guidelines regarding its vaccine. If these guidelines were issued earlier, people's trust would have increased in the vaccine,” tweeted Gehlot.In another tweet, he said, “I appeal to the health workers to come forward to get the vaccine.”Gehlot's statement came a day after the state government urged the Central government to allow on spot registration of beneficiaries as the vaccination program was hindered due to technical glitches in the CoWin app.A senior doctor said the CoWin application does not work effectively and has problems. The beneficiaries didn’t receive the messages for vaccination on time and were later called telephonically.“We have asked the GoI to allow vaccination through on-spot registrations as there is some technical snag with the software,” stated Dr Sudheer Bhandari, Principal SMS Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-appeals-to-healthcare-staff-to-come-forward-for-covid-vaccination-101611203938269.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Minimum temperature in Delhi likely to increase over next two days||Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 7.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday and is likely to increase slightly over the next two days under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. "A fresh Western Disturbance will start affecting the Western Himalayan region Friday onwards. As a result, the minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to increase slightly," an IMD official said.The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of the Western Himalayas. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, he said.The official said the city's air quality is predicted to improve slightly as the wind speed picks up.The air quality index stood at 304 at 9 am.The city's 24-hour AQI was 283 on Wednesday, 404 on Tuesday, 372 on Monday and 347 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Delhi has already registered six severe air quality days this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minimum-temperature-in-delhi-likely-to-increase-over-next-two-days-101611204237879.html
21-01-2021||Board||Bihar Board Exams 2021: Students demand exam postponement citing poor readiness||Thousands of students who have registered for taking Class 12 and Class 10 board exams conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) have raised the demand to postpone the examination citing safety reasons and poor exam preparedness owing to closure of schools, no access to digital class and less time provided for revision.The BSEB has scheduled board examination for Class 12 students from February 1 to 13 while exams for Class 10 will be held between February 17 to 24.Referring to national education boards which have shifted their exam schedule by two to three months in an effort to compensate pandemic led academic losses, Bihar students alleged the state education board for playing with their future just for sticking to its exam calendar. Students also cried that unlike other education boards, BSEB has not reduced syllabus which has added to their woes.Amit Kumar, a Class 12 student of Govt Boys’ Senior Secondary School, said, “No online class was held in my school in 10 months. Most of us rely on coaching centres for better preparation but they were also closed. I doubt that I will pass the examination.”“BSEB is doing unfair with us as neither syllabus was reduced nor extra time is being given for preparation. This way our performance will deteriorate in comparison to other board students. Ultimately, we will suffer as low percentage will not fetch us good colleges for higher studies”, rued 17-year-old.Another Class 12 student Supriya Rani said, “Syllabus is much vast and complex than preceding class. Despite self-study, I am not able to understand topics of Physics and Mathematics. With barely 10 days left for the examination, I am not confident to clear my doubts and write papers.”Another lot of students raised question on safety protocols being followed in schools after several students and teachers tested Covid-19 positive in Patna, Gaya and Munger early this month.To raise their demand, students also took to twitter using #postpone_biharboardexam2021.When contacted, a teacher of Shastri Nagar Girls’ School, said, “After reopening of school, attendance is very low. Except few, majority of them are still unfamiliar with major topics. Passing percentage is likely to decline this year.”Meanwhile, BSEB officials have geared up to complete the necessary arrangements for conducting board exams on stipulated scheduled.“Number of exam centres and exam halls are being increased as one student-one bench formula will be followed for maintaining social distancing. The board has increased number of optional questions in each subject to ease difficulty of students”, said a senior board official.- Reported by Megha in Patna||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/board-exams/bihar-board-exams-2021-students-demand-exam-postponement-citing-poor-readiness-101611203768055.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||BMC election: Mumbai group begins survey to check awareness of electorate||Ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal (BMC) elections in 2022, a group of alert citizens has initiated a survey to know educate people about their municipal wards and corporators.The survey, conducted by Jaago Mumbaikar group, will look at two aspects -- if people are aware about their ward, their corporator and BMC’s responsibilities and what are the areas concerning them. Activists say that though BMC elections directly impact one’s quality of life, the awareness among voters is generally low, especially compared to assembly and Lok Sabha elections.In 2017, the voter turnout for BMC elections at 55% was a record high for Mumbai since 1992. It was just 44% in the 2012 civic election as opposed to 54% in the 2014 assembly elections and around 55% in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. The city has 24 municipal wards and 227 electoral wards. The elections are expected to be held in the first half of 2022.A member from Jaago Mumbaikar, who did not wish to be named, said, “Once we have the survey results, we are planning to run a campaign to bring awareness among Mumbaikars. We will also meet all political parties insisting on giving tickets to candidates with a clean record.”Milind Mhaske, project coordinator, Praja Foundation which has been releasing councillor reports and also training councillors in the city, said, “Around 30-40% of people in the city might still not know about their electoral wards or corporator, though they might know who their MP or MLA is. This (survey) exercise is important as it will create awareness among sections, which may otherwise not be interested in participating in municipal elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmcelectionmumbai-group-begins-survey-to-check-awareness-of-electorate-101611203786136.html
21-01-2021||Kolkata||Full EC bench in Bengal to take stock of poll preparedness, law and order||The full bench of the Election Commission of India (EC) would be camping in West Bengal over the next two days to take stock of the preparedness, and law and order situation in the poll-bound eastern state. The poll panel, headed by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar landed in Kolkata on Wednesday afternoon. “On Thursday, the EC bench is scheduled to hold meetings with representatives of political parties, central and state regulatory agencies and senior IAS and IPS officers. On Friday, the bench will hold a meeting with the state’s chief secretary, home secretary and director general of police,” said a top official of the state government. This is the first time that the full bench of the poll panel has come to the state ahead of the crucial assembly elections. Earlier, deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain had visited the state twice to take stock of the situation. Also read | EC gears up to launch digital voter ID cardsWith the assembly election approaching, the political temperature is rising in West Bengal. While verbal duels are continuing between leaders of the two political parties every day, incidents of political clashes are also being reported from across the state. “The poll panel has already asked for regular reports of law and order situation in the state, including status of non-bailable arrest warrants and seizure of illegal arms and ammunitions, from the administration. A stern warning has also been sent out to officials that the EC won’t tolerate any dereliction of duty,” said a senior official of the poll panel. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has already raised demands of enforcing the Model Code of Conduct and deployment of Central Armed Police Forces in the state at the earliest, the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) has said that law and order is a state subject and Central forces can only be deployed after elections are announced. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has also repeatedly expressed his concern over violence in the state and has, on many occasions, alleged that the law and order situation in the state has deteriorated. The TMC, however, has refuted the charges every time. Before coming to West Bengal, the ECI bench had gone to Assam, another state where elections are scheduled around the same time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/full-ec-bench-in-bengal-to-take-stock-of-poll-preparedness-law-and-order-101611201925878.html
21-01-2021||Other||Nagaland: New ‘frontier district’ Noklak inaugurated||Nagaland’s political map underwent a major change on Wednesday after chief minister Neiphiu Rio inaugurated Noklak as the state’s 12th district at an official event held at the public ground, Noklak headquarters. The new district was carved out of Tuensang district.Speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Rio, while conveying his best wishes to the people of Noklak, encouraged them to uphold a competitive spirit and to co-operate with the government for all-round development.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccination begins in NagalandNoklak is located along the international boundary with Myanmar and connects India with other east and south east Asian countries. The chief minister tagged the new district as the “frontier district” and asked the people of Noklak to safeguard and to protect the region.Meanwhile, vice-president of India M Venkaiah Naidu released a video on Noklak via video conference and extended his best wishes to the new district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-new-frontier-district-noklak-inaugurated-101611201085511.html
21-01-2021||Lucknow||Row over Hindutva icon Veer Savarkar’s portrait in UP Legislative Council||Installation of Hinduva icon Veer Savarkar’s portrait in the picture gallery of Uttar Pradesh legislative council has sparked a political controversy with the Opposition demanding its removal and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) standing its ground and even asking the Opposition to take inspiration from Savarkar’s life instead of ‘politicking’ over his portrait.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath dedicated the renovated and beautified legislative council to the public on Tuesday. He also inaugurated its picture gallery that houses portraits of the freedom fighters and chairpersons of the council.The chief minister looked at the newly-installed portrait of Veer Savarkar and said he was a great freedom fighter and philosopher, who was a source of inspiration for every Indian.However, a Congress MLC was swift to object and termed the inclusion of Savarkar’s portrait in the gallery an “insult” to other freedom fighters, who he said, did not bow to the atrocities of the British and even laid down their lives for the country. He demanded that the portrait be removed and placed in the BJP office.Legislative Council chairman and Samajwadi Party leader Ramesh Yadav said he had directed the principal secretary of the council to submit a report over the induction of the portrait within seven days following the objection raised by the Congress MLC.The controversy continues to simmer with the SP chief and former chief minister, Akhilesh Yadav, calling for a debate over Savarkar;s contribution to the freedom struggle. “All those who contributed to the freedom struggle should be honoured but there are different kinds of allegations, documents and stories that raise question marks over his (Savarkar’s) role in the freedom struggle,” Yadav said.BJP state unit spokesperson Chandramohan shot back at the Opposition terming Savrakar’s life as an inspiration for people across the country and claimed that both Congress and the Samajwadi Party worked as dynasties and were serving their “vested” political interests by questioning Savarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/row-over-hindutva-icon-veer-savarkar-s-portrait-in-up-legislative-council-101611199964692.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ agitation: Delhi borders continue to be closed at multiple points||The farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders entered its 58th day on Thursday with the national Capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continuing to remain closed at multiple points. The borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad. Commuters coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh have been advised by Delhi Traffic Police to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected. The traffic at these borders is also slow as police continue to check these points for groups of protesting farmers who may try to enter the Capital. For borders shared between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh have continued to remain closed. The traffic police said they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches opening between the two states. Today, farmer leaders, under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, will discuss government’s proposal of suspending the farm laws for a year. On Wednesday, the government had presented a proposal before the farmers that farm laws will be suspended for 18 months. An affidavit will be given in the Supreme Court committing to the same, the government had proposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-agitation-delhi-borders-continue-to-be-closed-at-multiple-points-101611198205291.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air deteriorates slightly, set to improve today: IMD||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated marginally on Thursday as the average air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 301, in the "very poor" zone. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that on Wednesday, the overall AQI of Delhi was 283, in the "poor" zone. This was a major improvement from Tuesday, when the AQI was 404, in the "severe" zone.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that winds will continue to blow at high speeds on Thursday, allowing for an improvement in air quality.Also Read: 40% students attend classes on Day 2 of Delhi govt schools reopeningAlso, a fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from January 22, causing widespread rain and snow in those parts between January 22 and 24,and a resultant chill in Delhi and other cities in the plains, the IMD has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-deteriorates-slightly-set-to-improve-today-imd-101611197365397.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court rejects bail plea of former BARC CEO in TRP case||A Mumbai sessions court on Wednesday rejected a bail application by Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of the television viewership measurement agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), in a case related to alleged manipulation of TV ratings.Dasgupta approached the sessions court after a magistrate’s court turned down his plea, observing that a probe of the case required that he be kept away from other accused and material witnesses.The crime branch has alleged that Dasgupta misused his official position and manipulated TRPs of some news channels. According to the agency, Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami approached Dasgupta to manipulate TRPs of some news channels to benefit his own and Republic Bharat channels, owned by ARG Outlier Media Pvt. Ltd.Opposing Dasgupta’s bail application in the sessions court, special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray submitted that although the charge-sheet in the case had been filed, there were many aspects that need to be investigated. He argued that Dasgupta’s release could lead to tampering with the prosecution witnesses who work under him.The prosecution has cited purported WhatsApp chats as evidence of the allegations against Dasgupta.“We have shown to the court the WhatsApp chat regarding the TRPs in which Dasgupta promised to take down some other channels and put Arnab’s channel on the higher position,” he said.Dasgupta’s lawyer told the court that there was no evidence to back the allegations against him. Finding merit in the prosecution’s submissions, sessions court judge M A Bhosale rejected Dasgupta’s bail plea.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-former-barc-ceo-in-trp-case-101611192090884.html
21-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka HC says anti-cow slaughter ordinance 'constitutionally valid'||In a major boost to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the State, the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday observed that the provision in the ordinance relating to ban on cow slaughter is constitutionally valid.A batch of petitions was filed by Mohammed Arif Jameel and others, challenging the constitutionality of the ordinance. Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi appeared for the State before the High Court.The state government contended before the court that the ordinance was in consonance with the Directive Principles of State Policy in the Constitution. The State further contended by filing a preliminary statement of objections that the cattle population over the past eight years has substantially reduced from 95,16,484 in the 2012 census (19th livestock census) to 84,69,004 in 2019 (20th livestock census), and that as per the 2019 census 2,38,296 cattle are being slaughtered every year and on an average, it works out to 652 per day.Under the Information Network for Animal Productivity and Health (INAPH) Scheme of the Central government, ear tagging of cattle is undertaken using Radio Frequency Identification Device (RFID) conforming to Bureau of India Standards, and out of total cattle population of 1,15,53,564, about 96,00,000 cattle are ear-tagged and the work is in progress, the government pointed out.In its statement, the state government further submitted that there are 4,212 veterinary institutions throughout the State headed by veterinary officers and inspectors who are available on call and there are 176 mobile clinics.After hearing the Advocate General, the Court observed that the issue relating to the ban on cow slaughter has been affirmed by the Supreme Court in Mirzapur's case as being constitutionally valid.The court, however, observed that the government must ensure that no coercive action is taken against farmers who transport animals for animal husbandry, agriculture, and other bona fide purposes until Rules are framed under the provisions of the ordinance. The development in the High Court today clears hurdles for the Government to effectively implement the cow slaughter ordinance.The anti-cow slaughter law came into effect in Karnataka from January 18, the state government said in a notification."All provisions of The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020 comes into force from January 18," the Karnataka government said.According to the order, three and seven years jail and (or) a fine up to ₹5 lakh will be imposed under this law and subsequent offences can invite fines up to ₹10 lakh and a jail term of up to seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-hc-says-anti-cow-slaughter-ordinance-constitutionally-valid-101611191605855.html
21-01-2021||Lucknow||Savarkar’s portrait in Uttar Pradesh House triggers row||A portrait of Hindutva ideologue Vinayak Damodar Savarkar in the picture gallery of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council sparked a political controversy with Congress MLC Deepak Singh demanding its removal and chairman Ramesh Yadav seeking a report within seven days on Wednesday.“Acting on the objection of a member (Singh), I have directed the principal secretary, Legislative Council, to submit a report on the issue within seven days,” Yadav said.The portrait at the picture gallery was inaugurated by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday.Objecting to the portrait, Singh said: “It was an insult to the freedom fighters who did not bow before the atrocities of the British. They laid down their lives fighting for the freedom of the country.” The Congress legislator said that the portrait should be removed and placed in the party office of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Hitting out at the opposition, BJP state unit spokesperson Chandramohan said: “The life and struggle of Savarkar is an inspiration to the people across the country. The Congress and SP leaders are indulging in politics to serve their vested political interests. Both the parties indulged in dynasty politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/savarkars-portrait-in-uttar-pradesh-house-triggers-row-101611190826305.html
21-01-2021||Lucknow||NCW chairperson meets UP DGP, discusses role of police in women safety||National Commission for Women (NCW) Chairperson Rekha Sharma on Wednesday met Uttar Pradesh DGP H C Awasthy and discussed issues related to women safety, including the status of pending complaints."Met @dgpup in the morning with the pending cases from UP. Discussed various issues of women safety in the state and role of police in it. Mr Awasthi apprised initiatives taken by @Uppolice like #MissionShakti, 112 help line, safe city project," the Chairperson said in a tweet.Sharma, who was on an official visit to the state from January 18 to 20, highlighted the issue of pending complaints related to women safety, on which the commission has not received any report from the police.According to a statement from the NCW, the DGP apprised Sharma about the initiatives of the UP Police pertaining to the security of women, including a '112' emergency helpline number, Mission Shakti and the state police's Safe City Project.Sharma also stressed the need for gender sensitization among police personnel in the state.The DGP also assured that SPs (superintendents of police) of all districts concerned will be directed to inform about the action taken in these matters and the reports will be sent to the commission at the earliest, according to the statement.Awasthy also assured the NCW chairperson that gender sensitisation of police officials will be conducted all over the state in collaboration with the commission.Meanwhile, Sharma also met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and discussed issues related to welfare of the women in the state."Met Hon'ble Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Shri @myogiadityanath Ji and discussed issues related to welfare of women in the state," a tweet said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ncw-chairperson-meets-up-dgp-discusses-role-of-police-in-women-safety-101611188970209.html
21-01-2021||Kolkata||‘Goli Maaro’ chants at BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s rally in Bengal||Supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday allegedly raised the controversial “goli maaro” slogan at a roadshow in West Bengal’s Hooghly district, a day after a similar slogan was raised by supporters of the ruling Trinamool Congress.The slogan, “desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro” (shoot the traitors of the nation), was raised by people carrying the BJP flag who were seen trailing a truck carrying former Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari who is now with the BJP, the BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh and BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee in the district’s Chandannagar area.Condemning the incident, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said the party “does not endorse it”. “Our party does not endorse it at all. People carrying the BJP flag cannot talk like that,” he told mediapersons in Kolkata.The BJP spokesperson also hit out at the TMC, saying that the slogan raised at the Chandannagar rally was aimed at terrorists while workers of the ruling party had used it against “traitors of Bengal”.“However, one must understand that when we talk of traitors of India we mean mercenaries and terrorists who kill innocent citizens and pose a threat to the nation. The intention of TMC workers was quite different because they talked of traitors of Bengal,” he said.TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh targeted the BJP and said that the party believes in the “culture of violence”. “The TMC workers should not have uttered it but the BJP has proved once again that it believes in the culture of violence in letter and spirit,” he said.On Tuesday, the BJP had alleged that a section of people who took part in a massive TMC road show in Kolkata shouted slogans about “shooting traitors in Bengal”.Asked about the purported “goli maaro” slogan, TMC leader Madan Mitra said: “Bullets are not part of Bengal’s political culture, but the people could certainly slap BJP leaders.”In January last year, Union minister Anurag Thakur egged the audience at a Delhi election rally to raise the slogan by repeatedly chanting the first half of it, and waiting for the crowd to complete it.West Bengal is scheduled to go polls before May this year.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/goli-maaro-chants-at-bjp-leader-suvendu-adhikari-s-rally-in-bengal-101611188561231.html
21-01-2021||Bangalore||After cabinet expansion, dissent brews in Karnataka BJP||Troubles are mounting for Karnataka chief minister B.S.Yediyurappa after his attempt to quell dissent within the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by expanding the cabinet only widened the fissures within the two-year-old government.Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the legislator from Bijapur City, on Wednesday targeted Yediyurappa by calling for an end to family-based politics in the BJP.“Our Prime Minister’s dreams are development, end of dynasty politics, corruption-free government. I will request our national president that only one person from a household should be given power. It cannot be that there is an MP, MLC, MLA, board heads and even people in-charge of party affairs from only one family,” Yatnal said in Bengaluru.The renewed opposition to Yediyurappa comes at a time when there is a growing clamour by dissidents for the removal of the 77-year old who has been accused of trying to placate his family and staunch loyalists; The troubles are only likely to increase as the CM turns a year older in February; there is a tacit rule in the BJP that those above 75 years of age should not hold any administrative posts.A cabinet expansion last week triggered open criticism of the CM by those who missed out on ministerial berths.Yediyurappa has also been fighting charges of neglecting Kannada for Hindi. He faces the task of finding ways to make up for shortfall in revenue from the Centre ahead of the state budget in March.So deep is the divide within the state BJP that Yediyurappa now faces opposition not just from his earlier detractors but those who were once seen to be close to the Lingayat leader.M.P.Renukacharya, the legislator from Honnali, on Wednesday met with senior BJP leaders including Prakash Javedekar and Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi to express his concern on being overlooked for a cabinet post.“All the meetings went well,” Renukacharya said, refusing to disclose more details of the talks he had with the central leaders.“Core BJP MLAs are unhappy and are now planning to approach the top leadership of the organisation and the Centre to express their concerns,” said a three-time legislator of the BJP, requesting not to be named.Incidentally, his first challenge after entering office for a record fourth term in July 2019 was also related to his cabinet as he struggled to get his choice of names approved by the BJP’s central leadership, forcing him to work alone for nearly three weeks.The pressure has forced Yediyurappa to hold out assurances and promises to disgruntled elements within his party of a cabinet expansion to accommodate those left out of his ministerial council. Heavy lobbying continues for portfolios like heavy industry, energy, rural development, panchayat raj and the all important Bengaluru in-charge ministries, people aware of the developments say.Yediyurappa scrambled between meetings on Wednesday to discuss portfolio allocations. So busy is he with the administration and cabinet reshuffle that the chief minister could not even savour the fact that Karnataka had been named the most innovative state in the country by NITI Aayog.Political analysts say that as the government enters the third year, how the BJP shapes its strategy in the state will become more clear.“The government is entering the third year of existence that will leave just two years before the next elections. Of this one year will be entirely dedicated towards elections and the BJP will have to decide if they want to keep Yediyurappa or replace him right now,”said A.Narayana, a political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/after-cabinet-expansion-dissent-brews-in-karnataka-bjp-101611188278289.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Front line workers, elderly may have to wait two extra weeks to get Covid jabs||The low turnout of health care workers in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in Delhi is likely to push the vaccine roll out schedule for front line workers and the elderly by at least two weeks, senior officials in the state government said on Wednesday.Since India launched one of the biggest immunisation campaigns to control the coronavirus disease on Saturday, Delhi has been able to vaccinate 12,853 health care workers so far. But this is just 48.72% against the Delhi government’s target to inoculate 26,378 health care workers in three days. Experts have said that if people remain hesitant in coming forward to taking more shots, the government should consider opening up to allow other priority groups – and maybe even the general public – to take doses.Senior government officials said if current trends continue, then front line workers will not get their turn until March. As a result, immunisation of the general public, starting with people above the age of 50 years, can get pushed back to as late as mid-April.“The issue is being closely monitored by the state health department and the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). As of now, on an average 4,284 people are getting vaccinated for Covid-19 each day in the city. If the turnout does not improve soon and more centres are not added, then it will take the entire month of February and the first week of March to complete just the first dose of vaccination for the 120,000 health care workers,” said a senior government official involved in the immunisation programme.As per the initial plan of the Delhi government, the first batch of 120,000 registered health care workers were to be vaccinated by February 13. There are 81 centres in the city, each of which has a target of vaccinating at least 100 people a day. The vaccination happens four days a week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.As of now, the Capital has received a total of 274,500 doses, which according to the government is sufficient to inoculate 120,000 health care workers. There are a total of 240,000 health care workers registered in the city for taking the vaccine. Health officials said another batch of vaccines would be required to immunise the reamainig 120,000 health care workers. A Covid-19 vaccination is considered complete if a beneficiary has taken two doses within a gap of 28 days.A government spokesperson said the decision to increase the number of session sites or vaccination centres requires the approval from the Union health ministry. “The session sites are directly regulated by the ministry. So, increasing the number of centres will depend on directions issued by the Centre. The Delhi government is working on extensive IEC campaigns to spread awareness among health care workers regarding the safety of the vaccines. Several districts have started workshops from today (Wednesday) on this,” the spokesperson said.Dr Yogesh Kushwaha, nodal officer for vaccination at Lal Bahadur Shastri (LBS) hospital in east Delhi said at present all the 81 centres, all of which are hospitals, are vaccinating health care workers that belong to their institutions only.“At least 700 health care workers from LBS are to be vaccinated, but in the past three days, less than 150 workers have been immunised. Because of the low turnout, it will now take as much as three weeks to give the first doses of Covid-19 vaccine to all our 700 health workers,” he said.A senior health official said the turnout is likely to improve in the coming days with the government now allowing vaccination on a “walk-in” basis to the registered beneficiaries.“We are hoping to see a turnaround in the next two weeks as now even those registered beneficiaries who are not in the scheduled list for the day can get the jabs if they just walk-in at the session site. Any vaccination campaign always sees a tepid response in the beginning. It will take time. Districts are also carrying out different awareness campaigns and word of mouth plays an important role. As more health care workers take the vaccine shots in the coming days, people will be less scared or apprehensive about the safety of the vaccines,” a health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/front-line-workers-elderly-may-have-to-wait-two-extra-weeks-to-get-covid-jabs-101611185026087.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet Turkman’s Bhoora||Histories and havelis, kebabs and tikkis, bazaars and lanes. People flock to Old Delhi from all over for these attractions. But nobody comes here to hang out with one of its most beautiful elements: Bhoora, the dog.He is the living landmark of Turkman Gate, one of the only four surviving of the original 14 gateways of the Mughal-era Walled City. Bhoora is among the many strays in the area, but stands out for his shaggy bhoora (brown) coat and his quiet nature. He is very well-behaved, never barks, never chases the cats, and brings out the best from every creature here, including the humans.This evening he is sitting on the pavement, just outside the building housing the Haj Manzil, across the lane from the stone gateway. Actually, to call Bhoora a stray would be true only up to a point. For years he lived in Turkman Gate through thick and thin with beggar Mumtaz. They were always seen together on the same part of the sidewalk, be it day or night.Abandoned years before by his family, following a road accident in West Bengal that made him lose his leg, the bearded Mumtaz found a new home in Turkman Gate, where he also made a friend in Bhoora. They would eat together, with Mumtaz sharing with Bhoora whatever he would be offered by the passersby.Mumtaz died a few months ago and for a time it seemed that Bhoora would be alone in the world. But he swiftly adopted Muhammed Abrar, a banana seller, who parks his cart daily outside the aforementioned Haj Manzil.Making a little fire for Bhoora from wood pieces, Mr Abrar talks of how Bhoora started sitting by his stall, not long after his companion’s passing, until they became friends. “Now I make a bed for him every night under my cart.” Mr Abrar lives in Narela with his (human) family but sometimes he stays over “and then I sleep on the top of the cart and Bhoora sleeps underneath.”Turkman Gate teems with street hawkers and it is a fact that everybody here is kind to the dogs and cats milling about, but everyone has a particularly soft corner for Bhoora. “Maybe because he is so seedha-saadha (simple), and everyone feels he is still missing Mumtaz.”Now Mr Abrar calls Bhoora by his name. The dog turns to him with wide unquestioning eyes, and trustfully sits by the banana seller’s legs, close to the fire, looking at peace.Bhoora is always seen about the gateway, and in case you can’t spot him, just ask anyone in the area for his whereabouts. He is known to all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-turkman-s-bhoora-101611180901477.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||We will not shift the venue of the Republic Day tractor rally, farmers to police||New Delhi: Farmers protesting at Delhi borders on Wednesday reiterated that they will take out a “peaceful” tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road on Republic Day and urged the police not to force them to shift it anywhere else. The Delhi police had urged the farmers to either cancel the rally or shift it to the Kundali-Manesar-Palwal expressway on the periphery of the Capital.With this the second round of talks between the police and the farmers remained inconclusive on Wednesday.The leaders of several farmer unions have announced to conduct a tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road as a part of their ongoing protest against the three new farm laws. Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha in Punjab, said, “The police again asked the farmer unions to shift the proposed tractor march to Western Peripheral Expressway or Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway. But farmers have made it clear that the march will be conducted only on the Outer Ring Road.”“We have assured the police that the march will remain peaceful. We are not going to disrupt peace in the city. We are not marching to the India Gate or the Red Fort. Police should allow us to conduct our peaceful march,” he added.A senior police officer, who was part of the discussion, said, “The talks with farmers are still on. We are yet to reach any consensus.”Earlier on Tuesday, the farmers also shared the route map of their proposed tractor rally and said that the parade will touch all the borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh would be participating in the tractor rally, they said.Another farmer leader and president of Krantikari Kisan Union, Darshan Pal, said another round of talks with the police will be held on Thursday. “The police have apprehensions that the rally can be infiltrated by some anti-social elements. But we have assured that the protest will remain peaceful. We have been protesting for around two months and no incident of violence has been reported from Delhi borders. We have told police that the crowd might get provoked, if they are not allowed to carry out the march,” he said.Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court said it would be “highly irregular and improper” for it to either stop or allow the protesting farmer unions to hold a Republic Day tractor rally in the Capital, forcing the Central government to withdraw its plea to injunct the farmers.The protesters said when the apex court had not stopped them, the police should also not interfere. “Why is the police worried about the safety and security of the farmers only during the tractor march? They are not even bothered to see hundreds of farmers dying every day during the protest. Hundreds of farmers are travelling to Delhi to participate in this rally. Things might get out of control if police interferes,” said Amandeep Sindhu, a farmer protesting at the Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/we-will-not-shift-the-venue-of-the-republic-day-tractor-rally-farmers-to-police-101611180536120.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Five more persons held for Pitampura jewellery heist||Five more persons, one of them a 30-year-old woman, have been arrested in connection with last week’s dacoity at a jewellery showroom in north-west Delhi’s Pitampura. Nearly seven kilograms of gold jewellery worth over ₹3.5 crore were looted at gunpoint by a group of eight robbers, with the police terming the heist one of the biggest in Delhi in the recent past.More than one kilogram of stolen jewellery was recovered from the bank locker of the arrested woman -- she is the sister of one of the arrested men -- while another 1.5 kilos of gold was recovered from four persons who were arrested between Monday and Wednesday from West Bengal, Bihar and Delhi.Earlier, the police had recovered 3.5 kilos of gold jewellery from the suspects.The total number of arrests in the case is now 12 -- eight men who were involved in the dacoity and four receivers of the stolen jewellery. Nearly six kilos of the stolen jewellery has been recovered so far, the police said.“One or two suspects are still on the run and their arrests may lead to the recovery of the remaining jewellery. It was one of the biggest dacoity in the recent years in Delhi,” said joint commissioner of police (northern range) Surender Singh Yadav.According to Yadav, two of the arrested men, identified as Pitu Sheikh and Suraj, had committed a burglary at the same jewellery showroom in 2019. They were arrested and the stolen jewellery recovered from them at that time.In the latest dacoity, which happened around 4am on January 15, a group of eight robbers arrived outside the jewellery showroom in Pitampura, held the security guard, Chandan Vinay Shukla, hostage at gunpoint and broke into the showroom. They ransacked the shop and fled with nearly seven kilos of gold jewellery.“The entire heist took just three minutes. The guard informed the police about the dacoity only after the dacoits fled,” said special commissioner of police (law and order, west zone) Sanjay Singh, adding that a case was registered and four teams, including the special staff of north-west and Rohini districts, having around two dozen investigators, were tasked to crack the case and nab the suspects.As the guard had told the police that the dacoits had come in a Honda City car, investigators scanned through the footage of 30 CCTV cameras along a 5km route that the suspects had taken to reach Rithala Metro station, where the vehicle was found abandoned at a vacant plot.“We got the car’s registration number from one of the cameras installed near the showroom. We followed the route and recovered the vehicle -- it has been stolen from Rohini Sector 5 on the night of January 11,” said an investigator, requesting anonymity.During the probe, the officer said investigators learnt about the 2019 burglary at the showroom. They learnt that the three men arrested for that burglary lived in the same neighbourhood from where the Honda City was recovered.Further probe led to the identification of the suspects living in the neighbourhood. Police collected information about their whereabouts and nabbed them from Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal and Bihar.Brothers Pitu Sheikh and Mintu Sheikh were caught from Hazaribagh railway station; they were on a Howrah-bound train and were fleeing to their home town in West Bengal with the stolen jewellery. Another robber Reet Mohammad was caught from West Bengal. His interrogation led to the arrest of his brother Sameer Sheikh from Rithala. One Hakim was caught from Patna on Wednesday, the officer said.The other arrested persons were identified as Shankar, Suraj, Saleem alias Monu, Rahul, Sanu Rehman, Sheikh Ripal.“Suraj’s interrogation led to the arrest of his sister to whom he had given his share of the stolen jewellery. We interrogated her and she led us to her bank locker in which around 1,100 grams of gold jewellery was kept,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-five-more-persons-held-for-pitampura-jewellery-heist-101611180104383.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Farmer dies by suicide at Tikri, leaves note behind||A 42-year-old farmer from Rohtak died by suicide at Delhi’s Tikri border on Wednesday.Police said the farmer allegedly consumed poison and was rushed to a hospital in Mangolpuri during the wee hours of Wednesday, but couldn’t be saved. He died at around 3:30 am.The farmer was identified as Jai Baghwan Rana who had been protesting at the Tikri border. “The police were informed that a farmer had consumed poison at the Tikri border at around 2:30am. He was immediately rushed to a hospital in an ambulance that had been deployed at the protest site. He was declared dead at around 3:30 am. The police have initiated a probe,” said a senior police official.According to protesters at the Tikri border, Rana had left behind a note urging the government and the farmers’ union leaders to resolve the ongoing stand-off. The purported suicide note stated, “My name is Jai Bhagwan Rana and I am a small farmer. The government says it is a matter of only two to three states, but farmers from all over the country are protesting against the laws. Sadly, it is not a movement now, but a fight of issues. The talks between the farmers and the Centre also remain deadlocked”“The government should call the farmers from all states and take their opinion in front of the media and decide for itself,” he added.Several farmers have allegedly died by suicide in the last few months at the borders of the national capital, where the ongoing agitation entered day 56 on Wednesday. Last month, a lawyer from Patiala had died by suicide near the Tikri border. A Sikh preacher had also ended his life at the Singhu border over the ongoing agitation in December.The farmer union leaders have been taking several measures to sensitize farmers and keep them motivated. Several posters and banners have also been put up at protest sites requesting agitating farmers to choose life.Earlier on Wednesday, another farmer Dhana Singh (60) also died due to a heart attack at the Tikri border. Singh was a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ugrahan) and belonged to Patiala.Manjeet Singh, district president of Patiala, BKU (Ugrahan), said that the deceased was participating in the protest since November last year. “We have lost so many brothers while protesting on the highways in this bone-chilling weather, but it’s not bothering the government. The government should understand that these sacrifices will further strengthen our movement since now we have to also fight for those who are dying during the protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmer-dies-by-suicide-at-tikri-leaves-note-behind-101611179913074.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Burglar wears PPE kit to steal 25kg gold from jewellery showroom, held||A case of gold jewellery worth nearly ₹13 crore being burgled from a jewellery showroom in South Delhi’s Kalkaji early Wednesday was solved by the police who arrested a 25-year-old electrician on Thursday. The man had worn a PPE kit and used ropes and a gas cutter to make his way into the shop. RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said that the probe so far has revealed that one man had carried out the theft. The officer said that the thief stole 25kg of gold. “We have recovered the entire stolen booty,” he said. Also Read: Delhi: Five more persons held for Pitampura jewellery heistThe showroom is guarded by armed men even when it is not in operation.According to the DCP, a phone call to the station house officer (SHO) was made by the showroom owner around 11am on Wednesday.The police found CCTV camera footage that showed the burglar wearing a PPE kit. The footage also revealed that the thief worked at a leisurely pace, breaking into the shop at 9.40pm on Tuesday and leaving at 3.50am on Wednesday. According to another investigator, the man entered a vacant flat near the showroom by breaking open its lock. He then crossed the roof of three buildings to reach the showroom and used a gas cutter to cut through the roof. Ravinder Singh, who runs an event management firm located at a walking distance from the showroom, said that he got to know of the theft around 11.30am when he was reaching his office. “The market was swarming with police personnel. I got to know that jewellery worth several crores had been stolen from the showroom,” said Singh. A representative of the jewellery store refused to speak on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kalkaji-jewellery-showroom-burgled-by-thieves-who-break-in-through-roof-101611178483576.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Whose road it is, asks Delhi HC after demolition drive leaves people displaced||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has directed the city government’s Public Works Department (PWD) and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) to name the land owning agency of the East Laxmi Nagar Market area where a demolition drive was conducted in July last year to remove encroachment on the service road alongside the nullah road, also known as the Master Plan Road.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, on January 19, 2021, asked the civic body and the PWD to indicate the owner of the land as per records after both them said that the land does not belong to them.The court was hearing a plea by 121 families who had contended that authorities carried out the demolition from July 6 to July 8, 2020 with absolute disregard to the plight of even around 400 residents who were home quarantined on account of Covid-19. They had alleged that they were treated in an inhumane manner and all their means of existence were destroyed.The east civic body had demolished 56 houses constructed on a service road of the Master Plan Road following a court order on clearing encroachments. On July 17, 2020 Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had visited the spot and ordered that the people affected by the drive be immediately shifted to temporary shelters. He had also directed officials to begin an in-depth study of the high court order and whether a court order for demolition can be issued in the times of a pandemic.The residents were rehabilitated temporarily in a Delhi government school. However, according to their counsel, a notice was given in September, 2020 asking them to leave the shelter home in the school as it was in the process of being renovated to resume physical classes, whenever it would be scheduled. While most of them left in September itself, others have vacated the place recently.On Tuesday, senior advocate Salman Khurshid, for the petitioners, told the court that were till now being housed in schools but since the schools now are being reopened, they have been removed.He contended that the authority which claims to be the owner of the land should consider rehabilitating the petitioners and other displaced persons according to their policies.Advocate J Priyadarshini, also counsel for the petitioners, said that her clients are staying in difficult conditions at these alternative accommodations after they were asked to vacate the school.While the counsel for the EDMC said that the land was owned by the PWD, the latter’s counsel denied the claim.The court asked the authorities to file affidavits and posted the matter for further hearing on February 18.Earlier, on July 24, 2020, the high court had said that onus of providing accommodation to displaced families was on the Delhi government, as over the years, officials of the public works department (PWD) or the road owing agency had either not been vigilant or had ignored the extensive encroachments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whose-road-it-is-asks-delhi-hc-after-demolition-drive-leaves-people-displaced-101611178329299.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants three weeks transit pre-arrest bail to Tandav makers||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday granted a three-week transit pre-arrest bail to Tandav director Ali Abbas Zafar and producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra and writer Gaurav Solanki. Similar relief was also granted to Aparna Purohit, head of content, Amazon Prime. The four have been booked in a first information report (FIR) filed by the Lucknow Police based on a complaint by senior sub-inspector Amar Nath Yadav who alleged that the web series portrays Hindu gods in a bad light. A single-judge bench of justice Prakash D Naik was informed by senior counsel Aabad Ponda and advocate Aniket Nikam that the FIR does not make any direct/indirect allegations against the applicants in their individual capacity. “The FIR also does not portray any role/intent whatsoever to the applicant for having committed any offence, under which the FIR is registered,” submitted the counsels. The makers of Tandav have been booked under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 505 (1) (B) (public mischief with intent to cause fear or alarm) and 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Information Technology Act. The application by the makers of the web series state, “The applicants have come to learn that the said FIR was registered on January 17, 2021 at 11.46pm and that the police authorities of the concerned police station are currently travelling to Mumbai to arrest the applicants in pursuance of the same.” The bench was informed that the content in question has been removed and the makers do not want to give rise to any further controversy. Purohit’s plea, which is filed separately, states, “The web series and the characters thereof in no manner depict/portray or represent any gods and/or goddesses of any religion whatsoever.” Additional public prosecutor Yogesh Nakhwa opposed the applications stating that the accused should approach Hazratganj court in Lucknow and seek similar relief instead of approaching the Bombay HC. After hearing the submissions, the bench granted transitory anticipatory bail of three weeks to the four to enable them to approach the court in Lucknow for regular pre-arrest bail and disposed of the applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-three-weeks-transit-pre-arrest-bail-to-tandav-makers-101611175580645.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Strong winds clear the air, western disturbance all set to bring back the chill||Just a day after Delhi reported “severe” air quality, for the sixth time since New Year, strong winds came to the rescue and dispersed the accumulated pollutants, thereby allowing the air quality index to touch the considerably better ”poor“category.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted that winds will continue to blow at high speeds on Thursday as well, allowing for a further improvement in air quality. Also, a fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from January 22, causing widespread rain and snow in those parts between January 22 and 24,and a resultant chill in Delhi and other cities in the plains, the IMD has said.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that on Wednesday, the overall air quality index of Delhi was 283, in the ”poor” zone. This was a major improvement from Tuesday, when the AQI was 404, in the ”severe” zone.The IMD scientists said winds in Delhi have been strong since Tuesday afternoon and will get more intense on Thursday. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said the difference in maximum and minimum temperatures often lead to an increase in wind speeds over a region.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 18.3 degrees Celsius, while the minimum was 7.8 degrees Celsius.“The wind speeds are expected to be higher on Thursday and the air quality will improve further, but remain in the “poor” zone. On Friday, there air quality may deteriorate again, but it will be a temporary dip as there is a forecast of wind speeds going up again from January 23,” Soni said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the wind speed on Wednesday ranged between 15 and 16kmph and was blowing from the north-west. He said because of the strong winds, the “feels like” temperature, which is the temperature that a human body perceives, was also lower than the actual recording.“In the morning hours, we had shallow to moderate fog. In the coming days, the temperature will be around 7-8 degrees Celsius, but there will be a fall from January 24. The minimum temperature is likely to fall to around 4 degree Celsius and the maximum temperature is also expected to fall by two to three degrees,” Srivastava said.He said the fall will be the result of a western disturbance over the western Himalayas, which will lead to rainfall and snowfall in parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh on January 22 and January 23.“After this western disturbance passes, the wind direction will change and the temperatures in Delhi and neighbouring areas will fall,” Srivastava said.Minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-4 degrees over most parts of north-west India, over the next three days, leading to cold wave conditions.“Cold day” or ”severe cold day” conditions are likely over west Rajasthan during next 24 hours and over Bihar during next three days, IMD said in its Tuesday bulletin.According to IMD, a cold day or a severe cold day is classified as such based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees Celsius and a maximum temperature of 4.5 degree Celsius or 6.4 degrees Celsius below normal, respectively.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/strong-winds-clear-the-air-western-disturbance-all-set-to-bring-back-the-chill-101611174032362.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Case filed against Tandav makers, actors at Ghatkopar police station in Mumbai||Ghatkopar police on Wednesday registered an offence in connection with Amazon Prime’s Hindi web series Tandav. Police booked not just the makers and director of the political show, but also the actors featuring in it.Police have booked Tandav director Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himanshu Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki, and Aparna Purohit, head of India Original Contents at Amazon. Besides, actor Saif Ali Khan and other actors featuring in the series are also mentioned in the first information report (FIR), registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by BJP member of the legislative Assembly Ram Kadam.Deputy commissioner of police (Zone 7) Prashant Kadam confirmed that a case has been registered by Ghatkopar police on Wednesday under sections 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), 295 (a) (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code.Lucknow police have also registered an offence against the producer and director of the series and a team of Lucknow police has reached Mumbai on Wednesday morning to investigate the case. Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said, “A police team has gone to Mumbai to probe the case. We have asked for local police assistance to record statements of four persons booked in the FIR”.The case has been registered at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow against Amazon India Original Content head Aparna Purohit, creator Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra and writer Gaurav Solanki for inciting communal disharmony and hurting religious sentiments.Deputy commissioner of police and Mumbai Police spokesperson S Chaitanya said, “A Lucknow police team is in the city and we have provided full cooperation to them”. While two members of the team visited the Mumbai Police headquarters in south Mumbai, other two members visited office of deputy commissioner of police (Detection 1) for assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/case-filed-against-tandav-makers-actors-at-ghatkopar-police-station-in-mumbai-101611175400624.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Police will probe case against Tandav: Home minister Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said the Maharashtra Police have received complaint against Amazon Prime Video’s controversial web series Tandav and will conduct an investigation. The minister has also demanded regulatory mechanism by the Central government for over-the-top (OTT) platform contents to avoid any communal tension in the country.“These types of content create communal tension and lead to division between communities. The Central government should take appropriate steps to avoid such tensions,” he said.Deshmukh said that a first information report (FIR) would be filed in the case and a formal investigation would be initiated. He further said that the Uttar Pradesh Police had sought permission from them to conduct investigation in Mumbai in three cases lodged against Tandav. “They had sought our permission for the investigation and it is a routine process to visit other states in relation to investigation. Even teams of the Maharashtra Police keep visiting other states for investigation,” he said.Several FIRs have been filed against the web series for allegedly inappropriate depiction of Hindu deities. Many organisations have demanded ban on the series.BoxState home minister Anil Deshmukh has announced to consider withdrawal of cases lodged under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code against people for venturing out during lockdown. He said a discussion is on about the issue.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Pradeep Deshmukh met the home minister demanding the withdrawal of the notices. “In Pune, police have taken action against 28,000 people for violation of the lockdown norms from April to July. They are being served notices now. Around 700,000 people are facing such action across the state. It may lead to unnecessary harassment and long pending cases against the citizens. The home minister has directed home department for appropriate action,” said Pradeep Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-will-probe-case-against-tandav-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101611175220605.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||After NMIMS row, colleges in Mumbai bring changes to online exam process||After four proctors who allegedly harassed female students were fired by the online exam-conducting firm of a city-based management institute, several colleges have decided to include in-house teachers for online exams along with other proctors. In some cases, proctoring will only be done by college teachers along with software proctoring, said college principals. Last week, students of Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) took to Twitter to share screenshots of messages sent by four proctors to some female students. The proctors were working with Mercer Mettl, a company that conducts online examinations, which had been hired by NMIMS. The four were fired by Mercer Mettl after it received the reports of harassment. NMIMS has formed a fact-finding committee to investigate the students’ allegations and updates on the investigation are awaited. “Our college exams have been conducted very smoothly with the help of our technology partner without any complaints from students or teachers. But after the recent incident at the management institute, our teachers came together to brainstorm on how to avoid recurrence of such an instance in the future, and decided to include teachers for proctoring all exams along with external proctors,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. She said that this change will apply for all online exams henceforth. The principal of a college in south Mumbai on condition of anonymity said that it was exploring the option of not hiring external exam vendors like Mercer Mettl. “Since our teachers are already getting used to conducting classes as well as exams online, we are working towards making the upcoming exam an in-house exam and not extend the contract of the exam vendor,” said the principal, adding that the NMIMS incident had also left students worried. “There’s still no clarity on whether the next semester exams in May will be held online, but in case it continues online, we plan to conduct the exams on our own,” the principal said. This academic year, owing to Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, all university exams were held online. University of Mumbai (MU) chose to decentralise the examination system by giving individual colleges the power to conduct exams. Clusters of eight to ten colleges were formed with one cluster head authorised to oversee the process. Many MU-affiliated colleges chose to hold exams on their own through using software like Google Forms or MS Teams while some hired technology firms to conduct exams for them. “Instead of expecting colleges to find and hire their own service providers, the university should have streamlined this process and saved many institutes from such trouble. Instead, by decentralising the online examination, they managed to wash their hands off the process altogether,” said Sudhakar Tamboli, a member of the Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) and the MU senate. Last October, MU’s distance education wing, Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), had to postpone third-year exams for Bachelors of commerce (BCom) and arts (BA) after more than 90% of its registered students were unable to access the exam link. MU initially said there were “technical glitches” and later cancelled its contract with LittleMORE Innovation Labs, which was responsible for conducting the exams. Tenders were then invited for a new service provider to hold the exams at a later date. IDOL exams were eventually held in the last week of October 2020, after a Pune-based tech firm was hired by MU to conduct the exams. “Till date, there’s no clarity on the action that the university took against LittleMORE Innovation labs. That decision left at least 9,000 IDOL students under a lot of anxiety for two days before the exams were postponed. There is need for stricter policies by the varsity to avoid technology firms getting away with creating trouble for students,” said Tamboli. At Bandra’s RD National College, there was “man-to-man mapping” for all exams by the management despite the service provider ensuring proctoring through technology. “We ensured that one teacher proctors every 20-25 students for exams and along with that, our service provider helped us [conduct] mock tests and demo exams before the final papers began for the previous semester, boosting students’ confidence. We have also made it very clear that students are to share no personal data online,” said Neha Jagtiani, the in-charge principal of the college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-nmims-row-colleges-in-mumbai-bring-changes-to-online-exam-process-101611175041098.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man falls prey to online sextortion||In yet another case of sextortion, a 40-year-old man from Byculla was blackmailed by a woman on a popular social media site. Agripada police has started probe in the case.The police said the complainant works in a private company. In his complaint to police, he said that recently he received a friends request from a woman on a social media site. The man accepted the request and started chatting with her. A few days later, they shared their contact numbers.In the first week of January, the complainant received a video call from the woman. Upon answering the call, he found the woman was naked but hid her face. “The woman induced him into taking off his clothes. After the video call ended, the man received a regular voice call,” said an officer.“The caller told the man that they have recorded him speaking to a naked woman through video call and threatened to upload the video on various media sites, if he failed to pay them. When the man refused to meet the demand, the caller abused him and threatened to defame him,” said a police officer.The complainant first transferred ₹1,500 to the accused. However, when the accused demanded more money, the complainant approached Agripada police.The police registered a complaint against the unknown woman and have written to the service provider to get details of the accused.Recently, similar cases have been reported to Marine Drive and Agripada police stations. In one such case, the fraudsters extorted a GST superintendent while in the other case, the owner of a popular tea brand was the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-falls-prey-to-online-sextortion-101611174740552.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 120 institutes identified to form network to measures cities’ performance under NCAP||Around 120 scientific institutes have been identified across the country to form a National Knowledge Network (NKN) that will measure the performance of cities in achieving the goals under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP).Institutes such as Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Science (IIScs) and labs of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) have been identified as Institutes of Repute (IoRs) to aid and measure NCAP.NCAP is a programme initiated by the Union ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) to reduce ambient air pollution levels. The programme identified 122 non-attainment cities with high pollution levels and directed them to submit an action plan to reduce their pollution levels by at least 20% by 2024. The national target is to reduce particulate matter (PM) 2.5 and 10 by 20%-30% at both rural and urban levels by 2024. The objectives of NCAP are stringent implementation of mitigation measures for prevention, control and abatement of air pollution to augment air quality monitoring network across the country and to increase public awareness.“The NKN will act as an advisory expert group to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). It will also have three independent experts along with nominated officers from CPCB and MoEF,” said Sachchida Nand Tripathi, national coordinator of NKN and professor and head of department of civil engineering, IIT-Kanpur. IIT-Bombay, Delhi, Madras, Guwahati, Roorkee and Kanpur have been identified as nodal coordinating institutes.Tripathi said IoRs will partner with state pollution control boards and urban local bodies to provide knowledge-based support for implementation of NCAP goals. “These institutes may undertake air quality monitoring work, data analysis, data utilisation, compilation and prepare reports. They will also check compliance verification for emission norms to provide input to policymakers,” he said during a webinar on ‘Pathway for India to achieve air pollution goals’ on Wednesday. “The budget is an opportunity for India to show commitment towards its fight against pollution. We would demand focus on the following four areas — a) the finance commission grant for air quality improvement receives further support and the performance framework for receiving these grants is finalised at the earliest, b) budgets allocated under NCAP are sustained and increased substantially, c) that the budget provides clarity on how Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Standards (CAAQMS) will get funded by the Centre, and lastly d) further investments in clean household fuels and schemes like Ujjwala,” said Dr Santosh Harish, fellow at Centre for Policy Research. BOX:CAAQMSWith an aim to build transparency and accountability of efforts taken under NCAP, CarbonCopy and Respirer Living Sciences released a new dashboard at the webinar which presents a comprehensive one-stop platform to access CAAQMS being provided as part of CPCB’s nationwide real-time monitoring network. The dashboard is designed to list the data and also allow viewers to draw comparisons between seasons, monthly and annual averages, and even examine hyper-local monitoring by zooming into specific cities and neighbourhoods to identify polluted pockets. The dashboard has allowed transparency for not just PM2.5 and 10 data but also for harmful gases like Nitrogen Dioxide (NOx), Ozone (O3) and Carbon Monoxide (CO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-120-institutes-identified-to-form-network-to-measures-cities-performance-under-ncap-101611174620539.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB apprehends notorious drug supplier, seizes drugs worth crores||Continuing it crackdown on drugs peddlers and suppliers, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday apprehended drug supplier Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan from Navi Mumbai. The agency said search operations were going on till late in the evening and it had seized drugs worth crores from the drug supplier.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the development and said that they nabbed Pathan and that the search operation was on. Pathan is an alleged member of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s gang and also a relative of late Abdul Karim Sher Khan, known as Karim Lala, a mafia don who was once active in Mumbai.This is not the first case against Pathan. He was earlier arrested by Pydhonie police in a drugs case in August 2019 after he allegedly supplied mephedrone (MD) to Junaid Shaikh, a peddler.Wednesday’s raid was conducted by NCB following a tip-off. Pathan is the main supplier of MD in south Mumbai. “We have got link of several drug suppliers and peddlers who are active in south Mumbai and legal action against them are going on,” said an NCB officer.Earlier, two drug peddlers including a fire safety officer Sandeep Chavan of public sector unit (PSU) were arrested and the agency allegedly seized 65 grams of MD from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncb-apprehends-notorious-drug-supplier-seizes-drugs-worth-crores-101611174440542.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt gets farmers’ consent to set up solar power plant in 9 villages||New Delhi: The Delhi government has got consent from farmers across nine villages in the north-western peripheries of the city for setting up solar plants in 225 acres of agricultural land under a long-awaited scheme that aims to enhance the Capital’s power production and contribute to income of farmers.“We have got consent for 225 acres of agriculture land where solar plants can be set up. The lands are located at villages in areas such as Alipur, Lampur and Narela. The project has been given a go ahead and tenders will be issued soon. We aim to launch the project this year,” said a senior government official.In July 2018, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi had announced the Mukhyamantri Kisan Aay Badhotri Yojana – a scheme to increase income of farmers by setting up solar plants in their agriculture land, which would also enhance power production in the Capital.Under the scheme, farmers would be able to continue with agriculture even after the power plants are set up as the solar panels to be installed would be installed at a minimum height of 3.5 metres from the ground, allowing for farming activities, tractors to ply on the fields and other agriculture-related machinery to be used.The farmers would be paid ₹1 lakh per acre a year, and the rent would increase by 6% compounded annually. Once allowed, the plant would exist for 25 years. The farmers would also get 1,000 units of energy produced by the plant each year for every acre they rent out for the project, the official said.However, the scheme is yet to formally kick off.According to the government’s statistical handbook of Delhi, the total area under agriculture in the national capital is 34,750 hectares, which roughly translates to 85,870 acres. “But most of the land is scattered and that turned out to be a big problem for implementing the project,” said the official who did not wish to be identified.According to government estimates, a full six acres will be needed for setting a 1 MW [or, 1000 kW] solar plant, which would be capable of generating over 1.2 million units of electricity annually, under the scheme.On engaging with farmers for more than a year after the scheme was announced, the government also realised that there were concerns. “The most common one being whether the land would lose fertility, or if yield would reduce after the solar panels are installed. This, they assumed, would deprive the land of direct sunlight,” the government official said.In January 2020, the government set up a demo of the project at the campus of an agriculture institute in Kirari, located in the western peripheries of Delhi. Even though the government had got consent for 150 acres of land by then, the project faced delays because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-gets-farmers-consent-to-set-up-solar-power-plant-in-9-villages-101611173588188.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||INA to become a major hub with RRTS, Metro stations||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) will integrate its INA station on the Delhi-Alwar Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor with the Delhi Metro station at the same spot to provide seamless connectivity between two mass transit systems.Last year, the NCRTC had changed location of its station on the RRTS corridor from Jangpura to INA to provide seamless connectivity with two of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) corridors -- Yellow line (Huda City Centre to Samayapur Badli) and Pink line (Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar).An NCRTC spokesperson said, “Station locations have been finalized in such a way that they are seamlessly integrated with other modes of public transport for commuters’ convenience. INA-RRTS station will be integrated with the Delhi Metro’s INA station through subways, thereby providing safe and seamless connectivity (between two rail corridors) to commuters.”With this, INA will become an important transit facility in South Delhi. The station will provide direct high-speed connectivity to residents of NCR suburbs such as Ghaziabad, Modinagar, Meerut, Gurugram, Manesar and Panipat to two major hospitals (AIIMS and Safdarjung), markets and new developments planned in the area such as the commercial complex proposed at Nauroji Nagar.While the Delhi Metro station is located on Aurobindo Marg, INA-RRTS station will be located near DDA’s headquarters on Barapullah road. NCRTC officials said the station will have two entry/exits near DDA headquarters, Vikas Sadan, and Aurobindo Marg.“RRTS stations have been planned and designed to ensure multi-modal integration with other modes of public transport in a way that it will eliminate the need for commuters to step out on roads for switching from one public transport to another. We are closely working with DMRC for an integration of the INA and other stations,” the spokesperson said.DMRC’s INA station on the Yellow Line was opened in 2010 and subsequently was converted into an interchange with the Pink line in 2018. The station caters to a number of important landmarks in the area such as the INA Market and Dilli Haat. At INA, the RRTS corridor, the NCRTC official said, will pass below the two existing DMRC corridors.Anuj Dayal, executive director corporate communication, DMRC said, “NCRTC is going to integrate its upcoming station at INA with the Delhi Metro network’s interchange station there through a subway. This will further boost the connectivity in the area and offer more travelling options to the passengers. The integration of the MRTS and RRTS networks in the NCR will be a major milestone in terms of enhancement of the ease of connectivity in the region.”The 198-km-long Delhi-Alwar RRTS corridor is one of the three priority corridors—Delhi-Meerut and Delhi-Panipat being the other two-- approved by the Centre. The work on the Delhi-Alwar RRTS corridor will be carried out in three stages. In the first stage, 107-km-long corridor between Delhi -Gurugram- Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror (SNB) Urban Complex will be developed.Of the 107kms, 22kms will be in Delhi and it will be completely underground starting from Sarai Kale Khan to Aerocity. “The corridor has got the approval from the state governments and is under active consideration of the central government for approval,” said an NCRTC official.Apart from INA, NCRTC is actively working with DMRC to integrate stations at Sarai Kale Khan, Munirka and Aerocity in Delhi.NCRTC officials said, “Pre-construction activities including geo-technical investigations, initial pile load tests, topographical surveys, shifting of electrical utilities, etc. are being carried out at various locations in Gurugram for this corridor. With a view to save time in executing the Delhi-Gurugram-SNB RRTS corridor, we are focusing on completing most of the pre-construction activities for the corridor so that the civil construction of the corridor can start immediately post the project sanction.”Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said, “The move to integrate RRTS and Metro corridors will provide better connectivity and bring down the use of private vehicles. Efforts should be made to provide for pedestrian movement outside the stations and develop INA as a transit hub.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ina-to-become-a-major-hub-with-rrts-metro-stations-101611173143642.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||South corp to award ₹10 Lakh to RWAs segregating 100% waste at source||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to incentivise those Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) that conduct 100% segregation of waste at source in their colonies.The civic body on Tuesday moved a proposal to carry out development works up to ₹10 lakh in the colony or society where 100% waste segregation is done at source.The proposal was moved during the south corporation’s budget presentation on Tuesday, wherein it suggested that a fund of ₹5 crore be marked for this purpose.Municipal officials said as per Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, waste segregation should be done at the source both in commercial and residential areas. Wet waste or kitchen waste should be deposited in green bins and dry waste, such as plastic bottles, milk pouches, in blue bins. Hazardous waste —such as needles, sanitary napkins, among others — are to go in red bins.Rajdutt Gahlot, chairman SDMC standing committee, said that the aim of the proposal is to ensure maximum compliance of the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 so that no waste is dumped on landfill sites.“In the budget for 2021-22, we have proposed to incentivise RWAs that have 100% compliance of waste separation at source. We will not directly give the RWAs the amount directly, but we will carry out development works of ₹10 lakh in the locality or society on the recommendations of the local RWA, if they achieve the target of 100% segregation of waste. We have earmarked an amount of ₹5 crore for this purpose,” he said.Officials from the department of environment management services of SDMC said that the process of waste segregation in residential areas under SDMC’s jurisdiction has begun more than a year ago, but in June last year, the civic body made the process compulsory for RWAs to provide segregated waste to garbage collectors.“To ensure compliance, we have taken a number of measures which include educating public about the importance of waste segregation and also provided them manure in exchange of kitchen waste. Other than this, we had issued notices to RWAs regarding waste segregation and also imposed fines against repeat offenders. Now we have come up with the idea of incentivising RWAs to ensure 100% separation of waste in colonies,” the official said.The civic body had performed poorly in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, ranking 31 out of 47 cities. After this, the corporation had started taking strict steps for compliance and issued notices to RWAs in this connection. Till November end, SDMC had issued more than 1,400 notices to RWAs and had fined 122 residents for not segregating dry, wet and hazardous household waste at source.Sanjay Rana, president RWA Greater Kailash-2 welcomed the initiative and said that it would encourage them to ensure 100% waste segregation.“Incentivising the RWAs is a good concept. At present nearly 50% households in our locality are providing separated waste to garbage collectors. This move will further encourage RWAs to achieve the target and help us get development works — such as beautification of colony, park and road improvement — done,” Rana said.Atul Goyal, president United Residents Joint Action (URJA), said that the move is good but can succeed only if the civic body shows a holistic approach and improves its waste disposal system.“With such an initiative, more RWAs are likely to come forward and start segregation. But the main cause of concern is that it should not get mixed in the tippers by waste collectors as is often seen. So the SDMC will have to show a holistic approach, build trust among residents and ensure that such gaps are filled,” Goyal said.Swati Sambhyal, a Delhi based waste management expert, said, “It is a commendable move. With this, more RWAs will be encouraged to comply with waste management rules and also motivate those which are already doing waste segregation on their own.”She, however, said that municipalities should also ensure that waste segregation exercise is not seen as an optional practice instead they should make efforts to make it a compulsory exercise. She said that barring a few localities, the percentage of waste segregation in residential areas is very low. She said that this initiative will also bring a healthy competition among resident bodies to rank best in terms of waste segregation and management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/south-corp-to-award-rs-10-lakh-to-rwas-segregating-100-waste-at-source-101611171762719.html
21-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad court awards death to man for rape and murder of 2-yr-old girl||A Ghaziabad fast-track court on Wednesday awarded death to a 30-year-old man for raping and murdering the two-and-half-year-old daughter of his colleague, on the night on October 19, 2020.The court had fast-tracked the case and held the man guilty on January 18, after a trial that had lasted 29 days. While pronouncing the quantum of punishment on Wednesday, Mahendra Srivastava, special judge (Pocso Act), termed the case “rarest of rare” and went on to award the maximum punishment to the convict.According to the prosecution, the crime took place on the night of October 19, 2020, when the convict , who is a colleague of the girl’s father, went to their house and took away the child from her mother on pretext of taking her to a nearby shop.When he did not return till late night, the family went in search of him and also approached the police. The mutilated body of the girl was found the next afternoon, near a drain in an industrial area. The man was nabbed thereafter.The police filed the charge sheet in the case on December 16, 2020, and charges were framed on December 24, 2020, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and also under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302, 201, 376(a), 376(ab).The prosecution said the autopsy report confirmed that child had suffered eight external injuries, including a broken hyoid bone ( U-shaped bone in the front of the neck) pointing to death due to asphyxia from strangling.The court also relied upon the “last seen” theory besides the forensic test reports, which confirmed that the DNA of the man was found on body of the girl.Apart from the death penalty, the man was also awarded life imprisonment for murder (IPC Section 302) and seven years’ imprisonment for destruction of evidence (IPC Section 201).“The man brutally raped the minor girl and murdered her, before hiding her body near a drain at the scene of crime. The prosecution produced 10 witnesses while no one, including the family of the convict, turned up in his defence. We produced witnesses, including the girl’s mother who confirmed that the man took away her daughter despite her trying to stop him. One witness also saw the man carrying the girl on his shoulders near the scene of crime,” said Utkarsh Vats, special public prosecutor (Pocso).The Ghaziabad police also procured CCTV footage from a mobile shop, which confirmed that Pandey between 8.50pm and 8.55pm was seen taking the girl with him.Girl’s father and the man were friends for about 10-12 years and they worked at the same factory. At times, the man would stay with the family and the girl used to call him “Chacha (uncle)”, the police said.“The court relied on several rulings and observed that the act also impacts society at large; besides there is little chance for the convict’s reformation. There was also a high level of brutality perpetrated on the child. Considering all these factors, the court awarded him death penalty,” Vats said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-court-awards-death-to-man-for-rape-and-murder-of-2-yr-old-girl-101611171243340.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Govt disburses Covid grant of ₹10K each to 407 more construction workers||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday that the government has disbursed a Covid-19 relief grant of ₹10,000 each to 407 more construction workers in the national capital.These 407 construction workers had registered under the state’s building and other construction workers welfare board till September 30, 2018. The amount disbursed to them is over and above a similar relief granted to 39,600 construction workers in the city, the government said in a statement.The statement further said that at least 2,000 more construction workers will receive 10,00 each in the coming weeks.“When the lockdown was imposed due to the pandemic, the Delhi government was one of the first states to carry out relief disbursement to all 39,600 workers who were registered with the board. In compliance with orders of the Delhi high court, the board decided to disburse the relief amount to those construction workers who were registered with the board as on September 30, 2018,” Sisodia said, before appealing to more construction workers to renew their membership.More than 53,000 construction workers are currently registered with the board but document verification of a large numbers of them is still underway, said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-disburses-covid-grant-of-rs-10k-each-to-407-more-construction-workers-101611170822618.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||8-year-old girl on Lucknow-Mumbai GoAir flight suffers cardiac arrest, dies||An eight-year-old girl, travelling from Lucknow to Mumbai on GoAir flight G8307, died after reportedly suffering from cardiac arrest mid-air. The flight had to be diverted to Nagpur because of the medical emergency.Airline sources said the girl was accompanied by her father on the flight. When her condition deteriorated, the onboard crew was alerted, and the captain decided to divert the flight to Nagpur airport. The flight declared a priority medical landing and landed at 7.33am.The eight-year-old girl, a resident of Sidharth Nagar, Chaffa in Uttar Pradesh, was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). She was, however, declared dead on arrival by doctors.A GoAir spokesperson confirmed that flight G8307 from Lucknow to Mumbai was diverted to Nagpur due to a medical emergency onboard the aircraft, as a child passenger reported unwell.“GoAir staff immediately attended to the passenger and administered required procedures while ensuring all relevant protocols were followed. Priority landing was sought, and the flight landed safely with passengers at Nagpur airport,” said the airline spokesperson.Sources from Nagpur airport said that the girl was anaemic and was carrying some medical reports with her.“On arrival, a dedicated medical service team along with doctors and the airline’s staff attended to the passenger, and she was rushed to a nearby hospital. However, it was observed by the doctor that the passenger had succumbed. The airline had taken utmost care and rendered all the required assistance to the family of the bereaved. GoAir sincerely regrets the incident and would like to convey its deepest, heartfelt condolences to the family of the deceased,” added the spokesperson.The flight took off immediately after the patient and her father de-boarded. The flight landed at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) around 8am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8yearold-girl-on-lucknow-mumbai-goair-flight-suffers-cardiac-arrest-dies-101611170840191.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||No offence in merely attending dance bar: Bombay HC strikes down FIR against two Mumbai residents||Bombay high court last week struck down the prosecution of two dance bar customers, observing that no offence was committed by them by merely visiting the bar where purportedly obscene dance moves were being performed by some girls.The petitioners, a Vile Parle resident Rushabh Mehta,28, and Adit Purohit, 29, from Andheri (West) - were apprehended by Santacruz police on January 21, 2017, when they found sitting as customers at a bar. Both of them were rounded up by police along with bar staff and other customers.All of them were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Maharashtra Prohibition of Obscene Dance in Hotels, Restaurants and Bar Rooms and Protection of Dignity of Women (working therein) Act, 2016.Both the petitioners moved HC through advocate Sandeep Sherkhane, for quashing of the criminal proceeding against them, contending that no overt acts were attributed to them and even if the material collected by police was taken as it is, no offence was made out against them, therefore the proceeding was liable to be struck down.HC accepted the argument. The division bench of justice Sambhaji Shinde and justice Manish Pitale noted that section 294 (performing an obscene act in public) and 114 (abetment) of the IPC, slapped against them, comes into play only when someone indulges in any obscene act at a public place.As regards the sections of the 2016 Act, the bench said there was no material to indicate ingredients of the sections, except mere mentioning of the names of the petitioners in the first information report (FIR) and the charge-sheet, which the court said was not sufficient to prosecute the petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-offence-in-merely-attending-dance-bar-bombay-hc-strikes-down-fir-against-two-mumbai-residents-101611170481667.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet allows govt bodies to use private banks, but for limited use||Nearly a year after the Maharashtra government passed a resolution directing all government bodies, authorities and corporations to conduct banking transactions through public sector banks, the state cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod allowing government offices, public sector undertakings (PSUs), and state-run corporations to use private banks for banking services. However, the government has restricted the use of private banks limiting it to the debit of salaries and other allowances of employees. In March 2020, the finance department had issued a government resolution directed all government bodies to close all banking accounts with private and cooperative banks and open accounts in public sector banks from April 1, 2020. Since April, only public sector banks and later from July 2020, district cooperative banks were used to deposit salaries, other allowances and to maintain funds of a government body.A senior government official said the earlier resolution was taken in the wake of the crisis faced by one of the prominent private banks — Yes Bank — which had been put under moratorium. “Now the cabinet has limited the use of private banks allowing only salary accounts. This reduces the risk, which was the reason why a directive was issued to close all banking operations with private banks. No funds other than depositing salary will be allowed,” the official said. He added that the contractor’s bank guarantee or reserve fund of any government body will still remain in PSBs.A statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) on the cabinet decision said those bodies which opt for private banking service can avail online services through the bank. However, they must ensure that the bank does not charge any additional fees for these services. The cabinet also allowed pensioners to open pension accounts in private banks which have entered into an agreement with the state government before February 28, 2021, the statement said.A political controversy over bank accounts of several municipal corporations and even state police in a private bank had erupted shortly after Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi came to power in 2019. Sena leaders had, in December 2019, raised questions over bank accounts of some Sena-run civic bodies in the private bank where former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ wife Amruta was a senior executive. Thane civic body shifted its account of the private bank. The state government, through a government resolution in March 2020, announced the closure of one of its accounts — National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Projects — in the private bank and shifted it to the state-run SBI.In addition, the cabinet also gave a nod to a proposal providing guarantee for ₹1,500-crore loan required by the Maharashtra State Cooperative Cotton Growers Marketing Federation.The government guarantee will be for the ₹1,500-crore loan which the federation will borrow from Bank of Maharashtra at 6.35% per annum interest rate for ensuring timely payments to farmers on purchase of cotton for 2020-21 season. Due to satisfactory rainfall and favourable weather conditions, around 400 lakh quintals of cotton is expected to be produced this season in the state, said an official.The official added that with the dipping price of cotton internationally and the hike in the guaranteed prices by the Union government, the federation will have to procure large quantities of cotton at the guaranteed price this season as compared to the last season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-allows-govt-bodies-to-use-private-banks-but-for-limited-use-101611170480175.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ₹63k crore arrears, MSEDCL warns of cutting power supply||With ₹63,740 crore arrears pending till the end of December 2020, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has directed all regional offices to recover the dues immediately or cut-off power supply. It has also asked its offices to conduct campaigns to recover the dues.MSEDCL supplies power to the entire state and some parts of the eastern suburbs in Mumbai. It has over two crore consumers in the state. Assem Kumar Gupta, managing director and chairman, MSEDCL said that the pandemic has added to the ever-increasing financial woes of the state discom.“In March 2020, the arrears were around ₹40,000 crore. In the last nine months, MSEDCL has faced an additional burden of more than ₹1,200 crore per month. We have now given two directives to the regional offices - one is to take the top to bottom approach in recovering dues and the second is to give immediately resolve all pending complaints. We know that cutting off supply is not a win-win situation for anyone,” Gupta said.Following job loss and assurances by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over providing relief over-inflated bills, more than 60 lakh consumers in the state had not paid a single rupee towards their bills between April and November 2020, adding to the financial woes of the discom.In August 2020, the state had said that it is planning to waive excess bill by bearing the surplus amount for the months of April, May and June. State energy minister Nitin Raut in October had also said that consumers will get good news during Diwali. However, in November, in a complete turnaround, Raut announced that the state will not be able to provide any relief to consumers owing to its poor financial status and lack of aid from the Central government.The announcement came as a shock to thousands of consumers, who had reported inflated bills during the lockdown period. Reacting to the warning issued by the state, a consumer, who did not wish to be named, said, “The state moved from its stance to waiving off excess bills to saying that we will now cut-off power supply. This is acceptable for repeated offenders, not for people who have received wrong bills.” Pratap Hogade, a power activist, “The state energy minister had assured citizens that they will provide relief and not disconnect power. How can they threaten consumers now? We (various associations) are now demanding that the state should provide 50% waiver for the six-month lockdown period. We will not let the state disconnect power supply till they meet our demands.” Meanwhile, Swabhiman Shetkari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti along with power consumer forums met state energy minister Nitin Raut on Wednesday after MSEDCL stated that the discom will cut power supply in case of pending bills. Shetti said that the state cannot cut power supply after assuring consumers of relief. “We have demanded complete waiver of three months for residential consumers. The government has to accept this.” Raut later told mediapersons that the state will take an appropriate decision on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai63k-crore-arrears-msedcl-warns-of-cutting-power-supply-101611170420227.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maratha reservation case to be heard by the Supreme Court on February 5||The constitutional bench of the Supreme Court (SC) has postponed the hearing on the Maratha reservation case till February. It has now decided to hear the batch of petitions challenging and supporting the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act (SEBC) on February 5. It is also likely to hear the state government’s plea against an interim order passed by a three-judge bench in September last year, staying all recruitment to government jobs and admissions to educational institutions under the quota.Earlier, the Apex court has decided to start virtual hearing of the case from January 25.State public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said that the state had requested the SC to conduct physical hearings, as it is a crucial matter with a wide scope. The apex court said it would take a decision on February 5.During the hearing senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, appearing on behalf of the state government, pointed out that as many lawyers are working from different places, and there is a large set of documents involved, it would be difficult to argue the case over virtual hearing. Other senior lawyers such as Kapil Sibal also expressed similar concerns.“We wanted to make the hearing physical as the Apex court had decided to start the virtual hearing from January 25. Considering its wide scope and involvement of many petitions and lawyers who want to argue on the matter, it would not be possible to complete in virtual hearings. The Bombay high court (HC) has started physical hearing in some cases and the Apex court should also consider the same. As the Apex court said they will discuss and decide on our request on February 5, we are expecting a decision on that day,” Chavan said.In the last hearing, the constitutional bench had refused to vacate the stay put by a three-judge bench on recruitment and admissions under the Maratha quota. BJP has criticised the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on the matter, saying they are incompetent. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “The stand taken by the state government has complicated the case. Every time it comes up with a different stand in court. Only the state government is responsible for what all is happening in the court over Maratha reservation. It has handled the case very badly. There is a lack of coordination and indifference. One doesn’t know the decision taken by another. The action of the state is likely to create a question mark against reservation to all communities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-reservation-case-to-be-heard-by-the-supreme-court-on-february-5-101611170240156.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Weeks after restarting, junior college await clarity on FYJC exams||More than two weeks after first-year junior colleges (FYJC) in the state began their new academic year, the education department is yet to give clarity on the academic calendar and conduct of exams. Colleges said the department is yet to come up with guidelines on how to plan the academic year since the beginning of the new academic year was delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the Supreme Court’s interim stay on Maratha quota. “We are awaiting guidelines about the conduct of exams. Even as FYJC exams are conducted at the college level, some amount of uniformity and clarity is needed,” said the principal of a suburban college. Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal of VG Vaze College in Mulund, said the college has already finished about 10% of its syllabus. “Since we started online classes after completing the required number of admissions, we are not worried about completing the syllabus. However, we don’t know about the exams yet as there is no communication from the board or the department so far,” he added. As per the norms for admissions set by the education department, colleges can start their classes after 75% of their total seats are filled. Most colleges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) began their classes from the first week of January. With very little teaching hours left this year, colleges are now worried about conducting exams. “Time might not permit to conduct these many exams this year and the department can consider having only two exams — a unit test and a semester exam,” said Satram Verhani, vice-principal of CHM College in Ulhasnagar. Admissions for FYJC are still underway with over 1.22 lakh seats remaining vacant. The first-come first-served round, which is currently in process, will end on January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-weeks-after-restarting-junior-college-await-clarity-on-fyjc-exams-101611170000287.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||After rural mandate, civic polls in 5 cities to decide winning political party in Maharashtra||Less than two months after the three-party ruling coalition, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), completed one year in office, elections were held for more than 14,000 gram panchayats or village councils. The results showed that the MVA has won more seats than the opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but also that the latter still has a strong presence in the state. In the next few days, elections will be announced for five civic bodies, including three in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Aurangabad, the results of which will indicate the urban population’s response to the MVA and BJP. In the recently held gram panchayat elections, BJP and Shiv Sena apparently emerged to be the top two performers (the state election commission is yet to officially declare results). In the next few days, five municipal corporations and two district councils are going to polls and expected to be another political test for the political parties. If the panchayat results are any indication, the three ruling parties that fought the elections separately will have no option but to join hands in them.Although almost all the four major parties have claimed to have won the highest number of panchayats, the BJP and Sena appear to have bagged most of them. On the other hand, the three ruling parties —Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — have between them won about 60% panchayats, although they fought the elections separately. This reaffirms the fact that united they fight, like they fought in the legislative council elections in November, they bag more number of seats. The elections for five key municipal corporations and two district councils are expected to be announced in the next few weeks. Three of the corporations, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli and Vasai-Virar are from MMR, while two others are Aurangabad in central Maharashtra and Kolhapur in western Maharashtra. Sena and BJP are in power in KDMC and Navi Mumbai respectively, while Vasai-Virar is controlled by MLA Hitendra Thakur-led Bahujan Vikas Aghadi. Aurangabad is ruled by the Sena for years, while Congress has the reigns of Kolhapur city. Bhandara and Gondia district councils, held by Congress and NCP respectively, in Vidarbha, too, are expected to go to polls simultaneously.During the five years of its rule in Maharashtra until October 2019, the BJP emerged top party in almost all local bodies. Of the total 2,736 seats in 27 municipal corporations, BJP has 1,099, while out of 2,000 in 34 district councils, it had won 526 over the past five years. In 351 Panchayat Samitis’ 4,000 seats, the party has 1,123 members. The three ruling parties are way behind BJP in these local bodies if individual numbers are counted. The biggest challenge before the saffron party would be to retain its position at local levels.BJP’s vice-president Madhav Bhandari said although ruling parties enjoy an edge in the local body elections, his party would retain its top position. “The ruling parties have failed to take that advantage as the voters in rural parties have given us the mandate in panchayat elections. It is true that we lost our two traditional seats in council elections, but taking a lesson from them, we concentrated on village bodies, went for course correction and won most of them. Similarly, our endeavour would be to bag maximum urban and rural local bodies going to polls in near future. Even if the ruling parties fought them together, it would not make any difference,” he added.Ruling parties always enjoy an edge during the local body elections for various reasons. “First of all, government machinery is at your dispense and the BJP had used it ruthlessly in five years. Voters think that allocation of development funds for civic bodies is more if the ruling parties are elected to the local bodies. In recent council elections, the educational institutions in Pune and western Maharashtra responded to us very well when we convened meetings, seeking votes from teachers and constituencies. During the BJP rule, they would not even attend our meetings,” said a senior Congress leader.Minority development minister and NCP leader Nawab said, “The BJP has been lying about its performance in the panchayat elections, the MVA has bagged highest number of village panchayats. We will retain the trend even in the forthcoming local body elections, though we might not fight the polls together. It is part of our strategy because fighting together where BJP is weak will help the opposition,” he said.A Congress leader said the three parties have decided to contest the local bodies under the leadership of the strongest partner. “Like in Kolhapur, we will fight alone as we have strong base there, while in Navi Mumbai, the ruling alliance will fight under the leadership of Sena,” he said.The leader said that with BJP winning sizable seats in the local bodies, like in panchayats, will bring the ruling parties closer for the want of keeping the government floating.“Whether the BJP is number or two in rural polls is not important. What is important is that they still have significant support among rural voters. As such, we will have to stay together to counter them,” said a senior NCP minister. Prakash Pawar, political analyst from western Maharashtra, said it would be a challenge before the BJP to retain its power in local bodies. “Though BJP has been claiming that it won the highest number of panchayats, they are not in the proportion of the assembly segments they hold. It’s almost double than Sena and NCP in terms of MLAs in Assembly, but the number of panchayats it won are not double. The party is at loss after snapping ties with the Sena last year, but the latter has benefited from it. The three ruling parties can benefit if they fight together, but question is if they have the flexibility to do so without flexing muscles at each other,” he said.According to an officer from the state election commission, the elections to the civic bodies are expected to be announced in next few weeks only after electoral data is updated. “We get the electoral rolls from Election Commission of India. Once the updated rolls are received, they will be published at local level for suggestion and objections and the elections to the local bodies are announced,” he said.The officer said that the other administrative process, such as delimitation of wards, drawing of reservations have already been completed and they are all set to hold the elections as soon as the electoral rolls are revised.The elections to these corporations and ZPs were due last year, but were delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-rural-mandate-civic-polls-in-5-cities-to-decide-winning-political-party-in-maharashtra-101611169400242.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to withdraw cases registered for lockdown violation||State home minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Wednesday evening that the state government has decided to withdraw the cases registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for violation of the Covid-19 lockdown.“We have decided to withdraw the cases registered for the lockdown violations. The cases will be withdrawn following the judicial process,” he said.According to an official from the home department, thousands of cases have been registered for the violations, such as resorting to the streets, not wearing a mask, maintaining social distance.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Pradeep Deshmukh met the home minister on Wednesday morning demanding the withdrawal of the cases as they have been leading to hardships to the people. “In Pune, police have taken action against 28,000 people for violation of the lockdown norms from April to July. They are being served notices now for lodging FIR. Police had registered their names during lockdown for the violations and the notices are being served now. Though the action was legal, many of them had stepped out of the house, out of compulsion. Such action can cause unnecessary distress,” Pradeep Deshmukh said. He said that lakhs of such cases were registered across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-withdraw-cases-registered-for-lockdown-violation-101611169280160.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government upset with MPSC chief Satish Gavai in Maratha reservation case, CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks explanation||The Maharashtra government is upset with the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) chairman Satish Gavai over an interlocutory application filed in the Supreme Court (SC) in the Maratha reservation case. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray is likely to seek an explanation from the MPSC chief and will then take action.It was decided in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday, where most of the ministers sought action against Gavai. CM Thackeray too was upset with the MPSC’s decision.In its interlocutory application filed on December 9, 2020, MPSC had sought permission from the Apex court to restart the recruitment process in the state by setting aside the applications received under the provisions of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act (SEBC), more commonly known as the Maratha quota. It stated that MPSC had received thousands of applications for the recruitment process started last year, but could not pursue them following the outbreak of Covid-19.The SEBC Act was stayed by a three-member bench of the Supreme Court in September last year.Now, MPSC wants to restart the recruitment process which cannot be re-advertised without deleting the reservation and relaxations given under the Act, following the stay order. It has also sought a go-ahead from the SC.The application moved by MPSC has upset ministers who expressed their annoyance during the cabinet meeting. Most of the ministers demanded action against the MPSC chairman as the government was not informed of any such move, said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.“The community will see it as a double face of the MVA government. They will think that on one hand, we are pretending to save Maratha reservation in the Apex court, and on the other hand, we want to revise the recruitment process by setting aside the applications called under the SEBC Act. CM Thackeray too was very unhappy with the development and has assured us to call for an explanation from the MPSC chief,” the minister said.MPSC officials said that another application was also filed on January 15, saying that they don’t want to pursue the interlocutory application. “We have moved the fresh application after the state government decided to give two options to the applicants from the Maratha community by issuing an order on December 23. The government has allowed us to ask the applicants to choose either the general category or economically weaker section (EWS) to continue in the recruitment process,” said an official, wishing not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-upset-with-mpsc-chief-satish-gavai-in-maratha-reservation-case-cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-explanation-101611169101288.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Expedite CZMP for Mumbai and coastal districts in Maharashtra, Aaditya Thackeray writes to Union minister||State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday wrote to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar seeking inclusion of Coastal Zone Management Plans (CZMP) under the Coastal Regulation Zones (CRZ) Notification, 2019 for the districts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg. The minister sought finalisation of the draft CZMP for Mumbai at the earliest.Thackeray, in the letter, requested the minister to expedite the matter saying that the state has completed the public consultation for the draft CZMP district-wise. He added that the draft CZMP for Greater Mumbai was “deliberated” by the technical survey committee at Chennai in November 2020.“To expedite the process of finalisation of draft CZMPs of Greater Mumbai, the necessary instructions for the same be kindly issued to National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) at the earliest,” the minister said.The draft CZMP maps were prepared by the NCSCM under the Union environment ministry in 2019 for all coastal districts in Maharashtra based on the 2019 Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms. They were published on January 22, 2020.These maps use distinct colour codes to demarcate CRZ areas (I to IV), high tide and hazard line, fishing zones, intertidal areas, mangrove forests and buffer areas, turtle nesting sites, cyclone shelters, koliwadas and gaothans. These maps also identify coastal areas that can be opened up for infrastructural development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/expedite-czmp-for-mumbai-and-coastal-districts-in-maharashtra-aaditya-thackeray-writes-to-union-minister-101611169099936.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Schools in Mumbai shall not reopen until further orders, Maharashtra edu department clarifies||A letter issued by the office of the deputy director on Wednesday had led to a lot of confusion regarding the reopening of schools in the city. The letter asked the officials to follow the guidelines with respect to reopening of schools in the state for Classes 5 to 8 and prepare accordingly. However, another circular released in the evening clarified that the final decision of reopening would be taken as per the orders of the local authority.Recently, the state education department allowed schools in the state to reopen for lower classes from January 27. However, since the final decision on the reopening lies with the local bodies, schools in the city won’t reopen for now, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s orders in the past. The inconsistency in the orders issued by the civic body and in the letter confused principals. “We were wondering as to why such a circular was issued when the guidelines mandate schools to remain shut in the city,” said Anil Bornare of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Teachers Cell. Sandeep Sangave, deputy director of education for the Mumbai region said that the letter issued on Tuesday in no way invoked the reopening of schools in the city. “The letter had an implied reference to the department’s order and the local administration’s call in this matter. However, it seems to have caused confusion. Hence, we clarified that the final decision of reopening will be as per the orders of the local authority,” he added. A circular stating out the clarification was also issued on late Wednesday evening. In other parts of the state, schools for Classes 9 to 12 have begun from November 23 while those for Classes 5 to 8 will begin from January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/schools-in-mumbai-shall-not-reopen-until-further-orders-maharashtra-edu-department-clarifies-101611168861101.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||89 doses of Covaxin wasted in three days in Maharashtra||Amid the ongoing technical glitch in the centralised app Co-WIN, the turnout of the first indigenous vaccine—Covaxin has been badly affected in the state. As a result of this, in the first three days of the immunisation programme, 89 doses of Covaxin have been wasted in the state. The vaccine centres are now coming up with new plans to save the wastage.While each vial of Covishield has 5ml of the vaccine with each dose being 0.5 ml, which is equivalent to 10 doses, a Covaxin vial contains 20 doses. In the first three days (January 16, 19 and 20) of the vaccine, as many as 89 doses of Covaxin have been wasted which can only be preserved for four hours after being open.In the six Covaxin vaccination sites in Maharashtra, the government-run Grant Medical College in Mumbai which is also known as Sir JJ Hospital, 13 doses were wasted. While at the Government Medical College (GMC) Nagpur, 26 doses were wasted, the highest in the state. This is followed by GMC Aurangabad (16 doses), GMC Solapur (13 doses), and District Hospital (DH) Pune (14). The DH Amravati has wasted only 7 doses, the lowest in the state till January 19.As per the data collected from the six centres, on January 16, only 17 doses of Covaxin were wasted in the state. But on the second day of vaccination, the amount of wastage increased by 129% when the centres failed to use 39 doses due to low turnout of shortlisted beneficiaries. On the third day, 33 doses were wasted.On January 16, out of the 600 shortlisted candidates for Covaxin, 383 of them got vaccinated in the six centres of the state. However, on Tuesday, due to the technical glitch, the Co-WIN app generated over 250 names of the healthcare workers (HCWs) who were to take the Covaxin jab on Day 1 of vaccination in the state. Due to this confusion, the overall turnout of the HCWs for Covaxin fell to 181 in the state on the second day of the vaccination. However, on the third day, the number increased to 327 in the state due to the walk-in vaccination. Out of this, Amravati recorded 115 vaccination, the highest in the state. Each day, the centres have a target to vaccinate 100 people for which they need five vials of Covaxin. Thus, if vaccination centres get fewer HCWs, the remaining opened dosages will go to waste. For instance, on January 19, GMC Nagpur vaccinated 29 HCWs. This led to the waste of 11 doses in the second vial.“On the first day of the vaccination, as we had recorded 100% turnout, we didn’t lose any unit. However, the next day when only 38 HCWs came forward, we lost two doses from the second vial,” said Dr Dilip Ranmale, DHO, Amravati.Now, to address the issue of the low turnout of the beneficiaries, the health department has instructed the six centres to call more than the target number of beneficiaries. Also, Co-WIN application has added another option, ‘add beneficiaries’ under which HCWs who are registered on the app can get vaccinated even if they don’t have an appointment for the day.“We have a target to vaccinate 100 HCWs every day. But from today, we are going to call around 150 people for the appointment to increase the turnout. Also, any interested HCWs who are already registered on Co-WIN app can get vaccinated at our centre even if they don’t have an appointment for the day. These steps will likely help to control the wastage of doses,” said Dr Deepak Selukar, DHO, Nagpur.Earlier, on January 16, Dr Archana Patil, director of state health services had stated that attaining 100% turn out every day isn’t feasible so it is expected that if the vaccination centres don’t get a calculated number of HCWs, then it will lead to wastage of dosages. “But this won’t always happen. As we start the immunisation programme for a higher number of people, we can make optimum use of vaccine doses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/89-doses-of-covaxin-wasted-in-three-days-in-maharashtra-101611168680359.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Tinkering labs in 25 municipal school, Mumbai civic body panel sanctions proposal||Amidst apprehensions of Opposition party members, the standing committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) sanctioned a proposal on Wednesday to set up Atal Tinkering Lab in 25 municipal schools across the city. These labs provide students with required material for robotics, electrical and mechanical experiments which are guided by the teachers.The Atal Tinkering Lab initiative is set up by Centre’s NITI Aayog which is said to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the country.A proposal to sanction the selected firm for setting up and maintaining the labs was tabled at the committee meeting, on Wednesday. As per the proposal, the BMC will be spending ₹3.48 crore for setting these 25 labs and maintaining them for five years. The proposal does not mention the 25 schools where the lab will be set up.Earlier, in 2017-18, the BMC had set up its first Tinkering Lab at Colaba Municipal School and later in 2018-19 they set up three more labs at Gundavali MPS School, Pali Chimbai Municipal School and Govandi Station Municipal School on a pilot basis. Members of the Opposition parties raised objections on the existing tinkering labs which they allege have no such courses for students. Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said, “The Pali Chimbai Municipal School is in my ward and I enquired with the school authorities but there was no such lab there. The administration should give a detailed proposal on this.”Echoing the same view, Congress corporator Javed Juneja said, “There are no proper details in the proposal. We have never heard of such labs functioning in BMC schools and the administration should clarify this. The civic administration had made tall promises of setting up digital classrooms in BMC schools but nothing has been done yet.”The proposal was, however, sanctioned by the committee. As per the proposal, it aims to develop creativity, innovation in the mechanical and electrical field, experimentation thoughts and curiosity among students of municipal schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tinkering-labs-in-25-municipal-school-mumbai-civic-body-panel-sanctions-proposal-101611168440067.html
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Exonerated Mohali cop entitled to service benefits, promotion: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that a government employee exonerated in criminal and/or departmental proceedings was entitled for service benefits for the period (s)he remained out of job.The high court bench of justice Harsimran Singh Sethi allowed a plea of Punjab Police head constable Raghubir Singh, presently posted in the office of senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali, who had challenged the denial of pay and promotion as assistant sub-inspector in view of an FIR against him.On December 17, 2012, a case was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act while Singh was posted on PCR duty. Without holding any inquiry, he was dismissed from service the same day by the SSP. As no incriminating evidence was found in the probe, an untraced report was filed before the special court, Mohali, which was accepted on September 12, 2017, and the cop was exonerated, said his lawyer Ranjivan Singh.On October 15, 2018, he was ordered to be reinstated by the director general of police (DGP), Punjab, with a stipulation that a departmental inquiry will also be initiated against him. The charges could not be proved again and the departmental charge-sheet was dropped on February 18, 2019, by the SSP.When the petitioner requested for restoration of his salary and arrears for the period he remained out of job, it was turned down on November 19, 2019; he was also denied promotion to the rank of ASI.The HC bench held that denying service benefits to the petitioner was unlawful and directed that the said period be counted for paying arrears and granting promotion to him from the date his juniors were promoted in March 2020.The court found that before the investigating agency started investigation into the allegations, the petitioner was dismissed from service on the date of the registration of the FIR itself.“Nothing has come on record as to why, without waiting for the outcome of the investigation, the action was taken against him in-haste only on the basis of the allegations,” the court said, adding that no service rule had been cited that even on the allegations alleged in the FIR, an employee could be dismissed from service.“It is clear that it was only due to the illegal and arbitrary acts of the department that he was dismissed from service and he could not discharge the duties,” the bench said, adding that his arrears will be cleared within one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exonerated-mohali-cop-entitled-to-service-benefits-promotion-hc-101611168320496.html
21-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana cops dance to tunes of songs promoting liquor during Raahgiri||The road safety month activities organised by the Ghumar Mandi police turned into an embarrassment as cops were seen dancing to the tunes of songs promoting liquor consumption, on Wednesday. This even as police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal had recently banned such songs from being played in public places while stating that these are a bad influence on the youth.In what was supposed to be drive to exhort residents to shun vehicles for a day and taking part in physical activities for fitness, cops were seen throwing caution to the wind and roaming around without masks. The cops had closed the stretch from Ghumar Mandi Chowk to Professor Mohan Singh Chowk (Aarti Chowk) for vehicles, however, some commuters still managed to dodge the police and enter the area.Though the police had planned several activities, including cycling, yoga and badminton for residents, only a handful of came forward and participated in the events. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, traffic) Pragya Jain said that there was an open invite for people to join the event. “It is possible that some people may not have been wearing masks, but the police have advised everyone to follow Covid protocol,” the ADCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cops-dance-to-tunes-of-songs-promoting-liquor-during-raahgiri-101611168263670.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Jail hospitals well-equipped to monitor Varavara Rao: NIA tells Bombay HC||Asserting that Taloja jail hospital is well-equipped to monitor the health of Elgar Parishad case accused P Varavara Rao, Maharashtra government and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the 82-year-old Telugu poet could be shifted to Taloja jail.The submissions were made while senior counsel Anand Grover insisted that though Rao could be discharged from Nanavati Hospital, sending him back to Taloja jail would result in deterioration of his condition as the jails did not have the atmosphere recommended by Nanavati Hospital for monitoring Rao, after his discharge from the hospital.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by P Hemlatha, wife of Rao, was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh for NIA, that the apprehensions of Rao’s wife about Taloja jail hospital is not equipped to take care of Rao, as per the recommendation of Nanavati Hospital, were unfounded.Singh referred to the judgement passed last year in public interest litigations (PIL) that sought various reliefs for jail inmates during the ongoing Covid pandemic and said that the judgement had enumerated various measures for treating jail inmates who contracted the Covid virus and even for those suffering from comorbidities. Singh said that jails had complied with the measures mentioned in the judgement and in light of that Rao would not face the problems which Grover was anticipating.On the question of the court as to whether Rao had dementia, Grover referred to medical study reports and stressed on the fact that delirium could result in dementia. Grover submitted that as the jail hospital was not equipped to monitor the sodium levels in Rao on a regular basis and he had slipped into bouts of delirium there was an apprehension that the delirium attack could progress to dementia which is incurable.Later, senior advocate Indira Jaising also made submissions on behalf of Rao on whether the court had jurisdiction to grant bail on medical grounds under article 226 of the Constitution. She submitted that as Rao was old and had an underlying medical condition which could be life-threatening, if not kept under control, the court could grant him bail. She also referred to the bail on medical ground granted for former justice Mohit Shah to Prof Saibaba and said that though Saibaba was later convicted pending trial, he was granted bail on medical grounds.She further added that though Rao was an accused and was imprisoned, it did not mean that he had to forego his fundamental rights to life of dignity and health. In light of these submissions, Jaising reiterated the prayer for granting Rao bail.After hearing the submissions, the court asked Grover and Jaising to file a short affidavit to fortify their claims and list out the facilities which Rao would require after being discharged from Nanavati Hospital, but were not present in Taloja jail hospital.The NIA and state will argue against the bail application on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-jail-hospitals-well-equipped-to-monitor-varavara-rao-nia-tells-bombay-hc-101611168261662.html
21-01-2021||Other||From today, vaccination drive to be conducted at 11 sites in Ludhiana||Following the state government’s orders to expedite the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Ludhiana health department is all set to increase the number of vaccination sites in the district. From today (Thursday), the vaccine will be administered at 11 sites in the district, including community health centres and private hospitals.The department of health and family welfare of the state government, in its order, had advised all civil surgeons to start vaccination at all government medical colleges, district hospitals, sub divisional hospitals, community health centers and all private health care facilities, which were identified as part of the vaccination programme and included in the list of 366 sites (identified across the state).Even those healthcare workers who were registered but waiting for their turn for vaccination can visit these sites and get the jabs.Vaccination to resume at civil hospitalA day after suspending vaccination drive at the Ludhiana civil hospital, the health department has decided to resume the process. District immunisation officer Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said the vaccination site was earlier shifted from the civil hospital to a private hospital considering the strength of health workers and convenience. “But we will resume the vaccination drive at the civil hospital from January 22,” she said.So far, 67 out of the 150 employees at the civil hospital who had got themselves registered have been vaccinated. She added, “From Thursday, we will be conducting vaccination drives at the government health facilities of Samrala, Khanna, Jagraon, and Sudhar and private hospitals, including Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Fortis, SPS Hospital. We have also identified small nursing homes, having a staff strength ranging from 5 to 50 healthcare workers.”“I have also conducted a meeting with Asha and ANM workers and motivated them to take the vaccination dose,” said Dr Kiran.State govt’s instructions:Private healthcare sectors that have been identified for carrying out vaccination are to operate seven days a week while all government health care institutions are to run the drive six days a week.The Co-WIN portal allocates 100 beneficiaries a day per site. But now, there is a provision in the portal to include registered beneficiaries who are not included in the list scheduled for the day. The state govt has asked the civil surgeons to ensure that all willing and available registered beneficiaries at a particular site are included in the session and vaccinated.1 dead, 38 fresh infections in districtA 72-year-old man from Salem Tabri died while 38 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Wednesday. The district currently has 281 active cases. A total 25, 399 persons have tested positive for the virus so far, out of which, 24, 130 managed to beat the deadly virus. With the latest death, the district’s toll has reached 985. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-today-vaccination-drive-to-be-conducted-at-11-sites-in-ludhiana-101611168259872.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||68.04% give vaccine a shot on Day 3 in Maharashtra||At 68.04%, the state saw an improvement in the turnout on the third day of the vaccination drive on Wednesday. The turnout was 64.34% of the daily target on Day 1 on Saturday and 52.68% of the daily target on Tuesday. While the state authorities are hopeful about gradual improvement in the response from health care workers (HCWs), the state health department plans to hold a counselling and awareness drive to attract more beneficiaries. A total of 18,166 HCWs were inoculated across 267 centres on Wednesday, taking the tally of beneficiaries to 51,650. Of them, 881 have been given Bharat Biotech Limited’s Covaxin. The number of centres was reduced on Wednesday owing to technical glitches in the CoWIN app. The comparatively backward districts of Amravati (112%), Hingoli (107%), Dhule (92%) and Osmanabad (80%) reported high turnout, while Aurangabad (31%), Pune (38%) and Raigad (35%) saw the lowest turnout. Mumbai met 72% of its daily target, while Thane saw 77% turnout. The state has decided to four sessions a week – on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. The state expects 55.5% of the 800,000 HCWs to be vaccinated by mid-February and begin their inoculation for the second dose. The state government has so far been given 983,000 vials of Covaxin and Covishield and need more stock of the vaccine to begin the inoculation of remaining HCWs. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state health department will launch an information, education and communication (IEC) drive and counsel HCWs, to improve the Covid vaccination percentage. “I would not call the turnout low, as Maharashtra saw among the highest responses in the country on Day one. It is true that all enrolled HCWs are not coming for vaccination, but we should not go into the percentage of the turnout. To improve it further, I am releasing a video appealing to our HCWs to come forward and set an example for others. Ultimately, they are the message givers and idols for many,” he said. “We still are facing technical problems with the Co-WIN app and some beneficiaries find their names cancelled after the initial enrolment. Second, the HCWs are still hesitant over safety and want to first gauge the efficacy for a few days. Because of these two reasons the turnout is not up to the mark,” Tope said. The minister said there should not be any apprehension about Bharat Biotech Limited’s Covaxin as it has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India and ratified by scientists as safe for use. The minister said there were very few adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) in the state. “We expect gradual improvement in response as fear among HCWs is reducing. We did not get a single case of even minor AEFI in five districts in north Maharashtra,” said Dr PD Gandal, deputy director of health services, Nashik division. Meanwhile, the tally of Covid-19 cases inched close to 2-million mark, as 3,015 new infections took the total to 1,997,992. With 59 new deaths, the death toll has reached 50,582. The state’s case fatality rate stands at 2.53%. Mumbai clocked 501 cases and 9 deaths, taking the tally to 304,126 and toll to 11,268. Pune, Nagpur and Nashik remain among the top contributing cities in the state, with 323, 219 and 216 cases reported on Wednesday. Maharashtra has 46,769 active patients. Pune district has the highest (13,807), followed by Thane (8,688) and Mumbai (6,656). After the discharge of 4,589 patients, the number of discharged patients has reached 1,899,428, with a recovery rate of 95.07%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6804-give-vaccine-a-shot-on-day-3-in-maharashtra-101611167660734.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||MCG to build open-air gyms in all city parks measuring more than an acre||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to equip at least half of the city’s parks with open-air gyms, said officials on Wednesday.Devender Bhadana, executive engineer, MCG, said the civic body has set a target of establishing open-air gyms in every park in the city that is more than an acre in size.“There are more than 400 parks in the city that measure more than one acre — nearly half of the total number of parks. We are making estimates for the project. The estimates will not only account for the types of equipment used in open-air gyms but also for general play equipment, benches, and other additional features,” said Bhadana.There are at least 808 parks in the city, of which 483 are maintained by the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), while 325 by the MCG.Bhadana further said that the rationale behind building open-air gyms in parks measuring above one acre is to ensure there is adequate space for accommodating them alongside green belts, benches, footpaths, and other recreational facilities.On Tuesday, the MCG’s finance and contract committee (F&CC) approved a tender for constructing open-air gyms across parks in Ward 23 for a cumulative cost of ₹1.50 crore.Earlier in 2019, MCG officials had announced that they are setting a target of building one open-air gym in every residential sector of the city. However, officials said that they realised that this approach would only cover a fraction of the city. As such, they decided to change their strategy.“There are around 60 residential sectors in the city that come under the jurisdiction of the MCG. We realised that by building 60 open-air gyms, only a small fraction of the residents would be covered. Hence, we decided to change our strategy and cover half of the city’s total number of parks,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The first open-air gyms in the city were constructed on Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg and St Thomas during the MCG’s green Raahgiri initiative in February 2016. However, no such facilities were added over the next two years.It was re-launched on a large scale from April 2018 onwards, with the first such facility being built at a park in Sector 22. Subsequently, 45 open-air gyms were set up across the city over the course of the next two years.An open-air gym has exercise equipment such as air swings, elliptical exercise machine, air walker, rowing machine, chest and leg press machines, and suchlike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-build-open-air-gyms-in-all-city-parks-measuring-more-than-an-acre-101611164359244.html
21-01-2021||Gurugram||Aerial survey underway at landfill to identify space for waste-to-energy plant||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is currently carrying out a drone survey of the Bandhwari landfill site to demarcate land for a proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant, to kick off construction later this year. The survey of the landfill, located 40 kilometres from the city, is expected to be completed in two weeks. Officials privy to the matter said the WTE plant is likely to take at least two more years to become functional.Dhiraj Kumar, MCG’s joint commissioner, who is overseeing the implementation of the Centre’s Swacch Bharat Mission, confirmed that plans to move ahead with the WTE plant are underway and that preliminary aerial surveys will be completed early next month. “We are mapping the height of the landfill in various places through drone photography, as it will help in assessing the amount of legacy waste that needs to be cleared immediately, to meet the land requirement,” he said. Kumar pointed out that bioremediation of legacy waste, which commenced three months ago, is continuing at the landfill site, with nine trommel machines. However, he did not provide any data on how much waste has been treated since last September. A spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, the city’s concessionaire for waste management, pegged the estimate of remediated legacy waste at about 250,000 tonnes. This is against nearly 6.7 million tonnes of waste accumulated at the site over the last two decades, as per a 2019 joint committee report drafted by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), IIT-Delhi and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). “We have recently started doing the drone mapping survey of the area, but it is not yet complete. Some of the lands which had been kept for the WTE plant is filled with waste, so we need to map the height of the landfill at various points around the site. Based on that we have to decide where to start the reclamation process, otherwise, the landfill may become unstable,” said the spokesperson, adding that the landfill’s highest point currently stands at 40 metres above the ground, based on results from preliminary drone surveys. On the other hand, officials have not yet been able to address the issue of fresh incoming waste, a large portion of which continues to accumulate there despite the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) orders to stop dumping. “It will take us some time to create enough capacity that we can parallelly process both legacy and fresh waste, but we have successfully started treating about 2,500 tonnes of legacy waste per day already. In some parts of the landfill, the height has also reduced by two to three metres. It will take another two years for the plant to be up and running, until which point bioremediation will continue,” said the spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy.The proposed WTE energy plant has received opposition from several quarters of civil society, with residents and experts questioning its environmental repercussions. “Delhi’s experience with the waste to energy model in Okhla should serve as a warning to people in Gurugram, particularly the residents in villages around the landfill. Such a plant in an eco-sensitive zone, right in the middle of the Aravallis, will cause irreversible harm to the ecology and human health,” said Pallavi Tiwari, a campaigner of the Aravalli Bachao group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aerial-survey-underway-at-landfill-to-identify-space-for-waste-to-energy-plant-101611164298826.html
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get country’s tallest outdoor air purifier||The city is set to get the tallest outdoor air purifier in the country. The 78 feet tall air purifier is expected to be installed within three months at one of the five locations shortlisted by the UT administration. UT environment director Debendra Dalai said, “It will be the tallest air purifier in the country and cover 1km area around it. In addition to filters of different types, it will be equipped with sensors to measure air quality index. Besides, live readings of the inlet and outlet air from the machine will be shown on a display board.” The five locations shortlisted for the installation include – two sites in Sector 17, Transport Chowk, Tribune Chowk and the Industrial Area. “We are assessing the best location to install the air purifier and will take a decision shortly. It will be installed in areas with highest pollutant levels,” Dalai said. The equipment will be installed by a private company, at no cost to the administration. “The company, recently got the patent of the technology, and offered to install the purifier. The administration sought it to be installed on a pilot basis and the company agreed. It will cost around ₹1.5 crore and the entire cost will be borne by the company,” said Dalai. Chandigarh is one of the non-attainment cities in the country according to National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) norms, which means it has over a five-year period not consistently met the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for harmful PM 10 (particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter), PM 2.5 or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide).After remaining “satisfactory” and “moderate” during the lockdown period and a few months after, the air quality index (AQI) had again turned “poor” for the first time in November last year.The UT environment department has already tested the purifier on indoor premises and found its results encouraging, following which its use was recommended outside.10 smaller purifiers also to be installedThe administration has also decided to install around 10 air purifier towers in different locations where the air quality gets poor or worse. These smaller purifiers will be up to 3m in height and cost nearly ₹3 lakh each. The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee recently floated tenders inviting firms to install the purifiers. “It is being done on a pilot basis. After examining their effectiveness, we will be deciding on expanding the project to other parts of the city,” a CPCC official said. The hired firm will install, operate and maintain the purifiers. The department is likely to open the technical bids by the end of this week.FOR CLEANER AIR• Purifier will be 78 feet tall• Will clean air pollutants in 1km radius around it• Being installed on pilot basis at no cost to administration• Location to be picked from one of five shortlisted areas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-get-country-s-taller-outdoor-air-purifier-101611163398756.html
21-01-2021||Delhi||Transgender community struggling to cope with lockdown||When the nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, Namisha, a transwoman, was left with only ₹3,000 in savings, 2kg flour and some pulses. Within a few days, her stocked ration dried up and saving was also exhausted.The 36-year-old, who would depended on the kindness of strangers in buses at Sarai Kale Khan bus station for her sustenance, now has no one to turn to.“When I was left with nothing to eat I tried to go out to find food. Police threatened me thinking I was out to beg. I did not even have balance in my phone to call anyone. Then I took the help of a neighbour and called an NGO. They supplied some ration to my house and also provide some money last week. Now I will be able to survive for the next few days,” she said.Like Namisha, many transgender persons across the national capital have been rendered helpless amid the lockdown. While most of them begged on the city streets, performed in weddings and celebrations, and took to sex work to feed themselves, they are now struggling to cope in the lockdown.“I could not pay the rent this month for my one-room set in Kalyanpuri. I am just hoping that the landlord doesn’t ask me to leave. Where will I go? My family doesn’t even talk to me,” she said.Hurdles in getting govt helpEven as the Delhi government has set up over 1,400 food distribution centres across the Capital to provide food to those in need, transgender persons said it was tough for them to access these.Ramkali, a transwoman associated with Delhi-based NGO Basera Samajik Sangthan, said they receive distress calls from transgender persons every day for ration and food.“We have also got complaints from many of our sathis (friends) that officials at government food distribution centres mistreated them. People in queues with them passed lewd comments and told them to stay away. The government should make some separate arrangements for the trans community,” she said.A group of 20 transgender persons living in a slum cluster near Lal Qila also raised the same concerns.“All of us work in toli (group) and perform at weddings. It’s been over a month now we have not earned a penny. When we were mistreated by those distributing food at the centre near our slum, we did not go there again. Most of us do not have ration cards to get free ration either. We are completely dependent on NGOs and people who come here to distribute food,” said Nimmu, 45, leader of the group.Amrita Johri of the NGO Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan said that the most pressing concern for these people were the lack of documents.“Since many of them do not have ration cards and identity cards on their preferred gender choice, they are not being able to get the ration. But now the government is providing ration to those without cards too, we hope the transgender community also get benefited,” she said.Delhi social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said that the persons from the transgender community can get the free ration from the fair price shops or distribution centres by just filling the e-coupons and do not need any document for that. “For those who cannot fill e-coupons the government is sending coupons to their houses. The government is providing every possible help to the community without any gender discrimination,” he said.Several transgender persons said that they are not able to get the monetary help announced by the Central government in view of the lockdown. “The government had announced they would transfer ₹1500 directly to the bank accounts. But none in my group has a bank account. We live on daily wages and don’t use the bank,” said Kajal, 36, who lives in Chandni Chowk.Health & mental well-being at stake Simmi, a transwoman, worked in a beauty parlour in Turkman Gate. With services restricted she said that she had no option but to go back to her family when the lockdown was extended on April 14.“I did not have enough money to survive so I returned to my parent’s house in west Delhi. But, now I am going through mental trauma because my parents and siblings pass comments and taunts on my gender choice the whole day. I don’t know what to do. I feel suffocated,” she said.Amrita Sarkar, a transgender rights activist from SAATHI NGO, said many trans persons like Simmi are going through similar mental and emotional trauma during the lockdown. “If the person is not getting acceptance and listening comments like why you are like that? They are living in constant mental pressure. Those who are living alone are totally out of money now,” she said.Sarkar said that they are getting medicine requirements from the transgender persons, many of whom are HIV positive or have recently undergone sex reassignment surgery. “Many of them either don’t have money to buy medicines or they are not getting the supply due to the lockdown.It’s so difficult for them to survive without medicine,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/transgender-community-struggling-to-cope-with-lockdown/story-VIlHs3pArLpe8fTnwZ3k5M.html
