22-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Amravati and Hingoli set example with repeated 100% turnout||Rural districts like Amravati and Hingoli are setting an example for cities by attaining repeated 100% turnout for both Covid-19 vaccinates—Covaxin and Covishield. District health officials said timely intimation and counselling hold the key to their success.Amravati has a daily target to vaccinate 500 healthcare workers (HCWs), of which 100 are for Covaxin and the remaining 400 for Covishield. On Friday, the district recorded 116% turnout, as they vaccinated 558 healthcare workers (HCWs). Hingoli attained a 100% success rate by inoculating the targeted 200 HCWs.Since the beginning of the mass immunisation programme on January 16, all 36 districts are facing technical glitches in the centralised CoWIN application, which has marred their spirit to a great extent. Despite these shortfalls, the two districts—Amravati and Hingoli have been attaining 100% turnout repeatedly by adopting different strategies.Timely dissemination of information has helped achieve a maximum number of HCWs. “We start calling the registered beneficiaries by 5pm. As our daily target is 200 HCWs, we are done with our calling within two hours. This gives enough time to HCWs in getting ready for their next day’s vaccination,” said Dr Shivaji Pawar, district health officer (DHO), Hingoli.Counselling has also helped to boost the morale of HCWs in the hospital. “We have been counselling HCWs, both, before and after vaccination. Along with that, while setting up appointments over the phone, our officers counsel anyone who shows resistance and make them understand the importance of the vaccination,” said Dr Dilip Ranmale, DHO, Amravati.All 36 districts in Maharashtra have started the walk-in vaccination for HCWs who are registered on the centralised Co-WIN application. Now, all the 285 vaccination sites had inoculated the registered HCWs even if they don’t appointment for the day by clicking on the newly added option— ‘add beneficiary’. With this, the number of overall turnouts has increased further. “Since the start of this facility, I am getting more than the targeted figure. For instance, we vaccinated 551 beneficiaries on Wednesday and 558 on Friday. Even though it adds on to the pressure, we never turn away any beneficiaries,” said Dr Ranmale.The CoWIN app has been regenerating the old names of the beneficiaries in the new list. To address the issue, the districts have been shortlisting more than the targeted beneficiaries which helped to get more HCWs for immunisation. “After the first day of the immunisation, we understood that we need to invite more than the targeted number which will help in better turnout. So, if we have 200 targets, we call 250 people,” said Dr Pawar.The HCWs include doctors, nurses, ward boys, ASHA and Anganwadi workers. So, the health officers have created WhatsApp groups of the HCWs according to their profile. “If we want to vaccinate 50 ASHA workers, we also inform their leaders who quickly pass on the messages timely. So, we have also created such groups which help in passing on the information faster,” said Dr Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtraamravati-and-hingoli-set-example-with-repeated-100-turnout-101611340126913.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Private hospitals in Mumbai sensitise staff about the need for Covid-19 vaccination||To encourage healthcare workers (HCWs) to get inoculated, major private hospitals in the city are sensitising staffers about the importance of getting vaccinated. Additionally, hospitals are adjusting work schedules of HCWs so that they are able to meet their appointed dates of vaccination.In the city, in the last four days of the vaccination, only 61.24 % of the shortlisted HCWs got inoculated. Out of the 14,352 HCWs who were called for vaccination, only 8,790 of them showed up on their assigned dates.Around 1.30 lakh HCWs in Mumbai have registered on the Covid vaccine intelligence network (CoWIN) app, which is monitoring the vaccination drive, and of them, 70,000 are employed at private hospitals. Private hospitals in the city said not even 50% of registered HCWs are getting inoculated. “One of the main reasons for low turnout is the lack of knowledge and the right information about the vaccines among potential beneficiaries. Due to technical glitches in the CoWIN application, the turnout has been badly affected. But people are interpreting it in a negative light,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital. To address questions and clear doubts about vaccination among HCWs, many senior officers and heads of departments at hospitals are getting inoculated first. Dr Ravishankar, chief executive officer (CEO) of Lilavati Hospital, got the vaccine on Wednesday. “Since the day I have taken the vaccine, many of our in-house HCWs have been motivated [to do the same]. Many people who had doubts about the efficiency of the vaccine have now decided to take it,” he said. Several private hospitals are disseminating information about the need to get vaccinated through hospital WhatsApp groups. “We have been holding awareness workshops to sensitise staffers. Raising awareness among HCWs is the need of the hour. We need to bust myths among the public through face-to-face counselling and social media,” said Dr Harish Shetty, a city psychiatrist who got the vaccine on January 16, the first day of the vaccination drive. Many doctors are raising awareness among their peers by doing webinars, and some hospitals are providing alternative shifts to HCWs to accommodate vaccine appointments. “For the convenience of staffers, we are also adjusting their shifts and timing as per their appointment date of the vaccination,” said Dr Sujit Chatterjee, CEO of Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital. On Thursday, the Association of Hospitals, a trust comprising private hospitals, wrote to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) seeking permission to vaccinate staff in their premises. “We have 2,100 HCWs, so if we get permission to vaccinate them, we can get them inoculated within a week. This will save time for HCWs to travel to distant vaccine centres for inoculation and secondly, it will increase the turnout, which will boost public confidence,” said Dr Bhansali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/private-hospitals-in-mumbai-sensitise-staff-about-the-need-for-covid-19-vaccination-101611340006936.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Fuel price soars again, petrol crosses ₹92 mark in Mumbai||Petrol prices on Friday touched a new high in the city. The price of one litre of petrol is now ₹92.04, while the one litre of diesel will cost ₹82.40.The increase comes after the price remained constant for two days in the city.On January 19, one litre of petrol was available at ₹91.80 and one litre of diesel was available at ₹82.13.Earlier, the highest petrol price was recorded in October 2018 with a litre costing ₹91.34 in the city, while the highest price of diesel was recorded in the city last week, on January 14, costing ₹81.60 for one litre.Fuel prices have increased across all metro cities in the country. In Delhi, one litre of petrol costs ₹85.45 and one litre of diesel costs ₹75.63.Transporters across the country have called for an urgent meeting to discuss the rise in fuel prices.“The government is taking undue advantage of the vulnerability of the consumers. They refused to lower the fuel prices when international crude oil prices plummeted. The Central government has increased the excise duty and the state government has increased the value-added tax (VAT), making fuel a highly taxed commodity in the world. The high cost of diesel prices are taking a toll on small operators and if this is not checked, a strong action seems imminent,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).Citizens have urged the Maharashtra government to reduce VAT. “The prices of fuel have been increasing constantly. During the pandemic, people have already suffered a lot, the state government should immediately reduce VAT on fuel,” said Aarti Singh, a Vikhroli resident.Earlier on January 14, the AIMTC had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking to reduce VAT on diesel and petrol in Maharashtra to extend relief to the road transport sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-price-soars-again-petrol-crosses-92-mark-in-mumbai-101611339947017.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||HC stay and Centre’s objections: Maharashtra govt stares at legal hurdles over Mumbai Metro 3 car shed site||While a committee appointed by the Maharashtra government has backed Kanjurmarg over Aarey as the right plot for building a car shed for Metro lines 3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and 6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli), the state still has legal hurdles to clear before undertaking work at Kanjurmarg. A top official from the state government, who did not wish to be named, said that the committee’s recommendations have no standing until the court clears the land parcel for construction of the shed. “The matter is pending in the court. It is as clear,” the official said. In November 2020, the Bombay high court (HC) had stayed the transfer of 102 acres of land to the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA). The court had also stated that the land transfer by the collector was bordering on fraud on power. The court is set to hear the matter in February again. On October 6, the collector transferred possession of the piece of land to MMRDA and two days later the authority, in turn, handed it over to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited, which started levelling work at the site.The Central government also challenged these actions on the land claiming that the entire salt pan land, including the 102 acres at Kanjurmarg, belongs to its salt department and has always been under the administrative control of the deputy salt commissioner.Trivankumar Karnani, a lawyer by profession said, “Nothing supersedes the court of law. Ideally, the matter should have been settled by the government instead of delaying such a crucial project. Matters related to title disputes take a long time to get resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-stay-and-centre-s-objections-maharashtra-govt-stares-at-legal-hurdles-over-mumbai-metro-3-car-shed-site-101611339766739.html
22-01-2021||Pune||3,000 abandoned vehicles clutter city roads: Pune Traffic Branch||Pedestrians, commuters, and the city traffic police are facing adversities with at least 3,000 abandoned vehicles cluttering different nooks, crannies, and roads of the city. According to the traffic branch, the abandoned vehicles obstruct traffic flow and create security issues on public roads. Citizens are of the view that it is essential to take strong and timely action through the special drives in decluttering the city roads. Some areas dotted with abandoned cars include Pune Camp, peth areas, Aundh, Baner, Pashan, Kondhwa, Mohammadwadi, Undri, Bibvewadi, Hadapsar, Sahakarnagar, Yerawada, Kalyani Nagar, Kharadi, and other far-flung suburbs of the city, according to civil society members. DCP (Traffic) Rahul Srirame said, “The issue of abandoned vehicles is very serious, and we are taking sustainable action against these vehicles. The drive will intensify further. However, the PMC anti encroachment squad is also entitled to take action in this regard.” “It is the duty of police and PMC to declutter the road for a free flow of traffic. The current situation is like garaging of the roads and these vehicles must be towed away and heavy penalties must be recovered from the violators as they are obstructing free flow of traffic causing inconvenience to the citizens,” said RTI activist Vivek Velankar. ‘ Earlier, the state government in its government resolution (GR) had directed the municipal commissioners to take effective steps to remove the abandoned vehicles through special drives and appoint a dedicated officer of the rank of the deputy municipal commissioner to implement the decluttering initiative. The GR states, “Municipal corporations have been directed to undertake a special one-month drive to remove abandoned vehicles from the street. The action should be taken in coordination with local police and traffic departments.” It further stated that the civic bodies can act against abandoned vehicles that obstruct traffic flow and create security issues on public roads. Most civic bodies in the state face this issue, so it is necessary to take time-bound action through the special drive. The control of traffic rule stipulated that “the owner of the motor vehicle or his heirs or assigners shall be liable to make any reasonable expense incurred by any police officer in connection with moving, lighting, watching, or removal of a vehicle or its contents in accordance with sub-rule (1) and (2) and any police officer, or any person into whose custody the vehicle has been entrusted by any police officer, shall be 12 entitled to detain the vehicle until he has received payment accordingly.” Traffic rule further states, “If the vehicle has been stationary in one place for a continuous period of 10 hours and adequate steps have not been taken for its repairs or removal by the owner or his representative, remove the vehicle and its contents to the nearest place of safe custody.” When a motor vehicle has been stationary in a duly appointed parking place for a period exceeding that specified by an authority competent in this behalf, in respect of the said place or, if no such periods has been specified, for a period exceeding six hours, any police officer may remove the vehicle in the nearest place of safe custody, the rules states. Box Chapter VIII, Control of traffic, Rule 222 Vehicle abandoned on road states- If any motor vehicle is allowed to stand in any place, other than a duly appointed parking place, in such a way as to cause obstruction to traffic or danger to any person, any police officer, or an officer of the motor vehicle department not below the rank of assistant inspector of motor vehicles may forthwith cause the vehicle to be moved to the nearest place where the vehicle shall not cause undue obstruction to traffic or danger; Unless the vehicle is moved to a position where it shall not cause obstruction or danger, take all reasonable precautions to indicated the presence of the vehicle; detain the vehicle if parked in no parking zone, by applying wheel clamps in order to initiate legal proceedings||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3000-abandoned-vehicles-clutter-city-roads-pune-traffic-branch-101611336345901.html
22-01-2021||Pune||Cooler temperatures expected in Pune this week||In just two days, the temperature in the city has witnessed a drop with the night temperature reported at 13.7 degrees Celsius on Friday. On Wednesday, the night temperature was 16.1 degrees Celsius. According to weather officials, the temperature is likely to see a further drop in the next few days. On Friday, the day temperature in Pune was recorded at 31.7 degrees Celsius. It was 1.3 degrees warmer than normal whereas the night temperature was 2.6 degrees warmer than normal. Despite the warmer than normal night temperature, it has reported a significant drop in the last two days. “Until January 24, the day and night temperature will see a rise after which, from January 25 to January 27, the temperature is set to decrease by two to three degrees Celsius in Pune as well as across central India which includes the state of Maharashtra,” said officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra was reported at 34.8 degrees Celsius at Solapur on Friday and the lowest minimum temperature was reported at 9.6 degrees Celsius at Gondia. The IMD has forecast dry weather in the state until January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cooler-temperatures-expected-in-pune-this-week-101611336287821.html
22-01-2021||Pune||Three booked for submitting fake IAF NOC||The Kondhwa police have booked three persons attached to a Gujarat-based trust in connection with a fake No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the ministry of defence, government of India which was submitted to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for construction within the limits of the Indian Air Force (IAF) base. Satyanarayan Gupta, (39), of Lohegaon, has lodged a complaint in this regard. According to the FIR, the incident took place on March 13 in survey no 63/2 in Kondhwa budruk wherein the accused came together and carried out construction work without getting the legal No Objection Certificate (NOC). They instead submitted a fake NOC to the PMC buildings permission department. API Chetan More, who is the Investigating Officer (IO) in the case said, “This NOC is concerned with the air force permission and related to take-off and landing of aircraft. It is mandatory to obtain a NOC from the IAF for construction. The trust members had applied for NOC but, the air force had objected to it. They obtained a fake NOC and used it to get building permission from the civic body. After that, the Air force objected to it and carried out an investigation, and found it to be fake. They gave us a complaint and an FIR was lodged.” Meanwhile, the police have invoked IPC sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged) and 34 ( acts are done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) The Aircraft Act, 1934 empowers the Central Government to impose a restriction on the construction of buildings and other structures within a radius of 20 kilometres from Airport Reference Point (ARP) of all aerodromes. Over the years, the contents of this act have been elaborated and notified through gazette notifications/statutory orders. The current gazette notification was issued vide GSR 751 (E) dated September 30, 2015. The criteria employed in this notification are based on Obstacle Limitation Surfaces (OLS) as described in ICAO. The proposed constructions in the vicinity of IAF airfields for which applications will be processed by IAF include new aerodromes, helipads, aircraft operating surfaces, power projects, WTGs, solar power modules, buildings, factories, chimneys, industrial complexes, and transmission lines towers, mobile network communication towers, microwave link towers, TV towers, FM transmission towers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-booked-for-submitting-fake-iaf-noc-101611336287065.html
22-01-2021||Pune||Teacher recruitment corruption case: Man arrested; anticipatory bail of 27 others rejected||One person was arrested by Pune police while the anticipatory bail of 27 others was rejected by a court in Pune on Friday in a case of teacher recruitment-related corruption case. Among those accused are union leader Sambhaji Shirsath who was arrested last week in another case related to recruitment corruption; Ramchandra Jadhav; Meenakshi Raut, both officials of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC); Mushtaq Shaikh, Dattatray Shendkar, both official of Zilla Parishad (ZP); and Jyotsna Shinde, an official of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) along with 22 others. “One person has been arrested and we are looking to arrest all others named in the case,” said ACP Shivaji Pawar who had conducted raids in a case in six places one week ago and in eight places in 2020. The arrested man was identified as Govind Dabhade, (65), who is the head of Navnagar Education Trust, Akurdi. His son, Parimal Dabhade, is yet to be arrested. The accused had collectively filed 11 anticipatory bail applications in the court of additional sessions judge S Navandar who heard arguments in all the applications and rejected them. The booked people have been accused of being part of a system where fake students were made up to create teacher positions and allegedly forging documents of teachers, who are required to finish a tenure as unaided teachers before being recruited as government teachers, to show their fake tenure, according to the police. “In one case, the documents of the teacher shows that she started teaching as an unaided teacher in the year 2010 when she was actually in class nine as per her school documents,” said an official close to the investigation. The recruitment, according to the FIR in the matter dates back to 2012 and involved multiple education trusts and education department officials at various levels. Kisan Dattoba Bhujbal, 50, an official at the Zilla Parishad (ZP) primary education department. “These are teachers who have cheated the entire system for a long time. Shirsath was arrested in another similar case registered at Samarth police station and later granted bail. Forged stamps were found in the house of his sister during the last raid,” said advocate Pravin Chavan who has been appointed as the special public prosecutor in the case. A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 120(b) criminal conspiracy, 420 (cheating), 409, 465 (forgery), 467, 471, 109, 186, 201, and 34, along with sections 13(1)(a)(b) and 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1989 was initially registered against 28 people at Bund garden police station. Three more accused were added to the list of accused later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/teacher-recruitment-corruption-case-man-arrested-anticipatory-bail-of-27-others-rejected-101611336286549.html
22-01-2021||Pune||Chain link installed at Katraj zoo, boundary wall repairs pending since 2019||The Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park in Katraj is taking steps to protect vulnerable animals after four blackbucks were attacked and killed by stray dogs earlier this month. The zoo has begun fencing the enclosures around vulnerable species such as deers and antelopes with chain link. Though the enclosure of the animal is being protected, the zoo boundary remains vulnerable as work to raise the perimeter wall has not begun yet. A part of the perimeter wall of the zoo collapsed in the heavy rain of September 25, 2019, and has still not been re-built. “The chain link fencing has been put up around the enclosures of sambars, blackbucks, chinkara, and spotted deer to protect them. However, the work of building the wall has not started yet,” said Ajay Wayse, executive engineer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) who looks after the civic work of the zoo.On January 6, 2021, stray dogs managed to get inside the enclosure of the blackbucks. Dogs chased the blackbucks and according to officials, four blackbucks died due to a cardiac shock. Blackbucks are protected animals under schedule I of the wildlife (protection) act which prohibits their hunting and poaching.After this incident, officials claimed that the dogs could have entered the enclosure from the broken wall near the nullah. Now, the enclosures are being covered with chain link fencing but the broken wall near the nullah still remains to be constructed.Elected representatives of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) staged a protest on this issue at the PMC general body meeting earlier this week.“The wall had collapsed in the flood faced by the city on September 25, 2019. It has been more than a year and the wall hasn’t been constructed by the PMC. This negligence has caused lives of four blackbucks,” said Vasant More, leader MNS.Vasant More accused the PMC of ignoring this issue and causing a delay in the process of constructing the wall. “They had issued a tender earlier and the work was just about to begin. Now, the previous tender has been canceled and a new tendering process has started which means the process will start from scratch. So, how many more months will it take to construct this wall?” More asked.The zoo currently has 448 animals and about 100 staffers who keep the zoo guarded and take care of animals. The zoo has remained closed to the public since March 14, 2020, due to Covid-19. It is one of the most popular tourist attractions in the city. On weekdays, the zoo used to see 5,000-10,000 visitors. However, the number would increase on weekends to 12,000-18,000 visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chain-link-installed-at-katraj-zoo-boundary-wall-repairs-pending-since-2019-101611336285959.html
22-01-2021||Other||Meeting on Pune city’s water quota inconclusive, Ajit Pawar to meet MPs, MLAs on Monday||PUNE As elected members from Pune city and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) remained firm on not reducing city’s water quota Ajit Pawar, Pune district guardian minister, has decided to call another meeting on Monday (January 25).Pawar on Friday had called the canal committee’s meeting in the presence of all the MLAs and MPs from Pune city and rural parts of the district.The irrigation department had put the proposal to cut the city’s water supply by 1.5 TMC (Thousand Million Cubic Feet) as Pune city is getting additional water from Bhama Askhed dam.On the contrary, the elected members from the city claimed that though the city gets additional water from the Bhama Askhed dam, new 34 villages have been merged in the PMC limit and the water requirement has increased.Girish Bapat, Member of Parliament (MP), said, “I took a firm stand and made it clear that at any cost city’s water quota should not be reduced.”“New 34 villages have been merged in the city. During Covid-19 pandemic, water demand increased for cleaning purposes. So the water quota should not be reduced. A meeting has been called by the guardian minister on Monday,” said Siddharth Shirole, an elected member of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly from Shivajinagar constituency.Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have made a demand for additional water for the city. PMC had made a demand of 18.5 TMC water for the city by considering additional population from merged villages. PMC is executing 24x7 water scheme, but till it is complete, there should be no water cut.”“We opposed the irrigation department’s demand to cut the city’s water supply,” he said.The elected members from the rural parts, meanwhile, are supporting the irrigation department’s decision.MLA Rahul Kul said, “The water supply should be increased in rural areas and so I support the irrigation department’s proposal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meeting-on-pune-city-s-water-quota-inconclusive-ajit-pawar-to-meet-mps-mlas-on-monday-101611336226531.html
22-01-2021||Other||Schools for Class 5 to 8 to resume in PMC from February 1||PUNE The regular physical classes will resume for Class 5 to 8 from February 1, according to a notification issued by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Friday. Schools have already reopened for Class 9 to 12 from January 4, 2021.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said that the regular classes will resume for Class 5 to 8 from February 1. “We have issued a notification and also the standard operating procedure that the schools should follow before and after reopening,” she said.The notification issued by the PMC noted that schools will have thermal scans, pulse oximeter and will be sanitized on a regular basis. The school buses will also be sanitized.All teaching and non-teaching staff will have to undergo RT-PCR test. Posters of social distancing will be displayed in the school premises. Parents consent is also a must for students to attend offline classes, states the notification. Also, classrooms which do not have ventilation will not be used for teaching purposes.Earlier this week, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that regular classes will resume in the state for students of Class 5 to 8 from January 27.Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner, PMC, said that an inspection of schools will be undertaken by civic officials before they reopen.“Many procedures are similar to the earlier one’s when Class 9 to Class 12 had resumed physical classes,” he said.“There are more than 1.85 lakh students for in Class 5 to 8 and the teaching and non-teaching staff is at least 10,500 and out of this, PMC staff is at least 2,000. All of them will have to undergo the RT-PCR test,” he said.“Parents consent will also be taken into account while giving permission to attend offline classes,” said Jagtap.The education department on Thursday noted that only 10.1 per cent students attend offline classes in Pune district which is the lowest across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-for-class-5-to-8-to-resume-in-pmc-from-february-1-101611336225923.html
22-01-2021||Other||SII estimates loss of ₹1,000 crore, Covishield production unaffected||PUNE A day after a major fire broke out at Serum Institute of Indian (SII) on Thursday afternoon, the institute estimated a loss of ₹1,000 crore and also assured that no damage was reported to the Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covishield’.The losses were estimated based on the future vaccine production of rotavirus and BCG and the machinery damaged in the fire. The building which reported the fire was a new facility where no vaccine production had started clarified SII.Uddhav Thackeray, chief minister, who visited the institute on Friday, said, “Amidst the pandemic, SII’s vaccine production is a ray of hope and so when the news came that a fire had broken out, it was shocking. Unfortunately, five people have been reported dead.”“After inspection and based on the information that I have got I can say that the vaccine doses production and the stockpile at the storage facility remained unaffected,” he said.Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, said, “We are estimating the extent of the damage to be more than ₹1,000 crore because of the equipment damaged and the product that was going to be launched over there. Fortunately, we have got multiple facilities and as the CM explained Covid vaccine remains unaffected.”“The new products that were to be launched and sent to other countries, Rotavirus and BCG vaccines, will be affected greatly. However, for that too we will try to fulfil the gap through our other facilities. Mainly the loss is financially and will not affect the supply,” he said.Cyrus Poonawalla, chairman and founder, SII, said, “The building which caught fire had not yet started the production which was to start later. Therefore no vaccine was stored there. If the fire was reported from the building where the vaccine was stored it could have been greater damage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sii-estimates-loss-of-rs-1-000-crore-covishield-production-unaffected-101611336166459.html
22-01-2021||Other||MIDC fire officials give clean chit to Serum, CM says lets wait for final report||PUNE The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) fire officials visited the Manjri site where the fire broke out on Thursday and upon inspection have given a clean chit to the Serum Institute of India (SII).The fire officials visited the site on Friday along with the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray who during a press conference said it would be irresponsible to give any statement about the cause of fire before the final report is out.“It would not be right to make any statements until the investigation is over and the final report comes out. The incident is under investigation and it will take its due course of time. The investigation is on and once the report comes out it will be clear whether it was an ambush or an accident.”On Thursday afternoon at around 2: 37 pm, a major fire broke inside an under-construction building in SII’s Manjri facility located in the outskirts of the city where five people were reported dead.Currently, multiple agencies including Pune police, MIDC fire officials, forensics and factory department are investigating the fire incident.As the building comes under the Special Economic Zone (SEZ), MIDC is the planning authority.MV Ogale, deputy chief fire officer, MIDC fire brigade, who was at the spot said that the fire compliance system at the building was in place and fully operational. He said, “After our preliminary investigation at the site we found that the welding had not yet started during the time of the incident as is being reported and so the exact cause of the fire is not yet known.”“The building has got the completion certificate and the fire compliance was in place and in good operational condition. This was the reason why the fire could be controlled in two hours. The reason why the fire grew so much is that the building is an enclosed structure as it is a pharmaceutical building and smoke, which is basically hot gases, remained trapped inside, got accumulated and spread within the building. All the things that came in contact with the smoke got ignited,” he said.Ogale said, “There was no inflammable stuff at the accident site. The building was not operational and production was not underway at the site.”“We found the bodies of the five people near the staircase so they were trying to escape now we need to find out why they could not escape. The bodies were not charred, but got blackened due to the heavy dense black smoke and the smoke particles settled on their body. The cause of death is due to the fumes due to which they collapsed and got some burn injuries.”“The investigation is still underway as many agencies are involved,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/midc-fire-officials-give-clean-chit-to-serum-cm-says-lets-wait-for-final-report-101611336166953.html
22-01-2021||Other||Face mask not mandatory while travelling with family in private vehicle||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has relaxed norms and said wearing of face masks while travelling with family members in a private vehicle will no longer be mandatory within the boundaries of the city.Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner, issued an order regarding the same on Friday.This relaxation is applicable if all the travellers in the vehicle including the driver and passengers are from the same family. The order specifies that if the driver or any other passenger in the private vehicle is not a member of the same family, then the mask will be compulsory for all. This relaxation will be applicable only within the limits of Pune city.Murlidhar Mohol, mayor, took to his official Twitter handle and announced, “Wearing a face mask will not be mandatory while travelling with family in a private vehicle. This relaxation will be applicable only within the boundaries of Pune city.”Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police, confirmed the decision and said, “We discussed the issue a decision was taken to relax rules for family travelling together in a four-wheeler.”“A meeting was held on Friday where Ajit Pawar, Pune guardian minister, reviewed the Covid-19 situation. This issue was raised in the meeting and the decision was taken,” said Siddharth Shirole, an elected member of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly from Shivajinagar constituency.“Guardian minister held a meeting with the mayor, MALs and other civic authorities. Masks are still mandatory in taxis and rented public cars,” he said.A week after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) revoked the order of imposing fine for not wearing masks inside private vehicles, similar demand was gathering steam in Pune.The Anti-Helmet Compulsion Action Committee (AHCAC) which has members from various political parties and social activists had issued a joint statement on Wednesday addressing the PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, urging him to stop collecting fines from people for not wearing masks in private vehicles. After such a rising public demand the city authorities were mulling the decision.Sandip Khardekar, chairman, Creative Foundation, who had written to civic authorities to revoke the compulsion was not satisfied with the announcement. “The decision which has been declared specifies that the fine will not be collected if only family members are travelling in the private vehicle, but how will they cross-check if all are family members? This leaves scope for collecting fines.“Masks should be mandatory in transport vehicles, but the compulsion should be relaxed for all private vehicles. That’s what BMC has done,” he said.Ankush Kakade, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former mayor of Pune, said that the decision was necessary.“The compulsion should have been relaxed a long time back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/face-mask-not-mandatory-while-travelling-with-family-in-private-vehicle-101611336165904.html
22-01-2021||Other||Soldier killed in firing at LoC cremated with full state honours in Ambala||Havildar Nirmal Singh, 38, who was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, was cremated with full state honours at his native Jansui village, 25km from Ambala, on Friday.The soldier, who belonged to 10 JAK Rifles unit of the army, was critically injured in Poonch and succumbed to his injuries at a hospital on Thursday, an official statement read. His body was first airlifted from Rajouri to the Air Force Station in Ambala Cantonment and later taken to Jansui in an army vehicle. His three-year-old son lit the funeral pyre in the evening amid anti-Pakistan sloganeering. Singh’s uncle Honorary Captain Wazir Singh said Nirmal had last spoken to his wife on Thursday morning, just hours before he was killed. “After a five-month leave, Nirmal had returned to his post a few months back. I got the news at 2.30pm, but didn’t disclose it to anyone. Later, I told them that he is injured, but had to reveal everything in the evening,” he said. “Nirmal is survived by his mother, wife, a five-year-old daughter, a three-year-old son and a specially-abled younger brother. Nirmal’s father died when he was just five years old. He was brought up with the help of his grandfather, Bhagwan Singh, who died in 2018. Since then, Nirmal was the breadwinner of the family,” Wazir further said. According to locals, Nirmal’s grandfather was also an armyman, which inspired him to join the forces. His classmate, Jagdish, said Nirmal was hardworking and always cheerful, and joined the army at the age of 21 to support his family. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma, mayor Shakti Rani Sharma, Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel, superintendent of police Hamid Akhtar, sub-divisional magistrate (City) Sachin Gupta, ex-MLA Jasbir Mallour and other administrative and army officials attended the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soldier-killed-in-firing-at-loc-cremated-with-full-state-honours-in-ambala-101611330946974.html
22-01-2021||Pune||Colleges shut during lockdown leave many girls in Pune rural areas with no option but to get married||Pune: For 23-year-old Jyotsana (name changed), it was a tough call when her parents and family members put pressure on her to get married after she returned to her village following the nationwide lockdown announced in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic.“With no regular study and continuous postponement of exams, I headed back to my village in Buldhana district. During this long stay at home and uncertainty over future studies, my family members started to pressurise me to get married. As I have a younger sister who will also have to be married in the future, I gave in. The family hurriedly married me in June,” said Jyotsana.Many girls who are pursuing higher studies and preparing for competitive exams in Maharashtra’s rural parts are being forced to get married by family members since the lockdown started in March 2020. “I have completed my postgraduation from Savitribai Phule Pune University and was preparing for competitive exams, but the exam dates were not announced. Though my husband’s family will support me to prepare for competitive exams, things change and responsibilities get added after marriage.” added Jyotsana. Prajakta (name changed), 25, who got married in July, is among the toppers in university exams. “I was preparing for competitive exams and had filled up the preliminary form for year 2020 when Covid struck, lockdown began and I returned in my village. The two years I spent on preparations to crack competitive exams ended in my parents getting me married in July. I had decided not to get married till I achieve my career goal, but now it is all a dream.”Talking about the sad reality of rural girls been forced to get married because of uncertainty over further studies, Ruksanan Patil Shaikh, secretary of the National Student’s Union of India (NSUI) Maharashtra and a student from rural area, said, “The Covid pandemic has affected all fields, including education. For students, especially girls, coming from rural parts there are high expectations from family. Girls who do not score high marks are threatened by family to be married off. Covid, lockdown and subsequently delay in reopening of colleges gave families a chance to get their daughters married. Parents also fall to social pressure as villagers constantly say that girls should be married at the earliest. It is only because of the support from my family that I could return to Pune and resume my studies.”Sandhya Sonawane, second year Law student and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) student wing president (Pune region), said, “The rural mentality that girls should not be allowed to study beyond a point is still prevalent. As girls returned to their villages post lockdown, they faced constant pressure from family and relatives to get married. The lockdown has left many girls across the state to get married in the last six to seven months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/colleges-shut-during-lockdown-leave-many-girls-in-pune-rural-areas-with-no-option-but-to-get-married-101611327105486.html
22-01-2021||Other||Mohali MC elections: Balbir Sidhu’s brother among 50 in fray from Congress||The Congress on Friday released its list of 50 candidates for the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) elections, retaining 14 of the 15 former councillors.Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu released the list at the Congress office in Phase 1. The minister’s brother, Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, is also in fray and will be contesting from ward number 10 against Azad group candidate and two-time councillor Paramjeet Singh Kahlon. Among other prominent persons, who got tickets, are former MC president Rajinder Singh Rana, former senior deputy mayor Rishav Jain and former councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi. Claiming that the Congress will win majority of the seats, Balbir, who is also the local MLA, said, “Mohali residents have seen development in the past few years and also know who the backstabbers are. Currently, development works of nearly ₹100 crore are underway in the city.” On Thursday, the Azad group, led by former mayor Kulwant Singh, had released its list of 30 candidates. Also contesting the elections are the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), who are expected to announce their candidates within a week, ahead of the February 14 polls.The last five-year term of the civic body ended in April 26 last year. In the 2015 elections, 27 councillors, including 10 from the Azad group, 15 from the Congress and two independent councillors elected Kulwant Singh, then an independent, as the mayor, but he joined SAD in August 2017.SAD files complaint with election commission against Balbir The Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission against cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for violating the election code of conduct.Charanjit Singh Brar, political adviser to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and district assistant observer, complained that despite implementation of the code of conduct for the MC elections, the Congress minister had put up large boards about development in Mohali, a violation of the poll code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-elections-balbir-sidhu-s-brother-among-50-in-fray-from-congress-101611323205109.html
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||R-Day parade: Punjab tableau to depict Sikh guru's sacrifice||The supreme sacrifice of ninth Sikh Guru Tegh Bahadur will be the theme of the official tableau of Punjab for the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on January 26, an official spokesperson said on Friday.The tableau delineates the 400th Parkash Purb of the Sikh guru, said the spokesperson.The tractor portion of the tableau starts with the holy Palki Sahib (palanquin) while the trailer portion depicts a “prabhat Pheri” with devotees reciting “kirtan”.The end of the trailer portion shows Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib which marks the site where Lakhi Shah Vanjara and his son Bhai Naghaiya burnt their own house to cremate the headless body of Guru Sahib, according to the spokesperson.Guru Tegh Bahadur, who was popularly known as “Hind Di Chadar”, was born in Amritsar on April 1, 1621. He travelled far and wide preaching Guru Nanak Dev's eternal message of love, peace, equality and brotherhood.Guru Tegh Bahadur took up the cause of Kashmiri pandits who were facing religious persecution due to the orthodox religious policy of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb.He was martyred on November 11, 1675 at Chandni Chowk in Delhi on the orders of the Mughal emperor for refusing to convert to Islam.The tableau of Punjab has been selected for the Republic Day parade for the fifth consecutive year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rday-parade-punjab-tableau-to-depict-sikh-guru-s-sacrifice-101611320336835.html
22-01-2021||Pune||SII fire accident or sabotage to be known after probe, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that whether the fire at the Serum Institute of India (SII) was an accident or sabotage will be known only after the probe gets over.Five men died in the fire that broke out in a five- storeyed under-construction building in the SII's Manjari premises in Pune on Thursday.Addressing a press conference after visiting the site of the fire, Thackeray said, "Let the investigation get completed. It is not correct to say anything now. After the probe gets over, we will know whether it was an accident or sabotage."Adar Poonawalla, CEO of SII said there was no damage to the Covishield vaccine production, but other facilities involved in the production of Rotavirus and BCG vaccines were damaged."The financial losses (due to the fire) are to the tune of ₹1,000 crore," he said.The Manjari facility is where Covishield, the SII vaccine against Covid-19 which is being used in the nationwide inoculation drive, is manufactured.The building where the fire broke out is one km from the Covishield vaccine manufacturing unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sii-fire-accident-or-sabotage-to-be-known-after-probe-says-uddhav-thackeray-101611319102766.html
22-01-2021||Other||NAAC accreditation: Bihar’s tally drops to below 100, deadline for all is 2022||PATNABihar continues to fare poorly in the ranking of institutions by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) despite the fact that all institutions have to get accredited by next year. The Chancellor’s office and the state government have also been asking the institutions to get accredited for the last several years, but the impact has been far from encouraging.The latest figures have brought the total number of NAAC-accredited colleges to less than 100 in the state. This includes just six in the A-grade. The number of accredited colleges was 107 last year. Bihar has 250 constituent colleges and an even higher number of affiliated or private colleges.The accreditation of several institutions lapsed in the last one year after the validity of five years but many of them did not even submit the Institutional Information for Quality Assessment (IIQA) to NAAC prior to expiry of the validity period, which would have allowed institutions to use the grade already awarded.According to figures available with the State Higher Education Council, the number of accredited colleges in Bihar as on December 31, 2020, is 96, which includes affiliated colleges also, while there are just six accredited universities.“There are 93 colleges that have submitted IIQA, while 77 of them have also submitted the self-study report (SSR) and eight await peer team visits. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, some of the institutions have faced delays,” said an SHEC official, adding education minister Dr Ashok Choudhary during a review meeting also urged the universities to speed up accreditation exercise.NAAC accreditation is now obligatory for all higher learning institutes by 2022, more so for state universities which strive for grants from the University Service Commission (UGC), Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha ABhiyaan (RUSA) and other national agencies.In 2018, two of Bihar premiere institutions, 156-year-old Patna College and 92-year-old Patna Science College, were ranked ‘C’ and ‘B’ respectively NAAC. The Academic Staff College of PU was categorized non-performer, ranked 62nd out of 66 institutions assessed.A senior college principal, who did not want to be quoted, said the colleges were indifferent to NAAC accreditation out of fear of getting low grade, which can stop funding from UGC and other institutions. “There is huge vacancy in all the institutions. Bihar state university service commission (BSUSC) has started the exercise, but it is not likely to happen too soon. With faculty members, everything suffers,” he said.The UGC deadline to all the vice chancellors to fill up vacancies and update the status on the UGC’s university activity monitoring portal was November 10, 2019. But that is not the only handicap. The universities and colleges are also grappling with infrastructure deficiencies, lack of reforms and delayed sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/naac-accreditation-bihar-s-tally-drops-to-below-100-deadline-for-all-is-2022-101611319304710.html
22-01-2021||Other||Lone BSP MLA joins JD(U)||PATNALone BSP MLA in Bihar, Md Jama Khan, who won Chainpur seat in the 2020 Assembly polls, joined the ruling JD(U) after meeting chief minister Nitish Kumar in Patna on Friday evening.Earlier in the day, Khan said, “Yes, I am going to meet CM Nitish Kumarji. I feel I can fulfil promises made to people during elections by joining the government.” “I see nothing wrong in joining the ruling party for sake of the people,” said Khan, who is likely to get a place in the Nitish Kumar cabinet, which is due for expansion. Khan surprised everyone by defeating BJP veteran minister Brij Kishor Bind by the margin of over 24,000 votes in the 2020 Assembly polls. He had unsuccessfully contested the seat on a Congress ticket in 2010 and lost to Bind by a small margin of 674 votes in 2015.Just before the 2020 Assembly polls, BSP’s Bihar president Bharat Bind had joined RJD and later won Bhabua seat on its ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lone-bsp-mla-to-join-jdu-101611318104659.html
22-01-2021||Pune||PMC water department seeks ₹200 cr more through municipal bonds for 24x7 water plan||PUNE: After raising Rs200 crore through municipal bonds for the execution of 24x7 water scheme, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) water department has requested the accounts department to generate another Rs200 crore through municipal bonds for the project.Water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “We have asked the account department to raise Rs200 crore through municipal bonds for the year 2021-22.” PMC accounts department head Ulka Kalaskar said, “We have asked for details from the water department for issuance of municipal bonds.” Recently, Pune Member of Parliament Girish Bapat had instructed municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to raise more funds through municipal bonds to speed up the water scheme. Bapat and other elected members have pointed out that the work is going on at snail’s pace. Pawaskar said, “The project comprises of many sub-projects, yet the overall completion of work is 25 per cent. While work was slow during the initial stages, we have instructed contractors to strictly follow the deadline and are regularly monitoring the progress.”The government issues debt securities in the form of municipal bonds. With the bonds, civic bodies raise money from the market for a fixed period and guarantees to return the principal plus interest. What is 24x7 water project PMC decided to execute the 24x7 water project for equal distribution of water across the city. The scheme remained quite controversial due to inflated tenders. The main objectives of the project are as follows: Safe and equitable water supply to all citizens for the next 30 years Distribution of water 24 hours every day Reduce the amounts of water losses and non-revenue water Ensuring technological, economical & environmental sustainability of the water supply service The above objectives are to be achieved by adopting the following approach: Introducing universal smart-metering of water consumption and application of water charges based on the effective water consumption by the consumer Conducting water audits by setting bulk flow meters in all stages of the water supply system Introducing a SCADA system for timely and effective control of system operations, water quality monitoring and achieving high service level benchmarks Undertaking systematic leakage detection and repair activity to bring down the level of non-revenue Water in the distribution system to the desired level of 15% Use of GIS-based technologies to integrate geo-spatial and real time data Deploying innovative and IEC (Information, Education and Communication) strategies in print and digital media to proactively engage with all citizens Existing and proposed water system in Pune Particulars/Existing/ Proposed Raw water from Khadakwasla and Pavana reservoir/Khadakwasla, Bhama Askhed and Mulshi Dam Water treatment plant capacity/ 2314 MLD/300 MLD Water supply zones/67/141 Service reservoirs/58/103 Distribution network/ 2325 km/ 1618 km Transmission network/93.54 km/139.23 km Automatic meter reading/zero/3.15 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcwater-department-seeks-rs-200-cr-more-through-municipal-bonds-for-24x7-water-plan-101611317744590.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu hits poultry business in Thane district; prices, consumption down||The bird flu outbreak in Thane district has now hit chicken and egg prices, which have reduced by 40 per cent to 50 per cent, as per the Poultry Farmers Association in Thane.The per kilogram meat, which earlier cost anywhere between ₹180 and ₹200, is now sold at ₹100 or lower. The egg prices, too, have reduced by 20 per cent as per the association.Moreover, the outbreak has also hit the hotel industry in the district which was already reeling under 50 per cent losses due to the lockdown. The hotel industry association claimed a 15 per cent slump in business as demand for chicken dishes have reduced.The association claimed that they were merely able to do 40 per cent of their usual business this time of the year.Sayyed Sheikh, secretary, Thane Poultry Farmers Association, said, “Last year, the rumours of consuming chicken could cause Coronavirus impacted the sale of chicken in the city. This year has started with bird flu despite alerts that chicken cooked well or eggs boiled well can be had despite the bird flu scare. The chicken prices have come down by 40 per cent to 50 per cent. A kilogram of chicken sold for ₹180- ₹200 earlier is now being sold for ₹100. The poultry sellers are facing a lot of losses overall.”There are a few who continue to purchase poultry, but they are only a handful and constitute hardly 40 per cent of the daily business, say traders.Sheikh informed that the prices of eggs too have reduced from ₹6 to ₹4 per egg. “The price of a dozen eggs has reduced from ₹70 to ₹55.”Meanwhile, the hotel owners across Thane District also noticed a slump in business. Raghunath Rai, secretary, Thane Hotels Association, said, “We are still reeling under the business slowdown caused due to the lockdown. There are hardly 40 per cent people visiting hotels or opt for take away. Since the onset of the bird flu scare, there has been an additional slump in business and the demand for chicken dishes has also reduced.”Moreover, some hotels that serve non-vegetarian dishes have also seen 30 per cent impact in their business. Umesh Shetty, president, Thane Hotel Owners Association, said, “The demand for all meat dishes has reduced in the wake of the bird flu, but sea food continues to be popular. Many hotels are luring customers by introducing sea food special menus or offers.”Despite repeated alerts by the government that chicken and eggs can be consumed, there are only a few who consider it safe to have these items.“It is better to stay off meat and eggs for a few days instead of worrying about the right temperature to cook the chicken or boil eggs. Despite the low prices of chicken, we would like to wait for a few more days until the situation has returned to normal,” said Stella Monteiro, 43, resident of Kolshet, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-hits-poultry-business-in-thane-district-prices-consumption-down-101611317625900.html
22-01-2021||Bhopal||Don't let `ego` come in way of breaking farm laws impasse: Uma Bharti||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Friday said the Centre and protesting farmers should ensure that stubbornness and ego do not come in the way of resolving differences over the new agri-marketing laws.The former Union minister said it is after a gap of more than 30 years that farmers have gathered near Delhi to push for their demands.It is an opportunity for both the government and farmers. Stubbornness and ego from both sides should not come in the way (of finding a solution to impasse over new laws), she told reporters at her bungalow here.Her comments came after scribes sought her views on the nearly two-month-long protest by farmers on Delhi borders. Multiple rounds of talks have failed to break the deadlock on the three new agri laws enacted by the Centre in September.The former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said farmers came together under the leadership of farm leaders Mahendra Singh Tikait and Sharad Joshi around 30 years ago.In 1988, Tikait had mobilised a large number of farmers of Uttar Pradesh and reached Delhi to seek redressal of their grievances related to agrarian distress and price of their produce, among others.But differences between them (farmers) surfaced after some time then, said Bharti.Gujarat has always been a state of farmers. Farming was the foundation of Gujarats economy, industries came later (there), said.Thus, a big opportunity has come in the way of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi as well as farmers (to resolve differences over the new laws), the BJP leader said.Farmers are demanding a repeal of the three farm laws which seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/dont-let-ego-come-in-way-of-breaking-farm-laws-impasse-uma-101611316244294.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman withdraws plaint against Munde; Pawar says NCP stand vindicated||A day after a woman withdrew her complaint of sexual exploitation against Maharashtra social justice minister Dhananjay Munde, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said their decision stands vindicated as the party had said there needed to be an investigation before taking any action against the minister. BJP, which was demanding Munde’s scalp, has now sought action against the complainant for making false allegations.In a letter posted on her Twitter handle, the woman said the relationship between Munde and her sister (with whom the minister is in a consensual relationship) had not been cordial for a long time. “I felt that I was being used as a tool for a big political conspiracy and hence decided to withdraw my complaint and some people are firing shots by putting a gun on my shoulder. I would like to clarify I am withdrawing my complaint against Dhananjay Munde and don’t want to pursue it further,” she said in the letter. According to news reports, the complainant withdrew her complaint against Munde on Thursday. Reacting to the development, Pawar said in Kolhapur, “In the beginning, I had made a statement that the case appears serious but following more revelations, the party came to the conclusion that we need to get to the bottom of this and prima facie, it appears that our decision was right.” Munde was at the centre of a controversy after the woman, a singer, accused him of rape on the pretext of marriage and promise of help with her career. She alleged that the police were not accepting her written complaint against the minister and her life was under threat. Munde, however, claimed that the woman was trying to defame and blackmail him. Meanwhile, state BJP vice-president Chitra Wagh has now demanded action against the complainant. She said that the complainant must be booked for making false allegations. “It is shocking to know that the woman has withdrawn her complaint. The allegations against Munde were also shocking for us. From day one, BJP took a stand that the case is not between two individuals — Munde and the complainant — because we don’t want to set a wrong example in Maharashtra and hence were demanding Munde’s resignation. Now, I feel it is imperative to book her (complainant) under section 192 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) because making false allegations is an offence, be it a politician or a common person such accusations can destroy someone’s life,” Wagh said in her statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-withdraws-plaint-against-munde-pawar-says-ncp-stand-vindicated-101611315224951.html
22-01-2021||Lucknow||Unlike other parties, we have 'neta', 'niyat' to take BJP forward: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda here on Friday said his party has a leader and the intention to take it forward unlike other political outfits, which he accused of being dynastic.He said "parivarvaad" (dynastic politics) can be found in all political parties except the BJP, in which an ordinary person can become a prime minister, defence minister or home minister.The BJP chief was speaking at the party's “Booth President Conference” here. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also attended the event."We have 'neta' (leader), 'niyat' (intention), 'niti' (policy), 'karyakarta' (workers) and 'karyakram' (programme). We have no reason to stop," Nadda told party workers.He said ''parivarvaad'' exists in all political parties, with the baton being passed on to the son by the father."But it is in the BJP that an ordinary person can become a prime minister, defence minister or home minister," he said.Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic, Nadda said, "Even the US was fighting against it, but what happened? It could not decide between the options of 'arth' (economy) and 'swasthya' (health). As a result, it was a political issue, an electoral issue and there was an electoral loss.They had a better health system than us. Spain and Italy had better health system than us, but all of this collapsed because the leadership did not take the decision at the appropriate time. Here, Modiji took the decision at the right time, imposed a lockdown with timely intervention and bold decision, and saved the country.”He added that at the time of the imposition of the lockdown, the testing capacity was 150 samples per day and today it is 10 lakh per day and in UP, it is over 1.5 lakh per day."At the onset of the lockdown, PPE kits were imported and today over 5 lakh PPE kits per day are being made," he said."India has the best recovery rate and lowest mortality rate. Today, our recovery rate is above 97 per cent and it is increasing every day. UP's population is 24 crore and the population of the US is (nearly) 33 crore. There, the number of people who have died is four lakh. Every life is important. Here, it is 8,000. We have to understand this difference," the BJP chief said.Nadda said the image of India has changed due to the 'swachhta abhiyan' and the toilets constructed in various households are not merely toilets, they are "izzat ghar for women"."The Ujjawla Yojana was not merely a scheme, it empowered the women," he said, adding that UP bothered about every migrant labourer, which passed through the state during the nationwide lockdown.He urged the party workers to link every farmer with the FPO (farmer producer organisation) and told them to implement social harmony in letter and spirit.Speaking at the event, Adityanath said the BJP has set new standards for political parties.Dynastic politics, casteism, regionalism and linguistic divisions weaken democracy and challenge the unity and integrity of the country, Adityanath said.Today, the world is looking towards India with hope, the chief minister said. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unlike-other-parties-we-have-neta-niyat-to-take-bjp-forward-nadda-101611314959837.html
22-01-2021||Other||25-year-old Tamil Nadu man held for being a member of ‘terror gang’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested a 25-year-old man from Tamil Nadu’s Cuddalore district on Thursday for being an alleged member of a “terrorist gang”, the agency said in a statement on Friday. Mohammed Rashid was produced before a special court in Chennai on Thursday and sent in judicial custody.Rashid was named in a 2018 case registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in Tamil Nadu’s Ramanathapuram district. Nine other men have been arrested in the case.An NIA official said the agency took over and re-registered the case in May 2019 and that Rashid has been identified as an “active member” of the alleged gang.The NIA statement said swords and pamphlets of the gang, Shahadat Is Our Goal, have been seized from the possession of the accused. “Scrutiny of forensically retrieved data from the seized digital devices and their e-mail and social media accounts has revealed that the accused persons including Mohammed Rashid had conducted multiple conspiracy meetings under the leadership of Dawood and Rifas [two other accused] with the intention of waging violent jihad in Tamil Nadu as part of their efforts to establish Islamic rule...” the agency said in the statement. It added the accused also attempted to procure illegal firearms and that investigations were going on into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25yearold-tamil-nadu-man-held-for-being-a-member-of-terror-gang-101611315104885.html
22-01-2021||Bhopal||MP order seeking proposal for opening new liquor shops sparks controversy||The Madhya Pradesh government’s order asking all district collectors to send proposals for opening new liquor shops has stirred a controversy in the state. Former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leader Uma Bharti opposed the proposal and demanded a ban on the sale of liquor in all BJP-ruled states. Congress leaders also attacked the government for promoting consumption of liquor. Excise department commissioner Rajeev Chandra Dubey on Thursday released an order to collectors of all districts to send a proposal for opening new liquor shops after identifying the areas where there are no shops. Also Read: ‘Tandav makers would have been behind bars if...’: Madhya Pradesh minister“The collectors should send a proposal to increase at least 20% liquor shops in every district. The collectors should identify new area to open shops to control crime and increase revenue collection. The collectors should send the proposal within two days,” said the order. Home department minister Narottam Mishra supported the decision of opening of new shops to stop the sale of illicit liquor, especially in rural areas After this order, Mishra said, “This is a regular annual practice so it is nothing controversial.”“As compared to other states, there are fewer liquor shops in MP and due to this, the business of illicit liquor is flourishing. We are not promoting consumption of liquor but controlling the crime of illicit liquor-making,” he said. The order was released a day after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan denied that new liquor vends would be opened in the state. The CM had said, “The government doesn’t have any plan to open new liquor shops. The decision will be taken only on the basis of feelings of common people.” Uma Bharti said, “It is wrong to open new shops. I urged BJP national president JP Nadda to ban the sale of liquor in all BJP-ruled states.” “I know liquor shops are one of the important sources of revenue collection but government should think about some new sources of income,” she added. Congress MLA and former minister PC Sharma said, “The chief minister is denying the opening of new shops in the state while the home minister is openly saying that new shops should be opened. This is the double standard of BJP-led state government. Rather than dissuading people from consuming liquor, MP government is planning to promote it.” Meanwhile, 28 people died after consuming illicit liquor in Morena in the past two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-order-seeking-proposal-for-opening-new-liquor-shops-sparks-controversy-101611314625210.html
22-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to host first sand art festival on Ganga ghats during Kumbh Mela||A national-level sand art festival will be organised for the first time in Uttarakhand on the banks of Ganga in March-April this year. The art festival will be based on the themes of mythology and the Kumbh fair.The event is being organised on the lines of the Odisha Sand Art Festival, according to (Kumbh fair) Mela office in charge, Deepak Rawat."It will be an added attraction for pilgrims and tourists to see renowned sand artists showcasing their prowess on the sand adjacent to the Ganga river. This will be a first of its kind festival in the state and will be organised during the Kumbh fair," said Rawat.This much-awaited festival will provide a platform to local artists of Uttarakhand and neighbouring states for showcasing their talents.Amidst the threat of new strain of Covid-19, adequate safety and preventive measures will be in place for the festival, including prior registration, thermal screening and sanitisation facilities, said the official.In addition, sculptures will be made at one end of Mahamandaleshwar Nagar so that viewers can see them from the other end of the river, ensuring social distance.Lauding the step, Ganga Sabha and local artists have welcomed the initiative."Had heard of Odisha’s Sand Art Festival but now on the banks of Ganga, we can view and also make sand art. Art lovers are looking forward to more information and entry guidelines," said Anusha, a budding artist, who lives in Vivek Vihar in Haridwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-host-first-sand-art-festival-on-ganga-ghats-during-kumbh-mela-101611313646014.html
22-01-2021||Pune||BCG, Rotavirus vaccine production to be hit after fire at Pune's Serum institute facility||The fire that broke out at Pune's Serum Institute of India (SII) on Thursday and killed five people will not have an impact on the supply of Covid-19 vaccine, company CEO Adar Poonawalla said."The supply of Covid-19 will not be affected due to the fire. No actual vaccine was being made at that facility. The extent of the damage is more than 1,000 crore," he said.However, the production of BCG and Rotavirus vaccines will be affected in future, SII officials had said in a statement issued earlier.The impact will be a result of the financial losses suffered after the fire at an under-installation building of the SII plant at Manjari, officials of the pharmaceuticals company said.Also Read: Maharashtra orders probe into SII fire that killed 5; Covid vaccine plant safeAccording to state health minister Rajesh Tope, the fire was caused by welding sparks. “Rotavirus plant installation was going on when welding sparks caused the fire due to highly inflammable material present at the spot. It took the local administration three hours to douse the fire completely. They have also recovered five bodies. Police investigation is on and a fire audit of the building will also be conducted,” Tope said.Meanwhile, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister of Maharashtra and Pune guardian minister, said an expert panel will determine the cause of the fire. “An audit will be conducted to see if the structure, which is a special economic zone (SEZ), had all the required facilities in place. A team of experts will also determine the cause. A further probe will be launched if anything is found amiss in the audit,” said Pawar.Also Read: Fire at Serum Institute’s Manjri plant in Pune; 10 fire tenders at the spotAlong with the Pune police, a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and a private team of Amanora group were also involved in the rescue process. The fire was doused off in around three hours and six people were rescued from inside the building.A payment of Rs25 lakh along with the other procedural ex-gratiawas announced for the bereaved families of the labourers by SII. The state, however, has not made any ex-gratia-related announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bcg-rotavirus-vaccine-production-to-be-hit-after-fire-at-pune-s-serum-institute-facility-101611313042759.html
22-01-2021||Patna||‘Talibani’: Opposition slams Nitish Kumar over order against offensive posts||Opposition in Bihar has launched an offensive against the Nitish Kumar government after the state police issued a directive to treat offensive or objectionable comments against the government, ministers, MPs, MLAs, posted on social media/internet, as cyber crime.The opposition parties led by the RJD have termed the directive, issued on Thursday by the additional director general (ADG), economic offenses unit (EoU), Nayyar Husnain Khan, a grave violation of the right to freedom of speech.In the letter issued by ADG, EoU to all principal secretaries/secretaries, it has been mentioned that there are rising complaints about the growing trend of putting objectionable/ slanderous and offensive posts in the social media platforms against government officials, MPs, MLAs and ministers.“Such acts are against the law and come under the category of cyber crime. It is imperative that appropriate action is taken against such acts and persons putting posts having offensive/ abusive tenor. So, it is requested that on information of any such offensive posts in the social media, the EOU is informed so that an inquiry is made and necessary action as per law is taken,” the ADG has written in the letter.Talking to an electronic channel, the ADG (EOU) said the trend had taken serious proportions. “Just because action is not being taken against those responsible for objectionable posts, the trend has grown in the social media in recent times. The EOU will conduct inquiry into such complaints and initiate action under the I-T act and provisions of the Indian Penal Code against those indulging in such acts,” he said.Asked if the directive appeared to be putting restrictions on free speech, he said police would initiate action only as per law. The Opposition has alleged that the state government led by CM Nitish Kumar was aiming to suppress freedom of speech as it was rattled by growing criticism over law and order situation and its failures.Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav dared the CM to arrest him under the new directive and accused Kumar of promoting corruption and patronising criminals, He also alleged that the Bihar police was involved in the illegal sale of liquor.“I dare the chief minister to arrest me for these accusations under the new directive,” he said.RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said the directive by the EOU reflected how Bihar had become a ‘talibani’ state and people would never tolerate such arbitrary action.“This is a tuglaqi farman (a reference to Muhammad Bin Tughlaq, a sultan of Tughlaq dynasty infamous for his whims). It means that the police would now put anybody in jail or harass a person if he is critical of the government or put posts highlighting the failure of the government. This is nothing but an attempt to suppress free speech and gag the peoples’ voice. This directive has to be withdrawn immediately,” he said.Congress senior leader and MLC Premchand Mishra said the directive only showed that the state government was scared of criticism and called it unacceptable and a violation of right to freedom of speech.Also Read: Bihar sand mafia attacks NHAI toll plaza staff for stopping overloaded trucksHowever, the ruling JD(U) and BJP have defended the decision claiming it would help in checking abusive and objectionable posts against the government and officials that flood social media, putting state officials and people’s representatives in bad light.“It is a good step, as these days, one can notice how people put objectionable and offensive posts against government officials and others on social media. This is wrong and needs to be checked,” said deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad.JD (U) senior leaders, former minister Neeraj Kumar and state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan, too, defended the directive, saying it would deter unscrupulous elements from putting objectionable posts.A senior IPS officer however asked if the same directive will be applied evenly to check abusive posts against commoners as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/talibani-opposition-slams-nitish-kumar-over-order-against-offensive-posts-101611312126915.html
22-01-2021||Lucknow||Scope for growth, no nepotism in BJP: Nadda tells party workers in Lucknow||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda on Friday exhorted party booth-level workers to brief people about the government’s welfare schemes and achievements with facts and figures. He also asked them to make it a point to listen to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat programme every month. Addressing the party booth presidents of Lucknow district on the second and final day of his visit to the city, Nadda told them that the sky was the limit for them when it came to growth within the party.To substantiate his point, he mentioned specific examples, like those of PM Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“Unlike all other political parties, where the father will always pass the political baton on to his son alone, the BJP gives opportunity to its smallest worker to grow and dream to become the country’s Prime Minister,” he said, attacking nepotism.“You may have come into the BJP by chance or by choice or by accident, but you have come to the right place,” he added. Also read | Nadda meets UP ministers, asks them to prep for 2022 assembly pollNadda asked booth presidents to associate more people with their booths in an inclusive manner. He said Central schemes such as Ujjwala cooking gas scheme, PM-Kisan, Saubhagya and Ayushman Bharat were all meant for the poor. “Take all these welfare schemes and achievements to people at the booth-level with a political agenda,” he said, advising them to work with the “mera booth sabse mazboot” (my booth is the strongest booth) mantra. He also referred to the construction work of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and the law banning the triple talaq practice among Muslims as the government’s big achievements. Earlier, addressing the event, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the BJP had risen to become the world’s biggest political party by the dint of hard work and sacrifice by its workers. He said the BJP had set new standards of democratic values for others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/scope-for-growth-no-nepotism-in-bjp-nadda-tells-party-workers-in-lucknow-101611312344809.html
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||4 killed as car, bus collide in Punjab’s Mukerian||Four persons, including a four-year-old child, were killed when their car and a bus collided on the Talwara-Hajipur road in Mukerian sub division on Friday morning, police said. The driver reportedly lost control of the Maruti Zen while overtaking another vehicle and rammed into the private bus going from Talwara to Jalandhar around 11am. The police have, however, registered a case against the bus driver. The impact was such that all occupants of the car died on the spot. The deceased were identified as Kuldip Singh of Jalandhar, Sarabjit Singh, 24, his nephew Aryan, 4, and friend Sushil Kumar, 21, all residents of Roli village in Mukerian. They were going to a market in Talwara when the accident occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-killed-as-car-bus-collide-in-punjab-s-mukerian-101611310185548.html
22-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: CM Yediyurappa makes changes in Cabinet to contain dissent||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday caved into ministers’ demands, and made changes to his Cabinet by re-distributing portfolios to calm tempers. The changes were made less than a day after his government distributed and reshuffled several portfolios among ministers who were sworn in on January 13. The move leaves the 77-year-old chief minister vulnerable to more such demands from disgruntled elements within his two-year-old government, which is already rattled by dissent. Also Read: Dissent brews within Karnataka govt: What led to CM Yediyurappa’s isolationJC Madhuswamy, who was stripped of minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs was given the Haj and Wakf department along with his earlier-allotted medical education. K.Gopalaiah, a turncoat minister who helped Yediyurappa to power along with 16 other legislators, was handed the excise department. N Nagaraju (MTB), one of the several people who had openly against the initial choice of portfolios, was made minister for municipal administration and sugarcane development, in addition to his earlier departments. Yediyurappa divested from his own kitty and handed planning, programme monitoring and the statistics department to KC Narayana Gowda. Arvind Limbavali, a legislator who helped secure the support of the turncoats, was given Kannada and culture portfolio in addition to the forest department.Several legislators who were overlooked have also started holding meeting among themselves to decide the next course of action to be heard by the party’s central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-caves-in-makes-changes-in-cabinet-to-contain-dissent-101611307304215.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud: ED raids 5 locations, including BVA party chief’s Mumbai office||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials are conducting raids at five locations, including the office of Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) president and MLA Hirendra Thakur and premises of the directors of the Viva Group in Vasai -Virar and Palghar areas in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) bank scam case. ED officials confirmed the development. The anti-money laundering agency is carrying out searches as part of their probe in the alleged diversion of funds from Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) and its subsidiary companies to the Viva group companies. HDIL is accused of defrauding PMC Bank of over ₹ ₹6,670 crore by fraudulently obtaining nearly 70% of the bank’s overall loans.One of the HDIL subsidiaries, Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, controlled by Pravin Raut, is suspected to have diverted funds to Viva groups. The ED has already provisionally attached properties worth ₹72 crore belonging to Raut under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Commenting on the development MLA Thakur said, “We were prepared for the ED’s visit after the action on Pravin Raut. Around 35-40 personnel from ED in seven big vehicles arrived at our Virar office at 9.30 am and they (ED) are still present. We are cooperating with the ED as we have nothing to hide. All our dealings are through cheques. We are prepared to answer all their queries and even willing to visit the ED office. We have nothing to hide.”ED began the money laundering probe in the PMC Bank case after Economic Offences Wing of Mumbai Police registered a criminal case in September 2019 against HDIL, its promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan and Waryam Singh, Joy Thomas (chairman and managing director of PMC bank Ltd.) and others for causing loss in thousands of crores to PMC Bank.Also read | PMC Bank fraud: ED summons Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife againED earlier stated that investigation had revealed that ₹95 crore was siphoned off through HDIL by Pravin Raut in conspiracy and connivance with others. The source of the funds were illegal availed bank loans or advances by HDIL. There was no document or agreement etc. in support of these payments made to Raut. Further, as per the HDIL ledger, the funds were given to Raut for acquiring land in Palghar area.ED’s investigation also revealed that Raut paid ₹1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri Pravin Raut from the proceeds of crime. Of this, Madhuri transfered ₹55 lakh as interest free loan to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha Raut. The amount was reportedly utilised for purchase of a flat in Dadar East, the ED said.Investigation revealed that Varsha and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction from which the former has received ₹12 lakh as overdrawn capital converted to loan. ED had questioned Varsha in this connection and has summoned her for a second round of questioning.The central agency earlier had attached several properties of Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Wadhawan Family trust and others, totalling to ₹293 crore in the PMC Bank fraud case. Jewellery worth ₹63 crore was also seized. A prosecution complaint has been filed by ED against Wadhawan and others for money laundering under PMLA, 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmcbank-fraud-ed-raids-5-locations-including-bva-party-chief-s-mumbai-office-101611306824432.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami chat leaks: Congress stages protests across Maharashtra||Workers of the Congress staged agitations across Maharashtra, including in Mumbai, demanding action against Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over leaked WhatsApp chats related to the Balakot airstrike and other sensitive national issues. The party alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party and its top leaders were shielding Goswami.In Mumbai, a protest was held outside Republic TV’s office in Lower Parel followed by a rally at Jambori Maidan in Worli. As part of its nationwide protest over the issues, key Congress leaders led marches in their respective districts. “Goswami knew about the Balakot airstrike three days in advance and the information was leaked to him by top BJP leaders. He is a ‘traitor’ and should be booked for sedition. BJP leaders are shielding him for their political interest by compromising national security. Goswami has used the sacrifice of the CRPF jawans martyred in Pulwama attack for financial gain by boosting TRPs. If central agencies failed to take action against him, Mumbai Police should go ahead and book him for these serious violations,” said Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap.Also Read: Congress steps up attack on Centre over Arnab Goswami’s chatsMaharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said, “It appears Goswami was in the know about the airstrike as part of Indian defence forces’ retaliation in response to the Pulwama terror attack in February 2019. Goswami appears to know about the airstrike three days in advance. Goswami, in one of his chats, has said that it was revealed to him by a big name in the Modi government. Thorough investigation and arrest of Goswami is a must as the issue relates to national security.”In a statement on January 19, Goswami said, “It is beyond absurd to suggest that expecting India to strike back at Pakistan, after the Pulwama attack, was a crime. It was publicly available information and thousands of journalists reported, wrote, broadcast and analysed in the same direction after Pulwama. I am horrified that the Congress party thinks that any journalist in India expressing the views publicly stated by the government is committing a crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-chat-leaks-congress-stages-protests-across-maharashtra-101611306164025.html
22-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC plays down Rajib Banerjee’s resignation amid murmur of brewing dissent||West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) party suffered another major blow on Friday when forest minister Rajib Banerjee resigned from the government amid speculations that he too may join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly elections.Banerjee, the legislator from Domjur, is the second minister from Howrah district and the third minister in the state to resign on the eve of the crucial state polls. Banerjee had skipped five consecutive meetings of the state cabinet and more than a dozen party programmes since September last year, when he started voicing his dissent against a section of the leadership in Howrah.Suvendu Adhikari, the heavyweight leader from East Midnapore district resigned from the government and the TMC and joined the BJP on December 19. Former Indian cricketer and sports and youth affairs minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned from the party on January 5. He served as the president of the Howrah district unit. The government immediately relieved him of his ministerial responsibilities.On Friday, Banerjee sent his resignation letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the morning. “I regret to inform you that I hereby tender my resignation from my office as a cabinet minister being in charge of the forest department …..It has been a great honour and privilege to serve the people of West Bengal. I heartily convey my gratitude for getting this opportunity,” the letter said.Also Read: West Bengal Govt under debt of crores of rupees, says former TMC MLABanerjee went to the Raj Bhawan in the afternoon and submitted a copy of the letter to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.After meeting the governor, Banerjee told the media that he wanted to resign as minister two and a half years ago when he was removed from irrigation department.“I held a meeting of the irrigation department in north Bengal on that day and was at a party meeting when I saw on television that I had been removed from the department. I was not even aware of it. I was extremely hurt that I got the news from television. Reshuffling the cabinet is the chief minister’s prerogative but the minimum decency was not shown to me,” said Banerjee.“I met the chief minister and said I would no longer serve as minister. She stopped me. Subsequently I served as a minister in several departments such as tribal welfare and jails. I am grateful to the chief minister for giving me the opportunity to serve. People will decide whether I did well or not,” said Banerjee.“I will continue to service the people from whatever platform I get,” he added but avoided questions on his next move.Banerjee’s voice chocked while he was talking to journalists and tears rolled down his cheeks. “For the past one and a half months I was extremely hurt by the behavior of some of my party colleagues. I never made any personal attack. I feel extremely hurt today. I had no option but to resign. I offer my apology if I have hurt anyone,” he said.Banerjee said that before meeting the governor he went to the chief minister's office at her residence and submitted the resignation letter.BJP’s Barrackpore Lok Sabha member and Rajib Banerjee’s former colleague in the TMC, Arjun Singh said the young minister would be welcomed into the BJP if he decides to join. “More legislators and leaders will leave the TMC,” said Singh.TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said, “This will not make any difference to the TMC. If people like these leave, our party will get more consolidated.”Another prominent legislator from Howrah, Vaishali Dalmiya, has also voiced dissent against the TMC leadership in the district. Former Howrah mayor Rathin Chakraborty has also aired his dissent.Like Laxmi Ratan Shukla, Banerjee was one of the younger faces in the cabinet and known for his clean image.While Shukla has said that he will stay away from politics and dedicate himself to sports, Banerjee did not comment on his future plans till Friday afternoon. There are speculations that he and some more TMC leaders may join the BJP during the next visits of Union home minister Amit Shah or BJP national president J P Nadda.Shah is likely to visit Bengal on January 30 while Nadda is scheduled to flag off a roadshow in north Bengal on February 5.Banerjee made news for his singing talent in June last year when he released a video of a Hindi song composed to pay homage to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on the night of June 15. The song, ‘Hindustan Meri Jaan,’ was released on June 23. The video features images and names of the soldiers and their colonel as well as clippings of army exercises and Republic Day parades.TMC leaders said Rajib Banerjee was having severe differences with the TMC’s Howrah unit chairman and senior minister Arup Roy.TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee held several meetings with Banerjee to dissuade him from taking any drastic step. The young minister, however, continued to voice his dissent in public and on social media. “There are some leaders in the party who treat party workers like servants,” Banerjee said at a programme on January 3.“If one wants to work then there are a lot of opportunities in the TMC. Only those who are leaving can explain why they are doing it. I do not think there are organizational problems in Howrah district. The TMC district unit has been revamped and many young people have been inducted,” Chatterjee said after Banerjee resigned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-plays-down-rajib-banerjee-s-resignation-amid-murmur-of-brewing-dissent-101611304842882.html
22-01-2021||Bangalore||Police arrest quarry owner, dynamite supplier after Shivamogga blast: Minister||Police in Karnataka's Shivamogga on Friday arrested the quarry owner and the dynamite supplier in connection with the blast at a railway crusher site in Hunasodu village, which has killed at least five people, the state's home minister Basavaraj Bommai told news agency ANI.“At the outset, it seems a lot of quantity of dynamite has exploded there and there has been some negligence by the quarry owner and the operators. Police have already arrested the quarry owner and the dynamite supplier. A probe is on,” the minister was quoted as saying by the agency.Bommai added that the police and district administration were carrying out rescue operations.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa told ANI that five people died in the explosion though earlier there were reports of eight people being killed. “A compensation of ₹500,000 was announced for kin of the deceased. MP BY Raghavendra and officials are looking into it. The mines minister is also going there. I will also go to the spot,” he said.Promising action against those responsible for the explosion, the chief minister told ANI, “Such incidents should not happen. Illegal mining will be dealt with properly. We have already stopped illegal mining, we will stop all such minings. Let the investigation take place, let the report come, we'll take action.”The explosives, which were being carried in a truck, detonated near the quarry in Hunasodu near Abbalagere village in Shivamogga, about 300km from Bengaluru, on Thursday night. The quarry is about 8km away from Shivamogga city, according to the police.Police and other authorities have sealed off the area and are awaiting the arrival of Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) to make further assessments. “We are waiting for BDDS to arrive as we suspect there are more gelatine sticks that need to be neutralised. Only then can we ascertain damages and loss of lives,” said a representative of the Shivamogga police control room earlier in the day.The impact of the explosion, which also damaged several buildings and roads in nearby areas, was felt in at least two adjoining districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/police-arrest-quarry-owner-dynamite-supplier-after-shivamogga-blast-minister-101611303625860.html
22-01-2021||Patna||Bihar sand mafia attacks NHAI toll plaza staff for stopping overloaded trucks||Sand mining mafia armed with knives and iron rods attacked and critically injured an employee of Sasaram toll plaza, managed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), on Thursday late evening.The NHAI staff member was attacked for not allowing overloaded sand trucks and heavy vehicles through the plaza, officials said.Rupesh Chaubey was assaulted while returning to his village, Bhadrasheela, after finishing his shift at the plaza. As his bike reached near Auwan gate on the national highway, armed goons intercepted and attacked him before dumping him in the nearby fields believing him to be dead.He was rescued and admitted to the sadar hospital by toll officials, who were informed about the assault. Chaubey is currently out of danger, plaza manager Nishant Raj said on Friday.A case of murderous attack was registered with Shivsagar police station against one Golu Singh and Arjun Singh of Auwan village and their unidentified associates. The attack was made to terrorize toll plaza officials into allowing passage to overloaded sand trucks, Raj said.Sasaram superintendent of police, Ashish Bharti promised stringent action against the mafia and said police teams were raiding to arrest the assailants.Also Read: Social media posts against govt, officials to drive action by Bihar PoliceThe sand mafia was highly frustrated after the state government’s recent ban on transportation of sand and stone chips by trucks with 14 or more wheels to prevent overloading. Senior district administration officers and police force were deputed at toll plazas to enforce the ban.The powerful sand mafia has begun to use rural roads for the lucrative illegal trade due to a strict vigil on highways. Some incidents of threats doled out to officials to allow the passage of overloaded heavy vehicles through toll plazas have also been reported, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-sand-mafia-attacks-nhai-toll-plaza-staff-for-stopping-overloaded-trucks-101611301730266.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 60 cases of new Covid strain detected so far, says civic body||Sixty cases of the new Covid-19 strain have been detected in Mumbai since December 22, 2020, confirmed Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials.According to BMC officials, of the 60 cases of the new Covid-19 strain, 30 are those who returned from the United Kingdom (UK) and rest are those who arrived from Middle East, Europe or South Africa.BMC has been quarantining all those returning from the above -mentioned countries for seven days in hotels on arrival.Post this, passengers undergo an RT-PCR Covid-19 test. If a person tests positive, (s)he is hospitalised and their sample sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) to ascertain if it is the new strain. On testing negative, passengers are advised to go home and quarantine for seven days. Over 25,000 passengers have arrived in the city from the above-mentioned countries in the last month.Also Read: New study explains how Sars-CoV-2 may seize human cellsSuresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “The spread of new strain is not much in Mumbai as we have detected only 60 cases till now. Of these 60 cases, 30 are of those who returned from UK and remaining those who have returned from other countries.”On why the detection of new Covid-19 strain could be low, Kakani said, “We cannot attribute the low detection to any particular reason but we are taking all precautions. Once a passenger from UK, Europe, Middle East or South Africa arrives at Mumbai airport, we screen them and quarantine them for seven days. Post this, testing is conducted.”However, as all passengers are quarantined on their arrival, BMC officials said there is no question of tracing close contacts.Kakani added, “The idea behind quarantining them on arrival is to not create close contacts. However, earlier, for five cases of the new strain we had traced close contacts as they arrived before we started quarantining incoming passengers in hotels. The process is the same,that of tracing close contacts, sanitising their houses and sealing buildings, if needed.”On January 4, BMC had said that post detection of five cases of new Covid-19 strain in those who returned from the UK, it had traced 40 close contacts of these five positive patients, and all the 40 tested negative of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-60-cases-of-new-covid-strain-detected-so-far-says-civic-body-101611300823434.html
22-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan exceeds Covid vaccination target in 1st round, wastage percentage low||In Rajasthan around 97% of Covid vaccines were utilised during the three days of the first phase of the vaccination drive against the target of 90%, set by the Central government. The vaccine wastage percentage in the state was 3.40%, said officials.“Because of multiple reasons, the target for Covid vaccination, set by the central government was 90%. But in Rajasthan, 96.59% vaccines have been used. The vaccine wastage percentage was only 3.40% and we are trying to reduce this too. In the first three days of vaccinations 32,379 healthcare workers were vaccinated across 501 sites,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary, health.After a review meeting on Saturday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said health workers in the state were coming forward with great enthusiasm and participating in the vaccination drive.“Rajasthan is the only state in the country to be put in the green category in the detailed evaluation conducted by the World Health Organization due to better performance on all the parameters of vaccination,” said Gehlot.He added that instructions have been given that according to the guidelines of the government of India, the first phase of vaccination should be completed as soon as possible by increasing the number of sites.Also Read: Rajasthan appeals to healthcare staff to come forward for Covid vaccinationEarlier, the CM had tweeted to say that healthcare workers had come forward in fewer numbers for vaccination. He had attributed the low turnout also to an ‘exchange of barbs’ between the two vaccine manufacturers, which he suggested could have lowered people’s confidence in the vaccines. He had, however, welcomed the new guidelines released by Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech and wished that it would help in building trust in the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-exceeds-covid-vaccination-target-in-1st-round-wastage-percentage-low-101611299384350.html
22-01-2021||Jaipur||IT raid at Jaipur jeweller reveals secret tunnel with art jewellery, antiques||An income tax department raid at three firms in Jaipur has not only revealed an unaccounted income of ₹1400 crores but also led to unearthing of a secret tunnel-type cavity at a jeweller’s house, containing art jewellery and antique goods apart from benami property transaction documents, officials said.“During the raid at the jeweller’s house, a secret tunnel-type structure was discovered. Inside, documents related to benami properties were found in addition to gold and silver jewellery, antique goods and art jewellery. 15 sacks were also recovered from this secret room,” said an I-T official.He added that the jeweller had denied maintaining any stock register before the raid but the raiding teams found actual prices were mentioned in an alpha-numeric secret code on each item found in the tunnel. The team is working on cracking the code. Two hard-disks and a pen-drive were also found, the official said.The January 21 raids, conducted at 31 premises belonging to a jewellery firm and two real-estate developers based in Jaipur, have turned out to be the biggest in the state with the unearthing of undisclosed transactions worth more than ₹1,400 crore."During the search, a plethora of incriminating documents and digital data, in the form of unaccounted receipts, unexplained development expenses, unexplained assets, cash loans and advances, on-money receipts were found and seized. Total unaccounted transactions amounting to ₹650 crore have been detected, so far in this group," CBDT said in a statement in reference to one of the raided firms.The other real estate group to be raided is involved in the development of commercial centres, farm houses, townships and residential enclaves."It was found that the assessee group had taken over a real-estate project at the airport plaza by showing an investment of ₹1 lakh only in the books of account, whereas the WIP (closing stock) of the project, reflected in the balance sheet, was about ₹133 crore," the statement by the CBDT said.Also Read: Senior Rajasthan government officer attacked by sand mafia during raid, injured"The group had also advanced unaccounted cash loans to various persons amounting to ₹19 crore and is also earning unaccounted interest on the same. Total unaccounted transactions amounting to ₹225 crore have been detected so far," the CBDT statement said about the firm.The statement alleges that the raided jewellery firm was also found to be possessing a benami property apart from suppressing sales figures."Documents relating to benami property of ₹15 crore were also found from the secret chamber. A perusal of these incriminating documents, data and the regular books of account revealed that the assessee had been suppressing the sales figures-- ranging from 100% -150% on the items sold to foreign tourists," it said.The jeweller group had also advanced unaccounted cash loans to various persons amounting to ₹122.67 crore and was also earning unaccounted interest on the same, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/it-raid-at-jaipur-jeweller-reveals-secret-tunnel-with-art-jewellery-antiques-101611297981990.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Samples of dead cranes in Delhi zoo test negative for bid flu: Officials||All 12 samples of dead cranes in the Delhi zoo have tested negative for bird flu, authorities said on Friday, a week after the first case of avian influenza was detected in its premises. “Four cranes were found dead in the Delhi zoo a few days ago. Twelve samples were collected on Monday and sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) of Indian Council of Agricultural Research for testing, Bhopal,” Dr. Rakesh Singh, the director of the animal husbandry unit of the Delhi government, said.All the 12 samples have tested negative, he said.Last week, samples from a dead owl in the Delhi zoo had tested positive for avian influenza. Zoo Director Ramesh Pandey said they were following all protocols and monitoring the situation strictly."We have been using the ebird mobile application to keep track of the birds in the premises of the zoo," he said. This is the first time the application is being used for bird monitoring and record keeping during the outbreak of avian influenza.The application allows the user to enter sightings from anywhere in the world, even in areas with no cell service, or Internet access.Singh said that 1,338 bird deaths have been reported in Delhi between January 6 and January 21 amid the bird flu situation.Of the 207 samples collected from various places in the national capital, 24 have tested positive for avian influenza so far, he said.On Tuesday, authorities restricted the entry of public into the Red Fort till Friday after a sample of a dead crow tested positive for bird flu.Around 15 crows were found dead in the premises of the Red Fort on January 10.Last week, municipal corporations in the city had imposed a temporary ban on sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat after samples taken from crows and ducks at parks and lakes in the national capital tested positive for bird flu.Around 400 ducks were culled at Sanjay Lake on January 11.The Delhi government had also banned the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city and ordered the closure of the Ghazipur poultry market in east Delhi for 10 days.However, the ban was lifted on Thursday after all the 100 samples taken from Ghazipur, Asia's largest poultry market, tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/samples-of-dead-cranes-in-delhi-zoo-test-negative-for-bid-flu-officials-101611298128844.html
22-01-2021||Kolkata||Only widow of a dead man has the right to his sperm: Calcutta HC||Only the widow of a dead person has the right to his preserved sperm, the Calcutta high court ruled earlier this week while rejecting a plea by the father of a man seeking access to his son’s stored sperm at a Delhi hospital.“The sperm preserved at the St Stephen Hospital belonged to the deceased and, since the deceased was in a matrimonial relationship at the juncture of his demise, the only other person, apart from the deceased, having any right to it is his wife,” the court ordered on Tuesday.The man was suffering from Thalassemia and died after storing his sperm in the sperm bank at the hospital. After his death, his father approached the hospital to get access to the sperm.The hospital authorities told the father in January 2019 that as his son was married at the time of his death, they would require a no-objection from the widow.The father approached his daughter-in-law for a no-objection, but she did not reply. Rather it was alleged that she refused to have any communication.The father then moved the high court for access saying the sperm belongs to his deceased son.“As far as the alleged right of the petitioner to collect such preserved sperm of his son, contrary to the arguments advanced by counsel, the petitioner does not have any ‘fundamental right’ to such permission, merely by dint of his father-son relationship with the deceased,” the court said. “The father-son relationship of the petitioner and the deceased does not entail any such right of the petitioner to the progeny of his son. As such, the right espoused by the petitioner for himself is illusory and non-existent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/only-widow-of-a-dead-man-has-the-right-to-his-sperm-calcutta-hc-101611297102793.html
22-01-2021||Lucknow||15-year-old girl found dead in Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot, rape suspected||A 13-year-old girl and her four-year-old cousin were found murdered in a forested area in Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot late Thursday evening. Both were first strangulated and then hacked with an axe. The families of the two suspect the girl was raped.Chitrakoot police superintendent Ankit Mittal said the reason behind the murders was unknown and several teams were working to solve the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/15yearold-girl-found-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-s-chitrakoot-rape-suspected-101611295722498.html
22-01-2021||Noida||Fake bomb-like device found in Noida, probe on||A fake bomb-like device created panic in Noida’s Sector 63 on Friday morning after which the area was cordoned off and traffic was diverted. The incident was reported around 7.15am when a call was made to the police helpline by an auto-rickshaw driver about the device. “We activated the necessary protocols as soon as the call came in. The area was cordoned off and traffic was diverted. Teams from the bomb disposal squad and sniffer dog units were rushed to the spot,” said Alok Singh, commissioner of police. Also Read: Awareness drive begins to reduce mishaps on Yamuna ExpresswayThe commissioner of police said that no explosives or detonator was found in the device. A forensics team has also examined it and the device was taken away for further examination. It was found on the divider of the road going from SJM hospital to Chhajarsi colon. The device in question had been fashioned from two plastic bottles of aerated drinks. It contained water and a watch had been taped on top to make it seem like a timer. A senior police officer said that eyewitnesses and locals in the area are being questioned and there are a few leads that are being worked on. Police suspect that this was a prank and have denied any connection to threats related to Republic day. An FIR was in the process of being registered at the Phase 3 police station against the suspects in relevant sections. The area is adjacent to the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, where only 20 kilometres away towards Delhi hundreds of farmers are camped in order to protest against the farm laws and are planning to carry out a major tractor rally on January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fake-bomb-like-device-found-in-noida-probe-on-101611295422852.html
22-01-2021||Jaipur||Senior Rajasthan government officer attacked by sand mafia during raid, injured||A senior Rajasthan government officer from Sawai Madhopur district was attacked and injured along with some policemen during an operation against river sand mining mafia on Thursday.The incident took place during a joint operation against river-sand mafia, carried out by the police and the revenue departments, under the leadership of Bonli sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Badrinarayan Meena in Dholri village on Thursday morning, during which 15 tractors-trolley were seized.The illegal mining was taking place at Morale canal near the village at around 5.30 am on Thursday morning when Meena, along with the police, chased the gravel trolleys, on the way from Peepalda to Dhorala village.“When the accused realised they were being raided, they started driving fast, resulting in overturning of a few vehicles. The accused also blocked the way of the raiding party by dumping the illegally-mined river sand in the middle of the road. Later, the SDM was stopped by the mafia and beaten up,” said a police official, who didn’t wish to be named.“The SDM has suffered injuries on his shoulder and an arm in the attack. The accused escaped with four-five tractor trolleys. However, the remaining vehicles were captured by the SDM-led team. After some time, Bonli police and tehsildar Brijesh Meena also reached the spot.”SDM Meena said had suffered injuries on his right shoulder and hand during the attack. “We have also made a video of the incident, which will help in identifying the accused,” he said.Also Read: Rajasthan appeals to healthcare staff to come forward for Covid vaccinationAccording to the official data tabled in the assembly, 3,076 FIRs and 33,317 complaints have been registered for violations of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act between April 1, 2018 and July 31, 2020. In this period, the state government slapped ₹216.19 crore as fine on the violators of the act.In February last year, the Supreme Court had said that illegal sand mining, which could cause irreparable damage to the environment, is rampant in Rajasthan and should not be allowed to continue. The apex court had also ordered a Central Empowered Committee (CEC) to look into the issue and suggest preventive measures.The bench headed by the Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde, had also directed state authorities to take steps to stop illegal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/senior-rajasthan-government-officer-attacked-by-sand-mafia-during-raid-injured-101611294504245.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government panel recommends Metro car-shed at Kanjurmarg||A nine-member committee appointed by the Maharashtra government has recommended that the car-shed for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) be built at Kanjurmarg and not Aarey colony. The suggestion has been made in a report submitted a fortnight before the deadline for it on February 6.Also read | Fadnavis writes to Maharashtra CM to relocate Metro car shed to AareyState chief secretary Sanjay Kumar confirmed that the report was submitted to the chief minister’s office on Thursday. “We were given a mandate and we have submitted the report,” Kumar said, refusing to comment further.The panel has recommended Kanjurmarg citing future expansion in the 102-acre land and integration of lines 3 and 6 with a common car shed at Kanjurmarg. The Bombay high court has stayed the land transfer and the building of the car-shed.An official said two committees appointed earlier had not examined future expansion. “Considering Aarey is a 30-hectare plot, the expansion will be tough in the future.”Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in December said the expansion was difficult in Aarey.In a letter to Thackeray on Thursday, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said Aarey was selected as a site for the car-depot looking at population estimates till 2053.He alleged the committee was a farce and the report was already prepared in the favour of Kanjurmarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-panel-recommends-metro-car-shed-at-kanjurmarg-101611294222307.html
22-01-2021||Ranchi||Two die in mine roof collapse in Jharkhand; rescue operation on for 2 missing||Four persons are feared to have died after the roof of a closed mica mine collapsed in a forest in Jharkhand’s Koderma district, around 170km from capital Ranchi, police said on Friday.Bodies of two miners have been dug out, while rescue operations continue in search of another two persons, reportedly buried in the debris, said sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Rajendra Prasad, who is on the spot since Thursday evening.The incident took place in a deep forest area in Koderma wildlife sanctuary, near Phulwaria village around 4pm on Thursday.Villagers claimed that six people, who went to extract mica scrap from a closed mine illegally, were buried in the debris after a large chunk of mine roof caved in. They were identified as Mahendra Das, Chandan Das, Lakhan Das, Parwati Devi, Rajesh Singh Ghatwar and Sanjay Singh Ghatwar.The villagers managed to rescue Rajesh Singh Ghatwar and Sanjay Singh Ghatwar alive. However, they could not locate another four people and informed the police.“We reached the spot as soon as information reached us on Thursday evening. The rescue operation was started immediately. Bodies of two people were dug out and their identification is being done,” said the SDPO.Prasad added that the search operation was still going on to find the remaining two people. The villagers are also helping the police in the search operation. Meanwhile, two persons who were rescued on Thursday, have been admitted to hospital for treatment, as they received serious injury, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/two-die-in-mine-roof-collapse-in-jharkhand-rescue-operation-on-for-2-missing-101611293018654.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19:Mumbai civic body aims to vaccinate over 3K healthcare workers on Day 4||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) aims to vaccinate over 3,000 healthcare workers on Friday, the fourth day of vaccination in the city.The vaccination drive began in the city on January 16 wherein 1,926 healthcare workers were vaccinated (around 48% of the targeted total). On Tuesday and Wednesday, 50% and 52% of the targeted total was vaccinated across 10 vaccination centres in the city. As of Wednesday, 5,251 healthcare workers had been vaccinated in Mumbai, followed by at least 10 cases of minor adverse effects post vaccination. Few doctors had also complained of feeling feverish, weakness or body ache for one day post vaccination.Also Read: India’s infection tally over 10.62 million with 14,545 fresh Covid-19 casesSuresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “We aim to vaccinate around 3,000-4,000 healthcare workers everyday. Starting Friday, we will continue to do so until we vaccinate all the 130,000 identified healthcare workers for the first phase.”In order to increase the turnout at vaccination centres, BMC from Wednesday also allowed walk-in vaccination for 130,000 healthcare workers. Earlier, all those eligible were given appointment slots; however, from Wednesday, all healthcare workers were allowed to visit any vaccination centre without any appointment.Apart from this, BMC has also appealed to private hospitals and private nursing homes to educate their staff to go and get vaccinated if they are eligible in phase 1. Kakani added, “We have requested private hospitals and nursing homes to educate their healthcare staff on getting the vaccination. We will also start awareness drives on a bigger scale when vaccination for the general public kicks off.”Meanwhile, BMC anticipates that the second lot of 125,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses will arrive from the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Friday.However, BMC has not received any information on the same. “The delivery of the vaccine might be delayed due to the fire at SII on Thursday. However, our vehicles are on stand by, and they can reach Pune at short notice for the collection of vaccine doses,” added Kakani.Earlier, BMC had received 139,500 Covid-19 doses from SII on January 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19mumbai-civic-body-aims-to-vaccinate-over-3k-healthcare-workers-on-day-4-101611293082338.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||CWC meeting today likely to take stand on Arnab chat leak, farm protests||The ongoing farmers’ protest and the WhatsApp chat leak involving journalist Arnab Goswami are likely to feature prominently in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Friday even as all eyes would be on the decision on the organisational polls. The CWC will debate the farmers’ protests against the three farm laws that were cleared in Parliament without review. The top executive body of the Congress may ask for a repeal of the laws a day after farmer bodies rejected the government’s proposal to put the laws in abeyance for up to 18 months. Just three days ago, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi lashed out at the government over the farm laws and announced “100% support” for protesting farmers. Gandhi maintained that the new farm laws are aimed at making monopolies in the farm sector. Also read | Ahead of UP polls, Congress releases calendar with Priyanka Gandhi’s photosSimilarly, on Wednesday, the party rallied former defence minister AK Antony and a group of senior UPA-era ministers to hit out at the government over the chat leak involving Goswami. The Congress dubbed the leak as an act of treason and pointed a finger at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “The Arnab Goswami saga reveals an ugly spectre of inexcusable compromise with national security and an unforgivable trade-off with the oath of Constitution by the Prime Minister-home minister and those holding high offices,” a party statement had said. This is the first CWC after the farmers’ stir against agri-laws and the chat leak came out in public domain. Two CWC members said that these two issues are of vital importance to the nation as they relate to food security and national security and the CWC is likely to come out with a statement on these. The CWC meeting might also consider the upcoming assembly elections in four states and the time required for the party’s election authority (CEA) to prepare the ground for internal elections, before drawing up a schedule for the latter, which could see the election of a new president. The meeting is being closely watched both by the old guard, including the 23 signatories to an August letter to party president Sonia Gandhi seeking sweeping changes in the Congress’ functioning, as well as the young Turks, mainly leaders allied with former party president Rahul Gandhi. The signatories of the letter are waiting to see how the meeting tries to address the issues they raised. “We also want the Bihar election results taken up for discussion in the CWC,” said one of the letter-writers. The Congress fared poorly in the election, winning 19 of the 70 seats it contested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cwc-meeting-today-likely-to-take-stand-on-arnab-chat-leak-farm-protests-101611291763890.html
22-01-2021||Bangalore||Police inspect Shivamogga blast site, CM Yediyurappa orders high-level probe||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday ordered a high-level investigation into the blast at a railway crusher site in Shivamogga district’s Hunasodu village. At least eight people are feared dead in the massive explosion that took place near a gravel and boulder crushing facility late on Thursday.“It’s shocking and unfortunate news that many people have died in a massive disaster that occurred last night near the tornado of Shivamogga. I’m in contact with senior officials since late night, teams have already been dispatched to the required rescue operation,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet in Kannada.“I wish to express my deepest condolences to the family of the deceased. The wounded are being treated and I wish them all a speedy recovery. A high-level investigation into the misdemeanour has been ordered and strict action against the guilty is certain,” the chief minister added.Police and officials were seen inspecting the blast site in Hunasodu village this morning. Shivamogga lawmaker BY Raghavendra was also present at the spot, according to news agency ANI. "A loud sound was heard which was accompanied by a vibration near Hunasodu village in Shivamogga district. There was an explosion due to dynamite or explosive material. An investigation is on. A bomb squad is coming from Bengaluru and another team from Mangaluru," Raghavendra told ANI.Shivamogga district collector KB Shivakumar said it was initially observed that there were explosives in a vehicle parked at the site. “It's being probed why they were brought here. Till now we recovered two bodies. It's being circulated in public that 10-15 [people] died. But it's not substantiated by any facts,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.“As per our preliminary information, since the incident occurred at night there was no worker working here. So, all the people who worked here regularly are safe. We have confirmed it. We are trying to trace the people who were accompanying the vehicle,” he added.Shivakumar said that police have begun the investigation and bomb detection squads have also been asked to reach the spot to ascertain the cause of the blast.Meanwhile, state minister KS Eshwarappa told ANI that was the first time such an incident had happened in Shivamogga. “Experts are coming from Bengaluru, they will give a report after which we will take action,” he said.The blast at around 10:30pm on Thursday sent shockwaves not only in Shivamogga but also in neighbouring Chikkamagaluru and Davangere districts, according to news agency PTI. The explosion was so strong that window panes shattered while many houses and even roads developed cracks, an eye witness was quoted as saying. "There has been a blast in a truck carrying gelatin. The vibrations were felt locally," a police official told PTI on Thursday.Due to its high intensity, the jolt was earlier mistaken to have been caused by an earthquake, however, geologists ruled out recording tremors in any of their observatories.The victims were reportedly transporting the explosives meant for mining when the explosion occurred. The vehicle was badly mangled and the bodies of the victims were dismembered beyond recognition.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the blast victims. "Pained by the loss of lives in Shivamogga. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover soon. The State Government is providing all possible assistance to the affected," his office said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/police-inspect-shivamogga-blast-site-cm-yediyurappa-orders-high-level-probe-101611290169869.html
22-01-2021||Other||Sikkim to become more accessible to foreign tourists as Ramman checkpost reopens||Sikkim may soon become more accessible to foreign tourists, as the Himalayan state is planning to reopen its Ramman checkpost after almost a decade. Foreign tourists can get inner-line permits at the checkpost to enter the state. Foreign tourists have had to travel longer distances to get inner-line permits as such permits were issued only at two checkpoints, Melli and Rangpo. While inner-line permits are mandatory for foreign tourists to enter the state, such permits are not required for Indians. A notification issued by SC Gupta, the state’s chief secretary, said that in view to boost rural, religious and adventure tourism in the state, the government has decided to open the Ramman checkpost for entry of tourists to Sikkim from March 1. Also Read: Film City in Sikkim: Union minister Jitendra Singh holds discussions“The state tourism department has indicated that a large number of foreign tourists has been requesting entry through Ramman checkpost at Budang in West Sikkim,” the notification issued on Wednesday said. Around 150,000 foreign tourists visit Sikkim every year, officials said. The checkpost was closed almost a decade back after it was found that a few foreign tourists had entered the state without a permit. Ramman checkpost is located along the West Sikkim - Darjeeling border near Jorethang town and is about 90 minutes’ drive downhill from Darjeeling town in north Bengal via Tukvar and Singla. This means foreign tourists coming to Darjeeling would take less time and money to reach Sikkim. The decision has been welcomed by tourism stakeholders both in Sikkim and West Bengal. Sandipan Ghosh, secretary of Eastern Himalaya Travel and Tour Operators Association, said: “The decision will go a long way to boost the tourism industry in the region. Now, more foreign tourists visiting neighbouring Darjeeling would find it easy to visit South and West Sikkim.” While West Sikkim is a popular destination for adventure sports and has some high-altitude trekking destinations such as Dzongri and Goechala, South Sikkim has major pilgrimage tourism attractions like Buddha Park in Rabongla and Char Dham at Namchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sikkim-to-become-more-accessible-to-foreign-tourists-as-ramman-checkpost-reopens-101611289241554.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||No breakthrough in govt-farm union talks: Here’s what we know so far||Farm unions protesting against the three farm laws enacted in September have rejected the Centre’s offer to put the legislation in abeyance for at least one-and-a-half years. Here is what we know so far: • The rejection has deepened the crisis as it appeared that almost two-month-long agitation could finally be resolved. Tens of thousands of farmers have been camping at New Delhi’s borders seeking a repeal of the laws.  • In the 10th round of negotiations with a 41-member delegation representing farm unions on Wednesday, the Centre offered to suspend the legislation. • But the farmers hardened their stand on Thursday, saying they will not budge from their demand for a complete repeal. • After several rounds of internal discussions over the government offer, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the platform of farm unions leading the agitation, said on Thursday that the farmers had unanimously rejected the proposal. It said the proposal is unacceptable because its demand is a repeal of the laws.  • In a statement the unions said a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha was held on Thursday and enacting legislation for remunerative minimum support price for all farmers was reiterated. Also read | Supreme Court turns down plea seeking to stop farmers’ tractor rallyIn Wednesday’s talks, the government said that it would file an affidavit before the Supreme Court about its decision to put the laws in abeyance till a solution to farmers’ demands was found. • To discuss the issues raised by farmers, which includes a law guaranteeing assured prices for their produce, the government had also told farm unions that it proposed to set up a committee of representatives as well as experts who should be nominated both by farm unions and the government to examine “all agitation-related issues”. • The move was hailed by experts as a step back by the government, and they expected farmers to reciprocate. • The farm unions, too, said they would discuss the government’s fresh offer, sparking hopes of a resolution. • The government pushed the laws to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. • Farmers say the laws will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. They have demanded a full repeal of the three agricultural laws and have also sought a legal guarantee of assured prices for farm produce. • On January 12, after two days of deliberation, the Supreme Court suspended the pro-reforms farm laws until further order. The bench dealing with the case — headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde — also appointed a committee to look into farmers’ grievances over the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-breakthrough-in-govt-farm-union-talks-here-s-what-we-know-so-far-101611287381848.html
22-01-2021||Lucknow||BJP shifts focus to UP Assembly polls, stage set for rejig in party, cabinet||After all the ten Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the two Samajwadi Party (SP) candidates were elected unopposed to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council on Thursday, the ruling party is likely to get busy with preparations for the twin challenges of panchayat and Assembly polls with likely rejig in government and party organisation.The BJP candidates declared elected include deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh, retired Gujarat cadre IAS officer AK Sharma, Lakshman Prasad Acharya, Kunwar Manvendra Singh, Govind Narayan Shukla, Salil Bishnoi, Ashwani Tyagi, Dharamveer Prajapati and Surendra Chaudhary.The SP candidates elected to the upper House include senior SP leader Ahmad Hasan and party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.Decks for the unopposed election of the 12 candidates were cleared with the rejection of nomination papers of independent candidate Mahesh Chandra Sharma during scrutiny on Tuesday.After Thursday’s election, the strength of the BJP has increased from 25 to 32 (three members re-elected) in the 100 member Legislative Council, while the strength of the SP has reduced from 55 to 51 after two party members, out of the six whose terms were ending, were re-elected. BSP’s strength has also gone down from eight members to six; however, the Congress party continues to have two members. The SP still enjoys a majority in the council.The election has also set the stage for a reshuffle in the state cabinet as well as changes in the BJP party organisation before the crucial 2022 Assembly elections in the state.There is speculation that AK Sharma might be inducted into the state cabinet while some of the ministers might be sent to the organisation keeping the approaching Assembly elections in mind.Immediately after the election, AK Sharma thanked the BJP, its central and state leadership and party workers. In a tweet, he said, “Life is for Nation, BJP my dignity, lotus is identity. Thank Hon Modi ji from heart.”Also Read: Internal elections, upcoming assembly polls in focus as CWC meets todayThe election of the 10 BJP candidates coincided with BJP president JP Nadda’s visit to Lucknow on Thursday. A BJP leader said, along with discussing the strategy for the panchayat polls and gearing up the party for the assembly elections, Nadda will also discuss co-ordination between the organisation and the government.“The BJP government will complete four years in power in March. The ministers whose performance is not satisfactory will be shifted. In keeping with the caste equation and performance, some leaders might be rewarded with induction into the cabinet,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-shifts-focus-to-up-assembly-polls-stage-set-for-rejig-in-party-cabinet-101611285574269.html
22-01-2021||Lucknow||Ahead of UP polls, Congress releases calendar with Priyanka Gandhi’s photos||The Congress, in a novel way to reach out to the people of Uttar Pradesh, has released a calendar with photos of party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The first page of the calendar has a photo of Vadra with women family members of victims of Umbha (Sonbhadra) massacre. The calendar will be distributed among the people from Friday. Another picture in the calendar shows her protecting Congress workers from police lathi-charge on their way to Hathras to meet the family of a gangrape victim. There is also a picture of her wiping the tears of a minor girl in Azamgarh during the anti-CAA and NRC protests. Priyanka’s photos from her visits to Lucknow, Amethi, Rae Bareli, Varanasi, Ujjain, Haryana and Jharkhand have also been used in the calendar. “AICC has sent 1 million calendars to the party in the state. Our leaders and party men are reaching out to the people during the Sangthan Srajan campaign. We propose to begin to distribute the calendars during this campaign. Hopefully, west UP districts will begin the distribution on Friday,” said UP Congress organisation secretary Anil Yadav. Also Watch: ‘Farm laws meant to finish farmers’: Rahul, Priyanka join Congress’ protest The UP Congress had launched the campaign January 3 to 25 campaign to build and strengthen the party organization at the grassroots level. About 80 to 100 senior leaders, including AICC secretaries and UPCC chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, are camping in different districts to set up nyay panchjayat-level units in nearly all the 8,000 nyay panchayats and ward level units in all the towns. A list of holidays/special days has been provided on every page of the calendar to mark festivals and birth anniversaries/death anniversaries of important persons/leaders. “We have given a list of special days in a month to let the people know why a day is important. Besides reminding the people about Priyankaji’s visits, this calendar also mentions social reformers/leaders associated with the social justice moments or have done other important work,” said Yadav. “Having Priyanka’s pictures on the calendar may be a good move of the Congress to reach out to the people of Uttar Pradesh. But the Congress needs to resolve the leadership issue. The party, obviously, has the 2022 assembly elections in mind. It has a crisis of leadership. The people would like to know who will head the Congress. What will be the role of Priyanka? Will she be projected as a chief ministerial candidate in the elections? The Congress has to find answers to such questions as the party reaches out to people,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-up-polls-congress-releases-calendar-with-priyanka-gandhi-s-photos-101611286061230.html
22-01-2021||Other||Assam: PM Modi to address 18th convocation of Tezpur University today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 18th convocation of Tezpur University in Assam on Friday online. “I look forward to addressing the convocation of Tezpur University. This is a wonderful opportunity to interact with the bright youngsters from Assam and the northeast,” the PM tweeted on Thursday evening. Tezpur University was established by an act of Parliament in 1994. The central university’s vision is to offer employment- oriented, inter-disciplinary courses to meet local and regional aspirations. Friday’s address by the PM comes a day ahead of his visit to Assam to take part in a rally at Sivasagar where he will distribute land allotment certificates to 106,000 persons. The visit will be the first of the several likely trips to the state by the PM in the coming weeks to campaign for the ruling BJP ahead of the assembly polls due in April-May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assampm-modi-to-address-18th-convocation-of-tezpur-university-today-101611285942978.html
22-01-2021||Pune||Serum Institute fire: CM Uddhav Thackeray to visit facility today||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will be visiting Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Pune facility on Friday afternoon, a day after five people died in a fire that broke out through the top floor and partially damaged another floor of the five-storey building in Manjri.The fire could be doused after a three-hour-long operation though embers resurfaced by 7 pm Thursday during cooling operations.Thackeray will arrive directly at the SII facility and review the situation, officials from district administration said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar visited the spot on Thursday evening and ordered a probe as well as a fire audit of the building.Also read | Bhandara hospital fire: 3 terminated from service, 3 suspendedAll the five victims were labourers and SII has announced ex-gratia of ₹25 lakh to the family of each of the deceased. In a statement, SII chairman and managing director Cyrus S. Poonawalla said, “Today is an extremely sorrowful day for all of us at Serum Institute of India. Regrettably, there were losses of lives in the fire that broke out in our under installation facility situated at the Special Economic Zone at Manjri. We are deeply saddened and offer our condolences to the families of the departed. In this regard, we will be offering a compensation of INR 25 lakh to each of the families, in addition to the mandated amount as per the norms. We would like to extend our gratitude to everyone for their concerns and prayers in these distressing times.”The deceased labourers were identified as Rama Shankar Harijan and Bipin Saroj, both from Uttar Pradesh; Sushil Kumar Pandey from Bihar; and Mahendra Ingle, and Pratik Pashte from PuneOfficials said at least six people were rescued from the premises. They added that the nearest Covishield production and storage units are at least a kilometre away from the under-construction building that went up in flames. Earlier, state health minister Rajesh Tope said initial findings suggested that the fire was caused due to welding work and spread fast due to the presence of inflammatory material on the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/serum-institute-fire-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-visit-facility-today-101611285761124.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality deteriorates further, marginal improvement expected tomorrow||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated on Friday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am reaching 320, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).On Thursday, the overall AQI of Delhi was 296, in the “poor” zone. Experts said air quality in Delhi is likely to deteriorate briefly on January 23, but winds are expected to pick up again and improve air quality from January 24.Also Read: Street in Delhi to be renamed after Sushant Singh RajputUnion ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that the surface winds on Thursday were southwesterly and moderate but will slow down on Friday leading to deterioration in pollution levels.“The AQI is forecasted to be in the ‘poor’ zone on January 22. Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, winds are forecasted to increase on January 23, and marginal improvement in AQI is forecasted for January 23 and January 24. However, despite the improvement, the AQI will remain within the ‘very poor’ category,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-deteriorates-further-marginal-improvement-expected-tomorrow-101611283420745.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s borders with Haryana, UP continue to be impacted||Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at several places on Friday due to the protests by farmers who have been camping at several borders to demand the repeal of three farm laws.There are a total of 10 border points -- eight with Haryana and two with Uttar Pradesh -- that are currently impacted, fully or partially.Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur have remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad while the opposite carriageway remains open. But there are several alternative options for commuters.Motorists have the choice to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained largely unaffected.Also read | Maharashtra varsity teachers’ unions to march against new farm and labour lawsFor Delhi’s borders with Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh have continued to remain closed.Jhatikara border is open for light vehicles and pedestrians while only a single carriageway of the Jharoda border is open for traffic.The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists who need to travel between Delhi and Haryana can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, Badarpur, Surajkund and Dundahera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-borders-with-haryana-up-continue-to-be-impacted-101611283301055.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Street in Delhi to be renamed after Sushant Singh Rajput||A proposal to rename a street in Andrews Ganj area after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput has been approved, said Abhishek Dutt, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation's (SDMC) Congress councillor, on the 35th birth anniversary of the late star on Thursday."Six months ago I received a request to rename a street in Andrews Ganj area after Sushant Singh Rajput. The proposal has finally been approved," Dutt told ANI."We will soon be inaugurating this street. It is very important to give him the respect he deserves," he added.Remembering the late actor on his 35th birth anniversary, many Bollywood celebrities took to social media to pay their tributes to him. While the star's celebrity friends shared heartfelt messages on social media, his sister Shweta Singh Kirti announced a special scholarship fund in his memory.Sushant died by alleged suicide in his apartment on June 14, 2020. His passing away triggered a massive controversy, with his family alleging foul play and leveling several allegations on his girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty.Currently, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing the matter surrounding his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/street-in-delhi-to-be-renamed-after-sushant-singh-rajput-101611282670147.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Traffic to be restricted in New Delhi from Friday evening to Saturday noon||There will be traffic restrictions in parts of New Delhi area from Friday evening until Saturday afternoon to facilitate the full dress rehearsal ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, the traffic police said.The rehearsal is scheduled from 9.50am until noon on Saturday and the parade will begin from Vijay Chowk and end at the National Stadium after passing through Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate and Tilak Marg Radial Road.Restrictions will begin at 6pm on Friday on Vijay Chowk and will continue till the end of parade around 12.30pm on Saturday, said Manish Kumar Agrawal, joint commissioner of Delhi traffic police.After that, no cross traffic will be allowed on Rajpath intersection from 11pm on Friday at Rafi Marg, Janpath and Mansingh Road until the end of the parade.The traffic around the C-Hexagon of India Gate will be halted from 9.15am on Saturday till the parade and the tableaux enter the stadium.Other roads will be open for regular traffic although there will be restrictions on buses, auto-rickshaws and taxis in certain parts on New Delhi area on Saturday morning until afternoon.Traffic police officers advised citizens to check the police’s social media feed before stepping out.The traffic police will be out in full force to regulate the movement of vehicles, said Agrawal.The restrictions on Metro trains will be limited to Kendriya Sachivalaya and Udyog Bhawan stations where deboarding won’t be permitted from 5am to noon on Saturday, said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-to-be-restricted-in-new-delhi-from-friday-evening-to-saturday-noon-101611282351728.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over allegations of financial irregularities||A war of words broke out between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday after the former alleged financial irregularities in the Delhi Jal Board (DJB).While Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta claimed unaccounted funds of ₹26,000 crore in the water utility, the AAP hit back saying the allegation was completely “bogus and frivolous”.The BJP demanded a two-day-long special session of the Delhi assembly to discuss the issue.Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Gupta said, “ ₹26,000 crore was transferred from Delhi government’s account to DJB’s accounts in the last five years, but the government is not ready to give any account for this amount.”In a statement, the AAP said, “It’s not even clear what scam are they referring to? The truth is that BJP is completely rattled by the ₹2500 crore scam uncovered by the AAP in the MCD, and is indulging in trash talk to only distract the public attention from this issue.”While Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said that the party will start a door-to-door campaign to tell people in this regard, leader of the opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the allegations are “very serious”The AAP said the opposition party knows the writing on the wall, referring to the MCD polls scheduled next year. “The allegation by BJP is completely bogus and frivolous. If there was any scam in DJB, BJP would have already unleased the Delhi Police, CBI and Anti Corruption Bureau but they instead chose to talk to media. BJP knows the writing is on the wall and that the people of Delhi are going to vote for the AAP in the upcoming MCD elections, giving a historic mandate,” the party said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-spar-over-allegations-of-financial-irregularities-101611282082343.html
22-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC, BJP trade barbs before PM Modi's Kolkata visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Kolkata on January 23 to celebrate Subhas Chandra Bose’s birthday as Parakram Diwas, or day of valour, is a “publicity stunt” to woo West Bengal’s voters ahead of the upcoming assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress said on Thursday, even as the state announced that it will celebrate the day as Desh Nayak Diwas, or day of the national hero.The state government also appealed to people through televised advertisements to blow conch shells at 12.15 pm, the time of Bose’s birth in Odisha’s Cuttack in 1897. Both the Centre and the state have decided to organise various programmes for Bose’s 125th birthday next year. The year-long celebrations will begin this January 23.“This is a publicity stunt and is politically motivated...It is only to woo Bengal’s voters,” said Bengal’s deputy parliamentary affairs minster Tapas Roy.BJP state vice-president Ritesh Tiwari criticised the TMC and said, “It is the Modi government that gave proper recognition to the Azad Hind government that Netaji (as Bose is popularly known as) formed. Nobody did it in decades.”On the other hand, the Forward Bloc, which Bose formed in 1939, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said they will celebrate the legendary freedom fighter’s birthday as Desh Prem Diwas, or day of patriotism, as declared by the previous Left Front government in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-bjp-trade-barbs-before-pm-modi-s-kolkata-visit-101611280506519.html
22-01-2021||Pune||5 dead as fire breaks out at Serum facility||Five people were killed in a blaze that ripped through the top floor and partially damaged another floor of a five-storey building at a facility of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Thursday, but the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer said the incident will not hit the production of coronavirus shot Covishield.Officials said at least four people were rescued from SII’s Manjari premises in an operation spanning over an hour to bring the fire under control and save those trapped. They added that the nearest Covishield production and storage units are at least a kilometre away from the under-constructionbuilding that went up in flames.The Maharashtra government ordered a probe into the incident. State health minister Rajesh Tope said initial findings suggested that the fire was caused due to welding work and spread fast due to the presence of inflammatory material on the premises.“We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed,” SII chief executive Adar Poonawalla tweeted in the evening, a little more than an hour after posting that there were no casualties or major injuries.All of those killed were contractual labourers involved in work related to electricity; two of them from Uttar Pradesh, one from Bihar and two from Pune, according to according to Manjari legislator Chetan Tupe. Their bodies were found on the fifth floor of the building called MSEZ-03. Later in the day, SII announced an ex-gratia payment of ₹25 lakh each for the families of the deceased.“I would like to reassure all governments & the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia. Thank you very much @PuneCityPolice & Fire Department,” Poonawalla said in another tweet.His organisation is manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine by Oxford University and British-Swedish pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca in India, where the world’s largest inoculation drive began on January 16 thanks to SII’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s indigenously produced Covaxin.India is also shipping Covishield to its neighbours, strengthening them in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Six countries – Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Seychelles and Myanmar – are part of India’s initial rollout of vaccines as grant assistance.On Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was anguished by the loss of lives. “In this sad hour, my thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. I pray that those injured recover at the earliest,” he tweeted.Television visuals showed huge plumes of smoke billowing from the building as firefighters worked to extinguish the blaze.“Fire at Serum Institute of India in Pune has been brought under control...I have been informed that the Covid vaccine manufacturing plant is safe,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told the media during an interaction at a guest house at Malabar Hill on Mumbai’s suburbs on Thursday evening.Thackeray will visit the Manjari facility on Friday noon, according to Pune district officials.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said directives “have been issued to the Pune police commissioner for a detailed investigation into the incident”. He said a fire audit will be conducted at the building. “(Also) A team of experts will determine the cause (of the fire),” Pawar added.Officials said the five-storey building (ground plus five floors) was planned as an extension to the production facility for rotavirus. It is a part of the Manjari facility, which falls in a special economic zone and is around 15km from Pune, which began functioning in September 2019 as an extension to SII’s Hadapsar facility in the city.The fire broke out at on the fourth and fifth floors of the building and the fire department received a call around 3:50pm, according to Pune fire brigade control room officials. It rushed at least 10 fire-tenders to the spot. The fire was brought under control around 5pm and the bodies were found during a rescue operation around 5:30pm. Embers resurfaced at around 7pm during the cooling process, but the situation was quickly brought under control.“It is the fire experts who will only be able to ascertain the actual cause of the fire,” said Tupe, the local legislator.SII is producing around 50 million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine a month at other facilities in the complex. It also has plans to make up to 50 million doses of a vaccine candidate developed by Novavax Inc from around April.SII, which also makes shots against polio, diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis B, measles, mumps and rubella, plans to supply 200 million doses to Covax, a World Health Organisation-backed effort to procure and distribute inoculations to poor countries.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/5-dead-as-fire-breaks-out-at-serum-facility-101611277984447.html
22-01-2021||Bangalore||8 killed in dynamite blast at railway crusher site in Karnataka’s Shivamogga: Official||At least eight persons were killed in a dynamite blast at a railway crusher site in Karnataka’s Hunasodu village in the Shivamogga district on Friday, district collector KB Shivakumar told news agency ANI.The massive explosion took place near a gravel and boulder crushing facility around 10.30 pm, sending shockwaves not only in Shivamogga, but also in neighbouring Chikkamagaluru and Davangere districts, according to news agency PTI. An eye witness said the blast was so strong that window panes shattered while many houses and even roads developed cracks.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of blast victims. "Pained by the loss of lives in Shivamogga. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover soon. The State Government is providing all possible assistance to the affected," his office said in a tweet.The jolt was earlier mistaken to have been caused by an earthquake, following which geologists were approached, who ruled out recording tremors in any of their observatories."There was no earthquake. But an explosion did take place at Hunsur on the outskirts of Shivamogga under the Rural Police station limits," a police officer told PTI.Another police officer said, "There has been a blast in a truck carrying gelatin. Six labourers in the truck were found dead. The vibrations were felt locally." He added that the death toll might increase.The victims were reportedly transporting the explosives meant for mining when the explosion occurred. The vehicle was badly mangled and the bodies of the victims were dismembered beyond recognition.Senior district and police officials including the superintendent of police of Shivamogga rushed to the spot.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/8-killed-in-dynamite-blast-at-railway-crusher-site-in-karnataka-s-shivamogga-official-101611274164371.html
22-01-2021||Bhopal||17-yr-old rape victim dies by suicide||A 17-year-old rape victim died by suicide in Bhopal on Wednesday night, officials said on Thursday. The girl had consumed sleeping pills at a state government-run shelter home on Monday and was undergoing treatment at Hamidia Hospital in Bhopal, the officials said.“On Monday afternoon, the girl consumed sleeping pills to end her life. She was rushed to Hamidia hospital where she died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment. After post mortem, the body was handed over to the family,” said Sai Krishna Thota, SP, Bhopal (south).The girl’s family, however, has accused the shelter officials of harassing the girls at the home. “The shelter superintendent was harassing all the girls and a few days ago she physically assaulted them too. Depressed with life in the shelter, my sister ended her life,” the girl’s cousin said. “Even after death, the administration didn’t allow us to take the body home. The body was sent to cremation ground directly from the hospital,” he alleged. Following the girl’s death, Bhopal district collector Avinash Lavaniya has removed the superintendent of the shelter home and ordered a magisterial inquiry into the matter.“The superintendent has been removed from the shelter. As of now, the aspect of physical assault didn’t come to light. The magisterial inquiry is being conducted,” Lavaniya said.The shelter home’s superintendent denied the allegations of the girl’s family. “The girls want to go home and are getting frustrated and misbehaving with staff members. A few days ago, they beat me up too. I don’t know from where the girl got the pills,” she said. The rape case had come to light in July 2020 when five minor girls were found in an inebriated state in Ratibad area.During counselling by Childline, the girls had revealed that Pyare Miyan, the owner of a vernacular newspaper in Bhopal, used to invite them to parties where he raped them.The girls were moved to a government-run shelter after at least four FIRs were filed against Miyan in Bhopal and Indore.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/17yrold-rape-victim-dies-by-suicide-101611273190828.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||HC to examine if accused can be called by cops in another jurisdiction, state||The Delhi High Court, after hearing a petition challenging notice under section 41A(1) of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) issued by Mumbai Police to appear before a police station in the city, chose to examine whether an accused can be called by police in another jurisdiction or state.The court has adjourned the matter to April 12.The petitioner, Gaganmeet Singh, Director of Beoworld Pvt Ltd, was represented through Advocate Vijay Aggarwal who argued before Justice Yogesh Khanna that an accused cannot be made to join the investigation at a place beyond the jurisdiction of the police/investigating agency, whereas in the present case the police/investigating agency is in Mumbai and the petitioner is a resident of Delhi.Aggarwal argued that the accused cannot be called by the investigating officer beyond the jurisdiction of his police station or an adjoining police station. The counsel for the complainant raised objection qua jurisdiction and sought some time to file certain judgments to support his contentions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-to-examine-if-accused-can-be-called-by-cops-in-another-jurisdiction-state-101611272843270.html
22-01-2021||Lucknow||Ram temple foundation work resumes: Trust||Work on the foundation of Ram Temple in Ayodhya resumed on Thursday, member of the trust overseeing the construction Anil Mishra said.“Digging work for the Ram temple’s foundation resumed today (Thursday). It will continue for the next 60-70 days. Till then, the foundation’s new design will be available with us,” Mishra told reporters after a meeting of the members of the Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust.Nripendra Misra, chairman of the Trust, reviewed the foundation work along with experts of Larsen and Toubro, Tata Consulting Engineers, and other members of the Trust, and directed the engineers to resume the work. “Experts of Larsen and Toubro and Tata Consulting Engineers are preparing the temple’s new design. The Ram temple’s foundation will be prepared according to this new design,” he said.The foundation work was stopped after loose sand was found during testing of foundation pillars last year. During the meeting of the Trust, engineers gave a presentation on the new design which is likely to be finalised soon. Ayodhya deputy inspector general of police Deepak Kumar made a presentation on security paraphernalia at Ram Janmabhoomi complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-foundation-work-resumes-trust-101611272896847.html
22-01-2021||Budget||‘Hope govt helps small businessmen like me’||Rishab Mitra’s grocery store in the heart of Lucknow has been in the family for four generations, but the 31-year-old fears he may not be able to keep the doors open for much longer.The 31-year-old owner of Mitra Provision Store in Lucknow’s Aminabad market sells spices packed at home and home-made snacks. For a decade, he successfully competed with big stores by focusing on quality, and relying on word-of-mouth recommendations and a loyal customer base.But the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown hurt his sales. “After the pandemic, people want to opt for cheaper products even if the difference is only a few rupees,” said Mitra, who lives with his parents in their ancestral house and is unmarried.During the lockdown, Mitra’s shop was open but few people were willing to step out of their houses and online grocers delivered produce at their doorstep.Even when the lockdown was lifted, Mitra said his customers didn’t return. “Before the pandemic, online sale of groceries and food grain was not much. But the pandemic changed this scenario. Now, people prefer to purchase even grocery items online. The scare of the virus is keeping customers away from stores,” Mitra said.There was a small uptick in his sales after the lockdown ended, but a nationwide surge in infections in August-September, and news of new strains of the virus later damaged customer confidence.“Before the lockdown, I used to get around 80 to 100 customers daily. But now, this figure has come down to 40-50,” he said.He believes online stores have an advantage over them as they don’t have upfront costs like rent and maintenance.“In my free time now, I try to tap customers over phone. I am also trying to supply goods to big stores who outsource local products like snacks,” Mitra said.According to India Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF), a trust established by the central government, market opportunities for online commerce in India are expected to touch $200 billion by 2026 from $30 billion in 2017. E-commerce business increased by about 20% after the lockdown was imposed in India on March 25, the study added.During the pandemic, the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government provided loans on easy instalments for small shopkeepers, said Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia. “Large number of shopkeepers and vendors in Lucknow and across the state benefitted,” Bhatia said.Mitra hopes Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will support small businessmen like him when she delivers the Union budget on February 1. He wants the government to create a level-playing field for mom-and-pop stores like his, and big e-commerce firms. “The government must at least ensure parity between online and offline stores when it comes to imposing rules and regulations,” he said. He also hopes that the government announces regulations for online stores. India introduced new ecommerce rules last year, and is currently considering a cap on foreign direct investment in the sector.Mitra said, for small shopkeepers like him, complying with the Goods and Services Tax (GST) norms was not easy. “According to the new tax system, we have to file a tax return in three months. But we have to make rounds of the GST office every month,” said Mitra. He demanded the process of filing GST be revised and made easier for small traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/budget/hope-govt-helps-small-businessmen-like-me-101611270935421.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Beyond the baoli, a simple well||The city has a village. The village has a square. The square has a well.Delhi is well-known for its centuries old step-wells, or baolis. But in the Capital it is a rare thing to chance upon an average well, without picturesque stone steps—a well that resembles those thousands of other wells spread all over the country, in as many villages. The Capital itself has hundreds of villages within its limits, but who amid us ever bumped into a well in, say, fashionable Hauz Khas Village?But here in south Delhi’s historic Chirag Dehli village, an entire square is devoted to a well. Alas, nobody uses it any more in our era of running water supply. In fact, the well has been covered with a metal netting a few years ago, preventing its use, after a peacock (of all the creatures!) accidentally fell into it—according to a shopkeeper.Surrounded by groceries and snack joints, the well is nevertheless nestled within a vibrant social life. Bengali Sweet Center advertises chhole bhature in bold white wordings as its “Sunday special.” Chhetri Chinese Food Center has a momo steamer on its plain plywood counter. There’s even a small shop named “North Eastern Grocery”, just another manifestation of the cosmopolitan character of the village, in which Bengali and Nepali are easily heard, along with Hindi, and where in fact almost every third shop offers “money order service to Nepal.”The well’s other notable neighbours include a spindly neem, with a bench under it, and the so-called “teen tarike ka ped”, or the tree with three types—neem, bargad and peepal are growing out of the same trunk.The well itself is a kind of monument. A low circular wall is built around it on a raised platform, painted with a caution not to toss broken idols or flowers inside. The most eye-popping decor consists of a large pickle jar, used as a flower pot. The place is silent this evening, except for the barking of a suspicious dog from an adjacent house. On peering through the metal netting, it is possible for the gaze to travel down the seemingly bottomless tunnel. Whether it ends with water or continues into infinite darkness is impossible to determine. Meanwhile, the sky itself starts getting dark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-beyond-the-baoli-a-simple-well-101611269730345.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Govt will lean on its socio-economic survey to find people with comorbidities||Findings of Delhi government’s socio-economic survey – which suggests that 2.60% of the population of the Capital have chronic illnesses – is being considered for ascertaining the number of people with comorbidities, who will be in line for getting the Covid-19 vaccination in the third phase along with people aged over 50 years.The survey took place between took place between November 2018 and November 2019.The first phase of the vaccination drive – meant for health workers—is currently underway in the city. Delhi has around 300,000 health care workers of whom 240,000 have registered for the vaccine shots. The overall actual turnout so far since January 16 (the first day of the vaccination drive) has remained around 54.5%, because of what experts attribute as vaccine hesitance. (updated)The second group set to be inoculated are front line workers – which includes the police, sanitation workers, fire officials, teachers, and staff in departments which were engaged in Covid-19 management. Their number is estimated at 600,000 and the registration process for this category is currently underway.The third phase is supposed to cover people aged over 50 years and people with comorbidities, irrespective of their age. While the government estimates the number of people aged over 50 years to be around 4.2 million through electoral rolls, they are yet to ascertain the number of people with comorbidities. Registration for this category (which includes both people aged over 50 years and people with comorbidities) is yet to begin.“For people with comorbidities, so far, the government was relying on hospital data, records obtained from departments such as health and social welfare, and findings of door-to-door health surveys which were launched across all 11 revenue districts during the Covid-19 pandemic. The findings of the socio-economic survey will now help in ascertaining the numbers under this category,” said a senior government official.According to the survey – which covered a sample size of around 10.2 million people, roughly half of Delhi’s population – around 2.60% of Delhi suffers from chronic illnesses that qualify as comorbid conditions. Of those who have comorbid conditions, 36.33% have diabetes, 21.75% have diseases that concern cardiac issues, hypertension and blood circulation, 9.17% have respiratory diseases, 2.33% have thalassemia, 2.02% have tuberculosis, 1.40% have leprosy, 1.33% have some form of cancer, 1.12% have haemophilia, 0.26% have HIV and the remaining 24.29% have been clubbed under “other diseases’’.The report on the survey, which HT has seen, further said, “The highest proportion of diabetes patients in Delhi has been reported as 43.34% from (the) central district and the highest proportion of cardiac patients is 26.20% in north-west district. Further, the highest proportion of patients with respiratory disease is 11.56% in (the) north district.”The findings of the survey have been uploaded on Delhi government’s website. While the Delhi government publishes an economic survey every year, this is the first such socio-economic survey with a much larger ambit beyond economic and welfare indicators, which includes schooling, nutrition, access to resources ranging from drinking water to mobile phones and television, transportation, housing and health indicators, among several others.Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said, “The findings of the survey have the potential to contribute in several fronts of governance. Assessment of the report is underway. We are examining all aspects of it.”The survey was ordered by Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in 2018 after three girls – aged between two and eight years – of a family were found to have died of severe malnutrition in east Delhi’s Mandawli. The project, however, faced delays because of the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 and Delhi Assembly polls in February 2020, said the senior government official.Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department at Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet commission for Covid-19 India vaccination task force, said: “The findings of the government report will be very useful in ascertaining an estimated number of people in the category for people with comorbidities. So far, to identify people in this category, governments across states are digging into hospital records and departmental records. The government is also planning to take data from the Aarogya Setu application in this regard.”To ensure that no person aged over 50 years or those with comorbidities gets excluded from the vaccination drive, the government will also be opening up windows for people to get registered on their own – both online and offline. “But that window will open up after vaccines are administered to front line workers across the country. The approval will be given by the Central government. Provisions, such as giving the general public limited access to the Co-Win system through applications and setting up help desks in government offices, have been discussed in several review meetings,” said a senior official in the Delhi government’s health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-will-lean-on-its-socio-economic-survey-to-find-people-with-comorbidities-101611260836299.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 24 adverse reactions reported on Day 4, two require hospitalisation||On the fourth day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, 24 people — or 0.40% of the total number of people receiving the jabs —showed adverse events.On Thursday, Delhi had witnessed its highest number of vaccinations ever since the drive started on January 16 with 73.36% or 5,942 health care workers getting inoculated.At least 22 of the 24 adverse reactions reported were minor, whereas two people needed hospitalisation. Both the people to be hospitalised had received Covaxin shots, as per data seen by HT.However, senior district officials claimed that both the hospitalisations had happened on Wednesday – when Delhi did not have an immunisation drive – following vaccinations that were done on Tuesday.“There were two people who were admitted for observation on Wednesday and were discharged soon after. Both the people had minor symptoms, such as fever for which they had been admitted. No serious adverse event has been reported in the district,” said a senior official from south-west district that showed the two hospitalisations.So far, there has been only one severe adverse event following vaccination using Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. A 22-year-old security guard at the All India Institute of Medial Sciences had developed serious allergic reaction and had to be admitted after getting the shot on January 16.There have been cases of abnormal heart rate, severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis, and faintings reported after Serum Institute of India’s Covishield being administered as well. The vaccine is received by people at 75 centres across the city in comparison to six centre that give Covaxin, under the trial mode.Sixteen cases of AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) were recorded on Tuesday, 26 on Monday and 52 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-24-adverse-reactions-reported-on-day-4-two-require-hospitalisation-101611260493365.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Coronavirus vaccination turnout in Delhi leaps to 73%||The city recorded its highest turnout for the Covid-19 vaccination drive so far, with 5,942 health care workers out of the targeted 8,100 receiving the shot on Thursday.Officials said the 73.36% turnout, a nearly 25 percentage point increase from Wednesday was due largely to the government’s Co-WIN platform being tweaked to allow out-of-turn jabs for registered beneficiaries.With 100 vaccinations on Thursday, the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital became the first major government facility to record a 100% turnout. The highest-ever turnout at a public hospital so far was 95 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Saturday, when the vaccination drive was rolled out nationally.To be sure, private hospitals such as Max-Saket and Sir Ganga Ram hospital have seen 100% turnouts before.“We were able to vaccinate 100% people on Thursday. Of course, the ‘add beneficiary’ function, which allows registered health care workers to get the shot even if their name is not slotted for the day, has helped. Along with that, we are also working on motivating our staff members and we are addressing all their concerns. Those who have already received the vaccines are also motivating others,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital.The hospital had administered doses of the coronavirus vaccine to 31 people on Saturday, a number that dropped to 12 on the second day of the drive, and later increased to 35 persons on the third day.Although the turnout at Lady Hardinge Medical College was slightly lower on Thursday, the ‘walk-in’ option has helped it drive up numbers. At the hospital, 69 people were given jabs on Thursday, in comparison to 76 on Tuesday. The hospital, along with Ram Manohar Lohia, was one of the first to allow these out-of-turn shots.“Earlier we had to turn away people who were not on the list of beneficiaries for the day. Now the portal allows us to add beneficiaries as they come to the centre. Now the portal also allows us to register people from our hospital on the spot and administer the shot. There were some contractual employees whose registrations were not completed earlier,” said Dr NN Mathur, director, Lady Hardinge Medical College.Of Delhi’s 11 districts, the highest turnout on Thursday (91.5%) was in north-east Delhi, where 183 out of 200 targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated, followed by south-east (90.88%), where 727 of 800 were given jabs.The Shahdara district vaccinated 264 (44%) out of a targeted 600 persons — the lowest among the 11 districts, showed government data.The low turnout for the first three days was attributed to hesitance among beneficiaries and several instances of technical glitches which, officials said, were largely fixed by Thursday.So far, 18,795 healthcare workers in Delhi have taken the shots out of a targeted 34,497, reflecting an average turnout of 54.48%, government records showed. While the turnout was 53.3% on the first day of vaccination, it dropped down to 44.2% on Monday.However, with continuing reports of vaccine hesitancy among employees, hospitals have asked senior doctors to take the shot and motivate those working under them to get the jab.“The government is focusing on information campaign to combat the vaccine hesitancy in a big way; the situation should improve within the week. We are asking all the senior doctors to talk to those working under them to address any concern they might have. We will also put up banners with what beneficiaries who have already received the vaccine are saying,” said Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of Ram Manohar Lohia hospital.The hospital, which is one of the six centres administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, has been seen instances of vaccine hesitancy, especially among the resident doctor who wrote to the medical superintendent asking that they be given Covishield.On Thursday, the turnout at centres giving Covaxin shots was 45.67%, compared to 75.57% at centres giving Covishield shots, government record showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/coronavirus-vaccination-turnout-in-delhi-leaps-to-73-101611259833647.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhosari land deal: No coercive action against NCP leader Eknath Khadse till Monday, says ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday assured the Bombay high court (HC) that it would not take any coercive action against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse till January 25.The assurance came in response to an application filed by Khadse to quash the enforcement case information report (ECIR) registered by ED against him in connection with the Bhosari (Pune) land deal case. The controversy pertains to the purchase of a plot in Bhosari, near Pune, by Khadse’s kin for ₹3.75 crore, against the prevalent market rate of ₹30 crore. The plot’s ownership was contentious as the industries department acquired it in 1971, but the final award of the plot was not granted and the owner had not been compensated for it.HC has now posted Khadse’s application for further hearing on January 25.The court had sought to know why ED could not desist from taking action against Khadse for a few days as he had already appeared before ED concerning the case.During the hearing, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale was informed by senior counsel Aabad Ponda that Khadse had been attending the ED office and cooperating in the investigation as and when he was called for interrogation. He further said that in light of that, there was no need for Khadse’s arrest as ED had also not raised any grievance. Apart from quashing the ECIR, Khadse has also sought that his interrogation is recorded and filmed, and a lawyer is present at a visible distance during his questioning.After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know from ED as to why no interim protection should be granted to Khadse when the central agency opposed the prayer. “Why interim protection cannot be given if he has appeared and attended? What heavens are going to fall if he is given protection for a few days?” the court said.The bench then observed that the judiciary, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and agencies like ED and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are independent and should act independently and impartially. “There is a threat to democracy if these agencies don’t act independently,” observed justice Shinde.Thereafter, ED, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh, informed the court on instructions that no coercive action would be taken against Khadse till the next hearing, which the court accepted, and posted the plea for further hearing on January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhosari-land-deal-no-coercive-action-against-ncp-leader-eknath-khadse-till-monday-says-ed-101611260316231.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Would like to be Maharashtra CM someday: State NCP chief and minister Jayant Patil||State Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and water resources minister Jayant Patil said that he has the aspiration to become the chief minister (CM) of Maharashtra. He said anyone who has been in politics for a long period would desire to become the CM but his party does not have numbers. He also said that party supremo Sharad Pawar’s word would be the final one on the issue. Patil’s statement assumes significance as deputy CM and Pawar’s nephew Ajit Pawar is believed to be holding the second position in NCP after party chief. The rise of Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule in the party in the past few years is also being seen as an indication that Pawar senior has been grooming his daughter for bigger responsibilities. Sule is also part of the top brass and has a say in major decisions. Both Ajit Pawar and Sule are considered top CM candidates in NCP. “It is obvious. Everyone in politics would like to become the CM one day, but the decision of Pawar saheb is final for us. We have only 54 MLAs and going by the situation, I don’t believe it is possible to get the CM’s position. We need to improve the number of MLAs, and expand the party,” Patil said in response to a question in an interview at Sangli.Later, he clarified that a section of the media has distorted his statement. “I clearly said anyone who has been working for so long in politics would like to become CM but we don’t have the numbers and the final decision has to be taken by Pawar saheb,” he told reporters in Mumbai. When asked who would he support between Ajit Pawar and Sule for the top post, he said, “I don’t think there’ll come a time when I will have to choose between them. They are from one family and considering them as different entities is a mistake.” Meanwhile, when Ajit Pawar was asked for his response, he said, “I support whatever desire [to become CM] he [Patil] has expressed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/would-like-to-be-maharashtra-cm-someday-state-ncp-chief-and-minister-jayant-patil-101611260076135.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Go beyond party lines, meet PM on Maratha quota, Belgaum issue and GST dues: Maharashtra CM to state MPs||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has asked state’s Members of Parliament (MPs) to go beyond their respective party lines and take up the issues of the state in the upcoming parliamentary session. Thackeray has asked MPs to meet Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over the Maratha quota issue and the Maharashtra-Karnataka border row over Belgaum. The CM meets MPs of both the Houses of the Parliament before the parliamentary sessions to take up issues of the state. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Thackeray said that the MPs gave him their suggestions, while he apprised them with the expectations the state has from them and the issues they are expected to raise in Delhi.“I have requested them to forget party lines and come together to work for Maharashtra. The issue of Maratha reservation is important and all MPs should together meet the PM. The role of the Centre is crucial in the court. Similarly, on the issue of the Karnataka-occupied Maharashtra, the MPs should come together to meet PM to integrate [Marathi-speaking areas] into Maharashtra,” the CM said, adding that he has asked the MPs to follow up on the pending GST dues of Maharashtra. Thackeray said that he has plans to form committees of MPs for better coordination between the state and the Centre. “I have a concept to make committees of the MPs, based on divisions and departments. These committees will coordinate with the state on projects and issues, and will also follow up with the Centre for the state-related projects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/go-beyond-party-lines-meet-pm-on-maratha-quota-belgaum-issue-and-gst-dues-maharashtra-cm-to-state-mps-101611259835956.html
22-01-2021||Other||Bird flu confirmed in 5 more districts of Maharashtra||Bird flu has spread to five more districts – Thane, Yavatmal, Gondia, Ahmednagar and Hingoli – taking the total number of districts in the state with confirmed cases of the Avian influenza in poultry birds to 11. Within these 11 districts, there are 30 places with confirmed cases of Avian influenza.On Thursday, Bhopal’s ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (ICAR-NIHSAD), which is the nodal body for testing bird flu cases, confirmed the flu as the cause behind the poultry bird deaths in the five districts.The central laboratory has also confirmed the H5N8 strain of Avian influenza as a cause behind the death of a duck at Wardha district, state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh said.The number of bird flu deaths is in the state is also rising. On Thursday, 932 bird deaths were reported owing to the flu in different districts, pushing the toll to 13,792 across Maharashtra.The state has so far culled 38,658 poultry birds, 35146 eggs and 52,684kg of feed to contain the spread of avian influenza, a press release by the animal husbandry department stated.“The district administrations will start culling poultry birds within the one-km vicinity of the infected areas from tomorrow, following guidelines issued by the Centre,” Singh said.The central government has also informed the state government that avian influenza virus cannot survive if food is cooked or boiled at a temperature of 70 degrees Celsius in three seconds. The press release further stated that well-cooked meat and boiled eggs are safe for human consumption. The government has appealed to citizens against consuming raw or half-cooked poultry meat or eggs. Officials have also directed chicken shop owners to strictly wear gloves and masks, follow stringent hygiene practices and maintain social physical distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-confirmed-in-5-more-districts-of-maharashtra-101611259596186.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||All polluting industries in Delhi will likely switch to PNG by month-end: Report||All industries in the Capital will likely switch to petroleum natural gas (PNG), a cleaner alternative to polluting fuels, by January 31, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said on Thursday.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and Adjoining Areas had in December last year directed all industrial units in Delhi to switch to PNG by January 31, and had directed the DPCC to inspect and identify industries using polluting fuels and act against those found violating the directive.In the latest report, the DPCC said out of the total 1,644 polluting industries identified in the national capital, 1,624 have converted to PNG, as on Thursday. Officials said the remaining units will be inspected in the coming weeks and a status report will be filed before the CAQM on January 31.“At least 1,624 industrial units in Delhi have converted to PNG, a safer and non-polluting fuel out of 1644 units using polluting fuels. This is a major step in controlling the city’s industrial emissions. We are hoping that by January 31, when the deadline set by the CAQM will be completed, we can make a complete switch to clean fuel,” a DPCC official said.The official said a status report has also been submitted to the CAQM and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).In an air review meeting conducted on December 22, the commission reviewed the progress of switching over of industries operating in Delhi to PNG.Representatives of the Delhi government, DPCC, Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), and Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) had attended the meeting to chalk out a plan to switch these industrial units to cleaner fuels as a long term initiative to reduce the pollution levels in Delhi.“About 1,644 of the industrial units spread across 50 industrial areas in Delhi had been identified for the switch over to PNG. The Commission stressed the need to switch over by all identified industries in Delhi considering the sector is one of the major contributors to air pollution in Delhi and the NCR or the National Capital Region,” the minutes of the meeting read.IGL and GAIL have also been directed to complete the pipeline network, metering, and associated infrastructure by January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-polluting-industries-in-delhi-will-likely-switch-to-png-by-month-end-report-101611259028935.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Wednesday’s active Covid-19 case count was Mumbai’s lowest in 7 months||The city’s active case count on Wednesday touched 6,654, the lowest recorded in the past seven months, since the Maharashtra government started to publish active case figures. Mumbai now has a recovery rate of 93%. Moreover, as per data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), none of the 24 administrative wards in the city has over 500 active cases. On Thursday, the city reported 527 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths, taking the tally to 304,653, and toll to 11,278. The active cases in the city were 6,669 on Thursday. Since January 16, Mumbai has consistently reported less than 7,000 active Covid-19 cases, and between January 2 and January 15, Mumbai has recorded less than 8,000 active Covid-19 cases. Active cases dropped to below 10,000 on December 15 last year. Among the 24 wards, R-Central ward of Borivli West has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases at 486, followed by K-West ward (Andheri West) at 446, R-South ward at Kandivli at 412 and P-North ward (Malad) at 400. B ward in south Mumbai has the lowest – 49 – active cases, and C ward has 89 active Covid-19 cases. G-North (Dadar) ward on Thursday recorded no new case, for the first time in January, after December 26. According to the BMC, Dadar has 86 active cases, and a total of 4,898 cases so far. Dharavi, also in G-North ward, recorded four new cases on Wednesday. It now has 14 active cases, and 3,904 total cases. A senior civic officer said, “For the entire month of January, Mumbai has recorded around 500-600 new cases a day. On some days in January, the city has also seen around 350 cases a day. As our recovery rate is steady, active cases are bound to go down. However, the BMC is still on alert. The situation has improved because of the measures the civic body is taking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wednesdays-active-covid-19-case-count-was-mumbai-s-lowest-in-7-months-101611259236061.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC broadside on politics in hearing on civic body funds||NeIt was supposed to be a hearing on non-payment of salaries of workers of Delhi’s municipal corporations. Instead, the interplay between the Centre (the BJP-led NDA government), the state ( the Aam Aadmi Party government), and the MCDs (controlled by the BJP), that is at the root of the crisis, provoked the court to launch a broadside against politicians in general, and warning the latter that they could be “lynched by the public” if they do not rise above politics.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli lamented the spate of “irresponsible statements” made by politicians.“People are making all kinds of irresponsible statements just to further their political agenda, unmindful of what harm they are causing to the society and people,” justice Sanghi remarked.Making generic comments about the state of polity in the country, the bench warned that something really bad could be in store for the politicians.“You have to mature and rise above all this. If this is the way things go on, I won’t be surprised if the politicians and people who indulge in this are lynched by public,” said justice Sanghi.The Delhi government did not comment on the court’s outburst, which came through during a hearing on non-payment of salaries and pensions of serving and retired employees, including teachers, doctors and sanitation workers, of the three MCDs.While directing the Delhi government to disburse to MCDs the money which was deducted against recovery of previous loans by the government to the civic bodies, the court said that the non-payment of salaries is a result of a “political slugfest.”The bench said it is “disgusted” that nobody seems to be bothered about the people who are cleaning their houses, as it shot down the Delhi government’s submissions on paucity of funds to pay for the salaries of the civic body’s employees.“You (Delhi government) are not doing any charity. It is more to do with politics rather than something else,” the bench told city government’s additional standing counsel Satyakam.But the Centre, too, came in for criticism.“The problem has also arisen because the Delhi government is sandwiched between the Centre and the MCD. All of you are behaving irresponsibly towards the employees and pensioners of the civic bodies. They have been completely ignored,” observed the court.It said that the deduction of loan payments should not have been done during the pandemic.When Satyakam told the court that the state’s revenue had fallen during the pandemic, the bench questioned the expenditure on advertisements and asked if an inquiry by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) should be ordered into the government’s expenses.“How much money you have spent on advertisements? We will order a CAG enquiry. Where did you get money from? Should we do that?”At this, Satyakam submitted that a sanction order was passed to release ₹337 crore to five local bodies including three MCDs for January to March , without making any deduction towards loan.The court, while rejecting the plea of the counsel , asked the Delhi government to file an affidavit on the amount, which according to it is liable to be paid to the MCDs as far as budget and revised estimate is concerned.It also directed the corporations to file respective affidavits disclosing their expenditures since April 2020 and made it clear that if they fail to do so, their chairpersons will have to be present in the court on February 22, the next date of hearing.“We further direct that the amounts which the MCDs and local bodies have received or will receive shall not be disbursed for any other purpose except releasing salaries and pensions and they have to first clear the arrears,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-broadside-on-politics-in-hearing-on-civic-body-funds-101611258664505.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Tribal tehsil has higher Covid-19 positivity rate than Maharashtra||Amid the dip in Covid cases across the state and country, there is one region – Shahada tehsil of tribal Nandurbar district in north Maharashtra – where the weekly positivity rate is 25%, the highest in the state and even more than the state’s weekly positivity rate of 5.5%. Reason? The recent return of a considerable number of citizens from foreign countries such as the United States and Canada. The failure of the administration to monitor and trace the contacts is to blame for the spread of the virus in around 13-14 villages in the district, according to health department officials. Shahada has a population of 61,376, according to the 2011 Census. Although the exact number of citizens who are abroad for jobs or education from here is not known, activists say it is a common trend in the region.The positivity rate is the percentage of positive cases against the total tests performed. The positivity rate between January 1 and 20 in Shahada stood at 27.21%, as 415 cases were reported from the 1,525 tests conducted. During the period, the state reported a positivity rate of 5.45%. Shahada has reported 3,415 of the 8,536 cases in Nandurbar since the Covid-19 outbreak. Of the 189 deaths in Nandurbar as of January 20, 68 were from Shahada. “The tehsil located on Tapi-Narmada basin is known for its prosperity because of the fertile irrigated land. The Gurjar-Patil community holds acres of lands and is prosperous. Many villagers are settled in other countries and keep visiting their native places regularly. After the second wave in many developed countries, the inflow went up rapidly, leading to the spread,” said an official from the health department. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the district administration has been asked to trace the contacts of the foreign returnees. District collector Rajendra Bharud said, “We have sent the samples for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology in Pune to check if there is any variant strain among those infected. We have increased testing and are tracing high- and low-risk contacts. Some villages in Shahada have a high number of residents travelling to countries like the US, UK, Canada for jobs and education. We have made institutional quarantine mandatory in the districts and started testing villagers by sending on-the-wheel labs.” Jitendra Patil of Unity Foundation, which works with sickle cell patients in tribal communities, said, “Shahada is the only tehsil to have an engineering college, a sugar factory and a textile mill in the district. Most of the farmers here hold acres of land purchased from tribals and grow cash crops like sugarcane and cotton. Many students of engineering college, which is decades old, are settled in foreign countries.” The district administration has now reopened Covid Care Centres in Shahada and Nandurbar and allowed admissions to government, private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tribal-tehsil-has-higher-covid-19-positivity-rate-than-maharashtra-101611258936258.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra goes past 2 million Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Thursday crossed the 2 million mark for Covid-19 cases 319 days since the first infection on March 9, 2020. The state recorded 2,886 fresh cases, pushing the count to 2,000,878, as it took 132 days to go from 1 million to 2 million infections, quicker than the 187 days for the first million, breached on September 11. Although fresh infections in the state have hit a plateau in the past few months, there are still 45,622 active cases, leading experts to say the state still has a long way towards attaining safety. Experts said they were worried over citizens not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as the impact of vaccination, which started on Saturday, will start showing only after months. Meanwhile, a comparative analysis of figures also showed a decline in average number of daily cases in Maharashtra. In November, the average was 4,775, which fell to 3,892 in December and in January, as of Thursday, it further dropped to 3,174. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Maharashtra communicable diseases prevention and control technical committee, said, “Although we are getting fewer daily cases, the number of active infections is still quite high. It simply means we need to be more careful because the situation is not what we anticipate,” he said. “Starting a vaccination drive does not mean that cases will start going down. It will happen only when common people start getting immunised, which is still far away. The next few months, healthcare providers and frontline workers are going to be vaccinated,” he added. Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of critical patients, said, “I agree the situation [Covid-19 cases] is not improving, but the position we are in is better than before. It is going to take some more time before we have full control of the situation. The vaccination drive, as it reaches the common people, will start showing positive effects,” he added. There was no drive on Thursday as planned by the state. It has decided to conduct vaccination sessions only four day a week — Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday. Meanwhile, healthcare providers are hesitant over inoculation, concerned about the vaccine’s safety. Many doctors, who have signed up for the shots have refused to turn up at vaccination centres, officials said. The issue was discussed in the cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. “We were informed that doctors are refusing to get vaccinated owing to safety concerns. The problem is if doctors are not ready to take vaccines then how will we convince other health workers and the general public to take shots,” said a senior minister. Following this, state health minister Rajesh Tope declared to launch an information, education and communication (IEC) drive to counsel health workers to improve the turnout. Dr Salunkhe believes the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) is responsible for this situation as they should have strategised the drive in such a way that all the concerns would have been resolved before its commencement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-goes-past-2-million-covid-19-cases-101611258576788.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Chill to replace warm, windy days in Delhi from Sunday, air remains ‘poor’||After experiencing warm but windy days, Delhi’s temperature is expected to plummet again from January 24, a day after a fresh western disturbance passes over the western Himalayas, India Meteorological Department said.On Thursday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 7.4 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 22.8 degrees Celsius, which was a notch above what is considered to be the season’s normal.At the Palam weather station, the minimum temperature was 7.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 20.2 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that till Saturday, the minimum temperature is likely to hover around 6-7 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperatures will be around 20 degrees Celsius.“From January 24 (Sunday), the minimum temperature will start falling and from January 25, the maximum temperature will also see a fall. This will primarily be because of the cold winds blowing from Jammu Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh after spells of rain and snow on January 23,” said Srivastava.Meanwhile, the air quality in Delhi is likely to deteriorate briefly on January 23, but winds are expected to pick up again and improve the air from January 24.On Thursday, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 296, in the ‘poor’ zone. On Wednesday, the average AQI was 283, also in the ‘poor’ category. According to IMD scientists, this improvement has been because of strong winds blowing over the national capital. The wind speeds have been high on Wednesday and Thursday primarily because of a difference in the maximum and minimum temperatures, scientists explained.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that the surface winds on Thursday were south-westerly and moderate, but will slow down on Friday leading to deterioration in pollution levels.“The AQI is forecasted to be in the ‘poor’ category on January 22. Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, winds are forecasted to increase on January 23 and marginal improvement in AQI is forecasted for January 23 and January 24. However, despite the improvement, the AQI will remain within the ‘very poor’ category,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chill-to-replace-warm-windy-days-in-delhi-from-sunday-air-remains-poor-101611257513893.html
22-01-2021||Other||Shut schools and online classes turn parents into ‘screen guard’||Merely three months into the lockdown, Praket Patil’s (name changed) parents were already anxious about what was to follow. A Class 5 student of a reputed school in Mumbai’s western suburbs, Praket’s screen addiction had increased massively, as he remained cooped inside his 1-BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) apartment with his parents owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. After the schools closed last March and children were confined to their homes, Praket’s screen addiction, which his parents had otherwise tried to put an end through other distractions, seemed to resurface. “He would be on the phone or on the computer the entire day. For several hours, he would play games or browse the Internet. If we tried to stop him, he would become aggressive. We had seen him being obsessed with devices, but sending him out to play or taking him out on a drive in the past would distract him. But with the lockdown in place, we had no such alternative,” said Praket’s mother Shamika, an IT (information technology) professional. With schools in the state remaining closed for offline classes for more than 10 months, parents are having a tough time limiting their children’s screen time. Just like schools, extracurricular activities and coaching have also moved online and many parents are struggling to come up with ways to reduce screen usage. According to a survey conducted by OLX in June 2020, the average screen time for kids between the age of 5 and 15 years had seen a 100% rise since the first phase of lockdown in March 2020. More than half the parents who responded in the nationwide survey said their children were spending nearly five hours more on screens post the lockdown. Dr Sagar Mundada, a Mumbai-based psychiatrist, said a large number of parents have been approaching him with screen-related concerns. “While the issue of screen addiction already existed before the Covid-19 outbreak, the lockdown seems to have aggravated the situation. Children are inside their homes and it is thus becoming very difficult for parents to wean them off their devices. In several cases, we have had to prescribe medicines to calm these children as they tend to get aggressive if the screen is taken away from them. A lot of counselling along with medical help has been giving results,” he added. Praket’s family had approached a nearby psychiatrist a few days after they noticed his symptoms. “He would attend school for two hours but spend the remaining 10 hours playing games. We tried everything – from positive reinforcements to punishments – but nothing worked. As both my husband and I were working from home, it was an added pressure on us. We then took him to a psychiatrist and he prescribed a few medicines along with some activities that we could do with him. It has been nearly four months now and we can finally see some improvement,” said Shamika. While the standard operating procedures issued by the Maharashtra government only allow upto three hours of online learning, parents said children are invariably online for one thing or the other. “The school lasts for two-three hours and then there are several assignments which have to be submitted online. Activities like sports and music have also moved online and in addition to all this, children want to use their screens during their breaks. That takes the screen time to three-eight hours a day easily,” said Anita Shetty, a Malad-based parent. So far, there is no golden number suggesting the optimum number of hours to be spent on the screen. The American Academy of Paediatrics recommends less than one hour per day of screen time for children between the ages of two and five years, and limited screen time for children above the age of five years. The World Health Organization, in its guidelines issued in April 2019, had suggested that children between the ages of two and four should have no more than one hour of screen time per day. Dr Prachi Agashe, paediatric ophthalmologist and squint specialist from Agashe Hospital in Kurla, said the size of the screen, the type of device used, the brightness and the distance of viewing are significant factors that parents need to keep in mind when children use screens, to avoid the associated risks like myopia and digital eye strain. “They should also ensure that when there is a break during the online learning session, the child should essentially relax and if needed, do an activity that does not involve migrating to another screen. The time spent on the screen apart from the necessary school hours should be reduced as far as possible,” she added. Counsellors said they have been encouraging parents to take up online and offline activities with their children to ensure a healthy mix of both. “For instance, if they watch a small recipe video and then spend some time in actually making that recipe, it is an engaging activity and this is a constructive use of the screen time,” added Raheen Jummani, a Mumbai-based psychologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shut-schools-and-online-classes-turn-parents-into-screen-guard-101611257672942.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Sisodia requests Union education minister to extend contracts of SSA teachers||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, requesting him to extend the contracts of 2,766 teachers working in the national capital under the Centre’s Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) till March 31, 2021.The SSA is a flagship programme of the government of India to support states and Union territories in developing and strengthening formal primary and upper primary education.In his letter, Sisoida said, “I would like to draw your attention towards 2,766 teachers serving as contractual teachers under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan in Delhi. Among them, 1,673 serve in schools run by the directorate of education, and 1,093 serve in schools run by east and south Delhi municipal corporations. Against the annual work plan and budget for the year 2020-21, proposed by the Delhi government in its meeting with the officials of the ministry of education, government of India, on May 27, 2020, the salary of contract teachers was approved only for six months and was conveyed to us on August 20, 2020, by the ministry.”“All of these contractual teachers are central teachers eligibility test (CTET) qualified and till now, they are actively engaged in supporting the semi-online teaching-learning of students in their respective schools. Their six months’ service period was completed on January 19, 2021,” he said.Sisodia, who is also the deputy chief minister of Delhi, said front-line workers, including teachers, have played a major role in the past year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He said it will be unfair if any of them would be asked to leave their services at this point in time. “I urge you to kindly extend the financial support to these teachers till at least March 31, 2021, on the existing cost-sharing basis between the Union and the Delhi government,” Sisodia wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-requests-union-education-minister-to-extend-contracts-of-ssa-teachers-101611256948573.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man duped of ₹10 lakh by a social media friend||Cuffe Parade police have booked an unknown person for duping a 60-year-old man of ₹10.50 lakh.According to police, the complainant, a Nariman Point resident, received a message on WhatsApp from an unknown international number. The person identified himself as one D Newton from Los Angeles, United States. However, the complainant responded to the messages and later the two become friends. Newton informed the complainant that his mother resides in Pune and soon he would be coming to see her as she is hospitalised. Newton also sent photos of his air ticket to the complainant, the police said.“On January 4, Newton sent his photo from Delhi International Airport to the complainant informing him about his arrival. However, minutes later the complainant received a call from a person identifying herself as one customs officer Mariyam Gupta. Gupta informed the complainant that Newton has been detained at the airport as he was carrying $3,65,000 (equivalent to ₹2.66 crore) and carrying a huge amount of foreign currency was illegal,” stated the complaint.The complainant was informed by the customs officer that to get Newton released, he would have to pay some penalties to the authorities in Indian currency. The complainant agreed. Later he was made to pay different penalties, taxes, security charges, etc. totalling to ₹10.50 lakh. “When the customs officer demanded more money in the name of some new fines, the complainant realised that something was amiss. Later Newton and the said customs officer cut off all their communications, making the complainant realise that he was cheated,” said a police officer.The complainant approached Cuffe Parade police and lodged a complaint. “Prima facie it seems to be the handiwork of a Nigerian racket which generally cheats people using such modus -claiming that they have sent some valuables, gifts which then get caught by the customs officials at the airport and to clear the gifts, they demand money posing as custom officials under the pretext of penalties, taxes, etc.,” another officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-duped-of-10-lakh-by-a-social-media-friend-101611257253663.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces HSC, SSC examination dates||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will conduct the HSC (Class 12) examinations between April 23 and May 29, and the SSC (Class 10) examinations will be between April 29 and May 31. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced the dates on Thursday. “While the board will try to declare the results of HSC exams by the end of July, results for the SSC exams will be declared by the end of August. Exams will be conducted in accordance with the Covid-19 guidelines as prescribed by the Central and the state government from time to time,” the minister added. A detailed time table for the exams will be declared soon.Every year, nearly 1.5 million students appear for the HSC exam, while more than 1.7 million students write their SSC exams in Maharashtra. The board traditionally conducts these exams in February and March every year. This year, they have been pushed further due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown. Gaikwad said as on January 18, more than 38% students were physically attending school every day. “Since standard operating procedures mandate students to attend every alternate day, the total attendance is nearly 76%,” she added. In all, nearly 96% schools in the state have reopened for Classes 9 to 12. The education department has also granted permission for the reopening of schools for Classes 5 to 8 from January 27. The state education department has also undertaken a drive to identify out-of-school students and bring them back to schools as several students remain away from education due to the pandemic. The government has also asked parents to reach out to education officials and nodal officers in case there are complaints with respect to fees and other issues with regard to schools. Practical and oral assessments will be held between April 1 and April 22 and April 9 and April 28 for HSC and SSC respectively.If students miss out on the exams due to any reason, they can appear during the re-exams, which the board conducts every year after the regular exams. Examinations for Information and Communication Technology will be conducted online. NIOS parents move NHRC Parents of students studying in the National Institute of Open Schooling have appealed to the National Human Rights Commission, demanding the cancellation of Class 10 and 12 exams under the board scheduled to be held next month. Parents said that several students were deciding not to appear for the exam this year as they were worried about the risks involved and also about travelling in the current situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-hsc-ssc-examination-dates-101611257252256.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra farmers to march to Raj Bhavan on Monday, will be joined by Sharad Pawar, Aaditya Thackeray, Balasaheb Thorat||Farmers’ outfits in the state will stage protests in Mumbai with a march to Raj Bhavan on Monday, to protest against the farm laws. The farmers will be joined by top leaders like Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Shiv Sena leader and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat. The organisers claimed that around 50,000 farmers will participate in the protests. The march is part of the agitation being undertaken under the banner of Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM) and aims to intensify the farmers’ struggle in the main capital cities across all states.“Since the Governor is the representative of the Narendra Modi government in Maharashtra, we will march to Raj Bhavan and hand him the petition against the farm laws,” said Ashok Dhawale, convenor, SSKM. “We met Sharad Pawar, Aaditya Thackeray and Balasaheb Thorat, and all have agreed to participate in the Monday Morcha,” he added.The farmers will gather in Mumbai on January 24, and a massive dharna will be organised at Azad Maidan. On January 25, the morcha to Raj Bhavan will be held, and it will culminate with a flag hoisting on January 26, Republic Day.“We will come on street on behalf of the farmers and take part in the morcha,” said Congress leader Naseem Khan. He said that the Congress will take part in every agitation till these farm laws are withdrawn. The farmers will be joined by activists of some 100 different outfits.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national Capital since November 26 last year, against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Social activist Feroze Mithiborwala, who is another organiser, said it was an attempt to sensitise the urban population of these regressive bills. “The whole aim of these farm bills is to favour the multinational corporations at the cost of farmers. The urban people are being made aware of how it will play havoc with the entire rural economy, and even they will bear the brunt as they will be saddled with huge food bills,” said Mithiborwala.Last week, many labour unions marched in south Mumbai and held a rally at Azad Maidan in favour of the farmers. Prominent farmer leader Raju Shetti and social activist Medha Patkar addressed the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-farmers-to-march-to-raj-bhavan-on-monday-will-be-joined-by-sharad-pawar-aaditya-thackeray-balasaheb-thorat-101611257072339.html
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||That stinking feeling: Chandigarh residents suffer as waste piles up again||Residents are once again at the receiving end of the tussle between the informal door-to-door garbage collectors and the municipal corporation. Miffed over MC taking over garbage collection in Sectors 1 to 30, informal cart-based collectors have stopped picking up garbage from houses in other sectors, causing waste to pile up in homes and on roads. This, despite Citizen Feedback component of the Swachh Survekshan 2021 under way from January 1 to March 31 – a crucial factor in deciding the city’s ranking in the survey.Chandigarh’s urban and rural areas generate about 450 million tonnes of municipal solid waste (MSW) per day. Residents of several southern sectors report that garbage hasn’t been picked up for the past four days, while a section of the garbage collectors claims that they have been on strike since January 1. In Sector 45, residents were forced to pool in money to hire private trolleys to collect the waste, said RWA president Sanjeev Bansal.“Instead of meeting RWAs, MC needs to hold talks with the garbage collectors to resolve the impasse,” said convener of the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, Vinod Vashisht. To make matters worse, MC is planning to close down the Sehaj Safai Kendras, leaving residents worried over where to dump the waste if the collectors don’t return soon. “We have written a letter to the UT adviser raising our objection to MC’s move,” said Rajat Malhotra, general secretary of the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation.BONE OF CONTENTIONPressing into service more than 100 new garbage collection vehicles, MC took over door-to-door garbage collection in Sectors 1 to 30 on December 23 last year.Even though some garbage collectors joined MC’s initiative as helpers, others are up in arms against the takeover. “Most of the garbage collectors have been on strike since January 1. MC took over garbage collection without our consent, assaulting livelihood of the poor. Why should MC collect user charges when we have been collecting garbage for all these years? We appeal to residents to support our cause,” said Shamsher Lotiya, president of the local unit of the Akhil Bhartiya Mazdor Sangathan.DIVIDED HOUSEMeanwhile, another section of garbage collectors contends work should continue despite differences with MC. Om Prakash Saini, president of the Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said, “We are in favour of MC collecting garbage and giving us user charges collected through water bills. Most of the issues have been sorted out and the rest will be taken up in a meeting with MC officials on Friday.” Chandigarh mayor Ravikant Sharma said he was certain that the issued will be resolved in the meeting scheduled on Friday and the protest will be called off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/that-stinking-feeling-chandigarh-residents-suffer-as-waste-piles-up-again-101611256893157.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai businessman held in GST fraud worth ₹314 crore||The Central Goods and Services Tax (GST) department on Thursday arrested a businessman from Andheri in GST fraud to the tune of ₹314.25 crore. The accused illegally availed input tax credit (ITC) and also passed the same on to other offenders, causing revenue loss to the government.The accused, Daulat Samirmal Mehta, 64, is a director of Twinstar Industries Limited and other companies having their corporate office near Chakala, Andheri (West). Mehta is also the managing director of Originet Technologies Ltd and promoter of Boostmetric Solutions Ltd, Vintage Comtrade Pvt Ltd, Stuti Comtrade Limited and Kala Exports.According to sources in the GST department, Mehta operated all six firms from his office premises. He and his staff had access to all the records, as well as the user IDs and passwords of the GSTINs of all six firms. “The accused fraudulently availed and utilised ineligible input tax credit amounting to approximately ₹122.59 crore on the strength of bogus invoices, without actual receipt of goods or services,” said a GST official.The accused also fraudulently issued bogus invoices and passed on ITC to various companies, without actual supply of goods or services, thus causing wrongful passing on of ITC amounting to approximately ₹191.66 crore to the recipient companies, a source added.ITC is an option that allows taxpayers to claim credit for taxes paid on purchase. Issuance of an invoice or bill without supply of goods or services and wrongful utilisation of ITC on a bill/invoice, without any supply of goods or services is a cognisable and non-bailable offence.The investigators have also identified the mastermind (name withheld) of the syndicate and an investigation in respect to the role of other people in the crime has been initiated.GST officials said that the accused is not cooperating with the ongoing investigation, to avoid the GST liability. However, the lawyer for the accused, advocate Ravi Hirani, denied this and said, “My client has cooperated whenever he was called for investigations. He has nothing to do with alleged offences committed by other people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-businessman-held-in-gst-fraud-worth-314-crore-101611256651669.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal reviews progress of flat construction for slum dwellers||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday directed officials of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to expedite the process of construction and allocation of flats under the government’s “Jahaan Jhuggi Wahin Makaan” (in-situ slum rehabilitation) policy.The directions were issued by Kejriwal during a review meeting, which he had chaired. “The chief minister has instructed officials to expeditiously allot flats that have been constructed for the EWS (economically weaker sections) and slum dwellers. He said all obstacles in the allotment of land required for the construction of upcoming flats should be removed. A total of 9,315 houses are in a ready-to-move condition for 14 identified slum clusters,” the government said in a statement.Apart from these, a total of 28,910 flats are being constructed for 73 identified slum clusters, it said.“We have to ensure that the construction of EWS flats for the in-situ rehabilitation of people is completed within the stipulated timeline. This has to be ensured so that we can provide shelter for every poor person in Delhi,” Kejriwal said during the meeting.Officials of DUSIB said 9,315 houses are in a ready-to-move condition for 14 identified slum clusters. Of these, 9,315 houses, 7,400 are in Bhalswa Jahangirpuri area, where people from seven slum clusters will be relocated. Another 1,060 houses are in Sultanpuri area for four slum clusters, and 855 houses have been proposed in Bawana area for three slum clusters.In the previous meetings, it was decided that the construction project will be taken up in three phases, and the EWS flats will be constructed on the vacant land available with DUSIB.“The 89,400 houses will be constructed in three phases. In the first phase, 41,400 houses will be constructed by the year 2022. In the second phase, 18,000 houses will be constructed. In the third phase, 30,000 EWS houses will be constructed across Delhi,” the government said.The houses will be multi-storeyed, and five separate tenders will be floated in the first phase, each for a lot of 8,000 houses ( the remaining 1,400 flats are already completed). The time frame for the construction of houses in the first phase is 24 months, with a construction cost of ₹3,312 crore for 41,400 flats, which comes to ₹8 lakh per flat.The project is being executed under the Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-reviews-progress-of-flat-construction-for-slum-dwellers-101611255592185.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai auto driver sentenced to life for kidnapping, sexually assaulting 5-year-old girl||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court on Wednesday sentenced a 34-year-old autorickshaw driver to life imprisonment for abducting and sexually assaulting a five-year-old girl at Aarey Milk Colony in 2015.The minor had suffered around 27 injuries and had to undergo multiple surgeries.Special judge Bharti Kale convicted the driver, Shiv Kumar, alias Shiva Rana, under relevant provisions of the Pocso Act, and sentenced him to life imprisonment. The court also imposed a fine of ₹50,000, of which ₹40,000 is to be paid to the victim as compensation.According to the prosecution’s case, on March 1, 2015, the victim had gone to buy milk near her house, and while returning home, she met the accused.The girl in her testimony told the court that Rana approached her saying he was known to her father and would drop her home. The girl said the accused forced her to sit on his lap while he drove the three-wheeler.The minor soon realised that the accused was taking her to some unknown area, and she started crying and shouting. The accused slapped her and took her to a secluded spot in Aarey Colony, and sexually assaulted her in his auto. Kumar left the child bleeding with several injuries on her private parts.A biker spotted the girl and took her to the police station. Officers traced her parents, and they took her to a hospital.Public prosecutor Geeta Sharma pointed out that the medical report showed that the girl suffered around 27 injuries and was in the hospital for over three months. The prosecution examined 29 witnesses, including the victim’s parents and doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-auto-driver-sentenced-to-life-for-kidnapping-sexually-assaulting-5-year-old-girl-101611256541857.html
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s board of finance approves budget of ₹600 crore for 2021-22 financial year||Panjab University’s board of finance (BoF) on Thursday approved a revenue expenditure of ₹599.74 crore for the 2021-22 financial year. Also, the revised budget for 2020-21 was approved at ₹556.07 crore. The expenditure on salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff was pegged at ₹350.76 crore for 2020-21, and has been increased to ₹366.37 crore for the next financial year. For retirement benefits, it has been increased to ₹27.81 crore from ₹22.48 crore. The cost for conduct of examinations is estimated at ₹34.33 crore After the approval of the annual budget by the BoF, it is placed before varsity’s syndicate and senate, for final approval.Also, the total income of the university, including the annual maintenance grants and the supplementary grant under the post matric scholarship (PMS) scheme, has been estimated at ₹599.74 crores for 2021-22.Revenue estimatesDue to the pandemic, the varsity’s income from examination fees dipped to ₹135 crore in 2020-21, which was estimated at ₹157.5 crore. An income of ₹150.5 crore has been estimated for 2021-22.The total internal income of the varsity has been estimated at ₹291.97 crore in 2021-22, and ₹62 crore and ₹14.75 crore from partially self-financed departments and traditional teaching departments, respectively.Grant from UGC slated at ₹262 croreThe grants from the University Grants Commission (UGC) is slated at ₹262.34 crore and ₹34 crore from the Punjab government for 2021-22. The pending grant under the Post-Matric Scholarship (PMS) scheme was also discussed during the meeting. PU is yet to receive around ₹21 crore from the Punjab Government under PMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-s-board-of-finance-approves-budget-of-600-crore-for-2021-22-financial-year-101611256473107.html
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown: No rent for shopkeepers of ISBTs in Chandigarh||In a major relief to shopkeepers and licensees of the ISBTs in Sectors 17 and 43, and Punjab Civil Secretariat canteens, the UT administration has decided to waive off their monthly rental for the lockdown period. Confirming the development, Mandip Singh Brar, secretary, UT Transport, said, “The UT administrator has approved the relief for shopkeepers. The decision has been taken in the wake of the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic.” The monthly rent of all shops, parking sites of Chandigarh Transport Union (CTU) at the ISBTs and depots including shops 1 to 9 at Punjab civil secretariat, have been waived from March 22, 2020 to September 15, 2020. The monthly rent has been reduced to 35% during the period September 16, 2020 to December 31, 2020. The annual increase in the rent of all shops and premises has been reduced from 10% to 5% with effect from April 1, 2020. The entire rent will be applicable for the period January 1, 2021 to March 31, 2021. The penalty on delayed deposit of rent at the rate of 30% per month on outstanding amount has been cut to 2% per month. The cut has been done for the period, April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-no-rent-for-shopkeepers-of-isbts-inchandigarh-101611256470962.html
22-01-2021||Other||Culling of 53,000 birds at two poultry farms in Mohali’s Dera Bassi begins today||With the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, confirming avian influenza in samples of birds sent from two poultry farms in Mohali’s Dera Bassi sub-division, the district administration will begin culling of 53,000 birds there on Friday. “A total of 25 teams, comprising five members each, will carry out the culling operation at Alfa and Royal poultry farms in Dera Bassi. Requisite safety gear, including PPE kits and face shields, and JCB machines have been provided to the teams,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.“The 10km radius around the two epicentres has been announced as containment areas to keep a tab on poultry farming. Surveillance and sampling has been stepped up and two rapid response teams (RRTs) have been deployed to record any more bird deaths in the district,” he said.Besides, as the virus strain detected is zoonotic and can be transmitted from birds to humans, bird handlers at the affected poultry farms will be examined by doctors for any symptoms. The Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, had confirmed bird flu in the samples from the two farms on January 15, but the final report from Bhopal arrived only on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/culling-of-53-000-birds-at-two-poultry-farms-in-mohali-s-dera-bassi-begins-today-101611256418446.html
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||Friend murdered 19-year-old DU student in Ambala: Police||The 19-year-old Delhi University student shot dead in Ambala on Tuesday evening was murdered by his friend over his relationship with their mutual female friend, police said on Thursday.The accused, Kanwar Singh, 25, a resident of Mohra village and a student at SA Jain College, Ghel Road, Ambala, was arrested by the CIA-1 team on Thursday. Ayaan, a second-year student of bachelor of commerce at Delhi University’s Dyal Singh College, was shot twice near his house. “Kanwar used his father’s licensed pistol to kill Ayaan. They were friends and had a mutual female friend. Kanwar was vexed over Ayaan’s friendship with the girl and therefore, killed him out of rage,” said CIA-1 in-charge inspector Sandeep Kumar, who is leading the investigation. According to investigators, Kanwar called Ayaan over the phone to come out of his house and fired two shots at him at different deserted spots – one near a vacant plot and another near a house less than 500 metres from Ayaan’s house. “On checking Ayaan’s call details, Kanwar’s name surfaced, which helped crack the case,” DSP (Headquarters) Sultan Singh said.Kanwar is facing a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. He was presented before a court on Thursday and sent to three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/friend-murdered-19-year-old-du-student-in-ambala-police-101611256412707.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhandara hospital fire: 3 terminated from service, 3 suspended||Maharashtra government has taken action against seven healthcare workers for negligence of duty in the Bhandara district hospital fire in which 10 newborns died on January 9. The services of a paediatrician, two staff nurses have been terminated, while district civil surgeon, a medical officer and an in-charge nurse have been suspended. The additional civil surgeon has been transferred to a non-executive post.The investigation report of the incident stated that the fire broke because of a spark due to either voltage fluctuation or internal insulation wear-out in the control panel of the baby warmers in the out-born ward. It stated that based on the forensic report, three infants died of the shock due to burns while seven others suffocated from the smoke. Inflammable material, including plastic and cotton beds, aggravated the fire in the out-born rooms, the report stated.Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray had announced a probe by a committee headed by Nagpur divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and had assured strictest action against those found responsible. The committee submitted its report to health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday. Tope announced the action after a marathon meeting with department officials and in consultation with the CM and deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Thursday. Tope also announced plans to take corrective measures for the repairs and maintenance of the infrastructure at government hospitals in the state, to avoid repetition of the incident.Tope said that the paediatrician in the sick newborn care unit (SNCU), Dr Sushil Ambade, two staff nurses Smita Ambilduke and Shubhangi Sathawane have been terminated from service for negligence in duty. Additionally, district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate, medical officer on duty Dr Archana Meshram and in-charge nurse Jyoti Bharaskar have been suspended. Additional civil surgeon Dr Sunila Bade has been transferred to a non-executive post.The report also stated that while the nurses were expected to sit at nursing stations inside the ward, they were away for some paperwork at the time of the fire at 1.30am.“A committee under Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare, and director, National Health Mission, will review the steps needed for the upkeep of the hospitals, and submit a report in 15 days. We will chalk out an action plan for the proper maintenance of the hospitals and bio-medical equipment there. The building will have CCTVs and will be maintained as per the guidelines issued under the National Building Code, 2016,” Tope said.Tope said that the government has released ₹1 crore to take immediate steps to get the out-born baby ward at the Bhandara hospital functional again. He said that the guardian ministers and the district collectors have been asked to make the funds available for the upkeep of hospital buildings in their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhandara-hospital-fire-3-terminated-from-service-3-suspended-101611256351666.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai actor booked for rape of stepmother, theft||Oshiwara police have booked a 40-year-old television actor for allegedly raping his 58-year-old stepmother and stealing cash and jewellery from her house which she shares with his 78-year-old father.Police are also investigating a property dispute between the victim and the accused. According to police, the complainant woman is a resident of Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri (West), and third wife of the accused’s father, a director of television serials.The woman in her complaint alleged that her stepson came to her house and forced himself on her when she was alone. She also claimed that he had stolen her jewellery from the cupboard.Based on the statement of the victim, police registered a case of rape and theft against the accused. “A case has been registered under sections 376 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code,” said an officer from Oshiwara police station.Police have not arrested the accused yet, as they are still verifying the woman’s complaint. “We are investigating whether the complaint was because of the property dispute between victim and her estranged husband and stepson.According to police, the dispute is about the flat in which the woman lives and four shops in Andheri.“Investigations are on and only after verifying the allegations will we be able to arrest the accused,” added Sanjay Bandale, senior inspector of Oshiwara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-actor-booked-for-rape-of-stepmother-theft-101611256172679.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||New panel on Mumbai Metro a farce, Maharashtra govt creating false narrative on Aarey, says Fadnavis||In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, former state chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis alleged on Thursday that the state government is being misled by a few officials on the issue of the car shed for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz). Fadnavis also said the committee formed by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to find an alternative site for the car shed is a farce and the state is creating a false narrative when it claims that the plot in Aarey Milk Colony would be insufficient by 2031. Fadnavis said the state must take immediate steps to re-start work at the Aarey plot and act against those misleading the state. The site for the Metro-3 car shed has been a contentious issue with activists protesting that a car shed in Aarey would damage Mumbai’s last green lung. While a state-appointed committee said half a dozen alternative sites were unsuitable, the MVA government decided to shift the car shed to a plot in Kanjurmarg in December 2020, which revived a four-decade-old tug of war between the Centre and state over the ownership of salt pan lands in Mumbai.Recently, MVA set up a third committee to look at the right plot between Aarey and Kanjurmarg, but Fadnavis described this as “a farce”. Addressing the media on Thursday, he said, “The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority has already prepared the report in favour of Kanjurmarg and this committee is only going to sanction it.” He also said that almost 400 trees would be cut if the depot is built at Kanjurmarg. “It will increase the project cost by ₹4,000 crore plus delay the project,” he said. In a letter to Thackeray, Fadnavis said the Aarey plot was identified for the Metro-3 car depot on the basis of population estimates till 2053. He said the technical committee had allocated 30 hectares (ha) in Aarey for the depot, of which, 25ha would be utilised in the first phase, for 42 trains of eight coaches each, which would be “sufficient for 8-10 years post-2031”. “Between 2031-53, 13 trains of eight cars each will be dispatched in phases based on travel demand. For this, 1.5ha of the remaining 5ha will be utilised. This area has around 160 trees which will be transplanted in phases,” wrote Fadnavis.In an address to the state in December 2020, Thackeray had said that the Aarey plot would be insufficient for Metro-3 by 2031 while the Kanjurmarg plot, spread across 102 acres, can accommodate depots for three Metro lines (3, 4 and 6).Fadnavis described this integration as “impractical”. “In such a scenario, building a car depot almost 8kms from Aarey will increase the overall cost of the project. Moreover, different Metro routes operate at different times and the signalling system is also different. The integration will only add to the financial burden,” he said.Metro-3 was expected to be partly operational in 2021, but officials estimate there will be a delay of at least three to four years if the car depot is relocated to Kanjurmarg. In his three-page letter, Fadnavis also alleged that the state is in talks with private claimants of the land to allow them to use some of the area for residential and commercial purposes. “The previous government had received a proposal to build 1 lakh houses for the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana on the same land. The government had also appointed a committee on this. However, it was later found that these places were leased to salt pans. Hence, the land is with the Central government now,” he said.Maharashtra Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant said, “We request Mr Fadnavis to keep politics aside and instead tell the Central government to withdraw their ownership claim. Earlier, the Centre was ready to give land though the Kanjurmarg plot belongs to the state government. BJP should stop creating hindrances in MVA’s development works.” Meanwhile, the nine-member committee appointed by the state government had a meeting on Thursday. Sources privy to the meeting said that the committee is likely to submit its report in the coming week to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The committee had recently visited both, Aarey and Kanjurmarg sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-panel-on-mumbai-metro-a-farce-maharashtra-govt-creating-false-narrative-on-aarey-says-fadnavis-101611256171633.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Do you know your corporator, citizens ask ahead of Mumbai civic body polls||Ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Elections (BMC) elections in 2022, a group of alert Mumbaikars going by the name ‘Jaago Mumbaikar’ have initiated a survey to know if you know about your municipal wards and corporators.The survey will look at two aspects - if people are aware of their ward, their corporator, BMC’s responsibilities and what are the areas concerning them. Activists say that though BMC elections directly impact one’s quality of life, the awareness among voters is generally low, especially compared to Assembly and Lok Sabha elections.In 2017, the voter turnout for BMC elections at 55% was a record high for Mumbai since 1992. It was just 44% in the 2012 civic election as opposed to 54% in the 2014 Assembly elections and around 55% in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. In 2007, only 46.05% voters participated in the civic polls. The city has 24 municipal wards and 227 electoral wards. The elections are expected to be held in the first half of 2022.A member from Jaago Mumbaikar, who did not wish to be named said, “Once we have the survey results, we are planning to run a campaign to build awareness among Mumbaikars. We will also meet all political parties insisting on giving tickets to candidates with a clean record.”Milind Mhaske, project coordinator, Praja Foundation, which has been releasing councillor reports and also training councillors in the city said, “Though the awareness level is increasing, around 30-40% of people in the city might still not know about their electoral wards or corporator, though they might know who their MP or MLA is. This (survey) exercise is important as it will create awareness among sections, which may otherwise not be interested in participating in municipal elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/do-you-know-your-corporator-citizens-ask-ahead-of-mumbai-civic-body-polls-101611256001199.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Central Railways to install digilockers for passengers soon||Passengers travelling on the Central Railway (CR) will soon be able keep their luggage in digital lockers at the railway stations. Digilockers will be introduced at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) and Dadar railway stations.The lockers are placed inside cloakrooms on the railway stations where passengers will be allowed to keep their luggage. They will use radio frequency identification (RFID) tags and online receipt generation, in order to make the lockers safe.Passengers who want to use the locker facilities will have to deposit the locker fees in the digilocker system after which the lockers will open. After the passenger has kept the luggage, a receipt will be provided. The passenger can scan the receipt that will have a QR code in the digilocker system and get the luggage.“The facility will soon be introduced and will provide increased safety for passengers luggage at the railway station,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.The zonal railway is placing the lockers in a bid to increase its non-fare revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaicentral-railways-to-install-digilockers-for-passengers-soon-101611255872276.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body gets 3 international bids for constructing holding ponds||Three international bids have been received for studying and preparing a detailed project report for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ambitious project of constructing underground silos (holding ponds) to hold excess rainwater and prevent waterlogging. This report will inform BMC about the feasibility of constructing holding ponds in the city and areas where it can be constructed.The three consultants are international companies from Japan, South Korea and the Netherlands, that have tied up with our local companies. Senior civic officials said that these holding ponds are expected to be constructed in the next five years. The tenders were floated in May last year and the consultant is to be finalised by February.The ponds will be constructed along the lines of underground water holding ponds in Tokyo. The BMC had plans to construct underground water silos to collect water that flows into the Mithi river and takes up it’s carrying capacity during a heavy downpour.The consultant is being appointed to carry out a one-year study of rainfall patterns, the geography of the city, contours and also studying the rock areas. They will submit a detailed project report to the BMC following the study and will also be the project management consultant for the next four years. The consultation is expected to cost the BMC an estimated ₹31 crores.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have received three international bids from Japan, South Korea and the Netherlands. The bids are being studied as of now and we will finalise it in another 15 days.”The artificial holding pond plan was mooted by the BMC last year on the lines of Japan. The holding pond will be used to store the excess rainwater from the Vihar, Tulsi, and Powai lakes, instead of discharging into the river that overflows during monsoon. The BMC is working on several aspects for the Mithi river’s rejuvenation, including encouraging aquatic life, increasing green belt along its banks around Powai and Jogeshwari Vikhroli Link Road. The bid document prepared by BMC also cites assessment on the possibilities of the urban development for commercial and public activities along the river banks and boating facilities in a bid to boost tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-gets-3-international-bids-for-constructing-holding-ponds-101611255751661.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Indian fliers may not get to avail discount in the near future: Experts||Passengers might not be able to avail discounts while booking their flights in the near future. The aviation ministry restricted the airlines from deciding fares on their own as the civil aviation ministry capped airfares range-bound after domestic travel resumed in a phased manner on May 24. This capping on ticket prices impacted discounts and special fares that airlines roll out from time to time to attract passengers and generate instant cash too.The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) had capped domestic fares from May 2020 and extended from October to December’20 and has further extended the same up to March 31, 20, 2021.According to the report by brokerage Motilal Oswal Financial Services, the continuation of capping of airfares by the government in the long term may prove to be a huge dampener on the aviation industry as a whole, besides weakening sentiment for the regulated market.The central government imposed a cap on airlines ticket prices at the time of resumption of domestic flight services in late-May initially for a period of three months. However, since then, it has already extended the period thrice with the latest one to March 31. The report had pointed out that the average ticket price in the last quarter of the previous year was at a discount of 7% to 23% to the median fares prescribed by the government, compared with a discount of 29% to 47% in the first quarter of 2020, when there was no ceiling on fares.Ajay Prakash, ex-president of Travel Agents Association of India and CEO of Nomad Travels said, “The capping of airfares is unfair to the airlines. Even now when the ministry has reduced the capping per cent from 40 to 20, it will barely give some space to the airline considering the amount of huge loss the airlines have undergone in the past few months.”Rajji Rai, chairman of Swift group of companies who have been in the travel and tourism industry for over four decades too said airlines were in an extremely poor state. “Even if the ministry decides to do away with the capping, the airlines will continue to suffer losses as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Passengers too are suffering, as the airlines have no money and are not able to refund them for their booked tickets for travel during the lockdown period.”However, Jay Bhatia, vice president of TAAI said most airlines have already started announcing special promotional airfares post-April ‘21 and that their promos are marketing fares which attract travellers. “This is a general phenomenon when airlines entice travellers with lower bucket airfares. However, the number of seats the airlines sell at those fares is restricted by the airline concerned. The purpose of capping the airfares we feel is to ensure that the airlines don’t oversell and create further losses. Further, the price band is given so that during these turbulent times they also do not exceed and overcharge and maintain the sanctity of the situation. Normally the airlines reduce the airfares only to fight competition or to promote routes not doing well. The capping of the price band has helped the travellers and the airlines to obtain an equal share of traffic. The airfares being average fares I think were of similar band range. However, capping of fares is not for Udey Desh ka Aam Naagarik (UDAN) flights,” Bhatia said.He further added, “ Reducing the cap from 40% to 20% by the MoCA will give the airlines an extra edge, but the airlines must remember that the crisis is just over and to overcome the previous losses due to the pandemic will at least take over two years to recover fully. While they reduce the fares, they must also ensure that their costs should also be curtailed. By reducing the airfare they increase their flight loads which enhances their equity value notionally and reduces their profits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-fliers-may-not-get-to-avail-discount-in-the-near-future-experts-101611255451840.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||High court stays state’s GR appointing Mumbai university registrar||The Bombay high court on Thursday stayed the January 8, 2021 government resolution (GR) appointing Dr Ramdas Atram as registrar of University of Mumbai (MU) on deputation, and directed Dr Atram to immediately hand over the charge to Baliram Gaikwad who was appointed as temporary registrar, after the demise of the previous registrar Dr Ajay Deshmukh. The order was passed in a petition filed by senate member Dhanesh Sawant challenging the GR and arbitrary appointment of Dr Atram contrary to the provisions of the Maharashtra State Universities Act. On Thursday, when the petition came up for hearing, the division bench of justice SC Gupte and justice SP Tavade was informed by advocate Anjali Helekar for the petitioner in the previous hearing that the university through the vice-chancellor was well-equipped to appoint its officers. She submitted that the university was a ‘statutory body’ and did not require the intervention of the state government to make appointments of its officers, hence the January 8 GR was ‘arbitrary, excessive, unreasonable and in utter disregard’ of the provisions of Maharashtra State Universities Act, 2016. The petition had further contended that appointment of a registrar had to be done as per law by the vice-chancellor, on the recommendation of a select committee constituted for the purpose. Even the temporary post had to be handed to someone appropriate for the post by the vice-chancellor only. Sawant’s petition had also alleged that the January 11 state government direction to all state universities not to start any recruitment process and seeking details of vacant posts, selection committees and panel members was an interference. Sawant’s petition also sought to set aside the directives. Additional public prosecutor Kedar Dighe for the state, however, opposed the petition and said that the petitioner had no locus and the issue could not be dealt with in a writ petition. Dighe further submitted that the state government had taken the step to appoint Dr Atram as he was more qualified as an administrator and the temporary term of the registrar appointed for six months after the demise of Deshmukh was ending on January 2. Dighe stressed that the state government had powers under the relevant laws to appoint officers to state universities and there was nothing perverse in the appointment of Dr Atram. However, the court was not satisfied by the submissions and held that the January 8 appointment order was not valid and stayed the same. The court then directed Dr Atram to hand over the charge of the registrar to Gaikwad with immediate effect and also permitted the University of Mumbai to continue with the process of regular appointment of the Registrar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-stays-state-s-gr-appointing-mumbai-university-registrar-101611255271502.html
22-01-2021||Delhi||The burglar who made away with jewellery worth ₹20 crore, but got caught within 24 hours||An electrician-cum-technician working for a jewellery showroom in South Delhi’s Kalkaji used his professional skills and supplemented them by watching YouTube videos to break into the same shop to steal 25 kilos of gold and diamond jewellery worth ₹20 crore, the Delhi Police said on Thursday after arresting the suspect and recovering the entire stolen items.RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said prima facie it appears that the suspect, 25-year-old Sheikh Nur Rahman, operated all alone in a heist that lasted a little over six hours, including over four hours inside the showroom and over 90 minutes that Rahman spent just waiting on the roof of a nearby building.Though the entire stolen jewellery weighed 25 kilos, the DCP said that a lot of it was studded with diamonds because of which the market price of the booty was ₹20 crore. “This is one of the biggest seizures of stolen jewellery in India in the recent years,” the officer said.PLANNINGRahman, for the last one year, had been employed at the Kalkaji store of Anjali Jewellers, a Kolkata-based firm which primarily caters to jewellery of Bengali tradition, said the showroom manager Arijit Chakravarty.“He would come across as any other employee, there was nothing in his appearance or mannerism to suggest he plan and execute such a heist,” said Chakravarty.But Rahman allegedly had other plans. “In one year of work, he got to know the showroom inside out. And he used his knowledge and skills to plan the heist for three months. He thought he had a foolproof plan,” said Suvashis Choudhary, joint commissioner of police (southern range).In the last three months, Rahman allegedly studied the layout of the entry and exit points, the position of the guards, the screws that needed to be opened, the CCTV cameras that needed to be disconnected and all other fine details, Choudhary said. “He then invested about ₹50,000 on buying equipment such as hydraulic iron cutters, gas cutters, suitcase, backpack, rope, etc,” said the officer.Then, Rahman created an alibi for himself by taking a 15-day leave -- beginning January 10 -- in which he would visit his home in Hooghly in West Bengal.The DCP said Rahman did book a train ticket and he even went home, but he quietly returned to Delhi within a week. But he stayed away from his residential quarter in Govindpuri that was provided by his employer.THE HEISTAround 9.30pm on Tuesday, he donned a PPE kit to ensure no one would approach him or suspect him on the streets, wore a large face mask, carried a suitcase and the burglary tools in the backpack and reached near the showroom by an auto-rickshaw.“Since he had done his survey, he reached the terrace of a mostly vacant structure located two buildings away from the four-storey jewellery showroom. He then waited on the terrace until 11pm so that the residents of the next two buildings were in their homes,” the DCP said.Once all was quiet, he easily scaled the terrace of the next two buildings and reached the roof of the showroom.He used hydraulic iron cutters to remove the fibre and tin sheets of a small opening in the roof that allowed him access to the generator room on the top floor. He lowered the heavy tools and bags using a rope. Police said Rahman took his time to operate without any noise.Once he was inside, he used the same cutter to break open an iron grill and an iron shutter to gain entry into the actual showroom which was spread over the ground, first and second floors. He didn’t even need the gas cutter he had brought along.Rahman did not touch the jewellery on the first and second floors and went directly to the ground floor because he was targeting jewellery of “low volume and high value”, said JCP Choudhary.“He cut the wires of only one CCTV camera that could have probably given away his identity. He left the other cameras, lest the management check the footage and find it suspicious that so many cameras went off at the same time,” said the officer.He then stuffed as much jewellery he could carry in his bags and left the same way he had come -- using a rope to haul up the heavy bags from the generator room to the terrace. The police said he hired an auto-rickshaw and reached his friend’s home in Karol Bagh even as he planned to leave for Kolkata on Thursday by train.The crime was detected around 11am on Wednesday when the showroom was opened.IN POLICE NETThe police formed 10 teams of about 100 police personnel and began with probing the 35-odd employees of the showroom, other people who visited occasionally for work and local criminals.The CCTV cameras threw up a lot of footage that suggested the role of an insider. For example, the thief had no trouble in finding a particular CCTV camera in the generator room to change its direction. He also knew exactly where to find drinking water on the third floor. “Most importantly, the thief knew which size screwdriver was needed for opening the screws. All this pointed to someone with particular technical skills,” JCP Choudhary said.And Rahman was the only employee who the police believed had the skills and knowledge to execute such a heist.Though Rahman had allegedly prepared an alibi, his absence came across as suspicious to the police. “Our local enquiry revealed that Rahman was seen in Delhi at a time when he was supposed to be in his hometown. He then became the primary suspect,” DCP Meena said.Thereafter, the police used his call detail records and other technical analysis to catch him from his friend’s home in Karol Bagh and recover all the stolen booty from him -- within 24 hours of him leaving the showroom.Rahman has been booked for theft in a dwelling house and trespassing. If convicted, he could land in jail for up to seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-heist-for-the-ages-lasts-for-a-day-101611254708722.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||I-T unearths ₹520 crore unaccounted income from builder in Mumbai||The Pune unit of income tax department on Thursday carried out the searches at the premises of a leading builder at Borivli and Mira-Bhayander areas, resulting in the seizure of ₹10.16 crore unaccounted cash. “Total unaccounted income of ₹520.56 crore for earlier years has been detected, during the search,” states an I-T department statement. The unaccounted income, according to the statement, includes money on the sale of land and flats, accommodation entries of non-genuine unsecured loans routed through certain shell companies, unaccounted cash receipts in the nature of capital introduction or cash loan, unaccounted cash expenses etc.The unrecognised sales revenue of ₹514.84 crore for the fiscal year 2019-20 has been accepted by the group during the search. Accordingly, the group has agreed to pay Self Assessment Tax on the same, I-T officials stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/it-unearths-520-crore-unaccounted-income-from-builder-in-mumbai-101611255031409.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami chat leaks: Congress announces protests across Maharashtra||Maharashtra Congress, while demanding the arrest of Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over the leaked chats related to Balakot airstrike two years ago, on Tuesday announced to stage a state-wide protest.Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said, “In the leaked chats between Arnab Goswami and former BARC chief Partho Dasgupta, very serious information has come to the fore. It appears Goswami was in the know about the airstrike as part of Indian defence forces’ retaliation in response to the Pulwama terror attack in February 2019. Goswami appears to know about the airstrike three days in advance. Goswami, in one of his chats, has said that it was revealed to him by a big name in the Modi government. Thorough investigation and arrest of Goswami is a must as the issue relates to national security.”Throat said that the party will stage protest in all the districts to press the demand.In a statement on January 19, Goswami said, “It is beyond absurd to suggest that expecting India to strike back at Pakistan, after the Pulwama attack, was a crime. It was publicly available information and thousands of journalists reported, wrote, broadcast and analysed in the same direction after Pulwama. I am horrified that the Congress party thinks that any journalist in India expressing the views publicly stated by the Government is committing a crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-chat-leaks-congress-announces-protests-across-maharashtra-101611254851497.html
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university extends registration date for PhD entrance test until January 28, exam on February 28||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday announced that it will accept applications for the PhD Entrance Test (PET) by one week until January 28. The previous deadline for this exam was March 32, 2020. The university has already received 6,512 applications for the exam. In its statement on Thursday, the university stated that PET exam will be held on February 28 this year.“By March 2020 itself, 6,152 students had completed the application process, including 461 students from outside Maharashtra. We are reopening the application process for those who missed the deadline last year,” said a spokesperson for the university.Maximum PhD applications, 3340, this year has come for the faculty of science and technology, followed by the faculty of humanities which received 1691 applications and faculty of commerce and management and faculty of interdisciplinary studies which received 1148 and 333 applications respectively.MU has also received 326 applications for M.Phil this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-extends-registration-date-for-phd-entrance-test-until-january-28-exam-on-february-28-101611254732734.html
