23-01-2021||Noida||UP-Gate turns fortress ahead of proposed rally, tractors start lining up on carriageways||Ghaziabad: As the farmers’ proposed tractor parade inches closer, there have been hectic rounds of discussions between the officials of the Uttar Pradesh police and farmers’ leaders at UP Gate in which all security, traffic and other arrangements have been being reviewed and fine-tuned. Sources said security arrangements are being beefed up at the UP Gate protest site and the estimated number of security personnel there may reach about 5,000-6,000 in coming days.Protesting farmers at UP Gate have held several rounds of talks with the government over their demand for repeal of the three farm laws. In its latest proposal, the government had offered to suspend the implementation of the three farm laws for a period of one-and-a-half to two years. However, farmers are still adamant on their demand of repeal of the farm laws and are now preparing to go ahead with their proposed tractor parade, in which they are estimating inclusion of about 4,000-5,000 tractors, with more expected to join, from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“We are in touch with the farmers’ leaders at UP Gate and communication is on. In the coming days, the Delhi-Meerut Road and NH-9 will face some traffic issues, but we are planning for diversions which will be only for a few hours and not prolonged. The diversion plans are being fine-tuned and farmers are also in touch with the Delhi Police,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range). “On our part, we will not stop farmers from entering Delhi if the Delhi police allow them to move in. We are showing restraint and there will be no use of force. Police personnel have been roped in from different districts in western UP, besides deployment of rapid action force and other security personnel. At UP Gate, we are working with the volunteers of the farmers’ unions to ensure that there is no movement of outsiders at the site,” he added. The farmers’ leaders said that tractors have already begun their journey from different areas in UP and Uttarakhand and are expected to reach the site by January 24 or 25. “We are also holding discussions with the Delhi Police to finalise the route of our tractor parade and also to go over arrangements. The routes are likely to be finalised by Sunday. Further, the tractors have started coming in at UP Gate,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of farmers’ committee at UP Gate.The incoming tractors have started lining up on the NH-9 and also at the UP Gate to Dabur Crossing road in Vaishali. “We have identified different places for parking the almost 2,500-3,000 vehicles and volunteers of farmers will also help us out in ensuring that their tractors pose no hindrance to traffic. We are not stopping their tractors from coming to UP Gate but requesting them not to go ahead due to the pandemic and adverse weather conditions. Many returned back willingly while others moved ahead to UP Gate,” the IG added. The entire UP Gate area is divided into sectors and zones and is being monitored through the control room with the help of CCTVs. The police have also roped in local intelligence units to ensure that the protest remains peaceful and anti-social elements are kept at bay. A senior Delhi police officer in the know of the meeting details said that in-principle, the farmers and police officers reached an agreement on carrying out a peaceful “Kisan Republic Parade” on January 26. They added that the police have asked the farmer leaders to move a written application along with their undertaking, proposed routes, number of tractors and farmers participating in the rally, and the timings on Sunday for getting the official permission for the rally. “We will go through their route maps and other planning and give the permission accordingly,” said the officer, who did not want to be named, adding that the Delhi Police will take care of the traffic and security arrangements apart from safety, medical and other emergencies of the farmers participating in the tractor rally. According to the officer quoted above, the tractor rally will not disrupt the official Republic Day Parade and the farmers’ rally will begin after it gets completed. “We have reached a consensus that the tractor parade will only be in areas around the borders where the farmers are on sit-in protest. They wouldn’t be coming to central Delhi via Ring Road,” the officer said, requesting anonymity. Officials in the Ghaziabad district administration, who are in the know of the tractor parade route, said that farmers may be allowed to move to Ghazipur, Anand Vihar and up to Apsara and Bhopra borders near Ghaziabad.“The final route map is likely to be finalised by Sunday,” the officer added. (With inputs from HTC)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/upgate-turns-fortress-ahead-of-proposed-rally-tractors-start-lining-up-on-carriageways-101611426112703.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad admin bats for digitising records of all residents’ associations, setting up deputy-registrar office in district||Ghaziabad: In order to bring transparency in aspects related to resident welfare associations (RWA) and apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) as well as to ensure timely elections of these associations, the Ghaziabad district magistrate has written to the deputy registrar of societies in Meerut to come up with a portal containing details of all associations. The DM also suggested that a branch of the registrar’s Meerut office be opened in Ghaziabad.DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said Saturday that he has asked the deputy registrar, DK Gupta, to ensure that all details of RWAs/AOAs be updated online, along with details of office bearers, date of last election, registration, next date of election, due date of audit and any complaints, if any.The AOAs and RWAs have to be registered with the deputy registrar’s office at Meerut. “The residents become the worst sufferers due to inconsistent information available and also due to delayed elections. If the information is made available online, it will bring more transparency. We can also display such information over the district portal. It has also been observed that elections have not been held by several RWAs/AOAs. So, once the details are made online, there will be transparency,” Pandey said.“Further, we have sent a proposal in which we have requested the state government to allow a branch of the deputy registrar’s office in Ghaziabad as there are many RWAs/AOAs here and it will be easy for these associations to approach officials if they are within the city. Also, to see if any designated officer can be delegated powers for functioning at the branch office,” he added. Members of AOAs said that making details available online and setting up a branch office in Ghaziabad would be a welcome step.“We have been writing to make these details available online for long. Besides, there are many AOAs/RWAs whose elections have not been held for as long as three-four years. This is to be held within a span of one year otherwise they are deemed as debarred and the district administration has to designate an executive officer to get the elections done,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of the federation of AOAs. “We have approached the district administration time and again, but elections could not be conducted on some pretext or the other,” he added. DK Gupta, deputy registrar (Meerut), said that his office has identified about 28 cases in Ghaziabad where elections of residents’ associations were pending. “It is the responsibility of the respective RWA/AOA to take up elections. My office had earlier issued orders for not holding elections till June 30, 2020 in wake of the pandemic. When such instances (delayed elections) come to light, we declare societies as debarred and then write to the district admin to designate an officer for holding polls. We have taken up correspondence with the Ghaziabad DM in this regard and they have to get the elections done,” Gupta said. “As regards the branch office at Ghaziabad, the issue has been taken up with the state government and the process has been initiated. Digitising the records will take another two-three months in which we will digitize all manual files, which include files related to societies,” he added.Pandey responded by saying that the election was held up due to the pandemic and that the process has been re-initiated. “We now have initiated the process for holding pending elections and also appointed officers to get this done. The elections were not held due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The process is on now,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-admin-bats-for-digitising-records-of-all-residents-associations-setting-up-deputy-registrar-office-in-district-101611426111833.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Section 144 imposed in Gautam Budh Nagar, police on high alert||Noida: In light of the recent bomb scares, the farmers’ protests and Republic Day, the Noida police commissionerate has imposed Section 144 in Gautam Budh Nagar district till January 31.At least two bomb hoaxes have been reported in Noida in the past three days, leaving the police on high alert just days ahead of January 26.In a notice issued by the Noida police department, all measures for security are being taken to ensure security for Republic Day. Police said that suspicious activities by notorious elements are a probability in light of these approaching events.“Private drones will be in operation till February 3. No protests, strikes, demonstrations or road blocks will be allowed during this period, and people will not be allowed to carry sticks or any other harmful weapons, whether licensed or not, in any public, private or government office,” said Ashutosh Dwivedi, additional deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Gautam Budh Nagar.Police are also asking people to refrain from sharing content online that can cause unrest or public disturbance, while celebratory firing and public consumption of alcohol have also been disallowed.Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which prohibits a gathering of more than four persons without permission, has been imposed till January 31 and violators will be booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.“We are conducting extensive checking drives at crowded public places like malls and metro stations while our teams remain vigilant,” said deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Rajesh S.Checking has been ramped up at border areas as well, while units from the dog squad are actively patrolling in the city. Police personnel in civil clothes have also been stationed across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/section-144-imposed-in-gautam-budh-nagar-police-on-high-alert-101611426111276.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Bharti Airtel alleges damage to its broadband infra in Ghaziabad, FIR lodged||Ghaziabad: The officials of telecom company Bharti Airtel have approached the Ghaziabad police and submitted in a police complaint alleging that a local cable operator from Raj Nagar Extension (RNE) was harassing their staff and causing damages to infrastructure, resulting in inconvenience to customers. The Sihani Gate police, in this connection, have registered an FIR under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 427 (causing damages) against the suspects.The company officials in their police complaint alleged that they had been providing broadband services in Raj Nagar Extension since 2016 and the suspect cable operator had allegedly been threatening and damaging the infrastructure.They added that a complaint was given on January 7 as well and on January 19, another similar incident happened when the underground fibre network was allegedly snapped at six points, besides which staff deployed at the site was allegedly thrashed. OP Galhotra, group director (security), Bharti Airtel, said in a statement: “Of late, we have come across several incidents of deliberate damage to our fiber assets in parts of NCR... We have alerted the authorities and urged them to take strict actions against those involved in this sabotage.” They also alleged that similar incidents of damage to infrastructure had been reported from Nandgram, Sihani Gate and Patel Nagar. “On the basis of complaints, action was taken under provision 151 of CrPC (preventive arrest) while an investigation is on in the case and evidence is being gathered,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer (city 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bharti-airtel-alleges-damage-to-its-broadband-infra-in-ghaziabad-fir-lodged-101611426054530.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad ropes in inoculated beneficiaries to counsel others to take Covid jabs||GhaziabadAfter achieving a 81.25% vaccination target and inoculating 3251 of the targeted 4000 health care workers during the second round of Covid-vaccination on Friday, Ghaziabad district officials have now trained their focus on increasing coverage further. On the radar of officials for the next round are health care workers who were reluctant in taking the shots and anganwadi workers who refused to participate in the drive on Friday. The next round of vaccination across UP, including Ghaziabad, is planned for January 28 and 29. Uttar Pradesh, officials said, on Friday had vaccinated 101,006 health care workers out of a target of 155270, working to an overall coverage of about 65%. Of the 75 districts, 19 — including Ghaziabad on the eleventh spot — reported vaccination coverage of over 75%. Apart from the 19 districts mentioned above, 29 others have had a coverage between 60% and 75%, while 27 districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar, could cover only 60% of their assigned target for January 22. “We held an experience-sharing session with the beneficiaries on Saturday and also with those who faced issues during the 20 adverse event following immunization (AEFI) events on Friday. All the AEFI cases were minor, and all have fully recovered. We have formed batches of health care workers who have received the jabs and will now be our brand ambassadors for future vaccination rounds,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “They have also been assigned targets to motivate and spread information about vaccination among the proposed beneficiaries. Their task will be to counsel them that the vaccines pose no health issues and they should come forward,” he, added. The officials said that health care workers, including female doctors, have been asked to contact anganwadi workers and motivate them. According to official estimates, there are about 1,000-1,200 anganwadi workers in the district who have been under the 21,800 health care workers to get the Covid-vaccination in the first phase. “The groups of health care workers who have been vaccinated so far have been asked to take rounds on vaccination day and take proposed beneficiaries to the vaccination session room at their respective centres. So, people who have been vaccinated will play a major role in motivating others ,” Pandey, added. On Friday, Shanti Gopal Hospital at Indirapuram, Yashoda Hospital branches at Nehru Nagar and Kaushambi, the community health centre at Loni, Sarvodaya Hospital in Kavi Nagar and Columbia Asia Hospital near NH-9 achieved 100% vaccination. The officials said that those centres whose officials achieved 100% of their target will be felicitated. The officials have also instructed two centres, whose target remained below 50%, to put in more efforts and ensure that the pending health care workers come forward and participate in the next round . Of the 31 centres, where vaccination was taken up on Friday, 19 centres contributed with coverage of over 75%. Three of the four previous centres where vaccination was taken up on January 16, improved their coverage on January 22. These included community health centre at Dasna with 98%, Santosh Medical College at Pratap Vihar with 97% and Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi which achieved 100%. The coverage of the district women’ hospital on Friday went down to 83% as against 97% on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-ropes-in-inoculated-beneficiaries-to-counsel-others-to-take-covid-jabs-101611426055167.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Adityanath virtually inaugurates Noida multi-purpose indoor stadium||Noida: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated the newly-developed multi-purpose indoor stadium at Noida in Sector 21 A, via video conference. Developed at a cost of ₹101 crores, the stadium is spread over 8,040 square metres with a seating capacity of 4,000. It has separate courts and facilities for a number of sports including badminton, table tennis, basketball, handball, volleyball, gymnastics, judo, wrestling, boxing, weight lifting and taekwondo, among others.“Our government will leave no stone unturned to provide all necessary infrastructures to promote sports activities. Uttar Pradesh is a large state and it is our responsibility to excel in the field of sports at the state, national and international levels,” he said.The CM also inaugurated 65th National Freestyle Senior Wrestling Championship where participants from defence forces, railways and central government are participating. Apart from these, a shooting range with a seating capacity of nearly 800 has also been developed at the Noida Stadium. This shooting range offers a practice facility for 10 metre pistol, and 25 metre and 50 metre rifle. Both these projects are located inside the stadium.The CM advised players to just focus on their practice and their aim, and assured them the government is fully committed towards fulfilling all their needs. He also said that a “Sports University” will soon be developed in Meerut which will act as an important platform for sports persons. Adityanath also spoke to some eminent wrestlers including Narasimha Yadav, Amit and Gaurav Kumar and also asked them to convey wrestlers’ expectations from the state government. Rajiv Tyagi, general manager, Noida authority, said the indoor stadium will immensely benefit the residents of Noida and Grater Noida. “This will provide excellent facilities to budding sports persons,” he said.Work on the indoor stadium was started on February 12, 2015, with a completion target of June 30, 2018, while the shooting range work was started on October 12, 2015 with a deadline of March 31, 2018. However, both projects got delayed due to slow pace of work.Gautam Budh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh, Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari, Noida MLA Pankaj Sharma, Wrestling Federation of India president Brijbhushan Sharan Singh also attended the programme in Noida.The Jewar MLA said the CM is keen on improving infrastructure in the state. “The indoor stadium’s inauguration is once such step in this regard. This will help local sports person who will bring laurels for the state and the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/adityanath-virtually-inaugurates-noida-multi-purpose-indoor-stadium-101611426053364.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic agency re-certified as ODF++ after cleanliness inspection||Ghaziabad: The officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said Saturday that the corporation area has been re-certified as Open Defecation Free++ (ODF++) after a recent third-party inspection taken up by the Quality Council of India (QCI). They added that unlike the previous year, more public toilets this time were termed under the “aspirational” category during the survey. Officials said the inspection was carried out in the city on January 14 and 15, when sewage treatment plants (STPs) as well as randomly selected toilets in the city were inspected. There are a total of seven STPs in Ghaziabad. “During the survey, seven of the STPs were found running and properly treating sewage. All STPs in the city are functional but under-utilised. Also, total of 39 public toilets and urinals were inspected and 33 of these were categorised under the highest, the “aspirational” category, with one categorised as “excellent” and five categorised as “very clean”. During the last inspection in 2020, only 13 public toilets were termed ”aspirational” and this year we achieved better results,” said Arun Kumar Mishra, the civic body’s accounts officer and nodal officer for the Swachh Survekshan. The 33 public toilets termed “aspirational” are located in urban slums, residential and commercial areas in Ghaziabad city, besides public parks, transport hubs and at other public places. The officials said that a city/ward/work-circle can be notified ODF++ if at any point of the day not a single person is found defecating or urinating in the open, and all community and public toilets are functional and well maintained. “There are about 28 parameters on the basis of which the assessment is made. The ODF++ rating will help us in getting more points during the upcoming Swachh Survekshan – 2021, which will start in March. The competition carries 500 out of the total 6,000 points assigned for the ODF++ status. So, our ODF++ re-certification will help us in the upcoming competition,” Mishra added. Environmentalists said that sustainability is a major challenge. “Upkeep of STPs and maintaining toilets is a tough task and such sites must be maintained throughout the year. The overall outlook of the city has improved with facilities, but sustainability is a major challenge,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. Mishra said that the corporation is planning that all public toilets, about 136 in the corporation area, will be maintained by an outsourced agency. “To tackle the sustainability challenge, we have decided that all maintenance and upkeep work for the toilets will be given to an expert agency under the ‘one city, one operator’ scheme. On our part we have taken up renovation of 54 toilets so far. Although we have lesser budget available, we are trying to keep up with other bigger cities,” he added. For the financial year 2020-21, the civic agency had recently proposed in its revised budget an expenditure of about ₹983 crore against income of about ₹1,011 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-agency-re-certified-as-odf-after-cleanliness-inspection-101611426053937.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Dense fog for next three days warns MeT dept||The maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida on Saturday was recorded at 8.8 degrees Celsius and 18.7 degrees respectively as against 10.1 degrees and 21.9 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The India Meteorological department (IMD) has forecasted dense fog over the next two days with visibility down to less than 50 metres, especially in the open areas. As per weather analysts, moisture-laden easterly winds will continue to blow till January 25, while on January 26 the visibility will slightly improve with dense fog dissolving marginally. The minimum temperature will also fall by 3 to 4 degrees Celsius from January 25 onwards. “There will be dense fog in the morning hours on Sunday and Monday, with visibility around 50 metres. Tuesday, January 26, will see moderate fog,” said an official at IMD. According to the weather analysts, the open areas especially the expressways and the highways will be most prone to the dense fog. “Open areas like expressways will experience dense fog towards the morning hours for next two days. The period between 3 am to 11 am will be most prone to foggy conditions. This is due to the moist easterly winds, which will continue to blow till January 25. However, even after January 26, when the wind directions change and the wind speed picks up, leading to better visibility, certain patches along the expressway and highway would still experience dense fog,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. Palawat added as the cold northwesterly winds start blowing from January 25 onwards, the mercury may once again start dropping, with minimum temperature likely to hover around 4 degrees on January 26. Meanwhile, the air quality in the city continued to be hover in the “very poor” category despite marginal improvement. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday was recorded at 325 as against 361 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was recorded at 319 as against 322 a day prior. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 314 as against 371 on the previous day. According to the System of Air quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality will continue to hover in the “very poor” category. “Surface winds easterly and moderate. Due to better ventilation conditions, AQI is forecasted to marginally improve to the lower end of Very Poor during the day. AQI is likely to stay in the same Very Poor category on 24th and 25th January. The middle end of the Very Poor category is forecasted for 26th January(sic),” read a statement by SAFAR on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dense-fog-for-next-three-days-warns-met-dept-101611426052891.html
23-01-2021||Noida||UP pollution watchdog takes construction firms to court over environmental violations||Noida: Two builders have been prosecuted at special court in Lucknow under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), officials said. According to the official, legal action was initiated -- a first in Noida -- following alleged repeated offence by a private builder developing a highrise in Sector 118, and a concessionaire developing freight corridor. “We had been issuing notices to these two builders as they had been flouting norms repeatedly through irresponsible construction and not taking dust controlling measures. This is the first time that we had to take the legal recourse as that was the last resort. Soon, summons will be issued to them,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida. He added that prosecution has been initiated at a special court in Lucknow. “A special court in Lucknow will hear the cases filed by us against one a building in Sector 118 and a construction firm building the freight corridor. We had visited the sites and recommended environment compensation but the violations continued. No such violation or negligence will be tolerated,” said Kumar. He added that the UPPCB had also recommended environmental compensation of over ₹92 lakh for 112 violations since October in Noida. Noida is one of the most polluted cities in the country. It saw only eight days of “good” air quality in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-pollution-watchdog-takes-construction-firms-to-court-over-environmental-violations-101611426052407.html
23-01-2021||Other||Greater Noida paralympian Varun Singh Bhati to receive Laxman Award||Greater Noida: Twenty-five-year-old paralympian Varun Singh Bhati will receive the Laxman Award from the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday. Bhati, a para high jumper, won a bronze medal at the paralympic games at Rio de Janeiro in 2016, and another bronze at the World Para Athletics Championships in London in 2017. He received the Arjuna Award in 2017 for his excellence in the field of sports.Thakur Dhirendra Singh, Jewar MLA, said Bhati is a resident of Jamalpur village. “On Saturday, I received information from Lucknow that Bhati has been selected for the Laxman Award. The prize will encourage Bhati and other local youths to excel in the field of sports,” Singh said.He said that he had written letters to the government recommending Bhati’s name for the award. Earlier, there was no provision for felicitation of para-sports persons. The government amended the rules in October 2020 and selected Bhati for the Laxman award.The Laxman Award is given by the UP government to honour eminent players of the state, wherein sportspersons are honoured with an award, a citation, a bronze statue of Laxman and a cash prize of ₹3.11 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-paralympian-varun-singh-bhati-to-receive-laxman-award-101611426051856.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Man arrested for dowry death after 24-yr-old ‘hangs self’ in Jewar||Greater NoidaPolice on Saturday arrested a man for cremating the body of his wife without informing the victim’s family after she allegedly hanged herself in Jewar on Thursday. The victim Savita, 24, a resident of Haibatpur in Aligarh, had married Mohit Kumar, 26, of Jafargardh in Jewar in 2018. The couple has three daughters. Savita’s brother Ravindra Kumar said that her husband had been torturing her for dowry since marriage. “My sister had informed us about the harassment in the past. Mohit had been demanding ₹1 lakh as dowry. We believed the matter will be resolved on its own in some time, but it didn’t. On Thursday, Mohit called us and said that Savita has allegedly hanged herself. We rushed Greater Noida but Mohit or his family members were not found in the house,” Ravindra, who lives in Aligarh, said. Ravindra said that the local people informed him that Savita’s in-laws had quietly cremated the body at the local crematorium and then fled. Umesh Bahadur, SHO Jewar police station, said that based on a complaint filed by Ravindra, a case has been registered against Mohit under Section 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, and Section 304-B (dowry death), and Section 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of IPC. Mohit was traced and arrested from his village in Jafargardh.“Primary investigations show that the suspect had been demanding dowry. The woman was stressed over the issue and she might have hanged herself over it. We have arrested the suspect, Mohit. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-dowry-death-after-24-yr-old-hangs-self-in-jewar-101611426051294.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||AAP MLA Somnath Bharti disqualified after court sentences him to two years in jail in 2016 assault case||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Somnath Bharti stood disqualified on Saturday after a city court sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment in a 2016 case for assaulting All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) security staff and destroying public property.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on Bharti, the MLA from Malviya Nagar. The judge, however, granted Bharti bail to enable him to file an appeal before the high court against the conviction and jail term.Under the Representation of the People Act, a legislator stands disqualified upon being sentenced to jail for a minimum of two years. The membership of the House is lost with immediate effect. Former ASG and senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, citing a 2013 judgment by the Supreme Court, said a legislator is disqualified immediately after he has been convicted and sentenced to a minimum two years of imprisonment.“Any MP/MLA or MLC, who gets a minimum imprisonment of two years, stands immediately disqualified according to the Lily Thomas vs Union of India judgment of the apex court. The legislator will have to take a stay on the conviction to remain in the fray. Mere suspension of sentence or the jail term will not suffice,” Luthra said.Reacting to the judgment, AAP said, “We respect the judiciary and have full faith in it. However, we feel an injustice has happened to Somnath Bharti in this case. Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. He works 24 hours for his people. People in his constituency are quite saddened to hear the news of his conviction.”“Somnath is filing an appeal. We are confident that justice will be done to him at the appellate level,” the party added.Bharti said he believes in the judiciary and would file an appeal against the judgment in the higher court. “I have complete belief in the judiciary. I am preparing an appeal and will file it as soon as it’s ready.”Delhi assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel said Somnath Bharti has not been disqualified as yet. “I am out of Delhi and will return by Sunday evening. I will seek legal opinion for the next step... In any case, as per the tenth schedule, the Speaker gets a time of three months to decide on a disqualification petition for any MLA of the legislative assembly,” said Goel. The court, however, acquitted Bharti’s associates and co-accused Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey for want of evidence. The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from RS Rawat, the chief security officer of AIIMS.According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down a portion of the boundary wall and fencing at AIIMS, using an earth mover. “The court is of the considered view that the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against accused Somnath Bharti,” the magistrate said in the judgment passed on January 22.The court also said the mindset to cause damage to public property and infrastructure is an attack on the common man.“The infrastructure and public property of the country are not of any leader, party or government but these are national assets. The infrastructure is built up with the contribution of every poor, every tax payer, middle class and every section of society. While exercising the democratic rights, people must not forget about national duty to preserve the national assets and resources meant for each and every citizen,” the judge said in the sentencing order.The court convicted Bharti of various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 147 (rioting).It also held the AAP MLA guilty under Section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The offences carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail.In its judgment, the court said the prosecution had duly proved that the mob which had gathered on September 9, 2016, around 9.45am at the drain behind AIIMS, was intent on demolishing the wall and fencing put up by the hospital.The judge also noted the testimony of Rawat that the mob was led by Bharti where he and some of the unknown members of the unlawful assembly were instructing the earthmover operator to not stop the demolition work despite the complainant requesting them to desist.It also said no document regarding the order of demolition of the wall and fence was produced, nor was any government machinery official accompanying the MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-mla-somnath-bharti-disqualified-after-court-sentences-him-to-two-years-in-jail-in-2016-assault-case-101611425991224.html
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Sector-33 firing: High court denies bail to three accused||The Punjab and Haryana high court has denied bail to three accused in the firing outside the bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla in Sector 33 on May 31, last year. Rakesh is the brother of liquor baron Arvind Singla.According to police, the shooting was conspired by gangster Lawrence Bishnoi to spread fear among the business community. Taking up the petitions of accused Harinder Singh, Bahadur Singh and Sewak, the high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan observed that the firing incident happened in Chandigarh and recovery of 17 empty cartridges were an indicator of the magnitude of the incident. “It was by chance that no one was injured, but that itself will not undermine the happening. The fact remains that in spite of passing of almost seven months, five of the nominated accused have not been arrested, which resulted in hampering the investigation,” the bench observed.In the plea, the trio had argued that till date, apart from their disclosure statement, there was no other evidence. The challan had been presented in court and hence, bail should be granted. The bench noted that the presentation of challans for the arrested persons may not indicate finalisation of their roles, so long as investigation was being carried out. There were at least five co-accused who were at large and investigation was not concluded.It observed that the trio might not have been named by any witnesses, but the fact remained that as per the allegations levelled, they would be in a position to influence the co-accused and witnesses. “In the facts of the present case, custodial interrogation of the petitioners may be necessary to take investigation to its logical end,” the bench said, dismissing the plea.As per prosecution, the shooting incident was a deep-rooted conspiracy to spread fear among the business community in Chandigarh and Punjab to ensure protection money from businessmen. Bishnoi was the mastermind, who in spite of being in a Rajasthan jail, carried out the crime with the help of others. The court observed that in spite of the fact that certain persons were confined in jail, they were able to get mobile phones and use WhatsApp to conspire and carry out such attack. “The alleged roles of the petitioners of providing help for carrying out the attack cannot be underestimated by their non-presence. Without the support, the attack may not have been possible,” the bench said, adding that to complete the chain and to have a deeper probe, custodial interrogation of the accused was necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sector33-firing-high-court-denies-bail-to-three-accused-101611425753853.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Varsities have crucial role to play in generating employment, post-Covid, says Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the Covid-19 pandemic has led to massive unemployment across the world and universities will now play a crucial role in fighting the situation. Speaking at the inauguration of a lecture hall complex at Netaji Subhas University of Technology (NSUT) on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, Sisodia said, “The biggest tribute to Netaji would be to keep aside differences and work towards creating a strong nation through better education. Netaji’s dreams would be fulfilled when the children of the country are skilled enough to contribute to its growth and development. This would embody true patriotism. Netaji Subhas University of Technology is the only technological university in India named after Netaji.”“The pandemic has led to massive unemployment across the globe and universities will play the lead role in generating employment. The Delhi government’s goal is to inculcate a mindset of entrepreneurship in students, and it has taken several steps in that direction,” he said.A 50m high national flag was also established at the university campus on Saturday.Sisodia lauded the NSUT students saying that it is due to their performance that the university’s name is taken all over the country with a sense of pride. “Students of Delhi government schools are making the country proud with their exceptional performance in international Olympiads. This is the result of concerted and honest efforts by the students, teachers and officials of the Delhi government. This has also been recognised by the NITI Aayog which ranked Delhi government schools at the top in its recently released report. It is the dream of the Delhi government to make Delhi’s higher education the best performing in India and the world. Along with renewed vision, continuous and determined efforts are required to make this dream a reality,” he said.The newly constructed lecture complex houses 11 halls with a capacity to house 1,500 students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/varsities-have-crucial-role-to-play-in-generating-employment-post-covid-says-sisodia-101611425751957.html
23-01-2021||City||Girl urges Aligarh DM to get road to her village repaired before her wedding||By Hemendra ChaturvediA 25-year-old girl, who is set to get married on February 27, called on the district magistrate of Aligarh on Friday, seeking to get the road to her village repaired so that the ‘baarat’ for her marriage could reach her village without any hassle.Taking note of her request, district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh has directed block level officials to get the work done before the wedding day."The road to our village and the lane to my house are in a bad shape. It has led to waterlogging rendering the road unusable. I am getting married on February 27 and if the road and the lane are not repaired how will my baarat, that will be coming from Ramghat road in Aligarh, reach my house in Nagla Chura village of tehsil Iglas?" said Karishma Kumar. Karishma has done her BEd and is one amongst six brothers and sisters.The patch of the half-kilometre-long road, connecting Nagla Chura alongside a pond, has been in a bad shape and due to lack of maintenance, water from the pond overflows on to the road leading to waterlogging.Also read: 'Let's have a duel' - Amit Shah slams Covid-19 vaccine criticsSources said due to lack of connectivity, many villagers prefer moving to other places for functions like marriage."Villagers find it tough to move as lanes are in a pathetic condition. I had informed the Block Development Officer (BDO) twice, raised the issue in Tehsil Diwas and had even filed an RTI but nothing was done," said Karishma after meeting the DM."The DM took the matter seriously and instructed officials to get the road repaired, else face the music," she said.When contacted, district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said, "there is a lot of awareness among people and as a result, girls are reaching out with their problems. The concerned officials have been directed to get the road repaired in time."Mahesh Kumar Madhav, Karishma's brother, said, "It is indeed good to see how girls are getting confident and raising issues at whatever platform possible."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/girl-urges-dm-to-get-road-to-her-village-repaired-before-her-wedding-101611424862002.html
23-01-2021||Other||Security stepped up, police extra cautious as R-Day nears||New DelhiDelhi police on Saturday increased security at the interstate borders, where farmers are camped to protest against the three farm laws. Senior police officers claimed that the security was increased in the backdrop of the full dress rehearsal for the Republic Day.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that until Republic Day, the security at the interstate borders will continue to stay tight in the backdrop of the farmers’ protest. The farmers had in November tried to enter Delhi but had been stopped at the borders in different parts of the city. They have been camping at there ever since, while their representatives and the government hold talks related to the three contentious farm laws. “Unlike previous years, the security is more this year because of the protests. There are chances that criminal elements may try to disrupt Republic Day preparations by posing as protesting farmers. The idea was to ensure that such groups do not get to mobilise and disrupt the dress rehearsal or the preparations in Delhi. the extra security will stay until the completion of the Republic Day celebrations,” one senior officer, privy to the arrangements, said.The increased reinforcements is also significant because on Friday night, the farmers had hurriedly held a press conference to allege that the Haryana Police had planted some men among the protesters to fuel violence during the tractor rally on January 26. Also, on Friday afternoon, a farmer who had come to Vigyan Bhawan, got violent and vandalised his own vehicle when police refused to allow him entry since his name was not mentioned in the list of farmer representatives. There was no complaint filed or action taken against anyone in the incident.In the other part of the city too, police have increased security ahead of January 26. Delhi Police spokesperson, Eish Singhal said, “ A multi-layered security cover is being put in place for Republic Day celebrations, where six thousand security personnel are securing the streets and keeping a vigil on suspicious elements and their activities. Checking of vehicles at all the border points has been intensified. All beat police personnel have been carrying out tenant and servant verification drive. The members of resident as well as market welfare associations, shopkeepers, street vendors, and volunteers of our eyes and ears scheme have also been sensitised. Surveillance is also being kept through CCTV cameras. A full-proof security arrangement will be in place in and around the parade route. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-stepped-up-police-extra-cautious-as-r-day-nears-101611425692399.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Police give ‘in principle’ nod for tractor rally in Delhi||Delhi Police on Saturday gave an ‘in principle’ nod to farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders to carry out their proposed “tractor march” on Republic Day, covering a distance of around 100km within the national capital. Delhi Police officers did not officially share details of the conditions that were laid down for granting permission for the tractor rally. A police officer, privy to the details of the meeting between police and farmers, said, “The approval was given in principle for now. The farmers will have to give a signed undertaking that they will not enter the New Delhi and central Delhi areas on Republic Day. The proposed routes will be in the vicinity of places where the farmers are already protesting, but within the national capital. They will also have to give an undertaking that the rally will not disrupt the Republic Day arrangements. We will speak to them again tomorrow.” Police teams will escort the tractors on the day of the rally to maintain law and order. In the undertaking, the farmers will have to share details of the number of tractors, timing of their rally, number of protesters and their day’s plan, among other details. Police will then verify the undertaking and issue a “written permission.”According to farmer leaders, police have allowed them to enter the national capital from five different routes that will be decided by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — a group of several farmer organisations protesting against the three new farm laws across the country— by Sunday. Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj Abhiyan said farmers will enter Delhi from all the existing protesting sites — Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur, Shahjahanpur, and Palwal. “The farmers will enter the national capital on January 26 and take out a parade on Republic Day for the first time. It will be historic… There won’t be any fixed duration for the parade since all tractors coming from different parts of the country will participate in it,” he said. Yadav said the farmers will cover a distance of over 100km in Delhi during the parade. “All farmers will return to their protest sites afterwards. There is no plan to stay in Delhi. We will take out a peaceful march. It will not have any effect on the Republic Day parade or security arrangements,” he said, adding that the Sanyunk Kisan Morcha will finalise the route and make it public on Sunday. Another farmer leader, Rajinder Singh Bir Singh Wala, said there won’t be any cap on the number of tractors entering Delhi on Tuesday. “We have asked the farmers to prepare tableaux on their tractors and trolleys but their height should not be too much, for safety purposes. All tractors, including those already there at the borders and those coming from different parts of the country, will participate in the march,” he said. But president of Krantikari Kisan Union, Darshan Pal, said the march may continue for two days. “The number of tractors participating in the march is huge. It will take time to finish the march if all tractors participate. It might take two days to complete it,” he said. Police officers who attended the meeting said they reached a consensus with the farmers following several rounds of meetings since January 18. “ In principle, we have agreed that the tractor rally will only be in areas around the borders where the farmers are on sit-in protests. They won’t come to central Delhi via Ring Road. For example, the tractor rally from Singhu border will enter Delhi and will move around areas such as Alipur, Bawana, Narela, and other adjoining areas. The rally starting from Tikri border will cut through Nangloi, Mundka, Sultanpuri. Similarly, farmers present at the Ghazipur border will be allowed to take their rally out in Ghazipur, Anand Vihar, and towards the Apsara and Bhopra borders,” a second police officer said.Meanwhile, another senior police officer said that the farmer leaders late on Saturday evening in writing accepted the proposals given by the police regarding the tractor rally. However, it was not clear whether the written acceptance was just about the proposed rally or all the routes that the ’ tractor rally would cover.On Saturday, the protesting farmers said they had increased security at protest sites, a day after a man, after being caught by farmers at Singhu border, alleged that efforts were being made to incite violence during their ongoing movement and upcoming tractor parade on Republic Day.At the Singhu border, volunteers were seen checking bags and packets of visitors near the main gate area. “Our leaders have asked us to remain vigilant. We are checking the handbags of women visitors also because the man who was caught yesterday told us that there are two women in his group, who are roaming around the protest site in an effort to incite violence. What if they plant some weapon in the tractors or tents here?” said a farmer volunteer.On Saturday, volunteers at Tikri border were also seen asking protesters to remain vigilant. Harinder Bindu, head of the women wing of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), said, “Efforts are being made to disrupt our protest. All the volunteers have been asked to remain extra careful and keep an eye on visitors. The protesters living in trollies and tents have also been asked to keep a check on their surroundings. Volunteers are also checking bags and frisking people.”Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha in Punjab, said that the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to form a team of 2,000 volunteers to keep a vigil during their Republic Day tractor rally. “These volunteers will also be provided uniforms and they will keep an eye out to prevent any untoward incident during the march,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-give-in-principle-nod-for-tractor-rally-indelhi-101611425691235.html
23-01-2021||Other||AAP says DDA owes civic bodies ₹2,000 crore; BJP says pursuing matter with Centre||New DelhiThe Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday alleged that the Delhi Development Authority( DDA), which comes under the Centre, owes more than ₹2,000 crore to the BJP-led north and south corporations.AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj questioned the BJP as to why the corporations had not initiated the process to get the funds back from the DDA.Bhardwaj said, “The DDA, which comes under the BJP-ruled Central government, owes more than ₹2,000 crores to north and south corporations. According to the data, the DDA owed around ₹857 crore to the north corporation till March 31, 2018. Based on this figure, if we calculate, the amount comes to ₹1200 crore today.”He said that the DDA owes close to ₹535 crore to the south corporation.The civic bodies in Delhi — north, east and south — have been run by the BJP for the last 14 years. Bhardwaj said, “The BJP should immediately disclose why they have not taken initiative to get this money from the DDA, despite both the agencies being under them. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta should tell what are the steps that have been taken to bring this money back from the DDA.”The BJP has been blaming the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi for not releasing funds to the corporations due to which they are unable to pay salaries to employees.But Bhardwaj said, “From the time Gupta has become the Delhi BJP chief, he has maintained only one line which is that the Kejriwal government should give some amount to the BJP-ruled corporations. We have witnessed that the corporations have stopped all their revenue garnering ways like collection of property tax, advertisements, toll tax and others. Today, the revenue from these sources is not coming to the corporations but going to the leaders of the BJP.“DDA officials did not respond to HT’s query seeking a response on the AAP’s allegations. Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra said, “There is no doubt that several government bodies, including Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Transport Corporation, power Discoms and the DDA owe money to the corporations. But that doesn’t free the Delhi government from paying the funds it owes to the corporations. The corporations are pursuing with all agencies to get their dues and MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj should also ask the Delhi government to release municipal funds and to make Delhi Jal Board, DTC and power discoms pay their dues.”Malhotra added, “We want the Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to tell us when he will pay RS 13000 crore due to the corporations? Where is the ₹26,000 crore of Delhi Jal Board?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-says-dda-owes-civic-bodies-rs-2-000-crore-bjp-says-pursuing-matter-with-centre-101611425631237.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||25-year-old woman kidnapped by two men in a car, strangled to death||A 25-year-old woman, who worked as an accountant at a medicine wholesale shop in Chandni Chowk, was abducted in a car allegedly by two men -- one of them was a friend of hers -- and driven around the city for nearly four hours before being strangled to death and her body dumped at an isolated spot in outer Delhi’s Alipur area on January 19, police said.On Saturday, the police claimed to have solved the kidnapping and murder case after arresting the two suspects and recovering the Santro car in which the murder allegedly took place. The entire crime was planned by the woman’s 24-year-old friend, Ankit (single name), because of a financial dispute he had with her, the police said. The police have no revealed the identity of the woman.According to the police, she wanted to avail of a loan of ₹2 lakh for some personal work and asked Ankit to help her. Around two months ago, Ankit took ₹47,000 from her for helping her get the loan. However, he neither got her the loan nor returned the money, despite her repeated demands, a senior police officer said.“As the woman was pressuring Ankit to return her money and was threatening to file a police case, he planned to kill her and included his friend, Nitesh (single name) in his plan,” the officer said, adding that the woman knew Ankit for the past four years as they worked in the same wholesale shop.Around a year ago, Ankit started working for a different firm, in Chandni Chowk itself, where Nitesh was also employed. Both men belong to Holambi Kalan near Narela in outer Delhi.On January 19, the woman left her workplace for her home in Jahangirpuri. But when she did not reach home and her cellphone remained switched off, her family members filed a missing person complaint. A kidnapping case was registered at north Delhi’s Kotwali police station, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.While the Kotwali police team was conducting searches, her body was found on January 20 by the Alipur police after they were informed about an unidentified body by a passerby. The body was preserved at the Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospial mortuary for identification purposes.On January 22, the Kotwali police learnt about the body in the mortuary and showed it to the missing woman’s parents, who identified it as that of their daughter.“We added Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 (murder) in the case and began our probe. The call details of the woman’s cellphone were analysed. Through technical surveillance and human intelligence, we caught her friend Ankit who confessed to the crime. His interrogation led to the arrest of Nitesh,” said the officer.About the sequence of the events, the officer said Ankit urged the woman to meet him near the Peeragarhi Metro station on the pretext of resolving their dispute.“Ankit was waiting in the car with Nitesh. He asked her to get in and drove around for around four hours on the pretext of discussing their issue. Around 10pm, the duo strangled her using her phone charger wire and threw the body in Alipur. They took away her phone and purse containing her ID papers and ₹3,400 cash. All items have been recovered,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25yearold-woman-kidnapped-by-two-men-in-a-car-strangled-to-death-101611425511272.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||4,000 traffic personnel to deployed ahead of Republic Day rally||A total of 4,000 police officials will be deployed at different points across the city ahead of the Republic Day rally by protesting farmers to maintain law and order and ensure smooth flow of traffic — a release issued by Gurugram police on Saturday stated.The 4,000 officials will include traffic police officers, a dozen of assistant commissioners of police, 40 inspectors, police rider teams, PCR teams, intelligence teams, crane and fire brigade teams.“We cannot ignore the fact that on this occasion of Republic Day, some anti-social elements may cause some untoward incidents. There could be a farmers’ agitation as well. Keeping these aspects in mind, strict security arrangements have been made as per the orders issued by Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao to maintain security and peace in the city,” said Subhash Boken, public relation officer (PRO), Gurugram Police.“The security arrangements by the Gurugram Police will be inspected from time to time by higher officials and concerned department heads to assess if the preparations are adequate at every place and if any further assistance is required. All additional station house officers, crime staff members and traffic in-charges will patrol their respective areas along with their teams,” said Boken.Gurugram police officials further said that special security arrangements have been made at all venues where Republic Day celebrations will be held. For entering any of the venues, a three-layer security system has been put in place, and all police officials will be deployed at these points with necessary security equipment.For smooth traffic operations, Gurugram Police has also prepared alternate routes for diverting traffic at locations such as Panchgaon Chowk, Manesar Chowk, Sirhaul Border and Kapdiwas Chowk, through Bilaspur, Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, Farrukhnagar, Himgiri Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Shankar Chowk, IFFCO Chowk, Signature Tower Chowk, Udyog Vihar, and Kherki Daula toll plaza in case of congestion.“We have made arrangements for diverting traffic at all key points along National Highway-48. Route diversions have already been prepared and will be soon shared over social media for the assistance of commuters. At each of the diverted routes, traffic police officials have been deployed for assisting and guiding commuters towards the right path,” said DK Bhardwaj, DCP (traffic), Gurugram traffic police.Bhardwaj also said that in respect with the Republic Day preparations, entry of heavy vehicles into Gurugram is barred from 3pm on Sunday till 1.30pm, Wednesday.Meanwhile on Saturday evening, Delhi Police gave approval to the farmers to enter the national Capital for their tractor parade. Gurugram police officials said that their preparations will not be altered following this development until further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/4000-traffic-personnel-to-deployed-ahead-of-republic-day-rally-101611425451204.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers camping at Haryana-Rajasthan border gear up to reach Delhi for tractor rally||Farmers camping at Shahjahanpur, Dharuhera and Punhana on the Haryana-Rajasthan border are gearing up to take part in the tractor march scheduled to take place on the Outer Ring Road in the national Capital on Republic Day. Farmers from different states have started arriving at the protest sites with their tractors and a rehearsal was also conducted in Punhana on Saturday. Protestors at Shahjahanpur said that the heads of various villages in Alwar have pledged support for the tractor march. At least 500 tractors are expected to join the rally. The Delhi Police on Saturday allowed the protesters to hold the proposed tractor rally after days of deliberation. Farmer leaders have been allowed to enter Delhi and travel up to 100km distance on each route. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, and Maharashtra have been protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district since December last year. Another group of farmers is camping at Dharuhera while farmers from Mewat are agitating at Sunehra-Junehra on the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Sanjay Madhav, state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that farmers from different states would be taking part in the march scheduled for January 26 with at least 500 tractors. “We will take part in the farmers march on Republic Day with our tractors and return back to the protest site at Shahjahanpur. Our protest will continue till the farm laws are repealed,” said Madhav. He said that farmers would be taking part in the march in large numbers amid a growing sentiment that the government was not taking their concerns seriously. “The government should understand that the farmers will not back down. As the impasse over the farm laws gets prolonged, farmers’ disappointment with the government is also on the rise,” said Madhav. He added that managing a large number of farmers on January 26 would be a challenge and that farmers would stay vigilant in the light of recent incidents. In a late-night press conference on Friday, farmer union leaders in Delhi had presented a masked man who claimed that he, along with another 10 people, including two girls, had been sent to the protest site at Singhu to incite violence. “Farmers are keeping a check on suspicious people and handing them over to the police if required,” he said. Farmers camping at Dharuhera will also be taking part in the march on Republic Day. Farmers from Rajasthan are reaching the protest site on a daily basis. Harvinder Singh Gill, a farmer from Shri Ganganagar, said that the goal is to march on the Outer Ring Road with tractors on January 26. “We are not planning to proceed ahead for now but will take part in the march. On a daily basis, 20-30 trolleys from Ganganagar are reaching Dharuhera,” said Gill. He said that there are nearly 150 tractors at Dharuhera currently and the number of tractors is expected to touch 300 by January 26. Farmers from Mewat are also participating in a sit-in protest at Sunhera-Jurehra, near Punhana, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border. On Saturday, a rehearsal was conducted at the site ahead of the tractor march on Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-camping-at-haryana-rajasthan-border-gear-up-to-reach-delhi-for-tractor-rally-101611425391220.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Covid vaccine coverage hits a record low of 58% in district||The district recorded the lowest turnout for Covid-19 vaccination at 58% on Saturday — almost a week after the vaccine launch. As many as 3,055 front-line health care workers took the jab as against the target of inoculating 5,230 workers, as per the district health department data.Despite vaccination being held at as many as 86 session sites, the coverage stood at 58% — far lower than Friday’s coverage rate of 91%.The plunge in vaccination comes a day after 56-year-old health care worker suffered a sudden death on Friday after taking the jab on January 16. Lack of motivation in government health staff, reluctance among doctors and staff of small clinics and distance to the vaccination site, also contributed to the low footfall on Saturday, said health officials and private doctors.At least 2,987 health care staff took the Covishield jab, of the 4,925 workers targeted for the day. The response for Covaxin reached the lowest turnout of 22%, with 68 people out of 305, taking the jab at four sites. From January 16, this has been sharpest decline in Covaxin inoculation as the coverage in the last four drives stood at almost 33%. To allay apprehensions, members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday took the Covaxin shot.Till now, over 13,823 healthcare workers in the district have taken the Covid vaccine jab. Since the first vaccination drive on January 16 when the two vaccines were launched, the coverage rate has been continuously fluctuating. With 101% coverage on the first day, which was originally 60% and had to be extended considering lower footfall, the numbers decreased to almost 59% in the second drive held on January 18. It grew to almost 79% on January 21, and further to 91% on January 22.Citing the reason for Saturday’s poor coverage, Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “Clearly, there has been no issues with the Co-WIN platform. Maximum sites were planned for Saturday, which required mobilisation of the health care staff. Likely, staff from nursing homes and clinics also did not turn up. For Monday, we are planning to further mobilise and motivate our teams.”Since Friday onwards staff from nursing homes and small clinics have been added to the vaccine beneficiary list. Some doctors have cited distance to the vaccination a major issue. A physician in Old Gurugram preferring anonymity, said, “Although I received an SMS regarding the vaccination on Saturday but the designated site was Medeor Hospital, Manesar which is far off from place. Therefore, I dropped the visit.” Several other doctors have reported the similar issues with the IMA, according to Dr Ajay Gupta, vice president, IMA-Gurugram.“Distance to the vaccination sites has been creating challenges for many health staff. It is easy for the staff to take the vaccine if the session site is within the hospital. For others walk-in has been not so easy as the session sites have list of limited beneficiaries. The district health department has assured that the issue will be resolved as any registered staff can freely walk in to the nearby vaccination site without much hassle,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-vaccine-coverage-hits-a-record-low-of-58-in-district-101611425271275.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Death of health worker unrelated to Covid-19 vaccine: AEFI Committee||Investigating the death of a 56-year-old health worker at Bhangrola primary healthcare centre, who died of cardiac arrest within six days of being inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine on January 16, the Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee on Saturday drew an interim conclusion, stating that the death was unrelated to Covid-19 vaccine. The final confirmation, however, will be given after the viscera autopsy report is issued by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS- Rohtak), said health officials privy to the matter.Officials added that none of the other healthcare workers who took the vaccine from the same vial reported of any side effects. The victim, Rajwanti died on the night of January 22 — six days after taking the vaccine jab. The 15-member committee comprising health officials, senior specialist doctors and forensic experts met on Saturday to discuss at length about the issue. According to them, the health worker was on medication. “The woman took medication for an ailment which might had led to QT prolongation (irregular heartbeat) and increased the risk of sudden cardiac death,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, in a statement issued by the health department.Rajwanti’s autopsy report prepared by Gurugram mortuary does not come to any conclusion, according to officials. Therefore, the viscera samples have been sent for histopathology to PGIMS-Rohtak and the final report is awaited. According to the Covid-19 vaccine guidelines, in case of a death following vaccination,when the patient is not hospitalised or clinical records are unavailable, the family of the victim has to be motivated to give consent for post-mortem examination to identify the pathological cause of death.“The final opinion can only be given after the complete information regarding the pre-existing medical history and post-mortem viscera reports are available,” said Yadav. As per the official statement, the health worker attended her duties till Friday and reported no side effects due to vaccine during the observation period on the vaccination day and thereafter. She was found to be unresponsive on Friday morning. She was taken to a private hospital where she was declared dead on arrival.On Saturday, three people reported minor side effects like fever, nausea and anxiety after being inoculated with Covishield. Till now, 24 cases of minor events due to vaccine have been reported, with 21 reported on Monday alone. “Three private healthcare workers who took the jab on Friday reported fever and nausea. None of them had to be hospitalised and have been asked to take paracetamol,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/death-of-health-worker-unrelated-to-covid-19-vaccine-aefi-committee-101611425211195.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||HSVP to take action against illegal constructions beyond four floors||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran(HSVP) has decided to take action against property owners who have made additions above the fourth floor of their buildings. As per HSVP rules, permission can only be granted for stilt plus four floors. In addition, the houses where the third floor has been has been constructed without the stilt will also face actions as these have been constructed in violation of Haryana Building Code 2017, said HSVP officials. A direction by issued by HSVP states that as per the Haryana Building Code 2017, buildings constructed on HSVP plots are allowed only stilt and four storeys. Where, the stilts are not constructed, plots are only allowed ground floor and two storeys. Officials said that it has been observed that many plot owners are making unauthorised constructions on the roof of the second floor in case of plots without stilts and on the roof of third floor in case of structures with stilts. Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP, Gurugram, said that these constructions are illegal and action would be taken against such plot owners. “Residents can also lodge complaint if they witness such violations and can also approach the police in this regard,” said Kalia, who said action would be taken on all such complaints on priority. HSVP officials said that the government had allowed construction of stilts and four storeys to allow residents build more housing space and also prevent illegal constructions. “The entire purpose of allowing the fourth floor will fail if illegal constructions are carried out,” said a HSVP official. The department also said that encroachments made alongside roads and on HSVP land would also be removed on priority. It is to be noted that civic agencies like DTCP, GMDA, MCG and others have already embarked upon a drive to clear encroachments on green belts under their jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-to-take-action-against-illegal-constructions-beyond-four-floors-101611425151210.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Bill to improve RWAs’ functioning to be introduced soon||In order to improve the functioning of city’s residents’ welfare association (RWAs), which control and manage over 1,000 group housing societies and other residential colonies in the district, Rakesh Daulatabad, MLA, Badshahpur, has decided to introduce a private member’s bill in the upcoming state assembly session to amend the Haryana Registration and Regulation of Societies Act. This act deals with the functioning and operations of the RWAs. Addressing a press conference at the PWD guest house in the city, Daultabad said that in the past one year, he has come across a large number of issues faced by housing societies, pertaining to mismanagement of RWAs, inability to hold elections, corruption and inefficiency in the office of the district registrar. “We realised that this problem required reform and changes in the legislation. I have worked with government officials and discussed the proposed amendment in the bill to ensure that these problems are resolved,” he said. The draft act proposes a number of changes: District registrars should be classified as Class-l officers. It also proposes to remove indemnity and bar of the jurisdiction clause in the present act, and make officials accountable for their actions. The proposed amendment also allows only a single RWA in a gated housing complex, membership to all flat owners and joint owners without any corresponding membership fees. It also proposes to give the right to vote and contest elections to joint owners. The proposed amendment also provides for stricter compliances for RWAs and penalties for failing to follow rules. Daulatabad also said that the residents’ associations will be required to set up a website where details of rules, regulations, by-laws and details of expenditure would have to be shared with the society residents. “The elections would be held in a time-bound manner and a person can be a RWA president for only two consecutive terms,” he said. The amendment also proposes to consider the RWA executives as public servants, whose acts of omission and commission shall be brought under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Praveen Malik, president, Sare Homes RWA, said that RWAs, by the virtue of being recognised as a public office, will come under the Right to Information Act 2005, through the appointment of public information officer (PIO) and First Appellate Authority. They shall be liable to supply the requisite information to its members against the fee prescribed under the Haryana Right to Information Rules amended from time to time, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bill-to-improve-rwas-functioning-to-be-introduced-soon-101611425091217.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||MCG divides restricted area near IAF depot into three pockets||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has divided the restricted area located within the 900-metre radius of Indian Air Force (IAF) ammunition depot in Sector 14 into three pockets in order to maintain greater supervision over the area. Earlier, complying with the orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court, the district administration had banned new constructions in the area in February 2011 because of its proximity to the IAF depot. An order regarding the division of the area into three pockets was passed by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Wednesday. Pocket 1 of this area includes colonies near Maruti Udyog, Sector 22 A, Sector 23A, Carterpuri, and Dharam Colony. Areas falling near Old DLF, Sector 14, Sector 18, Sukhrali Enclave, Ashok Vihar 3, Sector 5, Sector 12 A, Sanjay Gram, and Rajiv Nagar are some of the locations that the civic body has kept in pocket 2. Finally, areas near Sheetla Colony, Sheetla Mata Mandir and Amanpura village are some of the areas included in pocket 3.MCG has also set up checkpoints to monitor the movement of construction vehicles, constituted teams of 15 officials in each zone to identify and demolish illegal constructions, initiate a drone survey to spot illegal buildings, register FIRs against violators, and erected boards cautioning people against purchasing any property or land in the area.“Each team has officials from the MCG’s engineering and enforcement wings. They all have been provided with necessary equipment, such as earthmovers, cranes, and tractor trolley, for demolishing illegal constructions. We have also set up barricades at multiple entry and exit points in the 900-metre area to look out for any vehicles carrying construction materials,” said Jitender Kumar, joint commissioner, MCG.Kumar said, so far, the MCG has found around 10 construction vehicles and multiple illegal constructions in the area. The civic body has also registered FIRs against more than 15 violators.“The rationale behind dividing the 900-metre restricted area into three pockets is to have greater surveillance and check on illegal constructions in the area. All concerned officials have been assigned their respective duties. We are also holding awareness drives in the locality to ensure that people do not purchase any property in the area and are made aware of the reasons behind it,” said Kumar. As per MCG officials, there are around 19,000 properties in the 900-metre restricted area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-divides-restricted-area-near-iaf-depot-into-three-pockets-101611425031283.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to start jail tourism from Jan 26: State home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government will start 'jail tourism' in the state from Pune's Yerawada prison on January 26 to facilitate people to visit and see from close quarters the historical prisons, a minister said on Saturday.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar will inaugurate the jail tourism initiative at Yerawada Central Jail on the Republic Day, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said in a press conference.This is the first of its kind initiative in the country, he claimed."Jail tourism in the state will start from the Yerawada jail in the first phase. Students from schools, colleges and other people will get a chance to visit these historical places," he told reporters at Police Gymkhana here."Under the British rule, several freedom fighters, including Mahatma Gandhi, Lokmanya Tilak, Motilal Nehru, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Sarojini Naidu, Subhas Chandra Bose had been imprisoned in Yerawada jail and their memories have been preserved there," he said.Deshmukh said that guides will be provided to the visitors and ticket prices will range from ₹5 to ₹50."In view of the coronavirus pandemic, only 50 visitors will be allowed daily," he said.The prisons in Thane, Nashik and Ratnagiri will also be part of the jail tourism initiative, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-start-jail-tourism-from-jan-26-state-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101611420023848.html
23-01-2021||Kolkata||'Have some dignity': Sloganeering at Netaji event with PM angers Mamata Banerjee||The Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat, or self-reliant India project, which focuses on indigenous production, would have made Subhas Chandra Bose proud had he been around, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday evening at a programme held at the Victoria Memorial Hall in Kolkata to mark the 125 birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter.“The nation is following the path Netaji showed,” PM Modi said.“Netaji said if you are true to yourself you cannot be wrong to the world. We have to make zero-defect products for the world… I often think how Netaji would feel seeing India surging ahead, its army getting modern weapons, planes like Rafale guarding the nation, vaccines being produced in India. How proud he must have felt seeing India giving vaccines to other nations,” the prime minister said.The government programme marked the launch of the year-long celebrations to be held across India till Bose’s 125th birthday next year. The cultural event was however not spared by the rising tension between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) ahead of the assembly polls due in March-April.When chief minister Mamata Banerjee rose to address the audience before PM Modi, BJP workers, who had gathered on the sprawling campus of the Victoria Memorial Hall in the Maidans, raised the slogans of Jai Sri Ram, at which Banerjee had reacted in the past, while several even booed at her.The compère of the show had to ask the crowd to calm down and let Banerjee, who was allotted five minutes, to speak.Also read: 'Won't speak at this platform' - Mamata feels 'insulted' at Centre's Netaji eventA peeved Banerjee walked up to the dais and said, “I feel a government programme must have some dignity. This is not a political programme but a government programme and it is for the public and all political parties.”“I am grateful to the prime minister that this event is being held in Kolkata. But you have no right to invite someone to a government programme and insult that person. In protest, I am not saying anything. Jai Hind, Jai Bangla,” said Banerjee. The chief minister, however, stayed till the end of the event and took her seat before PM Modi. They were also seen talking.All political parties, including the CPI(M), and eminent intellectuals of Kolkata condemned the raising of the Jai Sri Ram slogan at the event. Some BJP leaders tried to play down the incident while others supported the party supporters.At the event, Modi released a collection of Bose’s letters, two commemorative coins and a stamp. He also felicitated veterans of the Indian National Army that Bose led against the British Indian army. The veterans included Nayek Lalti Ram, Dr BN Pandey and INA Colonel Gurbaksh Singh Dhillon’s daughter-in-law.In his 30-minute speech in Hindi, PM Modi paid homage to Bose. He also said a few lines in Bengali.“Today I bow before the sacred land of Bengal that brought up little Subhas and taught him to grow through sacrifice. This land gave the country its national song and anthem,” said Modi who was on a one-day visit to the city.He named eminent social reformers, scientists and educationists and even former President Pranab Mukherjee, who was honoured with the Bharat Ratna, the nation’s highest civilian award by the BJP government.“Netaji’s sacrifice and perseverance is the source of the energy for today’s youth. We want generations to remember him. We have decided that programmes will be held across the nation. Every year, his birthday will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas (day of valour),” said Modi.“When the country is surging ahead in the spirit of 'Make in India', the teachings of Netaji become important because he travelled across the world to create awareness about the nation and to raise an army. He set up the Rani Jhansi Regiment when women did not enjoy such rights. Netaji showed that the British empire, where the sun never set, could be defeated,” said Modi.Also read: 'If China gets aggressive, so will India' - IAF chief on eve of talks with PLA“Netaji said no power in the world can put India in chains as long as it is independent. Netaji used to treat poverty, illiteracy, disease and lack of scientific innovation as the main problems. Today, our nation is striving to make women and farmers self-reliant and strengthening education infrastructure. We are introducing a new national education policy,” said Modi.Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel was also present at the Victoria Memorial Hall. “Netaji probably did not get the honour he deserves. Today, events are also being held at Cuttack in Odisha where Netaji was born and at Haripura in Gujarat, where he was elected president of the Congress party for the first time,” Patel said.The prime minister's plane landed at Kolkata airport around 3 pm. He reached the RCTC ground in the Maidan area in a chopper and his motorcade reached Netaji Bhawan around 3.30 pm. Crowds had gathered at several places to have a glimpse of the prime minister.After visiting Netaji Bhawan, Bose's residence which is now a museum, PM Modi went to the National Library where an international seminar will be held. After spending around 30 minutes at the library campus, the PM Modi's motorcade left for the Victoria Memorial Hall where musical programmes and a son et lumiere on Bose was organised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/have-some-dignity-sloganeering-at-netaji-event-with-pm-angers-mamata-banerjee-101611414900419.html
23-01-2021||Pune||Instil confidence in Covid vaccines||Instil confidence in Covid vaccines The nationwide Covid vaccination drive launched from January 16 saw technical glitches in Co-WIN app —an online platform for monitoring vaccine delivery, a few healthcare and frontline workers refusing to be inoculated and instances of mild adverse effect post jab. Share steps that authorities should take to build confidence in Covid-19 vaccines. Everyone should get vaccinated I recommend everyone to take the vaccine. In our family, my mother, father and wife are doctors. We have decided to get vaccinated. It is not true that everyone gets side effects. It is safe as the company conducts several trials and after that, a vaccine comes into the market. In India, only 0.8 per cent of people who took the jab have showed side effects. That is very normal for any other vaccine. Vaccines, like any medication, can cause side effect. In order to end the pandemic, we have to take vaccines. It is safe and trusted. Dr Ashish Tapadiya Vaccine will boost immunity Covid-19 is a contagion and new disease. To boost immunity, vaccination is the only solution. Vaccines will show different effects on everyone, reactions will be different on each one. It is a new vaccine. There is no need to panic due to side effects. There are two reasons to get vaccinated, one to protect ourselves and second to protect those around us. Because not everyone can be vaccinated – including young babies, those who are seriously ill or have certain allergies. They depend on others being vaccinated to ensure they are also safe from vaccine-preventable diseases. Dr Siddharth Dhende More awareness needed Government has begun the vaccination of frontline workers. At present, the government is giving vaccines to health workers. However, some health workers are not keen to take vaccines. If frontline workers are showing doubts, how can common man trust in vaccination? The government should create more public awareness and faith among the general public. I will think twice before taking the vaccine. Does one really need to get a vaccine or following precautions are okay? Ashish Adsul Vaccine is safe and needed Being health workers, there is no harm in taking a vaccine. Like any medicine, vaccines can cause mild side effects, such as a low-grade fever, or pain or redness at the injection site. Mild reactions go away within a few days. Severe or long-lasting side effects are extremely rare. Vaccines are continually monitored for safety, to detect rare adverse events. Most of the doctors have taken vaccines and they are feeling good. I spoke to a couple of doctors who took vaccines in the first government phase. I appeal to health care workers who refuse or hesitate to take vaccines, it is safe, and we have to take it to save our family members as we are always close to patients. Leena Gaikwad Don’t make vaccination compulsory The media hype regarding vaccination programme is not needed. The government should focus on providing basic facilities instead of concentrating on vaccines. Our country is out of danger as per government data which is released every day. The Covid cases have drastically come down and normalcy has returned. We shouldn’t force vaccination. Let people decide to vaccinate or not. If the government and companies are saying the vaccines are safe, why are some frontline workers showing hesitancy to take the jab? Pravin Gedam Counselling people to take vaccine There is no reason to worry about vaccination. It is safe and the government is doing a good job to vaccinate frontline workers. There is some issue of reactions, but I don’t think they are serious. In order to live fearlessly, we should have to take the vaccination. We give vaccines to our children for their better health; likewise, we should take a vaccine to keep us fit and fine. Being a government employee and responsible citizen, we are counselling people to take vaccines. We are waiting for a vaccine for family members. Jayant Bhosekar Natural immunity better than vaccines I think natural immunity is better than immunity derived from a vaccine. When pandemic was at a high, there were no vaccines in the market. Now, it has arrived when the spread of Covid has slowed down. I think there is no need to take a vaccine, except those at high-risk. People are aware and taking precautions. The government should not mandate vaccines. Indians have good immunity power. Government figures show less death count as compared to other countries. We should overcome the fear of Covid-19 and return to normal life. Santosh Raut Awaiting vaccine eagerly I recovered from Covid-19 disease and am waiting to get vaccinated. I don’t want anyone to go through this virus trauma. To avoid infection of Covid-19 disease, vaccination is a must. Everyone must take a vaccine. I have made up my mind to vaccinate my family to secure them from Covid-19 side effects. The side effects are minor as compared to the actual infection. I request the government to provide the vaccine for free to children, senior citizens and the poor. Yogesh Dhudhal Vaccine will develop immunity With painstaking effort, researchers have developed vaccines in record time to save mankind. We are grateful to them and are not afraid to take vaccines as it will develop immunity to fight the coronavirus. For many diseases, immunity acquired naturally often lasts longer than from a vaccine, but that means you have to suffer and survive. Therefore, vaccines are the only solution to develop immunity in our body. People will have to get vaccinated to acquire herd immunity. I am positive to take the vaccine along with family members. Saila Shelar Not confident about vaccine There is fear in the minds of people about the vaccines. My doctor friends have advised to wait and watch. Why are some frontline workers not taking the jab? If they are not showing a positive response, how will the common man come forward for vaccination? Though government has created a buzz of vaccination, they are not getting satisfactory responses from frontline workers. It is not in Pune, but across the country. So, I am not confident to take a vaccine at this stage. Chaitanya Machale Wait and watch With some frontline workers showing hesitancy to take vaccines, people have decided to wait and watch. I am also one of them. The government should generate more public awareness like in the case of polio and other vaccination programmes. Co-WIN application glitches showed mismanagement among government machinery. More transparency is needed to develop trust among the common people. We are not against vaccines as researchers have taken a lot of efforts to develop it. So, everyone should respect and appreciate their work, and ensure that their efforts should not be wasted. Shrikant Hingane As told to Siddharth Gadkari||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/instil-confidence-in-covid-vaccines-101611413150503.html
23-01-2021||Other||Baltana woman hurt in accident with SUV gets ₹6.6-lakh relief||A 30-year-old woman, who suffered injuries in a road accident in 2017, has been awarded ₹6.61 lakh as compensation by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Panchkula.The victim, Vandana Rani of Baltana, had filed a compensation claim against the driver of the SUV that hit her scooter, Gurpreet Singh of Dera Bassi, SUV’s owner Kaushalya Dhiman of Manimajra and insurer Oriental Insurance Company Ltd, New Delhi.A chartered accountant by profession, Vandana had informed the tribunal that the SUV hit her TVS Scooty while she was commuting to Yavnika Park, Sector 5, Panchkula, in November 2017.She alleged that the SUV was being driven at a high speed, rashly and negligently when it hit her scooter. Due to injuries, she remained admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, for 15 days and spent ₹7.5 lakh on treatment.The SUV driver and owner denied the allegations and said a false case was registered.After hearing the arguments, the tribunal partly allowed the petition and awarded ₹6.61 lakh as compensation with interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum from the date of filing of the petition till its realisation.The insurer, along with the owner and driver of the vehicle, will jointly and severally pay the compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/baltana-woman-hurt-in-accident-with-suv-gets-6-6-lakh-relief-101611409610233.html
23-01-2021||Kolkata||On Bose's 125th birth anniversary, PM Modi visits Netaji’s ancestral house||Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the ancestral house of legendary freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in south Kolkata on the latter's 125th birth anniversary on Saturday. Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leaders waited outside on the request of Netaji’s family members.PM Modi was escorted inside Netaji Bhawan by Netaji's grandnephews Sugata Bose and Sumantra Bose.“I had requested the Prime Minister’s Office that PM Modi should visit as the Prime Minister of India as it was the question of Netaji’s honour on his birthday. Our request was considered and we made arrangements inside the Bhawan accordingly. Everything was done in a dignified manner,” said Sugata Bose, chairman of the Netaji Research Bureau and a former Trinamool Congress MP.The Prime Minister was taken on a short tour of the museum inside the house and was shown the black German Wanderer sedan that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose rode for his great escape in January 16, 1941. He also saw Netaji’s bedroom, his study room and the room of Sarat Chandra Bose, Netaji’s elder brother.Also read: 'Netaji would have been proud to see India's export of Covid vaccine' PM Modi“Almost every Prime Minister of India - from Jawaharlal Nehru to Manmohan Singh - had visited the Netaji Bhawan in the past. They all came here as the Prime Ministers and not the leader of any political party. So, we maintained that even Modi should come as the Prime Minister and not as any political leader,” said Bose.Senior leaders of the BJP including Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP’s national general secretary and BJP MP Swapan Dasgupta waited outside. BJP workers could be heard raising slogans of Jai Shri Ram outside the house on the road.Another of Netaji’s grandnephew and BJP leader, Chandra Kumar Bose, however, said, "Modi was taken inside alone as it is the pandemic time and we decided not to allow a huge gathering inside."PM Modi is, however, not the first prime minister to have visited the Netaji’s ancestral house on January 23. Earlier, Lal Bahadur Shastri and PV Narasimha Rao had visited on Netaji’s birth anniversary. Other prime ministers have also visited but on different occasions.Members of the Bose-family also expressed their reservations on the Centre’s decision to celebrate the icon’s birth anniversary as 'Parakram Diwas' (day of valour) and not by the names they had proposed. The West Bengal government has named the day as 'Deshnayak Divas'.Chandra Kumar Bose had earlier said the day should be observed as Desh Prem Diwas (day of patriotism).“I personally prefer 'Deshnayak Divas' because that was the name given to Netaji by Rabindranath Tagore. I don’t link 'Parakram Divas' because Netaji was not just a soldier. He won the hearts of India with his love,” said Sugata Bose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/on-bose-s-125th-birth-anniversary-pm-modi-visits-netaji-s-ancestral-house-101611408272556.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 197 fresh coronavirus cases; positivity rate dips to 0.26 per cent||Delhi recorded 197 fresh Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths on Saturday, even as the positivity rate slipped to 0.26 per cent, authorities said.The city's infection tally is now over 6.33 lakh and the death toll 10,799, they said.On Monday, the city had recorded 161 cases, the lowest in nearly nine months, with a positivity rate of 0.32 per cent.The active cases tally on Saturday stood at 1,880, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.26 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.Health Minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said that the low number of active cases in Delhi was "satisfactory".This month, 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 494 on January 2; 424 on January 3; 384 on January 4, and 442 on January 5; 654 on January 6; 486 on January 7 and 444 on January 8; 519 on January 9 and 399 on January 10; 306 on January 11 and 386 on January 12 and 357 on January 13 and 340 on January 14.From January 15-22, the daily figures stood at 295; 299; 246; 161; 231; 228; 227 and 266 respectively.These 197 new cases came out the 76,868 tests conducted the previous day, including 47,467 RT-PCR tests and 29,401 rapid antigen tests.The bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 6,33,739.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-197-fresh-coronavirus-cases-positivity-rate-dips-to-0-26-per-cent-101611406156117.html
23-01-2021||Kolkata||Modi becomes 3rd PM to visit Kolkata's Netaji Bhawan on Bose's birthday||PM Modi on Saturday became the third prime minister after former PMs Lal Bahadur Shastri and P V Narasimha Rao to visit Kolkata’s Netaji Bhawan on freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose’s birthday. The mansion on Elgin Road, where the freedom fighter’s family lived, now houses a museum on Bose.“Lal Bahadur Shastri was the first Prime Minister who visited this historic building on January 23 while being in office,” said Bose’s grandnephew and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Chandra Kumar Bose who was present during Modi’s visit. Rao visited the building in 1995 to attend Bose's birthday celebrations.The prime minister's plane landed at Kolkata airport around 3 pm. He reached the RCTC ground in the Maidan area in a chopper and his motorcade reached Netaji Bhawan around 3.30 pm. Crowds gathered at several places to have a glimpse of the prime minister. A huge crowd started shouting his name in chorus when he waved at people outside a popular shopping mall on Elgin Road.The central government is celebrating Bose’s birthday as Parakram Diwas - the day of valour. This has triggered a controversy with West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) celebrating the day as Desh Nayak Diwas - the day of the national hero. The Forward Bloc, which Bose formed in 1939, and a section of his family demanded that January 23 be observed as Desh Prem Diwas or day of patriotism.Also read: 'Netaji would have been proud to see India's export of Covid vaccine' - PM Modi“The prime minster saw the Wanderer car that Netaji used. He visited Netaji’s study and his elder brother Sisir Kumar Bose’s room and also saw Netaji’s uniforms, swords and old photographs. The prime minister was inquisitive about Netaji’s visit to Haripura in Gujarat and we showed him some photographs,” said Bose’s grandnephew Sugata Bose who showed PM Modi around.Haripura is located in Surat. Bose was elected president of the Congress party at the Haripura convention held in February 1938. Records says that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel decided that the convention would be held at Haripura which was then a village.After visiting Netaji Bhawan, Modi went to the National Library where he talked to senior library officials and researchers. He also posed for a group photograph with them. After spending around 30 minutes at the library campus, the prime minister’s motorcade left for the Victoria Memorial grounds where several cultural programmes were lined up. One of these was a performance by 125 children from different states. This was planned by singer Usha Uthup.Mamata Banerjee, who criticised the Centre in her speech in the morning, was present at Victoria Memorial Hall. She accompanied Modi when he took a tour of the galleries in the museum.Slogans, such as Jai Sri Ram, were raised by sections of the crowd that gathered around the sprawling campus of the Victoria Memorial Hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/modi-becomes-3rd-pm-to-visit-kolkata-s-netaji-bhawan-on-bose-s-birthday-101611405840679.html
23-01-2021||Kolkata||'Netaji would have been proud to see India's export of Covid vaccine': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose would have been proud of India's self-reliance and pleased to see it exporting coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine to other nations.Addressing a gathering at Kolkata's Victoria Memorial on the occasion of Subhash Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary, which the Centre said would be celebrated as 'Parakram Divas' every year, the PM said, "A self-reliant West Bengal will lead to a self-reliant India."Also Read | 'Why no memorial for Netaji?': Mamata Banerjee asks Centre ahead of PM visitState chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar were also present at the event. The CM, however, refused to speak at the event as she felt 'insulted'."This is not a party programme. This is an event of the government. All political parties and people are part of this event. The government should have some dignity. Don't insult me after calling me here. I refuse to speak at this event in protest. Jai Hind, Jai Bangla," Banerjee said.Also Read: 'Won't speak at this platform': Mamata feels 'insulted' at Centre's Netaji eventEarlier in the day, the PM inaugurated a permanent museum dedicated to Netaji and CM Banerjee held a massive procession to pay tribute to the freedom fighter.Addressing the rally, which was held hours before PM landed in Kolkata, Banerjee reiterated her demand that January 23 be declared a national holiday. She also said that a monument dedicated to Netaji, named after Azad Hind Fauj, will be built at Rajarhat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/netaji-would-have-been-proud-to-see-india-s-export-of-covid-19-vaccine-says-pm-101611404331363.html
23-01-2021||Pune||Pune’s startup ecosystem: past, present and future||While we look at the ‘startup ecosystem’ as a fairly new phenomenon — technology-driven startups have been around for much longer; for many generations. Technologies change over the decades. In Pune as well, we can trace the activity of some early technology-driven manufacturing/automation ventures (‘startups’), all the way back to the late 19th century. Pune has been a seat of learning for centuries. Pune also has the 2nd oldest engineering college in the country — College of Engineering, Pune — established in 1853. This college has helped the tech and manufacturing startup ecosystem in the city, for over 150 years. There is an interesting piece of history recounted by Prof Ross Bassett in his book ‘The Technological Indian’ about Lokmanya Tilak and Pune. Tilak wrote extensively about modern technology and science in his editorials in Kesari and Mahratta. He highlighted how the ‘West’ was able to lead and colonise the world because of science and technology, and why it was important for Indians to get actively into this domain. Inspired by his writings a young Pune student Keshav Malhar Bhat headed to MIT in the US in the 1880s and became the first Indian to study there. He came back and set up a small engineering venture in Pune. The early 20th century saw the birth of small manufacturing related companies in and around the Pune region. These were the early “manufacturing startups”. One great example of this is the venture set up by Laxmanrao Kirloskar in Kirloskarwadi, which initially focused on farm equipment. Post-independence, in the 1950s and 60s, Pune started becoming the preferred manufacturing destination for the large automotive OEMs like Tata and Bajaj and other engineering companies. This helped in the creation of a big manufacturing supplier ecosystem and resulted in the birth of many small manufacturing units. The Auto-OEM suppliers’ startup network continued to expand and the 1970s/80s saw some small startup companies get into high-end manufacturing automation for a variety of processes like packaging, process manufacturing, assembly automation, material handling, etc. These companies did some non-trivial R&D as well as reverse engineering in addressing the customer requirements and created good import substitutes. (Note — the imported machines back then attracted a steep import duty and hence, there was a push to localise this technology). The 1980s/90s saw the advent of many ‘electronics’ startups — taking advantage of the new trends in control systems and microprocessors. The 1980s and 1990s also saw the birth of smaller companies in the chemical processing and manufacturing area as well. The 1980s also saw the beginning of the “software era” in Pune. Though some computing work was happening earlier as well in some government labs and research institutions here. Not many people know that Infosys actually started in Model Colony in Pune in the early 1980s! Even today, it can be considered as the biggest and most successful software startup out of Pune. The late 1980s and early 1990s saw the birth of many new software startups, focusing on IT services and related areas. Some of these have gone onto becoming Pune icons of the present like Persistent Systems and KPIT. The top global startup ecosystem — the Silicon Valley, saw big activity from the 1970s onward. The well-known Silicon Valley Venture Capitalist Paul Graham has written extensively about the Silicon Valley startup ecosystem. He has discussed many factors for its multi-decade success. Key ones being — the presence of a top academic and research ecosystem (driven by universities like Stanford and Berkeley, and many top research labs), presence of large tech companies, ample venture funding, excellent availability of talent, good climate and quality of life, overall infrastructure and more. It is worthwhile to look at some of these factors from a Pune perspective. Pune does tick the boxes for many of these. The city has excellent academic and research institutions. As discussed earlier, the large manufacturing companies initially provided the starting point for a manufacturing start-up ecosystem. Today, Pune has many large Software & IT Services companies. There is excellent talent availability. The city has an excellent year-round climate and quality of life — compared to some of the bigger cities in India. Pune has consistently ranked among the top-5 cities in software & IT startups. The 2000s saw many new startups in the software services and products space. Some of the early software services startups of the 1990s saw good IPO exits as well. The 2000s also saw the formation of a good software startup ecosystem, driven by initiatives and organisations such as TiE Pune, Pune Open Coffee Club, PuneTech, and others. They have provided good networking and mentoring platform for new startups. Angel Investment activity also picked up in the 2000s and 2010s. Many new startup Incubators and Accelerators were set up in the past decade. The 2010s saw some of the leading software startups in Pune hit the ‘Unicorn’ status (valuation over one billion US dollars). This list will continue to grow as we enter the new decade of the 2020s. The 2000s also saw good development in healthcare, energy, and materials areas as well. One of the key catalysts in this process has been the Venture Centre incubator at NCL. This is one of the top startup incubators in the country and provides excellent support, funding, mentoring, and other services for startups. Thanks to the presence of top research and education institutions like NCL, IISER Pune, NIV, NCCS, and others — we have seen good startup activity in the healthcare, energy, and materials space. During the 2020 pandemic, the Venture Centre startup ecosystem helped many startups launch important products and solutions around ventilators, masks, test-kits, diagnostics, and more. As we begin 2021, amidst the unprecedented year-old pandemic, — virus testing and vaccines have become the top focus areas for the world. The biotech & healthcare ecosystem in Pune is well-positioned with large companies (like Serum Institute of India — which is manufacturing the ‘Oxford Vaccine’ for the global market), mid-sized pharma companies, and small startups. One of these small startups ‘MyLab Solutions’ became the first one to develop a domestic test-kit for the Covid-19 virus. Another company, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals is developing India’s first mRNA vaccine for Covid-19. The author is chairperson, IT & ITES Committee, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA). This article originally appeared as an MCCIA blog. The author can be contacted at aparanjape@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-startup-ecosystem-past-present-and-future-101611403370659.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||65-year-old woman found murdered in Sohna||A 65-year-old woman was allegedly found murdered in her house in Sohna on Friday morning. The police said the suspects broke into the house in the early hours of Friday, stabbed the woman and escaped with cash, jewellery and valuables. Her tenant and a 15-year-old boy were later caught by the police for their alleged involvement.The tenant, who is in late twenties, knew that the deceased, Veena Devi, had jewellery and cash in her bedroom’s almirah, said the police.The police received information about the murder on Friday morning around 10am. “A woman who worked at her house tried to open the door but despite repeated attempts and ringing of door bell no one answered. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the help informed the neighbours and the police were called in. “The police teams broke open the door and found the woman lying in a pool of blood in her bedroom. She was lying on the floor,” he said. She was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead, said police. A forensic team, dog squad and crime team reached the spot and took samples from the room, following which the two were arrested, said police. Sangwan said the woman lived alone in her two-storey independent house in Sonha. Her husband died a few years ago. Her son lives in London with his family while daughter lives in Australia. “The police station teams have been directed to visit senior citizens regularly and to check their well-being,” he said. A case of murder and robbery was registered at Sohna police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/65yearold-woman-found-murdered-in-sohna-101611402590873.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Three, including two advocates, held for land fraud||Haryana crime police has arrested three persons, including two advocates, for fraudulently selling two acres of land in village Islampur in Sector 38, acquired by Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in the district, to a private company, thereby causing loss worth crores of rupees to the state exchequer, said the police on Friday. Muhammad Akil, director-general of police (crime), Panchkula, said that the land in question was acquired by HSVP in 1993 and was sold by the suspects to a private company for ₹2 crore on the basis of forged documents and witnesses. “Two of the suspects, Rohit Thakaran of village Jharsa and Ajay Chaudhary, a resident of village Islampur, hatched a plan and got the land transferred in the name of the latter by showing fake witnesses, impersonating the original owners of the property,” Akil said. Akil said they arrested Rohit Thakran and advocates Chaman Lal Arora and Subhash Chand Arora, who were witnesses in the sale deed registration, from different parts of the city on January 18. Ajay Choudhary is still untraceable, said the police. They will be produced before the court on Saturday after the end of police remand. The police said the matter came to their notice when one of the victims, Murti Devi, a resident of Gupta Colony in Gurugram, filed a complaint in this regard. Based on the complaint, state crime branch (Gurugram unit) arrested the suspects. The victim had approached the police after a SK Sharma, a Sector 39 resident, highlighted the alleged fraud in 2020 through an RTI. Akil said the notification for acquisition of around 2.5-acre land owned by a person named Mauji Lal of Islampur was issued in March 1990 and the acquisition by HSVP was completed in March 1993. But mutation of the land was not carried out and the land continued to be in the name of Mauji Lal in the revenue records. “In 1998, Mauji Lal died. He was survived by wife Pasto Devi and three daughters – Murti, Bala and Laxmi. The family got a compensation of ₹24 lakh from HSVP in different installments,” he said. In 2014, the suspects with the help of revenue officials illegally replaced the name of Mauji Lal with his wife Pasto Devi and her three daughters. The police said Ajay Chaudhary then appeared before the Punjab and Haryana High Court as Ajay Thakran, impersonating the non-existent grandson of Mauji, and managed to release a portion of the land in June 2014 through a release deed. The deed was then allegedly executed by a woman impersonating Mauji’s daughter, Laxmi. The alleged impersonator then transferred the land in the name of Ajay Chaudhary.Akil said Chaudhary transferred ₹29 lakh out of ₹2 crore to the account of Rohit Thakran, the suspected mastermind of the case. Dharamvir Singh, deputy superintendent of police (state crime), said that Murti Devi, the daughter of the deceased, in her statement said that she along with her two sisters, Laxmi Devi and Bala Devi, had taken compensation for their father’s land in Islampur village. “They had not signed any release deed in favour of anyone. They came to know that Ajay Chaudhary with the help of an impersonator had transferred the land in her name. The signature and the photograph on the registry belonged to someone else,” he said. On the basis of her complaint, a case has been registered at Sadar police station under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery) and 471 (forged document) and 120B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. Singh said mastermind Thakran has been involved in other cases including liquor smuggling. His accomplice Ajay Chaudhary has been allegedly involved in shooting and murder of a Rajasthan Police constable in 2006. Further probe in the case is underway. Estate officer-2 of HSVP (Gurugram) Vivek Kalia said, “They had given the copy of all relevant documents to police for their investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-including-two-advocates-held-for-land-fraud-101611402589941.html
23-01-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Collective experience of theatre is the only “normal”||In my previous article, I had disregarded the theory that the theatre experience will now evolve. I am not sure if “evolve” is the correct term here. Because I definitely do not consider watching shows online as an improvement over the live theatre experience. Let me use “change” instead. To be honest, I did begin doubting the existence of the collective experience in the future. These strong doubts were, ironically, given a rather insipid term – “the new normal”. Somewhere around June, after being away from any kind of performance for nearly 100 days, the void started playing on my mind. I was aware that I was one of the privileged ones. Many theatre artistes, actors and technicians, were going through financial issues. We were trying to do our bit by setting up a fund for them. Many artists around me had adapted themselves to another new normal – performances using Zoom! I genuinely envied them and their resilience. I finally gave in and performed online too. Everything about it was pretty similar to our live show. Announcing it online, getting people to buy the tickets, getting ready to perform, the goosebumps before the actual performance, meditating 10 minutes before curtain, watching the audience fill up – every experience was similar to a show in the theatre. Everything, except the actual performance! Something was missing. I could feel it while performing. But I dismissed it immediately because not being present in the moment while performing is one of the biggest mistakes an artist can commit! A few friends started a gathering of theatre practitioners from across the country (online, of course!) and rightly named it “Theatre Adda”. The idea was to have an informal dialogue between the theatre community in India, understand what the counterparts in different parts of the country are currently doing and just help each other cope with the long pause in live performances. It was very exciting to interact with nearly two hundred people from all over the country! The discussion quickly shifted to online theatre performances and its pros and cons. We also discussed the new initiatives, many of the online ticket booking software had started and how to use them to perform. Some were looking forward to using this new medium in a high data consuming and content hungry country like ours. Most of the people discussing were either actors or directors. While this discussion was on, one of the theatrewallahs interjected. He introduced himself as a light designer and operator, working for the past 30 years. He said one simple thing – “I cannot be a part of the online theatre performances and I miss the touch of my light operating board”. That was a moment of reckoning for me. That right there was the difference between a performance and a theatre experience! There was no give and take between the artists and the audience. It was like performing in front of a mirror. Where you are watching yourself perform. Techies will now tell me about the “gallery view” in Zoom. But not everybody in the audience has their cameras switched on, even if we request them to keep them on. In contrast, most people don’t switch off their microphones. Honestly, I do have a fundamental problem with asking people to switch off their microphones. Do we ask them to put themselves on mute when they come to the theatre? (Their phones, yes!) We expect them to watch, listen and react! I know that not every performance needs an applause, laughter or any audience reaction. Some pieces work best in silence. But there is no denying the fact that even that silence has to be collective, voluntarily. Not by pressing a button! It was right at that moment in the “Theatre Adda” that I stopped brooding about the future of theatre. I knew that it was secure. There was no substitute to this collective experience. And as John Steinbeck puts it: The theatre is the only institution in the world which has been dying for four thousand years and has never succumbed. It requires tough and devoted people to keep it alive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-collective-experience-of-theatre-is-the-only-normal-101611401389874.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Injustice with Somnath Bharti in AIIMS security staff assault case: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday expressed resentment over its MLA Somnath Bharti's jail for assaulting a security staff of AIIMSand said it feels injustice has been done to him."We respect and have full faith in judiciary. However, we feel injustice has happened to Somnath Bharti in this case. Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. People are quite sad in his constituency as the news of his conviction is spreading," the AAP said.Earlier in the day, a Delhi court sentenced Bharti to two years in jail in a case registered in 2016.Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey also imposed a fine of ₹one lakh on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader.Bharti, however, was granted bail to enable him to file an appeal before the high court against his conviction in the case and jail term.According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here with a JCB operator."The court is of the considered view that the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against accused Somnath Bharti," the magistrate said.The court convicted Bharti for various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 147 (rioting).It also held the AAP MLA guilty under section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.The offences carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail.The court, however, acquitted Bharti's associates and co-accused -- Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey -- citing a lack of evidence against them.The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R S Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS.Bharti had told the court that police officials and other witnesses had deposed against him in order to falsely implicate him in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/injustice-with-somnath-bharti-in-aiims-security-staff-assault-case-aap-101611400225506.html
23-01-2021||Other||Amarinder unquestioned leader of Punjab: Rawat||Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Rawat has said that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh remains the unquestioned leader of the state. “Captain Amarinder Singh is already in command in Punjab and no one has objected to it,” Rawat, an All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary, said on Friday when asked about who will lead the party in the Punjab assembly elections next year.Rawat was in Jalandhar to attend a function organised by a media house to help families hit by terrorism. Later, he visited Dera Sachkhand Ballan of the Ravidassia community. On former state minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been consigned to the margins of state politics due to his differences with Amarinder, Rawat said the state unit must involve him in its activities. Rawat, who is also a former Uttarakhand chief minister, said, “The process of resolution of differences (between Sidhu and the CM) has started. Now, it is up to both of them on when they complete the process.” He added, “If you keep such a capable person (Sidhu) in the party without any responsibility (whether in the government or the party) then what will people ask us. Responsibility will be given to Sidhu, but with every responsibility, there is some human issue. We have to see how these issues are resolved.” He added that the setting up a new organisational structure of the party in Punjab had been delayed as he does not want to divert the attention from the farmers’ agitation on the borders of Delhi. “For the new set-up, we have to hold talks with workers. This will divert their attention from farmer protests and it is not the appropriate time,” Rawat said. On grievances of local Congress leaders with the state bureaucracy, he said Punjab MLAs have more power than MLAs in other states as the CM has delegated more powers, in the interest of governance. “There were delays in action in important cases such as sacrilege or drugs. The government’s actions have also remained under judicial scrutiny. The government works at the pace of a cricket test match and not T20. If it works like T20, there will be cracks,” he said. He said that even the common man had now understood that the new farm laws were against them and had started opposing the Narendra Modi government. “The Centre’s use of the NIA to silence farmers is condemnable. It must realise that Punjab is a border state,” Rawat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amarinder-unquestioned-leader-of-punjab-rawat-101611400670558.html
23-01-2021||Patna||Bihar’s Congress in charge’s task cut out amid murmurs of split||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA Mohammad Zama Khan is all set to join the JD(U) a few days after meeting the ruling party’s former state president and Rajya Sabha member, Vashishtha Narayan Singh, on January 18. Congress legislator from Chenari, Murari Kumar Gautam, had also met Singh the same day.The Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, however, does not attach much significance to Murari’s meeting with Singh, saying there was nothing objectionable in such meetings.A section of Congress leaders, on the other hand, believe that Murari’s meeting with the JD(U) leader could be viewed in the light of growing dissensions in the party. A former MLA Bharat Singh had recently claimed that 11 out of Congress’ 19 MLAs were ready to join the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Jha, however, strongly denied any fear of a spilt in the party, claiming that only ‘weak’ minds could think about it. Ironically, several Congress MLAs had quit the party and joined the JD(U) just before the assembly elections a couple of months ago.Many party leaders believed that the new All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, would have a difficult time revitalising the organisation in the face of factional feuds in the party and a fear of split.“As many as seven legislators out of the 19 did not turn up at the BPCC office when Das visited it for the first time as the in-charge. There were only four MLAs, who took part in the Raj Bhawan march, taken out in support of agitating farmers on January 15, despite instructions from Das,” said a leader, who didn’t wish to be named.Many senior Congress leaders like former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar and former governor Nikhil Kumar hardly visit Sadaquat Ashram—the BPCC headquarter—even on important occasions. Former BPCC presidents Anil Sharma and Chandan Bagchi are often in news for their reservations.Senior leader and AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha said that the appointment of Das had bolstered the workers’ hope for the organisation’s rejuvenation.“Only elected leaders don’t make the organisation. Senior leaders, who couldn’t get a chance to fight election or failed in electoral politics, shall also be given due importance for their role in strengthening the party’s roots. Trusted leaders with credentials shall also be recognised and used in the organisation,” said Jha.Also Read: Bihar govt puts classified files related to Subash Chandra Bose on internetReferring to the district level programme being undertaken by Das, another party veteran said it would have been better if the AICC in charge opted to work with a new team. “Continuing with the old set of leaders, whose inefficiency led to reduction of the party’s tally in the assembly, would not help,” he added.The AICC in-charge has proposed to undertake padyatra in several districts, including Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Chapra, Siwan, East and West Champaran, Ara, Buxar, Gaya, Jehanabad, Arwal, etc, during his 12-day stay in the state. Das is arriving in Patna on January 25 and will launch his campaign from January 27 after presiding over the Republic Day celebrations in the BPCC office. He would wind up his first campaign in the state on February 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-congress-in-charge-s-task-cut-out-amid-murmurs-of-split-101611399910858.html
23-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: Airport staff considered frontline workers, to be inoculated for Covid-19||The Karnataka government said staff members at all airports across the state are considered as frontline workers of Covid-19 and are permitted for vaccination against the virus on priority basis.Commissioner Health and Family Welfare Service, Government of Karnataka issued a circular to this effect on Friday. The circular asks respective district Health and Family Welfare officers to make necessary arrangements for the same.They have been asked to ensure that all the staff members at Airports received the Covid-19 vaccine as per the existing protocol. Authorities at Kempegowda International Airport KIAL, Bengaluru and Mangaluru International Airport, also at Belagavi, Hubbali -Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Mysuru and Bidar have also been intimated about the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-airport-staff-to-be-inoculated-for-covid19-101611396428812.html
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||AAP holds motorcycle rallies in Punjab to mobilise people for R-Day tractor parade||The Punjab unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) took out motorcycle rallies in several parts of the state on Saturday to mobilise people for the proposed tractor parade of farmers in Delhi on January 26. AAP legislator and leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said party workers took out two-wheeler rallies across the state to mobilise people for the tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day. The rallies were organised in Sangrur, Mohali and Faridkot. The AAP workers taking part in the rallies carried placards with slogans such as No Farmer No Food and Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Zindabad. The AAP has already announced that it will join the farmers’ tractor parade in Delhi but “not as a political party”. MLAs and office-bearers from the party’s Punjab unit would take part in the tractor parade on January 26. The farmer unions protesting against the three farm laws of the Centre plan to hold the tractor parade on the busy Outer Ring Road in the national capital. Scores of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-holds-motorcycle-rallies-in-punjab-to-mobilise-people-for-r-day-tractor-parade-101611398750377.html
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Will not disrupt Republic Day functions in Haryana: BKU (Charuni)||Bhartiya Kisan Union Haryana chief Gurnam Singh Charuni on Saturday said that his supporters will not disrupt Republic Day programmes in the state. Charuni released a video message and appealed to workers to avoid any confrontation with the police. “Republic Day is a national festival and I request all farmers not to disrupt or oppose any programme at the district or state level as creating disruption at these programmes will send a wrong message,” Charuni said. He, however, clarified that protests against political rallies will continue. Meanwhile, heavy police deployment has been made in Panipat where chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is to unfurl the national flag at the state-level programme. Earlier, BKU Mann faction also announced that it will not oppose any Republic Day programme in the state. The Republic Day function will be first public programme of the chief minister after protesters ransacked the venue of his kisan mahapanchayat at Kaimla village of Karnal district on January 10, forcing the chief minister to cancel the programme. Later, Charuni took responsibility for the incident and announced that farmers will continue their protests against political rallies till the government accepts their demand to withdraw the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-not-disrupt-republic-day-functions-in-haryana-bku-charuni-101611396950352.html
23-01-2021||Ranchi||Lalu to be shifted to AIIMS-Delhi as health condition deteriorates||Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad will be shifted to AIIMS-Delhi after his health condition deteriorated while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ranchi, officials said on Saturday.Prasad (72), convicted in fodder scam cases, is undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) here for multiple ailments."Lalu Prasad is having trouble breathing for the last two days. On Friday, he was found to be having pneumonia. Considering his age, we have decided to shift him to AIIMS- Delhi on the advice of doctors for better treatment," RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad told PTI."He is likely to be shifted to AIIMS today. We have already spoken to the experts at AIIMS," he added.Dr Prasad further said that the authorities and his family are arranging for an air ambulance to shift him to AIIMS-Delhi.An eight-member medical board is examining Prasad's health and he is likely to be shifted to AIIMS as soon as the experts submit their report.To send Prasad to Delhi, the jail authorities will also have to seek approval from the CBI court.On Friday, Prasad's wife Rabri Devi, daughter Misa Bharti, sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi reached Ranchi on a special plane after being informed of the veteran leader's deteriorating health.The family met Prasad in the night.After meeting his father, Tejashwi told reporters that his condition was worrisome.Tejashwi also met Chief Minister Hemant Soren at his residence during the day to seek cooperation of the state government in arranging to take his father to Delhi.The Jharkhand High Court on Friday heard about the violation of the jail manual by Lalu Prasad while he was admitted at RIMS, pulling up the hospital authorities, the jail administration and the state government.The case will be next heard on February 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lalu-to-be-shifted-to-aiims-delhi-as-health-condition-deteriorates-101611395485771.html
23-01-2021||Kolkata||'Why no memorial for Netaji?': Mamata Banerjee asks Centre ahead of PM visit||After kicking off a procession in Kolkata to pay tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that while thousands of crores were spent in building statues and a new parliament complex, no memorial was built for the freedom fighter."A monument, named after Azad Hind Fauj, will be built at Rajarhat. A university named after Netaji is also being set up which shall be funded entirely by the state, and will have tie-ups with foreign universities," she said.Also Read: The patriot who will never dieReiterating her demand that January 23 be declared a national holiday, Banerjee said that this year's Republic Day parade in Kolkata will also be dedicated to Bose. "A grand padyatra will be held today. This year's Republic Day parade in Kolkata will also be dedicated to Netaji. A siren will be sounded today at 12.15 PM. We urge everyone to blow shankh at home. Centre must also declare January 23 as a national holiday," she said.While addressing a public rally, Banerjee further said that India should have four rotating Capitals instead of just one in New Delhi. She also directed Trinamool Congress MPs to raise the issue in parliament. "I believe that India must have four rotating capitals. The English ruled the entire country from Kolkata. Why should there be only one capital city in our country?" she said.Also Read | Parakram Diwas: PM Modi pays tribute to Netaji on eve of his jayantiAttacking the Centre further, the West Bengal CM said that the state was celebrating 'Deshnaayak Divas' today, not 'Parakram Diwas'. "We have observed 'Deshnaayak Divas' today. Rabindranath Tagore called Netaji 'Deshnaayak'. What is this 'Parakram'?" Mamata Banerjee said. On January 19, the Centre had announced that every year the legendary freedom fighter's birth anniversary will be celebrated as 'Parakram Diwas'.Meanwhile, PM Modi is expected to land in Kolkata later in the day and attend the inauguration of a permanent exhibition on Subhas Chandra Bose at the Victoria Memorial.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/why-no-memorial-for-netaji-mamata-banerjee-asks-centre-ahead-of-pm-visit-101611394377408.html
23-01-2021||Lucknow||50-year-old widow raped in UP's Mahoba, accused absconding||A 50-year-old widow was allegedly raped and made pregnant by a man from her village in the City Kotwali police station area in this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Saturday.The woman, who got an FIR lodged on Friday, has alleged that the accused, Akhilesh Ahirwar, barged into her house on the night of December 7 last year and raped her, City Kotwali Station House Officer (SHO) Shashi Kumar Pandey said.The woman has claimed that she is pregnant and has also alleged that the accused has threatened to kill her, the SHO said.The woman would be sent for a medical examination on Saturday, he said, adding that efforts are on to nab the accused, who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/50yearold-widow-raped-in-up-s-mahoba-accused-absconding-101611381845408.html
23-01-2021||Jaipur||Court bars coercive step against Karan Johar in case involving Pandya, KL Rahul||The Rajasthan high court on Friday directed the state not to take coercive steps against filmmaker Karan Johar in a case lodged in Jodhpur against him and Indian cricket team players Hardik Pandya and KL Rahul for allegedly making derogatory remarks against women.The court has also issued notice to the state government seeking the latest factual report in the case.DR Meghwal, a resident of Sarecha village in Jodhpur district, had filed an FIR with Luni police against Pandya, KL Rahul and filmmaker Karan Johar. In the FIR, the complainant alleged that in a TV show, ‘Koffee with Karan’, Pandya had made insulting remarks against women.Later, Pandya and KL Rahul moved a petition before the high court seeking quashing of the FIR. The court had already given interim protection to both of them from arrest.Also Read: 'Tandav is a work of fiction, it's a piece of entertainment first': Sunil GroverAfter hearing the petition of Karan Johar, justice Dr Pushpendra Singh Bhati ordered the complainant and the state government to submit their replies in the case.“The petitioner shall be permitted to present his case to the investigating officer through a legal representative or a legal advisor,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/court-bars-coercive-step-against-karan-johar-in-case-involving-pandya-kl-rahul-101611389371744.html
23-01-2021||Kolkata||Will celebrate Netaji's birthday as Desh Nayak Diwas: Mamata Banerjee||On the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Saturday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee pointed out that Netaji did not get his due respect and asserted that the state will celebrate the event as 'Desh Nayak Diwas'.Banerjee said, "There has been no patriot like Netaji. He endorsed Tagore's 'Jana Gana Mana' for the National Anthem. He gave the 'Jai Hind' slogan. Netaji was a great philosopher. He envisioned the Planning Commission and the Indian National Army before Independence. But Netaji did not get his due respect."Criticising the central government in a vieled manner, Banerjee said, "They claim to revere Netaji but scrapped the Planning Commission. I do not know why?"The chief minister said, "We will celebrate the birthday of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as 'Desh Nayak Diwas'. It is based on a great history. Rabindranath Tagore addressed Netaji as Desha Nayak. We formed a committee for Netaji's 125th birth anniversary celebration. Amartya Sen, Abhijeet Banerjee and eminent personalities are part of the committee for the year-long celebration."She also announced to introduce Netaji Subhas University and Jai Hind Vahini. "We know about the birthday but do not know about his death. This is very painful," she added.While there is controversy over Bose's death in a plane crash in Taipei on August 18, 1945, the Central government had in an RTI in 2017 confirmed that he had died in the incident.Mamata Banerjee further led a march from Shyam Bazaar to Red Road in Kolkata.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Kolkata's Netaji Bhawan at Elgin Road today. The Prime Minister will preside over the inaugural function of the 'Parakram Diwas' celebrations at Victoria Memorial in Kolkata.In order to honour and remember Netaji's indomitable spirit and selfless service to the nation, the Government of India has decided to celebrate his birthday on January 23 every year as 'Parakram Diwas' to inspire people of the country, especially the youth, to act with fortitude in the face of adversity as Netaji did, and to infuse in them a spirit of patriotic fervour.Born to advocate Janakinath Bose in Odisha's Cuttack on January 23, 1897, Netaji went on to play a key role in the freedom movement. He is also known for establishing the Azad Hind Fauj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/will-celebrate-netaji-s-birthday-as-desh-nayak-diwas-mamata-banerjee-101611388876713.html
23-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP’s core group underlines efforts to bridge differences||Rajasthan BJP’s core group comprising 12 members and four special invitees has been formed, putting an end to speculations over former chief minister and national vice-president Vasundhara Raje’s political future in the state. BJP national general secretary and state in-charge Arun Singh notified the core group on Thursday night.Surprisingly, no Meena leader has been included in the group from east Rajasthan, where BJP performed poorly in the local body elections held in December 2020. Also, no former state president has been included in the group.Other prominent leaders in the group include state BJP president Satish Poonia, leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria, Rajya Sabha MP Om Prakash Mathur, state general secretary Chandra Shekhar, deputy leader of the Opposition Rajendra Rathore, Union ministers Gajendra Singh, Arjun Meghwal, Kailash Chaudhary, state vice-president and Rajya Sabha MP Rajendra Gehlot, Lok Sabha MP CP Joshi and Kanakamal Katara.The four special invites are BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, Rajya Sabha MP Bhupendra Yadav, national vice-president Bharti Ben Shial and national secretary Alka Singh Gurjar.A senior BJP leader said that attempts have been made to include almost all the major communities in the core group. “The core group includes three Rajput leaders, two Jats, one Vaishya, one Brahmin, one Gurjar, one Yadav, and one each from Mali, dalit and adivasi communities,” he said.Kirodi Lal Meena and Jaskaur Meena from eastern Rajasthan, where the BJP performed poorly in the local body elections, have been excluded from the core group. Instead, tribal leader Kanakmal Katara has been given a place, the BJP leader added.“Former MLA from Bandikui and now national secretary Alka Singh has been made a special invitee. East Rajasthan is still a weak link and yet the party has surprised us by not giving any Meena leader a place. Jaskaur Meena and Kirodi Lal Meena were the contenders from eastern Rajasthan but political differences have arisen between the two,” said another BJP leader, who didn’t wish to be named.Also Read: Man behind extortion, death threats to Rajasthan BJP leader idolises DawoodBy giving place to opposing camps in the core group, an exercise has been made to maintain a political balance. The group is also mandated to meet every month to prevent any communication gap and serious differences, the leader quoted above added.Senior journalist and political analyst Tribhuvan said all the leaders who are potential chief minister candidates have been given a place in the core group.“The national leadership has tried to stop the infighting between the senior leaders which threatened to damage the party in the future. Results of the last three elections indicate there is a high chance that the BJP will form the government after the 2023 state assembly elections that’s why the national leadership is leaving no stone unturned to bring every faction together,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bjp-s-core-group-underlines-efforts-to-bridge-differences-101611385472152.html
23-01-2021||Jaipur||Man behind extortion, death threats to Rajasthan BJP leader idolises Dawood||A sharpshooter and an aide of Lawrence Vishnoi gang has been nabbed by Kota Rural police for making extortion calls and death threats to a Rajasthan BJP corporator from Ramganjmandi municipality.The corporator, Lokesh Pawecha, had filed a complaint to Kota rural police alleging one Vishal Umrawal (22) was making extortion calls to him, said superintendent of police (SP), Kota Rural, Sharad Chaudhary."Vishal recently threatened the corporator, asking him to resign from the Ramganjmandi municipality and pay him ₹two lakh if he didn’t want to be killed," Chaudhary said.Later, the accused put up the warning against the corporator on his facebook page. He also offered on facebook to be hired as a contract killer, following which, police’s cyber cell traced and nabbed him from Rangbari locality in Kota, the SP said.Also Read: WHO ranks Rajasthan best-prepared state for Covid vaccinationThe police said Umrawal was in contact with Lawrence Vishnoi 007 gang, operating in western Rajasthan, and was assisting it in smuggling of weapons.Vishal had been booked in three previous criminal cases including for deadly assault and possession of illegal firearms, said the police.Vishal wanted to make his mark in crime and idolised 1993 Mumbai blasts accused Dawood Ibrahim and Rajasthan gangster Anand Pal, added the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/man-behind-extortion-death-threats-to-rajasthan-bjp-leader-idolises-dawood-101611382494195.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||PMC Bank case: ED raids five locations, arrests 2 top officials of Viva Group||Viva Group Managing Director Mehul Thakur and Director Madan Gopal Chaturvedi have been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC) and Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited company scam, said officials on Saturday.On Friday, the ED conducted searches at five premises belonging to Viva Group and its associates.The premises included a registered office of Viva Group in Virar, a residential premise of the concerned person of Viva Group in Virar, one associated office premise of Viva Group in Andheri, and two residential premises of two financial consultants of Viva Group in Juhu and Chembur respectively. During the search, ₹73 lakh cash, incriminating digital and documentary evidence has been recovered, ED said in a release.The ED initiated an investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) against Housing Development Infrastructures Limited (HDIL), Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Sarang Wadhawan, Waryam Singh and Joy Thomas, Chairman and Managing Director of PMC Bank Limited and others on the basis of FIR registered by Economic Offences wing of Mumbai Police under Sections 409, 420, 465, 466, 471 read with 120B of IPC, 1860 for causing wrongful loss prima facie to the tune of ₹4,355 crore to PMC Bank and corresponding gain to themselves, it added.Several properties of Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and Wadhawan family trust and others valued at ₹293 crore were also attached and jewellery worth ₹63 crores was seized earlier, the officials said.A prosecution complaint has been filed against Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and others under PMLA, they stated in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-case-ed-raids-five-locations-arrests-2-top-officials-of-viva-group-101611380899918.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Maha CM Uddhav Thackeray pays tributes to Netaji on birth anniversary||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday paid homage to freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary.Thackeray paid floral tributes to the founder of the Indian National Army at 'Matoshree', his private residence in suburban Bandra here.State Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said Netaji's heroic acts are always an inspiration to Indians."Gandhiji's and Bose's ideals for freedom were two sides of the same coin," he said in a statement.The central government has decided to observe January 23 as "Parakram Diwas" to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bose, who was born on this day in 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-cm-pays-tributes-to-subhas-chandra-bose-on-birth-anniversary-101611379051783.html
23-01-2021||Ranchi||Lalu Prasad’s condition is stable, say doctors; family visits him in Ranchi||Former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi, leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Yadav, and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav, met incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad, who is undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Friday night.Lalu Prasad had complained of congestion in chest on Thursday evening, following which he was being monitored by top doctors of the institute. Prasad, who is serving prison terms in fodder scam cases, has been under treatment at RIMS since December 2017.Speaking to reporters around midnight after meeting his father, Tejashwi Yadav said the family was worried about his health condition."We will have clarity only after all diagnostic reports are available. But he is over 70 years of age and is suffering from several diseases including diabetes, heart ailment and reduced kidney function. Due to his complaint of congestion in chest, we were worried about Corona. We have come to know that water might have entered his lungs, which is a cause of worry," Tejashwi said, while replying to queries if Lalu Prasad will be shifted for better treatment.Tejashwi, along with his mother Rabri Devi and brother Tej Pratap, arrived in Ranchi by flight late Friday evening, while his elder sister Misa Bharti had arrived here separately on Friday afternoon and met her father during the day.RIMS authorities said on Friday that Prasad’s condition was stable.Also Read: Covid-19: Jharkhand minister recovers after double lung transplant in Chennai"His condition is stable. Most of his test reports are normal. He had developed symptoms of pneumonia for which meditation is being administered. Covid-19 has been ruled out with both antigen and RT-PCR tests being negative," RIMS director Dr Kameshwar Prasad told reporters after visiting Prasad at the paying ward of the hospital.The RIMS director added they had also approached specialists at AIIMS, Delhi, who vetted the treatment being given to Prasad for the identified infection in his lungs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lalu-prasad-s-condition-is-stable-say-doctors-family-visits-him-in-ranchi-101611378019874.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi's minimum temperature rises to 8 degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to eight degrees Celsius on Saturday even as fog lowered visibility to 300 metres in some parts of the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.A fresh Western Disturbance (WD) affecting the western Himalayas provided some relief from the chill. The minimum temperature rose to eight degrees Celsius as a result of easterly winds and a cloud cover over the national capital, an IMD official said.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said easterly winds are not as cold as the northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, pushing the minimum temperature up.However, the minimum temperature in Delhi will again drop to four degrees Celsius by Monday, Srivastava said."The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to four degrees Celsius by Monday," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-minimum-temperature-rises-to-8-degree-celsius-101611377822263.html
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Controversy over sale of Dhirendra Brahmachari’s ashram land in Haryana’s Gurugram||Twenty-four acres of prime land in Gurugram, owned by yoga guru Dhirendra Brahmachari’s Aparna Ashram Society, is at the centre of a controversy following the sale of the plot at throwaway price to three private companies.A sale deed for 24 acres at Silokhra village in Gurugram was registered by the naib tehsildar of Wazirabad in December 2020 for a mere ₹55 crore.UNDERVALUED SALE, SKIPPED E-REGISTRATION The red flag was raised by Surya Prakash, the legal representative of the ashram, following which, an inquiry was ordered by the Haryana government.During the inquiry, it was found that not only was the land sold by members of the society to three companies at a grossly undervalued price, but the sale deed was also executed manually by skipping the electronic appointment process.The inquiry being conducted by the Gurugram divisional commissioner is also examining the implication of a 2016 order of a civil judge restraining the members of the society from interfering in the ownership and possession of the society.Officials said that after the death of Dhirendra Brahmachari, a dispute broke out between members of the society and is continuing in different courts for the past two decades.WILL CANCEL SALE DEED IF UNDERVALUED: DUSHYANTState revenue minister Dushyant Chautala said that under the Indian Registration Act, the state government has the power to cancel the sale deed. “We will cancel the registration of the sale deed if there is an evasion of stamp duty due to under valuation of the property and execution of the sale agreement despite orders of the civil court,” Chautala said.Top officials said that the district authorities have been asked to take prompt action and remedial measures.“On the basis of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for reaching at an agreed price, it is beyond doubt that the agreed price of the land of Aparna Ashram was ₹12 crore per acre, which works out to be ₹288 crore for 24 acres. Hence, the sale deed of ₹55 crore is grossly undervalued,” said a communication sent by the revenue department to the Gurugram deputy commissioner.FORMER DC’S ORDER CHALLENGED IN COURT After the controversy broke out, the then Gurugram deputy commissioner set aside the registration deed after first allowing manual registration of the same.The order of the deputy commissioner has been challenged by one of the private buyers of the ashram land in the Punjab and Haryana high court on grounds that the order lacked jurisdiction.The case is listed for hearing on February 15.Asked about the controversial order of his predecessor to set aside the registration deed and actions recommended by the state government, present deputy commissioner Yash Garg said that the DC being the registrar had passed the order to set aside the registration.“We will follow the directions of the state government and the court,’’ Garg said.Officials said there were more issues in the deed that needed scrutiny . “How was the sum of ₹55 crore arrived at for sale of a prime piece of land? Did the managing committee of the ashram pass a resolution in this regard?’’ an official said.Officials are contemplating the ordering of attachment of the ashram land as there are multiple disputes.FLYING SWAMI AND CONTROVERSIESBrahmachari (1924-94) was a yoga guru to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. He was a known influencer in the decision-making process of the central government under Gandhi. He had opened yoga training institutes in Jammu and Delhi, benefitting from his proximity to the late PM in getting prime land.Brahmachari was accused of smuggling an aircraft from the United States during the imposition of Emergency, without paying custom duty. He was also at the centre of a controversy for importing gun parts illegally from Spain for his arms factory.Known as the Flying Swami, he died in a plane crash in 1994.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/controversy-over-sale-of-dhirendra-brahmachari-s-ashram-land-in-haryana-s-gurugram-101611375769378.html
23-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC minister Rajib Banerjee quits cabinet; party expels another MLA||In a fresh jolt to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) dispensation, West Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee on Friday stepped down from his post amid speculation that he may soon quit the ruling party to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the crucial assembly elections due in April-May.Later in the day, in a strong message to rebel leaders, the TMC expelled Vaishali Dalmiya, MLA from Bally in Howrah district, from the party amid speculations that the she, along with Banerjee, may soon join the BJP.Banerjee, the MLA from Domjur who has been airing his grievances against a section of leaders of the ruling party over the past few months, is the second minister from Howrah district and third minister in the state to have resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet. He has skipped at least five consecutive meetings of the cabinet and more than a dozen party programmes since September last year.“For the past one-and-a-half months, I was extremely hurt by the behavior of some of my party colleagues. I never made any personal attack. I feel extremely hurt today. I had no option but to resign. I offer my apology if I have hurt anyone,” a choked Banerjee told reporters in Kolkata, as the former minister tried to hold back his tears.The TMC leader submitted his resignation letter to the CM in the morning and a copy of the same was accepted by West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in the afternoon.“I regret to inform you that I hereby tender my resignation from my office as a cabinet minister being in charge of the forest department …..It has been a great honour and privilege to serve the people of West Bengal. I heartily convey my gratitude for getting this opportunity,” the letter read. Avoiding questions on his next move, he said: “I will continue to serve the people from whatever platform I get.”The TMC leader’s former colleague and BJP’s MP from Barrackpore Arjun Singh said that Banerjee was welcomed to join the saffron party. “More legislators and leaders will leave the TMC,” he said. However, TMC MP and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said the party will not be affected by the resignation. “This will not make any difference to the TMC. If people like these leave, our party will get more consolidated,” he said.Meanwhile, Dalmiya drew the ire of the party leadership over her recent remarks that there are “termites in the TMC who are breaking the party from within.” “Does working for people tantamount to breach of party discipline? I spoke against unfair activities in the party. I came to serve the people and will do so in the future. I have not decided what I will do right now,” she said on her expulsion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-minister-rajib-banerjee-quits-cabinet-party-expels-another-mla-101611367791332.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||No flights to, from Delhi airport from 10am-12.15pm till January 26||No scheduled flight will operate from Indira Gandhi International Airport between 10am and 12.15pm till January 26, due to the closure of airspace on account of Republic Day celebrations and rehearsals, the Airports Authority of India has said.The restrictions were imposed on Wednesday (January 20) and will be in place till Republic Day on Tuesday.An authority notice said no non-scheduled flight will be allowed to operate from 10am-1pm from January 20 to 26.However, the restriction will not be applicable to the movements of the Indian Air Force, the Border Security Force, the Indian Army or helicopters, the notice said. State-owned aircraft or helicopters can fly if carrying a governor or chief minister of any state or UT, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-flights-to-from-delhi-airport-from-10am-12-15pm-till-january-26-101611367401072.html
23-01-2021||Patna||‘Objectionable’ social media posts against Nitish govt, officials now a crime in Bihar||A Bihar administrative order making it a cybercrime to post offensive, objectionable or critical content on social media against the state government, its ministers, officials, members of Parliament and members of the legislative assembly triggered a political row in the state on Friday, with critics describing it as an attempt to muzzle free speech.The order was issued by additional director general (ADG) of the economic offences unit (EOU) Nayyar Husnain Khan on Thursday. Individuals and organisations who post such content will invite “appropriate action” under the law, the order said.Khan said the EOU would lodge a first information report, after conducting an inquiry, under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust) , 420 (cheating and dishonesty) and 467 (forgery of valuable security) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections 64 (recovery of compensation), 65 (tampering with computer source documents) and 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act.“The order seems to be an administrative direction which is vague and intended towards intimidation of the press and public that use social media demanding accountability of public administration,” said Apar Gupta, a trustee of the Internet Freedom Foundation.As a political slugfest ensued, the police clarified on Friday that “constructive criticism” wouldn’t fall afoul of the directive.The directive, which was sent to all principal secretaries and secretaries, cited an increasing number of complaints against the trend of posting slanderous and offensive content on social media platforms against government ministers, officials, MPs and MLAs by individuals as well as organised entities.“Such acts are against the law and come under the category of cybercrime. It is imperative that appropriate action is taken against such acts and persons putting posts having offensive/ abusive tenor. So, it is requested to all that on information of any such offensive posts in the social media, the EOU is informed so that an inquiry is made and necessary action as per law is taken,” the order read.Leader of the opposition in the assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday for the edict, comparing the Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), leader to Hitler. Yadav challenged the chief minister to arrest him, accusing Kumar of promoting corruption, patronising criminals and also alleging that Bihar Police was involved in the illegal sale of liquor in a dry state. “I dare the chief minister to arrest me for (making) these accusations under the new directive,” he said. Congress leader and member of the legislative council (MLC) Premchand Mishra said the directive showed that the state government was scared of criticism and called it an unacceptable violation of the right to freedom of speech. RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said the directive illustrated how Bihar had become a “Talibani” state, adding that people of Bihar wouldn’t tolerate what he called a “Tuglaqi farman”, referring to Muhammad Bin Tughlaq, the sultan of Delhi from 1325 to 1351, who was known to act on whims and fancies.“It means that the police would now put anybody in jail or harass a person if he is critical of the government or puts posts highlighting failure of the government. This is nothing but an attempt to suppress free speech and gag the people’s voice. This directive has to be withdrawn immediately,” Jha said.The ruling JD(U) and its partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), defended the decision, claiming it would help in checking abusive social media posts against the government and its officials. “It is a good step as these days one can notice how people put objectionable and offensive posts against government officials and others on social media. This is wrong and needs to be checked,” said deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad of the BJP. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said the directive would deter “unscrupulous elements” from using social media to post offensive content. Khan, the official who issued the directive, called it a routine order.“We will act against any attempt to malign the image of any political leaders or government officials if the department receives a complaint from the victim. The EOU would lodge an FIR [first information report] after a proper inquiry,” he said.Some Indian Police Service officers said the directive should have made the posting of offensive content targeting ordinary people a crime as well. “In a democracy, every person has a right to an opinion and express the same. If action could be taken against criticism of government officials and ministers, why not action be taken against critical posts against common man,” said a senior IPS officer on condition of anonymity.Legal experts also questioned the purpose behind such an order. “This letter is wholly unwarranted and erroneous. It doesn’t clarify under which law it would be an offence justifying legal action,” said senior advocate Sashi Kant of the Patna high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/objectionable-social-media-posts-against-nitish-govt-now-a-crime-in-bihar-101611359215329.html
23-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa reshuffles cabinet to contain dissent||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday caved into demands of dissenting ministers and made changes to his cabinet by redistributing portfolios to calm tempers, barely a day after rebellion broke out within his government.The changes were made less than a day after his government distributed and reshuffled several portfolios to newly inducted ministers who were sworn in on January 13 .The move leaves the 77-year old chief minister vulnerable to more such demands from disgruntled leaders within his two-year old government riven by dissent.J.C.Madhuswamy, who was stripped of minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs was given Haj and Wakf department along with his earlier allotted medical education.“Even I do not know the details as I am in Mysuru and have had no contact with the CM. I will wait a few days before taking any decision,” Madhuswamy said on Friday. He, however, refused to reveal what decision he is likely to take.K.Gopalaiah, a former Janata Dal (Secular) leader who helped Yediyurappa to power along with 16 other legislators, was handed the excise department. Gopalaiah said that he was happy with the newly allotted excise portfolio.N.Nagaraju (M.T.B), one of the several people, who had openly lashed out at the choice of portfolios, was made minister for municipal administration and sugarcane development.However, health and family welfare minister K.Sudhakar remains disenchanted after he was stripped of the medical education portfolio, people aware of developments said.Gopalaiah said that the issue of Sudhakar is something that the CM has to take care of.Sudhakar is one of the several legislators within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Karnataka who hone feelings of neglect in the latest cabinet reshuffle exercise.Several legislators overlooked in the cabinet have also started holding meetings among themselves to decide the next course of action to be heard by the party’s central leadership.Yediyurappa divested from his own kitty and handed over planning, programme monitoring and statistics department to K.C.Narayana Gowda, another dissenting minister.Arvind Limbavali, a legislator who helped secure the support of the turncoats, was given the Kannada and culture portfolio in addition to the forest department, he was allocated on Thursday.Yediyurappa’s fire fighting may have prevented an imminent explosion of dissent but simmering tensions are likely to play out in the near future that could make life more difficult for the chief minister.With elections just two years away, any cracks within the BJP is likely to play to the advantage of the Congress, the principal opposition party in the state.Narendar Pani, political analyst and faculty at the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS), said that this style of functioning is typical of Yediyurappa who is trying to cultivate a section of legislators and others loyal to him.“He is treating the turncoats as one branch within the party by taking from one and giving it to another. As long as he doesn’t have a major faction developing against him, he should be okay and get his job done,” Pani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-reshuffles-cabinet-to-contain-dissent-101611357589300.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Stories on the move||She is an engineer in a Noida-based multinational, but has been working from her home in Vikaspuri since March last year, because of you-know-what.But Jyoti Vij Ahuja is also a writer, who exploited the pandemic by compiling her short stories into a self-published e-book, Marital Bliss & Other Things.Ms Ahuja, 39, wrote these stories during her two-hour daily Metro trip from home to work and back, she says in a WhatsApp video chat. The commute was the most creative aspect of her day—it would give her ideas for prose and also for occasional poetry. “Looking at strangers’ faces, I would try to imagine the stories behind them.” Her writing pad was a tablet—husband Gagan’s gift.Today she shares a poem she wrote when brother, Vikas, was starting a new life in Europe. (While posing for a snap, her younger son, Samarth, tiptoes from behind, and photo-bombs the portrait.)The immigrantIf I were you, I wouldn’t have left as soon as I had turned twenty-one,Leaving pale memories at home and its sullen owners comforting themselves,Dusting the dirt off your little belongings, in a hope that you may need them when you return.If I were you, I wouldn’t have chosen a place where sun shines only for a few months in a year,Unlike our own land where the tan is not a statement but a by-product.If I were you I wouldn’t have needed to do currency conversions in my head, every time I had stopped by an unknown roadside joint to have a meal.If I were you, I wouldn’t have had the heart to make space for the immigrants from that hostile neighbouring land of ours.But there, they were as attached to you as if they belonged to the same bloodline.That hard-to-ignore resemblance: of the same colour, of the familiar dialect or that twin expression of brotherhood.If I were you, I wouldn’t have mustered the courage to stand for my dreams: To make big in the world of strangers, miles away from my birthplace.Getting glances, some loathsome, some surprised, others plain indifferent but never familiar.How I wish sometimes that I were you, so that I could have just for onceFelt the pains and joys of leaving the beloved motherland.Left behind but never forgotten, memories etched deep inside my soul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-stories-on-the-move-101611355132995.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers at Singhu border allege bid to infiltrate, spark violence||Farmers gathered at the Singhu border late on Friday alleged attempts to engineer violence at their protest site or during their upcoming tractor rally on Republic Day, with union leaders saying they had detained a man who was moving suspiciously among them.The development came on a day when talks between the farmers and the government broke down, and they said they will go ahead with their January 26 tractor rally inside the national capital – a demonstration that the government is attempting to avert.The farmers presented the man detained by them, who said that he and “dozens of other men and women” were attempting to bring weapons into the site to kill multiple people. The man, who was masked, did not identify at whose behest he was working but said his handlers had told the group “that the protesters were bad people, fighting for the wrong cause and are our enemies”.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said, “It is a matter of probe who was being benefitted by disrupting our movement. Everyone knows ours is a peaceful protest. He (the masked man) says he works for money. We need to know who is funding him”.Soon, the press conference was interrupted with some men seemingly in police uniform taking the masked man away.HT could not verify the identity of the man detained, the personnel who took him away or the allegations made by the unions.Earlier, the Delhi Police proposed a route map to the farmers where they could hold a tractor rally on January 26. Police officers did not share details of the proposed route but the farmers had been told to take out the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway on the periphery of the capital.The farmer groups confirmed they had received a proposal from the police but said they would respond only after holding a meeting on Saturday. They had planned the rally on the Outer Ring Road and had assured the police that it will be completely peaceful and that the protesters will not try to reach other areas in the city.Police officers have maintained that no official permission has yet been given to the protesters for the rally since it could create a law and order problem on the Republic Day and trigger traffic chaos.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said they are waiting for the farmer’s response and the future course of action would be decided accordingly.In the afternoon, however, there was some ruckus near Vigyan Bhawan when a group of farmers heading to the meeting with the Centre alleged that their car was stopped by the police and the rear windshield of the vehicle was broken by cops.Police officials said that every vehicle carrying farmers, coming to Vigyan Bhawan from Singhu Border, is escorted the police. Senior officials said they did not have any information about the vehicle joining the police escort and it was therefore stopped before Vigyan Bhawan. “On this, the farmers in the car got agitated and themselves damaged the car using a baton. There was no police action in this incident,” a senior officer said, who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-at-singhu-border-allege-bid-to-infiltrate-spark-violence-101611347757069.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram health worker who took Covishield shot dies of heart attack, officials wait for confirmatory report||A 56-year-old health worker at Bhangrola primary health centre, who had received a Covid-19 vaccine shot on January 16, died due to cardiac arrest on Friday. The district health department officials said that preliminary findings showed that the death might be unrelated to vaccination as the woman had shown no adverse reaction to the vaccine in the last five days.“Her viscera have been sent to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, to determine the actual cause of death,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district.“The cause of her death, if due to vaccination, is yet to be confirmed. She had received the Covishield shot. The postmortem done in Gurugram does not give any conclusive cause of death. But based on the examination by doctors of the Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee, the woman died due to cardiac arrest in her sleep,” he said, adding that until the final examination report is declared nothing can be claimed. “The state and central government have been informed about the incident” he said.After confirmation given by the family, the hospital authority called the police to take the woman’s husband Lal Singh’sstatement before a post-mortem examination to know the exact cause of death.The health worker, Rajwanti, was a resident of Krishna Colony.Her husband, Lal Singh, on Friday wrote to the SHO, New Colony police station, seeking to perform the last rites as there was a delay in postmortem report. Citing the entire episode, Singh in his letter said that his wife had slept at around 10pm on Thursday but she did not wake up the next morning. Thereafter, she was rushed to a private hospital in sector 39 where she was declared brought dead.Singh said, “My wife had no health issues. At 8am she was declared dead, and we received the body around 4pm.”In Gurugram, over 21 cases of minor side effects —such as nausea and high fever — had been reported since the Covid-19 vaccination drive started on January 16. None of them had to be admitted in hospital. The AEFI committee has been constituted to study and examine the adverse reactions reported by people after taking the vaccine jab. As per the health department data, no case of AEFI has been reported on Thursday and Friday. Experts say minor symptoms, like pain or swelling at the injection site and fever, are common in all sorts of vaccinations, and people should not be hesitant of taking the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-health-worker-who-got-jab-dies-vaccine-link-not-established-101611346845235.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Only 35% health care workers in Delhi's Shahdara district have got jab so far||After four rounds of Covid-19 inoculation in the national capital, Shahdara district has seen the lowest number of health care workers immunised so far, with a little more than 1/3rd of all targeted beneficiaries receiving the jab over the past week.While 54.5% of Delhi’s registered health care workers have received a Covid-19 vaccine jab, only 34.8% of beneficiaries in Shahdara district have been administered the jab, as on Friday, even as administration official told HT that several medical employees in the district had contracted the infection, and said they believed that antibodies to the virus negated the need for them to get a vaccine.Three districts in the Capital have so far recorded a coverage rate lower than Delhi’s average — Shahdara, North (43.3%) and New Delhi (47.6%).The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive kicked off on January 16, after which registered health care workers in the Capital have received shots on January 18, 19 and 21 across 81 inoculation centres.“The largest vaccination sites in Shahdara, such as Guru Teg Bahadur hospital and the Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital were both dedicated Covid-19 centres. Most health care workers at the hospital have already been infected with Covid-19. So, they believe that antibodies will protect against the infection, so there is no need to take the vaccine,” said a senior district official who asked not to be named.According to the official, these hospitals have asked their senior staffers and those who have already taken the shot to motivate others to get inoculated.At Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital — which houses Delhi’s central vaccine storage facility — only around 80 staff members have received the shot over the four days — less than one-fourth of the over 400 slated health care workers.“There are two important reasons why the vaccination drive hasn’t picked up pace at the hospital. One, most of the staff members have been exposed to the infection and think they do not need the shot. Two, they worked tirelessly when the hospital received a deluge of patients and now that the numbers have reduced so much, they believe that the pandemic has come to an end and there was no need for a vaccine,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.Other hospitals like Guru Teg Bahadur and the central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia that have seen low turnouts have banked on senior faculty members and staff to raise awareness among others.“If we see what is happening in other countries, there is a likelihood of a surge in infections in the future, and it is essential to protect health care workers, especially if a vaccine is available,” the doctor from Rajiv Gandhi hospital said.The response to the vaccination drive was better at hospitals where either no beds were reserved for Covid-19 patients or only a section of beds were earmarked to treat patients with the illness.“Charak Palika Hospital saw a gradual increase in the turnout for the first three days, but the fourth day witnessed a drop. On the first day of vaccination, 43 of the slated beneficiaries turned up, 52 got jabs on the second, 63 on third and 59 on the fourth. It is evident that there is hesitance among beneficiaries. With time, all concerns will be allayed and the turnout should go up,” said a senior official in the New Delhi Municipal Council which is in charge of the Charak Palika Hospital.At Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya and Delhi State Cancer Institute too, the coverage was about 50% of those targeted.Dr GP Kaushal, additional medical superintendant at Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Delhi, said: “The vaccination coverage rate currently is around 72.5%. We are still well below the target every day. Senior doctors going for the vaccine shots have started encouraging the rest, but it is taking time. We have a long way to go.”Covaxin coverageThe overall turnout in the four days has been low at the four central government-run hospitals that have been administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. The vaccine was approved by the apex drug regulator in a “trial mode” where those who receive the shot have to sign a consent form and will be followed up with for three months.On average, 45.5% of the people in these four central government hospitals have received the shot so far as per the data. The highest among them was at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where 95 people received the shot on the day of the roll-out, including the institute’s director Dr Randeep Guleria and NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul.Coverage at the premier facility fell dramatically on the second day, with just eight of the hospital’s registered staffers receiving the shot. It picked up after that, with 55 and 62 people being vaccinated on the third and the fourth day.The lowest turnout so far has been at Safdarjung hospital, where 39% of the beneficiaries have been vaccinated.Doctors from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital had written to their medical superintendent, asking for Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine on the first day of the drive. “We are working to dispel any misconceptions or doubts that people have. The senior doctors and those who have received the vaccine already are motivating the others. We will also put up hoardings with comments from those who have been vaccinated to convince people that the vaccine is absolutely safe,” said Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-35-health-care-workers-in-delhi-s-shahdara-district-have-got-jab-so-far-101611346097759.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||732 more bird deaths in Maharashtra, toll touches 14K||The number of bird deaths in Maharashtra is on a continuous rise. On Friday, 732 more bird deaths, including those of 624 poultry birds, were reported in the state. The toll has reached 14,524 since January 8, when the first set of bird deaths were reported in the state.Bhopal’s ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (ICAR-NIHSAD), has confirmed bird flu to be the reason behind deaths of poultry birds in 11 districts. Till Friday, the state has culled a total of 39,483 poultry birds and eight ducks and destroyed 35,515 eggs and 53,046 kg of poultry feed.Of the 626 poultry birds found dead, 198 deaths were reported from Jalgaon, 118 at Yavatmal, 115 in Beed, 54 at Palghar, 33 in Amravati, 29 from Gondia, 20 in Nagpur, 17 at Jalna, nine in Hingoli, eight each at Raigad and Nanded, five in Satara, four each at Nashik and Osmanabad, three in Pune and one in Ahmednagar. The state animal husbandry department also found 69 other birds, including herons, sparrows and parrots dead in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Pune, Satara, Beed, Nanded, Akola and Wardha. The samples of these birds are sent to ICAR-NIHSAD to confirm if bird flu is the cause behind the deaths, said animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh.Meanwhile, the state government has approved ₹1.3 crore to provide compensation to poultry farm owners who were affected owing to the avian influenza, state animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar said. “All those who had faced losses owing to culling process will be compensated in phases,” said Kedar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/732-more-bird-deaths-in-maharashtra-toll-touches-14k-101611345771487.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Air quality panel ropes in agencies to develop tool to read nature of emissions||The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas (CAQM) has commissioned several agencies to develop a ‘Decision Support System’ tool to capture the nature and source of emissions in the region, to focus interventions to curb emissions.The panel has entrusted the work of developing the system to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune, to forecast air quality using its weather models; The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) to develop a fine resolution emission inventory; the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to develop short and long-term control interventions and to identify hot spots. The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune has been assigned the job of integrating the physical, chemical and engineering aspects of the tool.“This tool will help capture the static and dynamic features of the emissions from various sources. It will have an integrated framework to handle both primary and secondary pollutants using chemical transport model. The system will also be able to handle the source specific interventions with the framework to estimate benefits of interventions,” a statement from the Commission on Friday said.The sources of emissions covered will include industries, transport, power plants, residential, DG sets, road dust, agricultural burning, refuse burning, construction dust, ammonia, volatile organic compounds, landfills etc.The interventions suggested by the tool can be implemented by the pollution control boards and its implementation can be monitored by citizen watch groups and NGOs, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-panel-ropes-in-agencies-to-develop-tool-to-read-nature-of-emissions-101611345241884.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Arriving soon in Mumbai: Better Bandra Terminus||The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) will undertake major infrastructure development work at and around Bandra Terminus to improve its accessibility, as part of its plan to redevelop seven railway stations in the city. A development plan on better road connectivity to the terminus is being prepared. The IRSDC is looking at providing road connectivity to the terminus from SV Road. SV Road in Bandra West is one of the arterial roads in the city and connects Santacruz, Vile Parle, Andheri, Jogeshwari, Malad and Borivli. Currently, only one narrow road from the east of the railway station connects to the terminus. “We are looking at increasing the connectivity to the terminus. We are also considering boosting the connectivity to the terminus to SV Road in Bandra. We can also relocate railway facilities at Bandra Terminus,” said SK Lohia, managing director, IRSDC. Apart from connectivity, passenger amenities, including elevated decks connecting to the platforms, multilevel car parkings, creation of passenger waiting areas, cafes and restaurants, are also being planned. “The designs are in the development stage. Multiple agencies including the Western Railway will be contacted for the development work.” said a senior IRSDC official. Apart from Bandra Terminus, the ISRDC plans to revamp Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Kalyan, Andheri, Dadar, Borivli and Thakurli railway stations. The redevelopment plans for terminus and stations include providing shopping complexes and hotels on the premises to increase the non- fare revenue. Earlier, the IRSDC had submitted a proposal for development of LTT, involving creation of separate departure and arrival wings and adding of new railway platforms. Moreover, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) will also be redeveloped. The plan will involve construction of commercial spaces, including restaurants and cafes along with vehicular parking for passengers inside the terminus. Segregation of outstation and local train passenger movements with the help of interconnecting decks has been planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/arriving-soon-in-mumbai-better-bandra-terminus-101611345407185.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees record 92% turnout on Day 4 of Covid vaccination drive||The Covid vaccination drive in Mumbai saw a record high turnout on Friday, with 3,539 (92%) of the 3,852 healthcare workers (HCW) getting the shots. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also received the second lot of 125,000 Covishield vaccine doses from the Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune. These doses will be used as part of the first phase to vaccinate 130,000 HCWs. The second lot was expected to be delivered on Friday, but after the fire at SII, they were unsure of the delivery. Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “We received 125,000 doses of Covishield from SII on Friday. We will use these doses for the first phase where healthcare workers are being vaccinated.” BMC officials said the turnout went up owing to nod for walk-in entries for HCWs and private hospitals requesting their staff to get vaccinated. Dr Pradeep Jadhav, medical superintendent, Bhabha Hospital in Bandra, said, “We had requested private hospitals and nursing homes to educate their staff on taking vaccination as it is completely safe. That helped improve the turnout on Friday.” The vaccination drive began in the city on January 16, with 1,926 HCWs (48%) getting vaccinated. On Tuesday and Wednesday, 50% and 52% of the targets were met. As of Friday, 8,790 HCWs have been vaccinated in Mumbai and 12 minor adverse effects following immunisation have been reported. A few doctors complained of fever, weakness or bodyache. Meanwhile, the second lot is stored at the cold storage in Parel’s F-South ward office. At a later stage, the Kanjurmarg facility will be activated as the central vaccine cold storage facility. On January 13, the BMC received its first lot of 139,500 vaccine doses from the SII.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-record-92-turnout-on-day-4-of-covid-vaccination-drive-101611345167136.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Deadline extended by nine months for phase 1 of Rani Khera business park project||The Delhi government has pushed the deadline for the completion of the first phase of the upcoming business park at Rani Khera by nine months, in view of the delay caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, said a senior government official on Friday.The business park – spread over an area of 150 acres in Rani Khera village near the Indira Gandhi International Airport – is meant to become a hub for enterprises in the technology and services sectors. The project was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a statement issued after a meeting with the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (DSIIDC) on November 18, 2020.The first of seven phases of the project is now expected to be completed by May 2023. On November 18, 2020, the government has said that the expected date for completion of the first phase would be August 31, 2022.On Friday, Kejriwal chaired a review meeting on the project in which he directed officials of the DSIIDC – a government company with the expertise of infrastructure development in industrial areas – to strictly stick to deadlines. Kejriwal said, “The entire project should be completed within the stipulated timeline. It should be done in a timebound manner.”In a statement issued after Friday’s meeting, Kejriwal’s office said, “The Delhi government will develop this first-of-its-kind business park in seven phases. The first phase of the Rani Khera Business Park expected to be completed by May 2023 and the second phase is expected to be ready by May 2025. The CM was also apprised that all necessary approvals of the government departments concerned have been duly obtained.”It further said the new deadlines have been set by the government in light of disruptions cause to routine work across all departments by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deadline-extended-by-nine-months-for-phase-1-of-rani-khera-business-park-project-101611344072063.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Law and order state subject: Sharad Pawar on Centre providing Y security to Maharashtra MP Narayan Rane||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday took potshots at the Centre for providing security to Rajya Sabha (RS) parliamentarian from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Narayan Rane and said the Centre’s intervention into the issue is surprising as law and order is a state subject.The state government had recently scaled down or completely scrapped the security cover of many leaders. Rane’s security cover was completely removed. He was earlier being provided the Y-plus category. Following the state’s move, the Union home ministry decided to provide the Y-security cover to the former chief minister.“It is the Centre’s right to do so but going by the Constitutional provisions, law and order is a state subject. So after the state took a decision pertaining to law and order, there was no reason for the Centre to intervene,” Pawar said. Justifying the changes in the security cover, the NCP chief said, “Based on threat perception, the state home department officials recommend the Maharashtra government to provide a particular category of security to a person. Even the security of state minister Sanjay Bansode was reduced. During the previous Devendra Fadnavis regime, my security cover was also reduced but we never complained. The Centre’s intervention in the state’s matter is surprising.” The veteran leader also reiterated that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government – comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – would complete its five-year term and attempts to dislodge it won’t succeed. “I have no doubt that the government will complete its five years. Attempts to dislodge the government have been going on since day one from Delhi as well in Mumbai, but it won’t make any impact,” Pawar said. He also confirmed his participation in the farmers’ agitation in Mumbai on Monday. “The farmers’ groups have invited all those who have extended support to their agitation. NCP too, has supported their agitation against the three farm laws. I have accepted their proposal,” Pawar said. The state unit of BJP has criticised the former Union agriculture minister and said Pawar would be agitating against himself. “Pawar was the one who was insisting for reforms in agriculture laws and now he will be holding a protest against the same legislations. This means he will be undertaking an agitation against himself,” said BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/law-and-order-state-subject-sharad-pawar-on-centre-providing-y-security-to-maharashtra-mp-narayan-rane-101611345107059.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Farm laws:Firm on indefinite hunger strike from Jan 30, says Anna Hazare after meeting former CM Devendra Fadnavis||After social activist Anna Hazare announced that he would go on an indefinite hunger strike from January 30 in support of the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders, leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly and former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis met him to convince him against the decision. However, after the meeting, Hazare said he was firm on his decision and demanded that the farm laws be repealed. “The BJP delegation led by Fadnavis met me today and handed over a statement by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. But I am firm on my announcement of going on hunger strike in support of the farmers,” he said after the meeting, which was held at Hazare’s village in Ralegan Siddhi, Ahmednagar.Fadnavis was joined by other BJP leaders such as Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil and Girish Mahajan. Fadnavis said he had met Hazare to understand the activist’s opinion on the laws. “Anna is the pride of Maharashtra and nobody wants him to go on hunger strike. He has some reservations about the assurances given to him by the Centre in the past. The Union agriculture minister has personally asked to understand his stand. We’ve spoken to Anna and will convey his demands to the Centre and get back to him. We hope Anna will be satisfied with Centre’s response,” said Fadnavis. On Thursday, Hazare claimed the BJP had failed to fulfil assurances given to him thrice. He said,“There’s no point of verbal communication when they can’t keep the written promises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farm-laws-firm-on-indefinite-hunger-strike-from-jan-30-says-anna-hazare-after-meeting-former-devendra-fadnavis-101611344146982.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Six samples from zoo test negative for avian flu||Six samples collected from Delhi zoo earlier this week tested negative for bird flu, officials said on Friday, days after a brown fish owl that was found dead in its enclosure, was diagnosed with a strain of the infection.Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park in Delhi said that while the zoo has not reported any fresh case of the flu, safety protocols have not been relaxed.“All six samples, including those of the four birds whose enclosures were close to the owl that died of the virus, returned negative on Thursday. However, safety, surveillance and sanitation work will continue, and all protocols and guidelines issued by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) of the Union ministry of environment forests and climate change and the animal husbandry department of the Delhi government, are being followed strictly,” Pandey said.On January 15, samples from a brown fish owl found dead in its enclosure at the zoo, tested positive for H5N8 avian influenza. After this, swabs from birds in the zoo were sent to the state’s animal husbandry unit for serological examination. Samples from water bodies inside the zoo premises frequented by wild and migratory birds, along with bird droppings, were sent to be examined.Officials from the Union environment ministry said they were keeping a close watch to ensure more bird flu cases are not reported from the Delhi zoo or any other part of the Capital.“Zoo staff has been given special drapers and PPE. They are following our advisory, and are in constant touch with the animal husbandry ministry. The zoo is closed, so there is no fear of transmission to people,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, the ministry’s additional director-general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-six-samples-from-zoo-test-negative-for-avian-flu-101611343782127.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Commuters’ woes to end on Jan 25 as Kalyan’s Patripool ROB is ready to be opened||Here is some good news for commuters of the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli. The work of the new Patripool Rail Over Bridge (ROB), which had made travelling a nightmare, has been completed and will be thrown open to public on January 25.It will be inaugurated by CM Uddhav Thackeray through a video conference. The news of its opening has created a buzz in the city with the photos of the new, aesthetically and technically-advanced bridge going viral since Thursday night.The bridge, which is already lauded as a first of its kind in the twin city by netizens for its contemporary looks, has the longest 76m web link girder in the entire Mumbai Metropolitan region, as per the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) officials.The bridge led to major congestion in both Kalyan and Dombivli. It was subjected to many protests and became a favourite topic for memes on social media.Shashikant Sontakke, chief engineer of MSRDC, said, “The bridge will be officially inaugurated and opened for vehicles on January 25 for the vehicles as the work is completed. Apart from the longest web link girder, the bridge also has another girder of 33m. Both these girders were built in Hyderabad.”Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde said that the bridge work faced many hurdles though the structural work was sped up in the last few months. “Usually, it takes eight months to build a girder but here, considering the need of the bridge, the girders were built in two-three months.”The four major reasons that caused the delay were designing the bridge, approvals, opposition from residents and the Covid-19 pandemic.Shinde added, “The 104-year-old Patripool bridge was dismantled in an emergency after it was declared unsafe by IIT Bombay without any plan ready for the new bridge. Later on, the planning and designing were done and approval was sought. When the work began, the authorities realised that a drainage chamber was blocking the work, so the bridge was redesigned leading to a delay.”On Friday, Shinde and MSRDC officials visited the newly-built bridge before its inauguration.The MSRDC took up the work of the new Patripool Bridge in December 2018, two months after it was dismantled by the Central Railway. During the lockdown, work at the site was completely stalled as the labourers deployed for work left for West Bengal. However, around 50 labourers were called back and a flight was arranged for them to come to the city.“The project work gained speed since May after we decided to utilise the lockdown period. The contractor was asked to bring back the labourers and they came to Mumbai by flight on an urgent basis,” said Aniruddha Borde, junior engineer, MSRDC.Apart from the newly-built two-lane bridge, an additional two-lane bridge will be built considering the future requirement of the traffic movement on this route. The work of the girder for the additional bridge has already begun.How was the bridge built?The girder for the bridge was built in Hyderabad with the help of 250 men in less than two months. According to the Global Steel Company, based in Hyderabad, the work of a girder requires at least nine to ten months. However, considering the need of the Patripool ROB, it was built in less than two month.“The Patripool girder was built with the machineries that we got from Germany and Italy. We worked day and night to finish it on time. There were several hindrances due to the lockdown and rain, but we managed to finish the work,” said Rishi Agarwal, managing director of the company.The girders were built with a welding work of 25km length and it has around 30,000 nut bolts and 45,000 connection holes. The entire bridge weighs around 850 tons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/commuters-woes-to-end-on-jan-25-as-kalyan-s-patripool-rob-is-ready-to-be-opened-101611343787132.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai to conduct annual convocation ceremony virtually this year||Taking into consideration the current Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, the University of Mumbai (MU) has decided to hold its annual convocation ceremony online this year. The ceremony is scheduled to take place on February 28 and will be telecast live through the MU website, www.mu.ac.in.“The degree/diploma certificates of students who graduated in the first and second half of 2020 shall be sent to their respective departments or institutes from where they graduated. The distribution of these certificates will be conducted by the individual institutes,” read a statement released by the university on Friday.Earlier this week, the university had invited students to check the details of their certificates on MU website and inform the officials of any errors or changes to the certificate details, if any. The circular further stated that the list of degree/diploma certificates with convocation numbers of candidates will be made available on the university website and candidates must note down these numbers and produce the same at their department or institutes at the time of collecting their certificates.MU is one of many higher education institutes across the country this year that has chosen to conduct convocation ceremonies virtually this year. All the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) as well as several B-schools in Mumbai and across the country chose to hold virtual convocation ceremonies this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-to-conduct-annual-convocation-ceremony-virtually-this-year-101611343547143.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Transport to get 350 new buses this year||The Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) has promised to ply more than 350 new buses till December 2021 in a budget estimate of ₹458.13Cr for the fiscal year 2021-22 presented on Friday.Apart from the promise of new buses, which will take the total number of buses in Thane city to 700, the budget has nothing new to offer this year. The TMT has also demanded hefty funds of ₹284.63Cr from the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), showing losses in excess of ₹144Cr.The transport body has also planned to survey those routes in the interior areas of the city that at present has no service. Additional mini and midi buses will be added in these narrow routes.The TMT has 364 buses in its fleet at present, of which 333 are operational.Dnyaneshwar Dhere, transport manager, said, “We have planned to add 350 more buses till the end of this year. These include 200 buses from the funds allocated by the state and central government, 50 mini and midi buses and 100 electric buses from the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA). This will take the total number of buses in the city to 700 by early next year.”Last year, the TMT demanded funds of ₹291.4Cr from TMC while this year, the demand is for 284.63Cr. Dhere said, “The year has been a tough one with the pandemic leading to losses as high as ₹80Cr. We also lost 14 of our employees to Covid while 175 were infected. We, however, have plans to increase the ridership this year.”The transport body plans to deploy additional supervisors on the SATIS bridge to guide people to the exact bus routes. The number of digital schedules of buses installed at bus stops will be increased.“There are many areas in the interiors of the city where our buses haven’t reached as the roads are narrow. We will survey such routes where there is a demand for buses and ply midi and mini buses there,” Dhere added.Though the TMT plans to acquire 100 new electric buses, the general body has given directives to cancel the contract of the electric bus contractor earlier this week. The corporation has received only one electric bus in three years, following which the members of the general body demanded action against the contractor. The mayor ruled that the contract for electric buses will be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-transport-to-get-350-new-buses-this-year-101611343367022.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Congress holds protests in Maharashtra, seeks action against Arnab Goswami||Congress workers staged agitation across Maharashtra demanding action against Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over the alleged leaked WhatsApp chats related to the 2019 Balakot airstrike and other sensitive national issues. The Congress alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its top leaders were shielding Goswami. At Mumbai, the protest was held outside Republic TV’s office in Lower Parel, followed by a rally at Jambori Maidan in Worli. As a part of its nationwide stir over the issue, key party leaders, including district presidents, led the protest marches in their respective districts. “Goswami knew about the Balakot airstrike three days in advance as the information was leaked to him by top BJP leaders. He is a traitor and should be booked for sedition. BJP leaders are shielding him for their political interest by compromising national security. Goswami used the sacrifice of the CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) jawans martyred in the Pulwama attack for financial gains by boosting his channel’s TRP (television rating points),” said Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap. He also questioned why central agencies failed to make the purported chats between Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the former chief of ratings agency BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) public similar to ones about alleged drug procurement in which actor Deepika Padukone’s name emerged. “If the central agencies failed to take action against him, Mumbai Police should book him for these serious violations,” added Jagtap.At Latur and Parbhani, the protests were led by legislators Dhiraj Deshmukh and Suresh Warpudkar, respectively. Party leaders submitted memorandum to collectors demanding action against Goswami. Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said, “It appears that Goswami was in the know about the airstrike as part of the Indian defence forces’ retaliation to the Pulwama attack. Goswami appears to know about the airstrike three days in advance. In one of his chats, he said a big name in the [Narendra] Modi government had revealed about it to him. A thorough investigation into the issue and Goswami’s arrest are a must as this pertains to national security.” In a statement on Tuesday, Goswami said, “It is beyond absurd to suggest that expecting India to strike back at Pakistan after the Pulwama attack was a crime. It was publicly available information and thousands of journalists reported, wrote, broadcast and analysed in the same direction after Pulwama. I am horrified that the Congress party thinks any journalist in India expressing the views publicly stated by the government is committing a crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-holds-protests-in-maharashtra-seeks-action-against-arnab-goswami-101611343247999.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Thane: Take diversion as Kopri bridge will close this weekend for girders||Commuters taking the Kopri bridge after 9pm this weekend will have to take a diversion as it will be closed for laying of six more girders by the central railway over the railway lines.The north-bound route from Airoli junction to Eastern Express Highway (EEH) towards Thane and LBS Marg will be closed for all types of heavy vehicles on January 23 and 24 from 9pm to ease the peak-hour congestion. The light vehicles, on the other hand, can enter Thane through Modella toll plaza via the east-west flyover in Mulund.Balasaheb Patil, DCP, Traffic, said, “We are expecting some congestion for the initial two hours due to the closure of the bridge. We will have to rope in additional staff for two hours. We believe the diversions are sufficient for the light vehicles and we shall be able to manage without any major hurdle.”The Central Railway, too, has imposed a night block and cancelled a few trains.Last weekend, the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Authority (MMRDA) launched seven girders along this route. They have completed almost 70 per cent work in their designated area. The girders that will be launched this weekend are 63m long and 102 tons in weight. As these are very heavy, the railways will make use of a crane that can balance the weight of around 1,000 tons.The Kopri Road Over Bridge is on the EEH. The eight-lane EEH turns into two lanes on this bridge leading to a bottle neck during peak hours. Widening the bridge will resolve the peak-hour congestion, giving relief to people going towards Thane, Navi Mumbai and Mumbai.A shadow block will also take place at Atgaon station for launching of girders for a Foot Over Bridge on down line from 2.20am to 6.20am on January 24. This will impact suburban local services from 12:40am to 5am on January 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-take-diversion-as-kopri-bridge-will-close-this-weekend-for-girders-101611342947013.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets colder: Temperature to fall further from Sunday, IMD predicts||The minimum temperature in the national capital dipped to 4.2 degrees Celsius on Friday, even as calm winds led to a spike in pollution levels, weather experts said on Friday. The India Meteorological Department forecast that the temperature will rise slightly on Saturday, but will fall from Sunday evening.On Friday, the minimum temperature recorded at Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station, considered the official marker for the city, was 4.2°C — three below the season’s normal. The maximum temperature, meanwhile, was 18.6°C — three below normal.IMD scientists said the drop in temperature on Friday was caused because the fog layer in the early hours moved further away from the ground, which did not allow temperatures to rise during the day.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The first reason for the temperature to fall on Friday was the rising of the fog in the morning. Apart from this, the wind blowing over the city also carried high moisture content, which also kept temperatures low.”Srivastava said that on Saturday, the minimum temperature will rise to around 6°C, but will fall again from Sunday, till January 28.A forecast by the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the IMD said a fresh western disturbance hit the western Himalaya regions on Friday, because of which the wind direction in Delhi will change from north-westerly to easterly, which will cause the probable temperature rise in Delhi on Saturday.“Rise in minimum temperatures by 2-3°C is very likely during next 48 hours (January 23-24). A fall by 3-5°C during subsequent the subsequent three days (January 25-27) over most parts of northwest and central India is also predicted,” the NWDC forecast read.After the western disturbance passes, Delhi will get colder from Monday. “On Monday, the minimum temperature is expected to be around 5°C, but by Tuesday it will fall further and reach around 4°C,” a senior IMD scientist said.The change in the wind direction from north-westerly to easterly on Friday also causing slower winds, which led to a spike in pollution levels.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) on Friday was 364, in the ‘very poor’ zone. On Thursday, the 24-hour average AQI was 296, categorised as ‘poor’ in the CPCB scale.The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), has forecast that the wind speed and ventilation will improve on Saturday.“Surface winds are set to improve for Saturday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance. Due to better ventilation condition, AQI is forecasted to marginally improve on January 23 and January 24,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-colder-temperature-to-fall-further-from-sunday-imd-predicts-101611342503268.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||At 76%, Maharashtra sees its highest turnout for Covid vaccine so far||Maharashtra on Friday inoculated 21,610 healthcare workers (HCWs) across 282 centres in the state’s fourth vaccination drive so far. The state achieved its highest percentage of turnout on Friday at 76%, owing to the decision to allow walk-ins for HCWs at the centres to get the vaccine. Mumbai recorded 92% turnout on Friday and vaccinated 3,539 HCWs against the expected 3,852, Mumbai civic body said.Dr Pradeep Vyas, state health secretary, said since the vaccination drive commenced on January 16, 74,000 HCWs in Maharashtra have been inoculated. Of the shots given on Friday, 318 were Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, Vyas said. With the next vaccination session scheduled for Saturday, the state could get close to the landmark of vaccinating 100,000 HCWs.Maharashtra’s Beed, Hingoli, Amravati and Wardha districts saw more HCWs trickling at the vaccine centres than targeted. According to a state health department official, the decision to allow all registered HCWs to voluntarily come at centres without prior appointment has helped the state boost its numbers. Beed district, according to a statement from the health department, recorded 151% turnout with 757 people being vaccinated, while Hingoli saw a 117% turnout with 234 HCWs being inoculated. Centres in Amravati saw inoculation of 557 HCWs and registered a turnout of 111%. Wardha saw inoculation of 657 HCWs which was a 110% turnout, the statement added. Meanwhile, Osmanabad district saw a turnout of 103% with 309 HCWs getting the shot.“We had anticipated an increase in numbers. The entire jump in numbers cannot be attributed to just allowing walk-ins. Some percentage of doctors and HCWs are gradually coming on their scheduled day as well. There is a hesitance (among people), but it will go with time; with them seeing little or no adverse effects to their colleagues,” said a senior health department official who did not wish to be named.Buldhana and Pune districts, meanwhile, were at the bottom in terms of turnout against target. Buldhana saw a 43% turnout with 256 HCWs getting the vaccine. Pune, which has 28% of the state’s active caseload with 12,926 cases, reported 44% turnout with 1,275 HCWs being vaccinated on Friday. CoWIN app, meanwhile, continued to have issues including slow performance and erratic functioning, officials said. “We have had complaints from some districts, but these are teething issues. The app is being updated by the Centre. The districts are recording data offline and have been instructed to upload them when the app works,” an official said requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Friday reported 2,779 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,003,657. The active caseload in the state stood at 44,926. Mumbai reported 483 new cases, pushing the tally to 305,136.The state also reported 50 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 50,684. Of the 50 deaths reported, 28 occurred in the past 48 hours and eight in the past week. The remaining 14 deaths are from the period before last week, a health department bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.53%. Maharashtra also recorded 3,419 discharges, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1,906,827. The state’s recovery rate has improved to 95.17%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-76-maharashtra-sees-its-highest-turnout-for-covid-vaccine-so-far-101611342766973.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Shankar Mahadevan turns traffic cop for a day in Navi Mumbai||For a month, the Navi Mumbai traffic police has asked the residents to man traffic for two hours a day at any junction of their choice. The residents who wish to join the initiative ‘One Day With Police’, which is a part of a month-long road safety campaign will have to register themselves.The residents acting as traffic cop will also give a thank you card to those who follow traffic norms while those flouting rules would be given a warning card.The initiative was inaugurated by singer and musician Shankar Mahadevan on Friday morning. After the inauguration, Mahadevan himself became a traffic cop and took to the streets to regulate traffic.The traffic department of Navi Mumbai is conducting the road safety campaign from January 18 to February 17.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Purushottam Karad, said, “As per the government norms, there should not be crowding of people and yet there needs to be public participation. In order to fulfil this, we started this initiative wherein people can register themselves via the traffic department’s website.”People can then choose their preferred time, day and the junction among the 31 junctions listed in the website. The person would be accompanied by a traffic cop and would be helped to control the traffic. “The one who will complete two hours of managing the traffic will get an e-certificate from traffic police,” Karad said. During the inauguration, Mahadevan appealed to the citizens to become more aware of the traffic norms and encouraged them to participate in this initiative. He also took to the streets and regulated the traffic for a while and thanked the drivers for following the traffic rules and gave them roses and thank you cards. He also appealed to the drivers violating the traffic rules to abide by the rules of the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shankar-mahadevan-turns-traffic-cop-for-a-day-in-navi-mumbai-101611342707050.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||PMC Bank case: ED raids MLA Hitendra Thakur’s office, premises of Viva Group||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials conducted raids at five locations including the office of Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) president and MLA Hirendra Thakur and premises of the directors of Viva Group in Vasai-Virar and Palghar areas in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank scam case. ED officials confirmed the development. Five premises belonging to Viva Group, owned by Thakur’s family, and its associates that were searched on Friday included registered office of Viva Group in Virar, residential premise of concerned person of Viva Group in Virar, one associated office premise of Viva Group in Andheri, and two residential premises of two financial consultants of Viva Group in Juhu and Chembur. During search, ₹73 lakh cash, incriminating digital and documentary evidences have been recovered.The anti-money laundering agency is carrying out searches as part of their probe in the alleged diversion of funds to Viva Group from Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) and its subsidiary companies. HDIL is accused of defrauding PMC Bank of over ₹6,670 crore by fraudulently obtaining nearly 70% of the bank’s overall loans.One of the HDIL subsidiaries controlled by Pravin Raut is suspected to have diverted funds to Viva Groups. ED has already provisionally attached properties worth ₹ 72 crore belonging to Pravin Raut under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the PMC Bank fraud case. Raut is former director of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, a subsidiary of HDIL group.Commenting on the development, Hitendra Thakur said, “We were prepared for ED’s visit after the action on Raut. Around 35-40 personnel from ED in seven big vehicles arrived at our Virar office at 9.30am and they are still present. We are cooperating with ED as we have nothing to hide. All our dealings are through cheques and are in black and white. Regarding political vendetta I can only say, wait and watch. We are prepared to answer all their queries and are even willing to visit ED office. We have nothing to hide.”ED had begun money laundering probe in the PMC Bank case after Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) registered a criminal case in September 2019 against HDIL, its promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan, former chairman Waryam Singh, former chairman and managing director Joy Thomas, and others for causing loss in thousands of crores to PMC Bank and corresponding gain to themselves.Prosecution complaint has been filed against Rakesh Wadhawan and others under PMLA. Investigation also revealed that Wadhawans, in connivance with Viva Group, have diverted more than ₹ 160 crore from HDIL to many companies/entities belonging to Viva Group in the garb of commission. Source of these funds from HDIL to Viva group is apparently the illegal fund diversion from PMC Bank.ED has also initiated investigation in another case against Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan and others for siphoning ₹200 crore sanctioned by Yes Bank to one Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd. This loan was siphoned by Wadhawans by showing it for fictitious purpose. During investigation under PMLA, it is revealed that Wadhawans illegally and fraudulently transferred two commercial properties of Mack Star in Kaledonia building, Andheri (East), Mumbai valued at ₹34.36 crore to Viva Holding, a company of Viva Group. For the transfer of the said two properties, two separate sale agreements dated June 26, 2017 were prepared wherein sale value for both the subject commercial properties were shown as 34.36 crore in total. In the said sale agreement, the purchase amount were shown to be paid vide 37 cheques by Viva Holding to Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd against the purchase of the said properties.Investigation has revealed that these cheques were never encashed in the account of Mack Star, and Viva Holding never made payments for the purchase of the said property. Wadhawans had illegally transferred these properties to Viva Group in violation to the article of association of Mack Star. Further, Viva Holding never showed these properties in its Balance Sheets.ED has earlier stated that the investigation under PMLA has revealed that ₹95 crore has been siphoned through HDIL by Raut, one of the accused, in active conspiracy and connivance with various persons. The sources of the funds were illegally availed loans or advances etc by HDIL from PMC Bank. There was no document or agreement in support of these payments made to Raut. Further, as per the ledger of HDIL, the funds were given to Raut for acquiring land in Palghar area.ED’s investigation also revealed that Raut paid ₹1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri from the Proceeds of crime. Of the said money, Madhuri transferred ₹55 lakh ( ₹50 lakh on December 23, 2010 and ₹5 lakh on March 15, 2011) as interest-free loan to Varsha Raut, wife of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut. The amount was further utilised for purchase of flat in Dadar (East), Mumbai, ED said.Investigation further revealed that Varsha Raut and Madhuri Raut are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha Raut has received ₹ 12 lakh from this entity as overdrawn capital converted to loan, on a contribution of mere ₹ 5,625. The loan amount still remains outstanding, ED stated.ED had earlier questioned Varsha Raut in this connection and has summoned her again for second round of questioning.The central agency had earlier attached several properties of Rakesh Wadhawan, Wadhawan Family trust and others amounting to ₹293 crore in the PMC Bank fraud case. Jewellery worth ₹63 crore was also seized. A prosecution complaint has been filed by ED against Rakesh Wadhawan and others for money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-case-ed-raids-mla-hitendra-thakur-s-office-premises-of-viva-group-101611342347357.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses interim relief to ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta, to hear bail plea on Monday||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday refused the urgent interim relief sought by former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) chief executive officer (CEO) Partho Dasgupta, who had sought directions to the state government to shift him to private hospital after being discharged from state-run Sir JJ Hospital. Dasgupta moved a praecipe for urgent hearing of his bail application after the session court rejected his bail plea in the alleged television rating point (TRP) manipulation case on Wednesday. A single-judge bench of justice Prakash D Naik heard Dasgupta’s application, moved through advocate Arjun Singh Thakur, in his chambers on Friday evening after regular court hours.In the application, Dasgupta sought interim bail for two weeks as well as directions to transfer him to Hinduja Hospital in Mumbai citing that he was not fit to be discharged from Sir JJ Hospital but was being moved to Taloja jail. Thakur submitted that the family of the applicant were informed late that Dasgupta has been discharged from the hospital at 6pm on Friday and that he was shifted to Taloja jail. It is submitted that on account of ill health, the applicant may be directed to be admitted to private hospital.The state government, however, opposed the plea submitting that Dasgupta would be kept under observation in Taloja jail hospital before he was moved into the barracks. Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare for the state opposed the application seeking interim relief and submitted that there was no urgent need for Dasgupta to be shifted to a private hospital. Thakare submitted that in accordance with procedure, the medical officer of the jail would examine the applicant and if the officer finds it necessary at any point of time that the applicant is required to be admitted to Sir JJ Hospital again, they would take appropriate steps.The court, while refusing to grant any urgent relief, directed the state government to place the Dasgupta’s discharge papers of Sir JJ Hospital and the medical report of the jail hospital before it on Monday. It also permitted the interim plea to be heard urgently on Monday. Dasgupta was arrested on December 24 in connection with the TRP manipulation case on charges of criminal breach of trust and cheating. He had filed a bail application before the metropolitan magistrate’s court which was rejected. Following this, he had moved sessions court which has also rejected the application on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-interim-relief-to-ex-barc-ceo-partho-dasgupta-to-hear-bail-plea-on-monday-101611342166892.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Major fire at Thane’s Wagle Estate, none injured||A major fire broke out in two companies and one godown on Friday evening at Wagle Industrial Estate in Thane. The fire fighters took four hours to douse the fire while cooling operations went on till late in the night. However, no one was injured. The cause of the fire was not known.The fire was caught in a medical equipment supply company and spread to a diagnostic centre and the godown of Prashant Corner, a popular sweet meat shop in Thane.“The incident occurred at around 4.30pm. As these offices had a lot of papers and other combustible materials, the smoke billowed in the vicinity, making it difficult to douse the fire. All our rescue teams were present to assess the situation and provide assistance in bringing the situation under control,” said an officer from the Disaster Management Cell. Wagle police officials, traffic police officials, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company officials, Thane Disaster Relief Force Team, Regional Disaster Management Cell and fire brigade were on the site with four fire engines, five water tankers, four jumbo water tankers, two rescue vehicles and two JCBs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/major-fire-at-thane-s-wagle-estate-none-injured-101611341986880.html
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Solar carts introduced for birdwatchers at Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Friday launched two solar-powered carts for the birdwatchers of the city at Sukhna Lake.The energy-efficient service started by the UT forest and wildlife department will be free for all visitors, especially senior citizens, pregnant women and persons with physical disabilities.The solar vehicles were flagged off by UT adviser Manoj Parida.On the occasion, chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai informed that every year hundreds of migratory birds like Brahmi ducks, common pochards, red-crusted pochards, geese, shell ducks, marsh ducks, diving ducks, coots, stilts, hill kingfisher, mallards, pintails, cormorants, Siberian ducks, cranes, storks, sandpipers etc travel thousands of miles to reach Sukhna Lake to escape the harsh winter of their habitats.These migratory birds start arriving at the lake from early November and their stay lasts till March or April, depending on the climatic conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/solar-carts-introduced-for-birdwatchers-at-sukhna-lake-in-chandigarh-101611341748044.html
23-01-2021||Other||Ambala building collapse: Contractor held for labourer’s death||A day after an under-construction building collapsed in Ambala Cantonment’s Patel Nagar area killing a labourer, the police here have arrested the contractor.The accused contractor, Lakshman, 51, and building owner Kailash Chand, 49, were booked for causing death due to negligence and conspiracy on the complaint of another labourer.Investigating officer of Kardhan police post, Yash Raj said, “Lakshman was presented before a court and later released on bail. Kailash is yet to be arrested.”As per information, labourers Bhopal (40) of Pragati Vihar, Siya Ram(35) of Kunj Vihar and Ram Singh (50) of Mohra village were working with the contractor for the last two months to construct the building, to be developed as a godown.While doing some finishing work on the building, the newly laid roof of the structure caved in, burying the three labourers under the debris. While, Siya Ram died on the spot, Bhopal and Ram Singh sustained injuries.In his complaint, Bhopal alleged that the accused used sub-standard material which ultimately killed his workmate and injured him.Mahesh Nagar station in-charge Ajaib Singh said, “Both were booked under sections 120-B, 304-A and 337 of the IPC. Siya Ram’s autopsy was conducted, and the body was handed over to the family.”When asked about the legality of the building, Ambala Cantt SDM Mamta Sharma said, “We went to the spot last night. I have instructed the executive officer of Sadar municipal council to check all the documents to determine if the building is legal or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-building-collapse-contractor-held-for-labourer-s-death-101611341687271.html
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Striking garbage collectors to return to work in Chandigarh||The garbage woes of Chandigarh residents are expected to get over for now, as different groups of door-to-door waste collectors on Friday decided to resume work from Saturday.The decision came after a meeting between garbage collectors and municipal officials on Friday. However, the relief might be temporary as a section is still opposing the civic body’s takeover of waste collection and has threatened to go on strike again from next week if their demands are not met.The municipal corporation last month took over garbage collection in Sectors 1 to 30, with the launch of segregated waste project, which has not gone down well with informal cart-based collectors, especially those affiliated to Akhil Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangathan (ABMS). They stopped picking up garbage from houses in other sectors (where the MC has not yet extended the project), causing the waste to pile up at homes and on the streets.Om Prakash Saini, chairman, Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society that claims to represent 80% of the informal sector, said: “MC officials have accepted all our key demands. The civic body will deposit user charges collected from people in garbage collectors’ accounts every month. We will also be allowed to pick reusable items from garbage.”However, Shamsher Lohatiya, president of the local unit of ABMS, said: “The meeting with MC officials was inconclusive and fruitless. Our principle demand still stands. Door-to-door garbage collectors should be allowed to continue with their work, and the MC should roll back the takeover.” 11-member panel to discuss demands: MayorA delegation, including ABMS representatives, also met mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and handed over a memorandum of their demands.The mayor said that an 11-member committee will be constituted, comprising six MC officials and five representatives of waste collectors. He said a meeting will be called within four days to deliberate upon and take a decision on the demands.“We have also been assured that our meeting will be held with MC commissioner KK Yadav next week. Meanwhile, some of us will continue to sit on dharna,” said Lohatiya, while threatening to go back on strike if all demands are not met.Congress councillor and leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla, in a letter to the mayor, has also called for continuation of the old system. “Till the time the whole system is not rectified, the old system should be implemented, and people who used to collect garbage earlier should be allowed to continue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/striking-garbage-collectors-to-return-to-work-in-chandigarh-101611341627613.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination drive Day 4: 78.48% turnout in Thane district||The Thane district saw 78.48 per cent of the beneficiaries vaccinated on the fourth day of the immunisation process on Friday. This was similar to the number of vaccines administered on the first day across the district.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation saw 100 per cent vaccination on Friday. All the four centres within the city immunised all the 400 beneficiaries who had registered. “On the first day, we had some glitches with the online registration. Hence we had to opt for a manual registration process, causing a delay. On the other two days, there was a low response from people. However, we had better numbers of vaccinations on Friday and hope to improve further,” said an officer from the Thane district health department.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation was followed by Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation at 96 per cent. The KDMC civic body will continue its vaccination programme on Saturday at its three centres.“We continue to have a good number of health workers coming for the vaccination, and it is a great thing,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.On the first day of the vaccination drive, KDMC had immunised 100 per cent beneficiaries who had registered.Meanwhile, the Thane Municipal Corporation has immunised only 57.75 per cent beneficiaries. Mira Bhayander Corporation has immunised 83 per cent beneficiaries on Friday; Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation, 66 per cent; Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation, 75 per cent and Thane rural, 72.80 per cent on Friday.(With inputs from Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-drive-day-4-78-48-turnout-in-thane-district-101611341567306.html
23-01-2021||Other||Sri Lankan drug kingpin, associate held in Chennai’s Karapakkam||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested a Sri Lankan drug kingpin MMM Nawas and his associate Mohamed Afnas, both of whom were operating from Chennai.The duo were arrested in connection with a major anti-smuggling operation which saw the seizure of 96 kgs of heroin and 18 kgs of methamphetamine along with weapons after the Indian Coast Guard intercepted a Sri Lankan fishing boat, 'Shenaya Duwa' in November near the coast of Thoothukudi.“Nawas is a high-level drug handler; he was dealing with 96 kg of heroin which has a business value of around ₹50 crore,” said A Bruno, zonal director, NCB-Chennai.Earlier six Sri Lankan nationals on the boat were arrested and remanded to judicial custody. Following that the NCB took over the case. “In the follow up investigations, we could establish links of the drug trafficking to Chennai,” said Bruno. “We questioned the two men and they confessed on Thursday night. They were the masterminds in organising and transporting the contraband that was seized from the fishing boat which was owned by a Lankan national. During initial investigations the six detained people said that the drugs were transferred to them from Pakistan.” Officials said that the duo was living illegally in the country and that Sri Lankan authorities had issued a red corner notice against Nawas.NCB sleuths picked up Nawas and Afnas on Thursday from their home in Chennai’s suburb Karapakkam where they lived with their families. “Both the Sri Lankan nationals were residing in Chennai by concealing their nationality without valid passports in India,” said Bruno. Nawas has been in the city for the past 10 years while Afnas joined him three years ago.They were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act 1985 on Friday and the process for their remand is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sri-lankan-drug-kingpin-associate-held-in-chennai-s-karapakkam-101611341046108.html
23-01-2021||Other||11,000 poultry birds culled in Dera Bassi on Day 1||With the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, confirming avian influenza in samples of birds sent from two poultry farms in Mohali’s Dera Bassi subdivision, the animal husbandry department culled 11,200 birds on Friday. As many as 53,000 poultry birds are to be culled at the two farms in Behra village: Alpha and Royal. The operations began at Alpha farm on Friday. The Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, had confirmed bird flu on January 15, but the final report from Bhopal arrived on January 20, a day after it had also confirmed flu in a migratory bird found dead at the Siswan reserve in the district.Meanwhile, one more suspected case has been reported at Evergreen Poultry Farm in the same village. After receiving the report from the Jalandhar lab, the department has sent the sample to Bhopal for confirmation, said VK Janjua, additional chief secretary, animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development, Punjab.Dera Bassi has around 50 poultry farms. As per the protocol, all poultry birds within the radius of 1 kilometre of the infected farms are to be culled. However, there is no other farm within the given radius. The two farms in question are layer farms, which means birds are reared only for laying eggs and not for their meat, as in broiler farms. “Hundred people have been deployed for culling, which is likely to continue for a week. Requisite safety gear, including PPE kits and face shields, and JCB machines have been provided to the teams,” said Janjua, adding that teams are carrying out humane culling, wherein the birds are “either killed instantly or rendered insensible until death ensues, without pain, suffering or distress”. Surveillance and sampling has also been stepped up and two rapid response teams have been deployed to keep a tab on any death of birds in the district. “The virus involved in avian influenza is zoonotic, and can be transmitted from animals to humans, as per preliminary reports. To detect symptoms of plausible infection in humans, the bird handlers in the affected poultry farms will be examined by doctors,” said an official.4 dead birds found in ChandigarhIn Chandigarh, where no case of bird flu has been confirmed so far, a dead crow and three pigeons were recovered on Friday. The number has risen to 176 in the past couple of weeks, but only 21 samples have been sent for testing. All tested negative. “Samples of bird carcasses found in isolation are not being sent. Only suspicious cases are sent,” said chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai.Dr Kanwarjit Singh, joint director, animal husbandry and fisheries department, Chandigarh, said: “We have been keeping a check on poultry birds in the city, but nothing irregular has been reported.”In the neighbouring Panchkula district, which was the first to confirm bird flu at two farms in Barwala on January 8, the administration is still awaiting reports of around 40 other samples sent to the Bhopal lab. As many as 81,000 birds were culled at the two farms besides another one in the infected zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11000-poultry-birds-culled-in-dera-bassi-on-day-1-101611341447625.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||‘Presumption of innocence’ should not be destroyed, court says while hearing riots case||A city court on Friday said the “presumption of innocence” should not be destroyed at the threshold of the justice process through a media trial, while hearing a plea moved by former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid alleging a “vicious media campaign” against him in a Delhi riots case. The court said it hoped that the media would follow “self regulation techniques” while reporting on a case pending investigation or trial. “Self regulation is the best mode of regulation,” chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar said. It said the news reports have only highlighted that accused Khalid had confessed his involvement in the riots but none of the news items made a clarification to its readers/viewers that such a statement, even if actually made, could not be used by the prosecution as evidence. During another hearing in a riots case on Friday, another sessions court in the Capital asked the Enforcement Directorate to respond to a plea by former suspended municipal councillor Tahir Hussain, alleging “trial by media” against him in a money-laundering case related to the violence in northeast Delhi last year.The plea also sought roll-back of the alleged defamatory content published against him in the media. Meanwhile, another city court directed the superintendent of Tihar Jail to appear before it on a plea moved by JNU student and Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita seeking permission to send notes to her counsel, which she made from the charge sheet filed against her in a riots case, in a sealed cover from prison. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat issued a notice to the superintendent to appear along with the legal officer before the court on January 23. The directions came after the jail authorities submitted in the reply filed to the application, that as per the Delhi prison rules, the concerned officials have to approve the notes before they are sent to her lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/presumption-of-innocence-should-not-be-destroyed-court-says-while-hearing-riots-case-101611341448034.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Only 35% health care workers in Shahdara district have got Covid jab so far, lowest in Delhi||After four rounds of Covid-19 inoculation in the national capital, Shahdara district has seen the lowest number of health care workers immunised so far, with a little more than 1/3rd of all targeted beneficiaries receiving the jab over the past week.While 54.5% of Delhi’s registered health care workers have received a Covid-19 vaccine jab, only 34.8% of beneficiaries in Shahdara district have been administered the jab, as on Friday, even as administration official told HT that several medical employees in the district had contracted the infection, and said they believed that antibodies to the virus negated the need for them to get a vaccine.Three districts in the Capital have so far recorded a coverage rate lower than Delhi’s average — Shahdara, North (43.3%) and New Delhi (47.6%).The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive kicked off on January 16, after which registered health care workers in the Capital have received shots on January 18, 19 and 21 across 81 inoculation centres.“The largest vaccination sites in Shahdara, such as Guru Teg Bahadur hospital and the Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital were both dedicated Covid-19 centres. Most health care workers at the hospital have already been infected with Covid-19. So, they believe that antibodies will protect against the infection, so there is no need to take the vaccine,” said a senior district official who asked not to be named.According to the official, these hospitals have asked their senior staffers and those who have already taken the shot to motivate others to get inoculated. At Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital — which houses Delhi’s central vaccine storage facility — only around 80 staff members have received the shot over the four days — less than one-fourth of the over 400 slated health care workers. “There are two important reasons why the vaccination drive hasn’t picked up pace at the hospital. One, most of the staff members have been exposed to the infection and think they do not need the shot. Two, they worked tirelessly when the hospital received a deluge of patients and now that the numbers have reduced so much, they believe that the pandemic has come to an end and there was no need for a vaccine,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. Other hospitals like Guru Teg Bahadur and the central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia that have seen low turnouts have banked on senior faculty members and staff to raise awareness among others. “If we see what is happening in other countries, there is a likelihood of a surge in infections in the future, and it is essential to protect health care workers, especially if a vaccine is available,” the doctor from Rajiv Gandhi hospital said. The response to the vaccination drive was better at hospitals where either no beds were reserved for Covid-19 patients or only a section of beds were earmarked to treat patients with the illness.“Charak Palika Hospital saw a gradual increase in the turnout for the first three days, but the fourth day witnessed a drop. On the first day of vaccination, 43 of the slated beneficiaries turned up, 52 got jabs on the second, 63 on third and 59 on the fourth. It is evident that there is hesitance among beneficiaries. With time, all concerns will be allayed and the turnout should go up,” said a senior official in the New Delhi Municipal Council which is in charge of the Charak Palika Hospital. At Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya and Delhi State Cancer Institute too, the coverage was about 50% of those targeted. Dr GP Kaushal, additional medical superintendant at Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Delhi, said: “The vaccination coverage rate currently is around 72.5%. We are still well below the target every day. Senior doctors going for the vaccine shots have started encouraging the rest, but it is taking time. We have a long way to go.” Covaxin coverage The overall turnout in the four days has been low at the four central government-run hospitals that have been administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. The vaccine was approved by the apex drug regulator in a “trial mode” where those who receive the shot have to sign a consent form and will be followed up with for three months. On average, 45.5% of the people in these four central government hospitals have received the shot so far as per the data. The highest among them was at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where 95 people received the shot on the day of the roll-out, including the institute’s director Dr Randeep Guleria and NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul. Coverage at the premier facility fell dramatically on the second day, with just eight of the hospital’s registered staffers receiving the shot. It picked up after that, with 55 and 62 people being vaccinated on the third and the fourth day. The lowest turnout so far has been at Safdarjung hospital, where 39% of the beneficiaries have been vaccinated. Doctors from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital had written to their medical superintendent, asking for Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine on the first day of the drive. “We are working to dispel any misconceptions or doubts that people have. The senior doctors and those who have received the vaccine already are motivating the others. We will also put up hoardings with comments from those who have been vaccinated to convince people that the vaccine is absolutely safe,” said Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-35-health-care-workers-in-shahdara-district-have-got-covid-jab-so-far-lowest-in-delhi-101611341446239.html
23-01-2021||Other||Police proposes route map for tractor rally, farmers to respond today||New Delhi: The Delhi police on Friday proposed a route map to the farmers where they could hold a tractor rally on January 26. Police officers did not share details of the proposed route but earlier the farmers had been told to take out the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on the periphery of the capital. The farmer groups confirmed they had received a proposal from the police but said they would respond only after holding a meeting on Saturday. They had planned the rally on the Outer Ring Road and had assured the police that it will be completely peaceful and that the protesters will not try to reach other areas in the city. Until Friday night, it was not clear if the police had proposed a route inside the national Capital or on the highways connecting Delhi. Senior police officers are holding talks with the farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws over their planned tractor rally. Talks are being held daily since January 18. Police officers have maintained that no official permission has yet been given to the protesters for the rally since it could create a law and order problem on the Republic Day and trigger traffic chaos. Darshan Pal of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, who is also the president of the Krantikari Kisaan Union, Punjab, said the officers have proposed a “road map” to the farm leaders. “We will give our reply to their proposal after holding a meeting of the farm unions tomorrow,” Pal said. On talks with the government, the farmer leader said, “The deadlock continued as the government came with the proposal to suspend these laws for 18 months, while the farmers demanded the repeal of the laws,” he said. A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said they are waiting for the farmer’s response and the future course of action would be decided accordingly. Meanwhile after the 11th round of meeting between the farmers and the government, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said that the government has told them that it will stick to its initial proposal. “They said if the farmers agree to it there can be further talks between the government and the farmers. We have told them that we will respond to the offer made,” he said outside Vigyan Bhawan. The farmers said that the date of next meeting with the government has not been decided yet. At the Singhu, Tikri and other borders where the farmers are camping, protests remained peaceful throughout the day even as police maintained adequate deployment. The farmers at Singhu border spent the day mostly marching, shouting slogans against the farm laws, delivering speeches from the stage, and cooking and distributing food at langars. In the afternoon, however, there was some ruckus near Vigyan Bhawan when a group of farmers heading to the meeting venue in a car alleged that they were stopped by the police and the rear windshield of their car was broken by policemen. Police officials said that every vehicle carrying farmers, coming to Vigyan Bhawan from Singhu Border, is escorted the police.Senior officials said they did not have any information about the vehicle joining the police escort and it was therefore stopped before Vigyan Bhawan. “On this, the farmers in the car got agitated and themselves damaged the car using a baton. There was no police action in this incident,” a senior officer said, who wished not to be named. Additional deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Ghanshyam Bansal said situation at Singhu Border on Friday remained peaceful as farmers continued their agitation. “We had sufficient deployment in place and the situation is being continuously monitored,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-proposes-route-map-for-tractor-rally-farmers-to-respond-today-101611341387004.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Three held for running fake call centre, duping job aspirants of money||Police on Friday said they had arrested three persons for allegedly running a fake call centre through which they were cheating job aspirants of money by offering them jobs in a non-existent automobile company.The arrested persons include the promoter of a cellphone service provider, identified as Mohammed Hasim, who allegedly got issued SIM cards by fraudulently using the identification documents and photograph of those applying for a SIM card. The other two arrested persons were identified as Sushil Kumar and Raghu Nandan, who together ran the call centre.An officer attached to the investigation said, on condition of anonymity, that whenever any customer contacted Hasim to purchase a SIM card, he would activate two SIM cards on the customer’s ID and photograph. “Hasim used to give one SIM card to its rightful owner while the second SIM card was delivered to Kumar and Nandan for use in the call centre,” the officer added.Additional deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Sanjay Kumar Sain said on Thursday, the GTB Enclave police station team received information that a fake call centre was operating from a rented house in Dilshad Garden. Accordingly, a search was conducted and two men along with 15 women tele callers employed by them were found running the call centre.“They were calling job aspirants and taking money from them in the name of providing them jobs with an automobile company. The two men, Sushil Kumar and Raghu Nandan, were arrested. A total of 24 cellphones, 20 SIM cards, one landline phone, a laptop with Wi-Fi router, two debit cards, and 17 registers having details of potential victims were seized from the call centre,” said additional DCP Sain.During the interrogation, Sain said the two men were asked about the source through which they had procured the SIM cards. They told police about Hasim and that he was a promoter of a service provider company. Hasim was arrested and seven more SIM cards were recovered from him.An investigator who did not want to be named said Kumar and Nandan disclosed that they were running the fake call centre for the past three months and had duped hundreds of job seekers. They were paying ₹35,000 rent for the property from where the call centre was being run.“They procured details of job aspirants from a jobs portal. They mostly contacted candidates living outside Delhi. They charged ₹850 as registration fee and took ₹8,000 from each candidate while issuing them fake appointment letters,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-held-for-running-fake-call-centre-duping-job-aspirants-of-money-101611341326818.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Airspace restrictions in place till R-Day||Due to the closure of airspace on account of Republic Day celebrations and rehearsals, no scheduled flight will operate from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport daily between 10am and 12.15pm, the Airports Authority of India has said. A Notice to Airman (NOTAM) was issued by the Airports Authority of India restricting the air traffic movement. The restrictions were imposed on Wednesday (January 20) and will be in place till Republic Day on Tuesday. The NOTAM further said that no non-scheduled flight will be allowed to operate daily between 10am and 1pm from January 20 to 26. However, the restriction will not be applicable to the movements of the Indian Air Force, the Border Security Force, the Indian Army or helicopters, the notice said. State-owned aircraft or helicopters can fly if carrying the governor of the chief minister, it said. NOTAM is issued every year before the celebrations of Republic Day and Independence Day as the airspace is closed for rehearsals and security reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/airspace-restrictions-in-place-till-rday-101611341326205.html
23-01-2021||Other||Days after dead owl tested positive for bird flu, six samples sent from Delhi zoo return negative for avian infection||New Delhi: Six samples collected from Delhi zoo earlier this week tested negative for bird flu, officials said on Friday, days after a brown fish owl that was found dead in its enclosure, was diagnosed with a strain of the infection.Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park in Delhi said that while the zoo has not reported any fresh case of the flu, safety protocols have not been relaxed. “All six samples, including those of the four birds whose enclosures were close to the owl that died of the virus, returned negative on Thursday. However, safety, surveillance and sanitation work will continue, and all protocols and guidelines issued by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) of the Union ministry of environment forests and climate change and the animal husbandry department of the Delhi government, are being followed strictly,” Pandey said. On January 15, samples from a brown fish owl found dead in its enclosure at the zoo, tested positive for H5N8 avian influenza. After this, cloacal, tracheal, and ocular swabs from birds in the zoo were sent to the Delhi government’s animal husbandry unit for serological examination. Samples from water bodies inside the zoo premises frequented by wild and migratory birds, along with bird droppings, were sent to be examined. Senior officials from the Union environment ministry said they were keeping a close watch to ensure more bird flu cases are not reported from the Delhi zoo or any other part of the Capital. “Zoo staff has been given special drapers and personal protective equipment (PPE). They are following our advisory, and are in constant touch with the ministry of animal husbandry. The zoo is closed, so there is no fear of transmission to people,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, the environment ministry’s additional director-general. In a list of guidelines issued by the ministry, zoo authorities have been directed to use a disinfectant spray of lime juice, Virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite, and foot bath of potassium permanganate, at regular intervals. “Chicken feed to raptors and entry of vehicles inside the zoo had already been stopped... Movement of staff and workers in the zoo is being restricted and regulated, keeping in view the animal influenza threats,” ministry guidelines read. Officials said managing the infection this time has been easier because unlike the 2016 outbreak, the zoo is already closed for the general public due to the threat of Covid-19, officials said. “Monitoring is being done and e-Bird mobile application, which is popularly used by bird watchers across the world, is being used to keep a record of monitoring tracks,” Pandey said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/days-after-dead-owl-tested-positive-for-bird-flu-six-samples-sent-from-delhi-zoo-return-negative-for-avian-infection-101611341267257.html
23-01-2021||Other||Snatching of ₹200 leads to murder in Rohini, seven arrested||New DelhiA 21-year-old man’s blind murder case —that happened in outer Delhi’s Rohini three weeks ago — turned out to be the result of a snatching, Delhi Police said on Friday, after arresting the seven alleged killers. The police’s probe in the case began on December 30, when a call reporting a murder was received at Begumpur police station in Rohini. The victim was identified as Subhash alias Bahadur (referred by his single name in police records), said PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini). Police said they had earlier arrested two men after looking at the CCTV footage of the incident. But those arrested men told the police that they had just helped the prime suspect, without knowing the motive. Earlier this week, the police then arrested Gaurav alias Himanshu and Sawan Sharma – the duo who were among a group of seven men that had carried out the killing. What emerged later was a tale of snatching that had ultimately led to Subhash’s murder. “Twenty days before his murder, Subhash had snatched ₹200 from Gaurav’s uncle,” said the DCP, adding that the snatching victim had not reported the matter to the police. The alleged snatcher had fled on foot after the crime. Gaurav, 27, has eight previous criminal cases against him and would proclaim himself as the next Neeraj Bawana of Delhi, the DCP said. Bawana, until his arrest in 2015, was one of the most wanted gangsters in Delhi with many cases of murder, robbery, extortion, and other such crimes against him in police records. “So, while being targeted by Subhash, the man had warned him that he was the uncle of Gaurav who would seek revenge later,” Mishra said. Subhash still went ahead with the snatching. He also took the threat on his ego, police said. Subhash and Gaurav lived in the same neighborhood of Begumpur and knew each other, but they were practically rivals in the crime world, the DCP said. “Subhash himself aspired to be a big criminal someday. He couldn’t come to terms with the fact that one of his victims tried to intimidate him by taking the name of his rival,” the DCP said. So, Subhash uploaded a video on Facebook in which he ‘openly challenged and threatened’ Gaurav. Soon after, Gaurav got to know of the video and decided to teach Subhash a lesson. On December 30, Gaurav, his friend Sawan along with five others caught Subhash and beat him till he died. The police said that Subhash had been lured to Sharma’s house on some pretext and beaten to death over there. They also recorded a video of the killing to send a “message” to anyone challenging Gaurav in the future, the DCP said. The police said that they got to know of Gaurav’s hideout by interrogating his wife and Sawan’s hideout by questioning his friend. Sawan also has six previous criminal cases against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/snatching-of-rs-200-leads-to-murder-in-rohini-seven-arrested-101611341266166.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Mercury and air quality drop in Noida, respite likely today||Noida:The city shivered at 6°C on Friday, with temperature in neighbouring areas including parts of Delhi hovering around 4°C, leading to a cold-wave-like situation and dense fog.The icy-cold north westerly winds towards Friday morning, however, begun to change to dry and warmer easterly winds, which according to weather analysts is likely to bring some respite. The weather department said that fog on Saturday and Sunday is likely to be moderate in most places in Noida and areas around it, however, open areas such as expressways will continue to see dense fog towards the morning hours.Mercury will drop again from January 25 onwards, bringing icy cold northern winds back, leading to the minimum temperature dropping to around 4°C, weather analysts added.“A western disturbance has arrived, leading to snowing on the mountains and a temporary change in wind directions from Friday. Due to this the mercury will rise by 2°C over the next two days, but will soon drop and be back to 4°C from January 25, also bringing back very dense fog,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Friday, the max and minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 16.3°C and 6.6 °C, respectively, against 21.9 °C and 10.1°C a day earlier.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida and neighbouring cities deteriorated within the “very poor” level. It is, however, likely to improve again due to better wind speed expected over Saturday and Sunday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Friday was 361 against 306 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 322 against 298 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 371 against 326 a day earlier. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered “moderate”, between 201 and 300 is “poor”, between 301 and 400 is “very poor” and above 400 is considered “severe”. According to the weather department, the winds will pace up on Saturday leading to better ventilation conditions. “The wind speed became almost stagnant because of the western disturbance, as it leads to change in wind direction and a brief drop in speed. So pollutants accumulated and the air quality dropped. However, the wind speed will increase to around 20-25 kmph over Saturday and Sunday which will improve ventilation conditions,” said Srivstava.On Tuesday, the major pollutant particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in the region spiked to four times the safety standards, against three times the standard on Tuesday. The average PM2.5 for Noida on Friday was 218 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3). The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 218.60µg/m3. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad was 251.24µg/m3. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve.“Surface winds easterly and moderate. Surface winds are forecasted to improve for Saturday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance. Due to better ventilation conditions, AQI is forecasted to marginally improve on January 23 and 24 but within the “very poor” category. The middle end of the “very poor” category is forecasted for January 25,” said SAFAR on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-and-air-quality-drop-in-noida-respite-likely-today-101611341206776.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Bangladesh national among two held for illegal organ transplant||Noida: Two persons, including a Bangladesh national, were apprehended by the Noida police on Thursday in connection with an illegal organ transplant case.According to police officers, the incident had come to light on January 18 when Bangladesh national, Ahmad Shareef, called the police helpline alleging that he was being pressured into selling his kidney. Upon investigation, it was found that Shareef had come to Noida recently and submitted relevant documents regarding a kidney transplant, in which fake papers were allegedly given to show that he was related to the recipient.“They had submitted fake documents to the Bangladesh High Commission and transplant committees in Delhi and Bangalore. Shareef had been brought to India for his kidney in exchange for almost five lakh in Bangladesh currency. However, he later said that was being pressured to do so, after which he informed the police,” said a senior police officer.When the information was shared with the Noida Health department, it was found that they had been deceived as well and a complaint was filed by the chief medical officer’s (CMO) office at Phase 3 police station against five people, including the organ recipient, his brother, an agent in Bangladesh and the two arrested suspects under sections 420, 468, 471, 474 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Transplant of Human Organs Act and Foreigners Act.The CMO could not be reached for a comment.Shareef was arrested along with Bazul Hak, who is from Bihar and currently lived in Delhi, who was allegedly the liaison between the donor and the recipient. They were staying in a guest house in Sector 70, from where they were arrested Thursday night. “The case is under investigation. We are working to identify how extensive this operation is and will take necessary action,” said deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Harish Chander.Police also said that the recipient is currently undergoing dialysis but action will be taken against him soon. Noida police is also coordinating with the High Commission to arrest the Bangladeshi travel agent allegedly involved in the case.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bangladesh-national-among-two-held-for-illegal-organ-transplant-101611341206163.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Thousands of tractors head to UP Gate from as farmers prepare for ‘tractor parade’ on Republic Day||Monu Singh, a farmer from Nangal Bhagwanpur village in Baghpat, is back at the UP Gate protest site and has been arranging tractors for the proposed “parade” which the agitators are planning to take out on the outer Ring Road in Delhi on Republic Day. Monu lost his father, Galtan Singh, 57, on January 1 this year at the UP Gate protest site. That loss has only made his resolve stronger. After performing the required rituals, Monu returned to UP Gate on January 7 and is now busy with his team to rope in tractors from Baghpat region. He said that six tractors have already come and about a 1,000 more are expected before January 26. The tractors which have come have been welded with additional sheets of iron in front which generally provide added protection to the vehicle. They can now barge through barricades if required. “I never wanted to leave the protest site, but the last rituals of my father had to be performed. I rushed back after finishing them. Our group has purchased 1000 tricolours and 1000 other flags of our farmers’ union. Since, many farmers did not get the sugarcane payment we dumped our stock at crushers at low rates and purchased flags,” he, said. The tractor parade this time is expected to see arrival of thousands of tractors from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and will be a much bigger event than the tractor march which was held on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway on January 7. The farmers said that all the tractors will be fitted with the tricolour as well as the flags of the respective farmers’ unions. Besides this, the farmers are also preparing tableaux. “Our group is preparing a tableau which will show exploitation of farmers and will also have farmers dressed up like our freedom fighters. Our tractors will arrive here by January 25 and will be lined up on the main road leading from UP Gate to Vaishali,” Monu added. The farmer leaders said that hundreds of tractors have started their journey from areas like Lucknow, Pilibhit and nearby areas on Friday morning and are likely to reach UP Gate by January 23/24. “Groups of tractors from Uttarakhand will start on Saturday and will reach here the next day. They will remain parked over the Delhi-Meerut Expressway before proceeding for the tractor parade on January 26. We have decided to rope in 500 volunteers who will ensure discipline during the tractor parade,” Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of UP Gate farmers’ committee and a farmer leader from Uttarakhand said, adding that “appropriate action” will be taken if the tractors are stopped midway. During previous instances, the protesters at UP Gate had resorted to blockade of Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway when their tractors were held up midway by authorities. “During the parade, we will rope in ambulances as well as couple of trolleys carrying food, water and other items. Even mechanics will be a part of rally so that they can immediately take up repairs if any tractor breaks down,” he, added. The UP Gate protest site has a majority of farmers who have come from different regions of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and are camping since November 28. Groups of protestes are also camping at the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway since December 3. “During the previous tractor march, we had apprised the district officials that tractors were not being allowed over the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, but the farmers took out their rally. Even this time if their tractors arrive on the Delhi Meerut Expressway, it will be up to the district officials to look into the matter. We are already facing issues with our work which is getting delayed due to their protest,” said Mudit Garg, project director of National Highways Authority of India. The UP Gate protest site now stretches up to outside the Khoda Colony from UP-Gate, which is over a kilometre away and the occupancy is likely to be extended further once more farmers arrive with their tractors. “The tractors will have no space at UP-Gate so they will be lined up on the expressway. They will come in hundreds from different regions in UP and Uttarakhand and will occupy the expressway,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. “As of now the farmers have told us that they will hold the tractor parade. On our part, we have deployed police personnel by dividing the UP-Gate into several sectors. We will also make arrangement and ensure that tractors get parked in vacant spaces and do not pose any hindrance to the traffic on the expressway,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/thousands-of-tractors-head-to-up-gate-from-as-farmers-prepare-for-tractor-parade-on-republic-day-101611341147796.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||SC accepts intervention petition by Kalyan-Dombivli citizens on 18 villages||The Supreme Court (SC) accepted an intervention petition filed by the alert citizens of Kalyan-Dombivli in which they demanded the Maharashtra state government should pay all the expenses incurred by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) for the developmental works of 18 villages and then remove the villages from the civic body.On March 14, 2020, the state government, in a notification, had decided to remove the 18 villages out of the 27 villages from KDMC and form a separate civic body, while the remaining 9 villages shall remain in KDMC.On December 12, 2020, the Bombay High Court dismissed the Maharashtra state government’s decision to remove 18 villages from KDMC while hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by KDMC’s former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Moreshwar Bhoir and Kalyan-based architect Sandip Patil, writ petition by builder Santosh Dawkhar and civil application by former BJP corporator Sunita Khandagale.Further, the state government appealed to the SC against the HC’s decision and filed a caveat in the apex court seeking exclusion of the 18 villages from KDMC.Ulhas Jamdar, one of the petitioners, said, “We are glad that the apex court has considered our intervention and said it will hear our concerns. After the inclusion of these 27 villages in the KDMC, ₹700Cr of the boundary extension grant from the government has not yet been received. So far, KDMC has spent a huge amount of money on development works in these 18 villages. In the last five years, 18 villages have had arrears of property tax and water bills of over ₹300Cr.“As the entire burden falls on the taxpayers of Kalyan-Dombivli, we also want to exclude these 18 villages from KDMC, however we all demanded that the state government should pay the expenses incurred by KDMC in 18 villages so far through this intervention petition,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-accepts-intervention-petition-by-kalyan-dombivli-citizens-on-18-villages-101611341147364.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Noida: In-laws of man, whose body was found inside metro station washroom, arrested for his murder||Noida: The mother-in-law and the brother-in-law of a 30-year-old man, whose body was found in the washroom of the Botanical Garden metro station earlier this month, were arrested for allegedly killing him. Police said the victim, a resident of Noida’s Sector 22, had died on the night of January 11 and his body was discovered the next day. A case of murder had been registered at the Sector 39 police station.Police officers had said that the deceased had allegedly been separated from his wife for the past four years and was an alcoholic. They said that during the investigation, it came to light that the deceased’s mother-in-law (50) and brother-in-law (29) were allegedly involved in his murder. The suspects are residents of Sihani Gate, Ghaziabad.Police said that the duo was allegedly frustrated with the behaviour of the deceased towards his wife.“Even though they were separated, he would often contact her under the influence of alcohol and then misbehave with her. He would turn up at their house in Ghaziabad and create scenes. Four days before his death also, he had gone to their house and had allegedly tried to molest his 10-year-old sister-in-law as well,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.After this incident, police said the suspects allegedly came up with a plan to do away with him. On the evening of January 11, the brother-in-law allegedly reached out to the deceased at his place in Noida to have drinks. He allegedly persuaded him to come to the local market, and then took him to the washroom at the metro station.Police said the suspects allegedly used a knife to stab him in the neck, chest and stomach. The deceased also sustained a head injury from a porcelain sink in the urinal. The duo was arrested from near the Mahamaya flyover on Friday afternoon following a tip-off from an informant, officers added.The deceased’s belongings such as a backpack, clothes, belt buckle and a flute were recovered allegedly from the possession of the suspects. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-in-laws-of-man-whose-body-was-found-inside-metro-station-washroom-arrested-for-his-murder-101611340906633.html
23-01-2021||Noida||‘Bomb-like devices’ put cops on toes in Noida, Ghaziabad||Police in the twin cities of Noida and Ghaziabad have gone on a high alert after three ‘bomb-like devices’ were recovered in the past couple of days.Police said all the three recoveries were made from both the districts after the police control room was tipped off by residents. Probes have been launched in all the three cases.On Friday, a bomb-like device created panic in Noida’s Sector 63 after which the area was cordoned off and traffic diverted. The incident was reported around 7.15am, when a call was made to the police helpline by an auto-rickshaw driver about the device. “We activated the necessary protocols in place as soon as the call came in. The area was cordoned off and traffic was diverted. Teams from the bomb disposal squad and sniffer dog units were rushed to the spot,” said Alok Singh, commissioner of police (CP). The CP said that no explosives or detonator was found in the device, which was made to look like a bomb . A forensic team also examined it before the device was taken away for further examination. The device was found on the divider of the road going from SJM hospital to Chhajarsi colon. The cops said that the device in question had been fashioned from two painted plastic bottles which contained water and a digital watch had been strapped on o make it seem like a timer. Locals said that the device caused panic in the area in the morning. “We realized that something was going on when all of a sudden there were many police vehicles and then someone said that a bomb has been found. It was scary. Traffic in the area was stopped, and people were being asked to stay away from the divider,” said Mohanti Lal, a tea vendor in the nearby Chhajarsi village. A senior police officer from Noida said that eyewitnesses and locals in the area are being questioned and there are a few leads that are being worked on. Police suspect that this was a prank and have denied any connection to threats related to Republic Day. An FIR was registered at the Phase 3 police station against unknown suspects under section 290 (public nuisance) of the Indian Penal Code and section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment act based on suo motu cognizance taken by the Noida police. The area is adjacent to Delhi Meerut Expressway and is located a few kilometres away from the UP-Gate site where thousands of farmers are camping as part of their demands for repeal of the three farm laws. Meanwhile another incident was reported from near the Delhi Meerut Road in Ghaziabad where a similar crude ‘bomb-like’ device was found by the police on January 20 and an FIR was registered in this connection at Madhuban Bapudham police station in Ghaziabad. The FIR states that the device was a 5 kilogram LPG cylinder which was covered with a black sheet of paper and a “watch-like” timer attached to it. Further, the cops also found a letter attached to the cylinder which had three demands written on it – capital punishment for a politician, penalty of ₹7 crore on seven people and to flash a signal if the “bomb” was discovered. The cops said that it was a prank played by some unidentified person and they are investigating the matter. The site was an empty plot near “Hum Tum” hotels adjacent to Delhi Meerut Road. It is also expected that hundreds of farmers in tractors will also arrive from the same route for their proposed tractor parade before January 26. “We are taking every precaution following the discovery of the said device and all security arrangements are in place, besides routine checks and patrolling. The local intelligence unit is also keeping an eye and also part of the investigation,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer (city 2) at Ghaziabad. On Thursday, a prank call had been made to Kailash hospital, sector 27 in Noida, about the presence of a bomb in the building, which was later found to be hoax. No arrests have been made in any of the cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bomblike-devices-put-cops-on-toes-in-noida-ghaziabad-101611340907157.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Gonda medical student rescued from kidnappers in Noida, five arrested||Noida: Five suspects, including a doctor, were arrested by the Noida Special Task Force (Noida STF) and the Gonda police Thursday night from the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway for allegedly kidnapping an 18-year-old medical student from Gonda and demanding ₹70 lakh from his family.Officers said the gang members had allegedly brought the victim to Delhi on January 18, and on Thursday they were shifting him to Agra in a car when the STF team nabbed three suspects and rescued the victim, from the Expressway police station area. Two other suspects were arrested from Gonda. Police said the student was allegedly lured by a Delhi-based ayurvedic doctor, who is absconding.Shailesh Kumar Pandey, superintendent of police, Gonda, reached Greater Noida Friday morning. In a joint press conference with the Noida STF, Pandey said that the Gonda police received information about the abduction a day later. “The victim, Gaurav Haldar, is from Bahraich and studies BAMS (Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery) at a private college in Gonda. Gaurav’s father Nikhil Haldar informed the police on January 19 that Gaurav had gone missing from his college at 3pm on January 18. The family had received two ransom calls from a mobile number demanding ₹70 lakh,” Pandey said. The kidnappers had demanded the money by Friday and threatened consequences, officers said.A case of abduction was registered against unknown persons under Section 364-A of IPC at Nagar Kotwali. The police launched an investigation and Gaurav’s roommate told the police that he had allegedly recently been in touch with a woman through the phone, and that the woman had called him before he went missing. “We put the mobile number on electronic surveillance and traced their movement in Delhi. We also informed the Noida-STF for a joint operation,” he said. Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Noida STF, said that the police found that the suspects were allegedly planning to shift to Agra Thursday night. “A joint team reached the Greater Noida Expressway and stopped a suspected Maruti Swift Dzire car for checking. The police arrested three suspects – Dr Abhishek Singh, 32, a BAMS doctor and resident of Wazirganj in Gonda; Nitesh Vihari, 28, a resident of Dholpur in Rajasthan; and Mohit Singh, 30, a resident of Gonda – and rescued the victim. Police recovered a countrymade gun, four live cartridges, and sedatives.”Officers said Abhishek, the alleged mastermind, revealed that he works in a hospital in Nangloi, Delhi. He allegedly told police his cousin Rohit, who lives in Bahraich, was friends with Mohit. Officers said Mohit attended a gym where he met Nitesh who was allegedly involved in fraudulent activities. They said Rohit had allegedly informed Abhishek that abducting Gaurav could yield a good amount of money.Additional SP Mishra said that Abhishek then allegedly roped in all these members as well his colleague, Preeti Mehra, 25, also a BAMS doctor. “The first call was made on January 15. In the next three days, the woman convinced the student to meet her outside his college. On January 18, Preeti, along with the other suspects reached his college and picked him up in a car.“On the way, Abhishek forcibly administered me sedatives to make me unconscious. I do not know what happened after that and I was brought to Delhi. During the captivity they gave me sedatives multiple times so that I do not resist,” Gaurav alleged after he was rescued. Rohit and his accomplice Satish, who allegedly helped them get a SIM card on a forged identity, were nabbed by the Gonda police. Police have launched a search for Preeti who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gonda-medical-student-rescued-from-kidnappers-in-noida-five-arrested-101611340906155.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Less than 50% health workers turn up for second session of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Noida district||NOIDA: In what comes as a major setback to the coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccination drive, less than 50% of the listed health workers could be administered the shots on Friday in Gautam Budh Nagar district during the second session of the first phase of vaccination. Aimed to vaccinate as many as 4,200 health workers, Covishield could be administered to only 2,059 persons, the officials said. According to the official figures, due to the low turnout of corona warriors at centres, 51 doses of vaccines became useless. District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that while the vaccination portal was not running properly at most of the centres, in many areas the accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers didn’t turn up for their shots.“The rural health workers are reported to be a bit apprehensive about the accuracy and efficiency of the vaccines. Their lukewarm response will certainly defeat the purpose of vaccination. However, we have been repeatedly requesting them to be vaccinated, without being afraid. Though all of them were informed about Friday’s drive on Wednesday, we can’t compel someone to be vaccinated” he said. The CMO further said that problems in the vaccination portal were reported from almost all hospitals.“Similar CO-WIN portal-related issues were identified during the inaugural day of vaccination. We have already informed higher officials about this problem. I hope that in the coming sessions of this drive, such problems will not occur,” he said. He also said that as many as 51 doses of vaccines were destroyed as they could not be administered on time. “Each vial of vaccine has 0.5 ml of dose, sufficient for 10 beneficiaries. If it is not used within four hours of opening the vial, we have no option other than to destroy it. We had to destroy 17 doses on the inaugural session on January 16,” he said.Dr Rakesh Gupta, director of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), agreed that portal related issues slowed the vaccination. “Due to this, we couldn’t administer vaccines to as many as 30 people. Had it been functioning properly, we could have achieved 100% of our stipulated target of 200 vaccinations on Friday,” he said. However, many health workers took the vaccine shots enthusiastically, despite the low turnout. Margret Warner, the assistant nursing superintendent of Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital at Basai Darapur in New Delhi, said she saw a ray of hope when she received a message for vaccination from the district health department.“Since I’ve been working in the Covid-dedicated ward of my hospital since last 10 months, I had no fear of the vaccine. I came to my allotted centre at the ESIC hospital, Noida, driving nearly 36 km. I am fine and am feeling no complications after the shot,” she said.Echoing similar views, Dr Mrinal Sircar, the head of pulmonology and critical care department at Fortis Hospital, said after being vaccinated that after an eventful year of struggle with Covid-19, the vaccination can now script the end of the pandemic story. “It is wonderful that the vaccination drive has come in just when Covid-19 numbers are falling, which will be a double barrel attack on the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/less-than-50-health-workers-turn-up-for-second-session-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-noida-district-101611340846712.html
23-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad achieves 81.27% vaccination coverage, many centres achieve 100% target||The Ghaziabad district on Friday, for the second round of vaccination, set a target of vaccinating 4,000 health care workers and managed to inoculate 3251 of them. This, officials said, adds up to a coverage of 81.27%, with major hindrance in turnout only being due to ‘Anganwadi’ workers, who were hesitant about taking the jabs. The district had started the second round of vaccination on Friday at 31 centres where 40 sessions were taken up by as many teams, with projected coverage of 100 beneficiaries by each team. During the first round of vaccination of health care workers on January 16, the district had a target of 400 health care workers and vaccinated 379 of them. “A total of 3251 of the 4000 listed health care workers were vaccinated on Friday. There were some centres where some health care workers panicked while some others refused to join. The coverage was low at primary health care centre at Vijay Nagar. Those who did not turn up were mostly Anganwadi workers. We have about 500-600 of them and a majority of them did not turn up due to reluctance about the vaccine,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. Some of the centres also had issues with slow speed of the Co-Win app and the district health department officials had to take up entries even after the vaccinations got over at 5pm. “There were some issues with the Co-Win portal, so we made entries even after the vaccination drive got over for the day. There were several centres where 100% vaccination was achieved and these include Shanti Gopal Hospital at Indirapuram and government health centre at Loni,” Dr Gupta added. The highest target of 500 vaccinations in the district was at Max Hospital at Vaishali, with officials there stating that they had managed to vaccinate 477 of the beneficiaries in five sessions. “The 23 health care workers who did not take the shots included some doctors (who got the vaccine at our Delhi hospital) and some others who had recently recovered from Covid infection. So, overall, the vaccination coverage was high (about 95.4%). There was no adverse events following immunization (AEFI) reported at our centre,” said DR Nidhi M Dev, medical superintendent of the hospital. Further, both branches of Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar and Kaushambi achieved 100% vaccination with each given a target of 200 and 300, respectively. “Our staff cooperated and there was no AEFI event reported. I also took the shot after our vice-chairperson, Dr Shashi Arora, opted to take the first shot,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, medical superintendent of the hospital. The officials from hospital’s Kaushambi branch also said that there were no AEFI events reported from the 300 vaccination, which were taken up. “We held regular training of our staff and also conducted regular awareness sessions about the vaccination. So, we were able to achieve 100% vaccination with full cooperation of our staff,” said a spokesperson from the hospital. Officials of Columbia Asia Hospital near NH-9 said that they also achieved 100% vaccination of the 100 beneficiaries which were listed for Friday. “The beneficiaries who received the SMS call were registered and vaccinated successfully. All were satisfied with the arrangement and cooperated with government officials. The vaccinations started at 10am and was done till 5pm and a total 100 people were inoculated,” Dr Sudhir Verma from Centre for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Columbia Asia Hospital, said in a statement. At the government’s Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital, the turnout was 91 of 100 beneficiaries. “Nine of our staff members were either on leave or had health complications due to which they were not found fit for vaccination. I took the first shot in the morning. None of our staff suffered any AEFI event,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, the chief medical superintendent of the hospital. In Ghaziabad, all the beneficiaries were given the Covishield vaccine. Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), said that “vaccination across the state was taken up at 1537 booths and 61,585 health care workers were vaccinated till 3pm on Friday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-achieves-81-27-vaccination-coverage-many-centres-achieve-100-target-101611340847254.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Covid vaccination coverage reaches 91%||The district recorded the highest turnout for Covid-19 vaccination on Friday, with almost 91% coverage of the targeted healthcare workers. Focusing on private healthcare workers, who make up for the majority of the district’s total workforce, the health department inoculated at least 3,278 out of 3,600 beneficiaries at the vaccination sites set up in various private hospitals of the city. On Thursday, when both private and government healthcare workers received the vaccine, the turnout was 79%.At 32 sites, at least 3,138 took the Covishield jab as against the set target of 3,200, whereas the turnout for Covaxin for the fourth time remained slow. Only 140 took the Covaxin jab out of the 400 targeted for the day, according to the district health department data. Health workers from government set up were not inoculated on Friday. The next session for them will be held on Saturday. Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “The footfall remained high throughout the day due to walk in. For Saturday, the department has planned to cover the maximum workforce by having more than 53 vaccination sites.” Although the numbers stood high, some doctors from small clinics and nursing homes found their names missing from the list. A member of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said that due to miscommunication, a couple of doctors who reached the vaccination site based on the beneficiary list could not take the shot as they were asked to show the text message for vaccination. Dr Ajay Gupta, vice president, Indian Medical Association, Gurugram chapter, said, “On Thursday, IMA received a list of doctors and health staff who had to be given vaccine at different sites, primarily private hospitals. It was the same list of workforce, which was registered before the vaccine was launched. A couple of doctors faced challenges like their names were missing from the list at the site, while in some places vaccination officers said they can give the jab only if the doctor or staff could show the text message regarding date and location of vaccination.”He said that the issue can be resolved once they receive the extended list of beneficiaries who will be covered by January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-vaccination-coverage-reaches-91-101611340846211.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Haryana govt to build low-cost apartments for slum dwellers||Haryana government has decided to build low-cost flats for those living in slum clusters in the state. Gurugram and Faridabad have been chosen as the first two districts in the state in which this project will be implemented. Government officials said that slum dwellers in these two districts will be identified and flats at affordable prices would be developed and allotted to them. The cost of these centrally located apartments would be worked out in the coming months, said officials on Friday. The scheme was announced on Thursday by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who issued directions to officials that a comprehensive scheme should be prepared for the rehabilitation of residents living in urban slums by providing residential flats at affordable prices. The project, which shall be developed by the department of housing for all will first focus on Gurugram and Faridabad, said the chief minister. The flats to be constructed under the scheme would be given to the slum dwellers at affordable prices which could be paid by them in installments. The government could also arrange loans through banks so as to facilitate payment by beneficiaries, he added. As per the plan of the state government, the objective is to provide affordable housing facilities to urban slum dwellers. Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, confirmed the development and said that they have already started the process of identifying the slum areas, which can be rehabilitated. “There are around four lakh slum dwellers in Faridabad alone and the plan is to get government lands free from encroachments and build flats on them. The survey for this purpose has already began and a report will be finalised next week. The price of these flats would be very reasonable so that slum dwellers can afford them” said Yadav, who also has the charge of commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Faridabad. Yadav also said that both in Faridabad and Gurugram, the projects will be developed at centrally located sites within the city and inputs would be taken from slum dwellers. They will be alloted flats with their consent. “Government land in both the cities which is encroached would be cleared and slum dwellers accommodated ,” he said. In Gurugram, the department of town and country planning(DTCP) and other civic agencies would be conducting the survey to identify the land for prospective projects for slum rehabilitation and development of flats, said officials. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that sites would be identified for feasibility as per the directions of the government as this project has the potential to clear the slums and provide quality housing. “All efforts would be made to rehabilitate slum dwellers,” he added. Sanjay Sharma, a city-based real estate consultant, when asked about the feasibility of this plan said that such projects become more successful if the flats are given free of cost to slum dwellers. “The government should take lessons from what happened in Delhi as slum dwellers sold their flats and returned to.slums. The need is to learn from these mistakes,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-govt-to-build-low-cost-apartments-for-slum-dwellers-101611340788496.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Health worker who took Covishield shot dies of heart attack, officials wait for confirmatory report||A 56-year-old health worker at Bhangrola primary health centre, who had received a Covid-19 vaccine shot on January 16, died due to cardiac arrest on Friday. The district health department officials said that preliminary findings showed that the death might be unrelated to vaccination as the woman had shown no adverse reaction to the vaccine in the last five days. “Her viscera have been sent to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, to determine the actual cause of death,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district. “The cause of her death, if due to vaccination, is yet to be confirmed. She had received the Covishield shot. The postmortem done in Gurugram does not give any conclusive cause of death. But based on the examination by doctors of the Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee, the woman died due to cardiac arrest in her sleep,” he said, adding that until the final examination report is declared nothing can be claimed. “The state and central government have been informed about the incident” he said. After confirmation given by the family, the hospital authority called the police to take the woman’s husband Lal Singh’sstatement before a post-mortem examination to know the exact cause of death. The health worker, Rajwanti, was a resident of Krishna Colony.Her husband, Lal Singh, on Friday wrote to the SHO, New Colony police station, seeking to perform the last rites as there was a delay in postmortem report. Citing the entire episode, Singh in his letter said that his wife had slept at around 10pm on Thursday but she did not wake up the next morning. Thereafter, she was rushed to a private hospital in sector 39 where she was declared brought dead.Singh said, “My wife had no health issues. At 8am she was declared dead, and we received the body around 4pm.” In Gurugram, over 21 cases of minor side effects —such as nausea and high fever — had been reported since the Covid-19 vaccination drive started on January 16. None of them had to be admitted in hospital. The AEFI committee has been constituted to study and examine the adverse reactions reported by people after taking the vaccine jab. As per the health department data, no case of AEFI has been reported on Thursday and Friday. Experts say minor symptoms, like pain or swelling at the injection site and fever, are common in all sorts of vaccinations, and people should not be hesitant of taking the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-worker-who-took-covishield-shot-dies-of-heart-attack-officials-wait-for-confirmatory-report-101611340787923.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Illegal mobile towers to face action, four towers sealed||Illegal mobile towers installed in private residential colonies and group housing projects are likely to be sealed in the coming days as the enforcement wing of department of town and country planning has decided to conduct a crackdown against such towers from next week onwards. The department said that it has received a number of complaints in this regard, particularly on CM window, and consequently it was decided that junior engineers in their respective areas would issue notices and seal the towers, which are not regularised. On Friday, a team of the enforcement wing of DTCP sealed four mobile towers installed in the EWS block of a group housing society in sector 79. “A complaint was lodged on the CM window but action was pending since long, so an inspection was conducted on Friday and it was found that these towers were illegal. It was also found that the roof of the EWS block was very dirty, so we ensured that the roof was also cleaned on the spot,” said RS Bhath, district town planner. He further said that mobile operators and the site owners should get mobile towers regularised, otherwise action will be initiated by the department. “The norms are very clear and these should be followed, else action will be taken,” he said. In a related development, a team of MCG officials led by Bhath, removed encroachments from a large plot in U Block of DLF Phase 3 as commercial activities were being carried out illegally. “Construction material was being sold from the plot and there were other small vends built on the plot without permission. This complaint was also lodged with CM Window,” he said, adding that in coming weeks all such complaints pertaining to encroachments and violations would be dealt with on a priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-mobile-towers-to-face-action-four-towers-sealed-101611340787353.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Cold wave likely to make a return to the city, says MeT dept||The city woke up to a relatively warmer morning on Friday, when the minimum temperature was recorded at 7.7 degrees Celsius — up from 7.2 degrees Celsius a day before. However, isolated cold pockets were observed across the National Capital Region(NCR), including in Delhi, where the Safdarjung observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 4.2 degrees Celsius, indicating a ‘cold day’. Officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that cold day conditions occur either when the maximum temperature remains under 10 degrees or the minimum temperature remains less than 4.5 degrees Celsius or 6.4 degrees Celsius below normal. Such cold day conditions are likely to spread to other parts of Delhi-NCR, including Gurugram, over the next two days. This dip, they said, is due to a fresh western disturbance currently affecting Himalayan regions in the north, causing heavy snowfall in parts of Jammu and Kashmir. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional forecasting centre at the IMD, said, “We had originally predicted that cold drafts would start blowing over north India around January 25, but some parts have already begun to feel the influence of the weather system. Gurugram will also experience a dip in the minimum temperature over the weekend.” Cooler conditions were more prominent during the day on Friday, when the maximum temperature dipped to 17.1 degrees Celsius — down from 20.2 degrees Celsius on the previous day. As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Gurugram, the minimum temperature is likely to dip to as little as four degrees Celsius by Monday, while the maximum temperature may dip to 16 degrees Celsius. Srivastava added that the IMD has sounded a cold wave alert for north India for the next few days. Unlike a cold day, a cold wave is characterised by a simultaneous dip in both minimum and maximum temperature readings. “After the weather system passes, there will be a lot of residual moisture in the atmosphere and this will bring down the daytime temperature as well. In the mornings, there will be dense fog,” Srivastava said. The dip in daytime temperature on Friday was accompanied by calmer winds, which, in turn, led to a significant deterioration in Gurugram’s air quality. The city recorded an AQI of 315 (very poor) on the CPCB’s daily air quality index bulletin (up from 234 the previous day, indicating poor air). As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to... remain in very Poor category on 23.01.2021 and lower end of very Poor to Poor category on 24.01.2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cold-wave-likely-to-make-a-return-to-the-city-says-met-dept-101611340786860.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||Four members of a gang held for 20 robbery, snatching cases||Four members of a gang — allegedly involved in over 20 cases of robberies, snatching, and giving lift and looting cases in the city — have been arrested, the police said on Friday. On January 11, police had received a complaint from one Deepak Pandey, a resident of Delhi, who works in a private company in Udyog Vihar, wherein he alleged that he had gone to Sector 14 to withdraw ₹10 lakh from his company’s account. While he was returning with the cash, three men took him hostage at gunpoint and snatched his bag and other valuables near Sector 14 crossing. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they formed teams and handed over the investigation to the crime investigation agency of Sector 17. “We had received multiple complaints of robbery and loot. The gang members used to stand outside private banks and kept a close watch on people coming out with bags. They had robbed more than 20 victims and at least 10 of them were robbed on the pretext of giving them a lift,” he said The suspects were arrested from Bank Market in Sector 14 on Thursday while they were tailing another victim who was carrying ₹4 lakh cash, said police. The suspects were identified as Shravan Kumar (34) of Hisar, Sandeep Kumar (28) of Bahadurgarh, Suresh Singh (38) of Jhajjar and Surender Singh alias Sonu (35) of Jhajjar. Sangwan said the suspects have confessed and have revealed that there were eight members in their gang. “We have identified the remaining suspects and they will be arrested very soon,” he said. The suspects allegedly used to share the task — one of them remained inside the bank and passed on information to other gang members and many times sent pictures to identify the victim — following which four others on two different motorbikes followed and robbed them. Four such incidents have been reported in the last one month from Sector 14, said police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, rewarded Sector 17 crime investigation agency for their speedy work and cracking most of the crime cases handed over to them. “The team has arrested more than 20 criminals in the last one year and has been active throughout. They have set an example for other teams,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-members-of-a-gang-held-for-20-robbery-snatching-cases-101611340786150.html
23-01-2021||Gurugram||First time in eight months, Gurugram has fewer than 10 Covid patients on life support||The occupancy rate of reserved hospital beds (and ventilators) has also fallen to its lowest in eight months in Gurugram, health department officials confirmed on Friday, as the number of fresh Covid-19 cases continue to dwindle. At present, only three percent of all reserved ventilators for Covid patients are currently in use (down from 25 percent at the height of the epidemic’s third wave in mid-November). Similarly, only 10 percent of reserved ICU beds for Covid are currently occupied (down from 70 percent in mid-November). In absolute numbers, there were only nine active Covid-19 patients on life support in the district on Friday. “The last time we had less than 10 patients on the ventilator was in late May or early June last year. Since then, we have consistently had at least 30 patients on life support at any given point. When the third wave of cases was peaking in early November, we had between 50 to 60 people on ventilator, and we even had to allocate additional units on November 15 in case the surge continued. Fortunately it did not, and the situation has really improved this month,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram. “It would be a real morale booster if we can get to a stage where there are no more patients on ventilator, which would mean even fewer patients in intensive care,” Sharma said, confirming that the occupancy rates for ICU beds has also dipped significantly. “There are only 29 more patients in the ICU who are under treatment without ventilator support. In mid-November, there were about 120 to 130 such patients,” he said. Among general hospital beds with oxygen facilities, too, there has been an improvement in the occupancy rate, with only three percent of reserved beds currently in use (as against 31 percent in mid-November). The ongoing slowdown in new cases, which is now into it’s tenth week in Gurugram, has provided a much needed breather to medical officers, ASHA workers and midwives who have been involved in the epidemic response since March last year. A senior medical officer working at a health care sub-centre in Wazirabad, seeking anonymity, said, “We have a total of 75 medical officers in the district. From March to November, all of us were working on monitoring patients, doing their contract tracing with the help of ASHA workers, supervising testing camps and so on.”Now, department officials said, a third of all medical officers have been exclusively allocated to the vaccine roll out. “The remaining medical officers are able to manage their routine work as well as addressing new cases of Covid-19 which are still emerging. This would have been very difficult in November. Now, at a few PHCs, cases are low enough that ANMs and ASHA workers are not required for contact tracing and surveillance. It is being managed by the health department internally. ASHA workers will be roped in again for community engagement when the vaccine drive is scaled up,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/first-time-in-eight-months-gurugram-has-fewer-than-10-covid-patients-on-life-support-101611340726205.html
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s GMCH-32 starts awareness drive to counter vaccine hesitancy||Doubt clearing sessions, peer persuasion and constant reminders through WhatsApp messages are among the key steps Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, administration is taking to motivate health workers to get inoculated against Covid-19.Chandigarh, like other parts of the country, is witnessing a tepid response to the vital Covid shot among health workers, prompting the hospital authorities to launch awareness sessions.Since the launch of GMCH’s vaccination drive on January 16, during which the authorities targeted 800 such workers for inoculation at its two on-campus sites, only 285 came forward till Friday.“Based on the data of employees hesitant to take the shot, we have chosen our target group. It has been found that doctors and students have been inoculated in good numbers, but there is a need to educate and inform groups like nurses, sanitation and clerical staff about the need for vaccination. A few awareness sessions have been conducted and the response is good so far,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, GMCH director- principal.The hospital is organising physical doubt clearing sessions for the workers to pose questions directly to the experts so that confidence can be built for the exercise.“Employees suffering from hypertension and diabetes are the most sceptical about getting vaccinated. So, we inform them accordingly and encourage them to take the shot. We have already started seeing the impact of our drive as many staffers after these sessions report directly to the vaccination sites,” said Prof Deepak Chawla, GMCH nodal officer for Covid vaccination.He added that the health workers at the hospital want to get certain about their safety post-vaccination. “Most of the employees just want to see whether there is any side effect by observing those who have taken the shot.”Not only this, the director-principal has asked the seniors in some departments to post messages in their local WhatsApp groups to encourage others for taking the shots.“Seniors in the departments have a certain role to play as they interact with the employees on a daily basis. For example, if nursing superintendents and their assistants receive the jab, we ask them to post their experience in the WhatsApp groups to motivate their peers for the same. Also, phone numbers of the doctors concerned have been shared with the staff for addressing vaccine-related queries,” Dr Jasbinder Kaur said.She added that although no serious side effects of the Covid vaccine are expected, arrangements have been made to detect and manage any symptoms arising within the observation period.“As beneficiaries will receive the vaccine, naturally occurring health events will surface. Most of these events will not be related to the vaccine and are likely to be symptoms of commonly occurring morbidities only,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-gmch-32-starts-awareness-drive-to-counter-vaccine-hesitancy-101611340606975.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks details of levying penalty on illegal constructions in MMR||The Bombay high court (HC) last week directed all municipal corporations within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), to furnish details as regards statutory levying of penalties on illegal constructions.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni has directed the civic bodies – BMC and municipal corporations for Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur – to furnish, by March 3, 2021, details of compliance of section 152A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, and section 267A of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act, 1949, both of which provide for levying annual penalty of an amount equal to twice the property tax leviable on the building, if the structure is unauthorised and constructed without necessary planning permission. The court also directed the civic bodies to furnish ward-wise details of unauthorised constructions within their respective limits, with the break-up of completely illegal buildings –constructed without planning permissions, part-illegal structures – buildings with some illegal floors, and constructions with major deviations from sanctioned plans.The civic bodies have also been directed to furnish details of actions taken by them against these three categories of illegal constructions.The directives came on a suo-motu proceeding taken up after a dilapidated building collapsed in Bhiwandi on September 23, 2020, resulting in the loss of 16 lives, including eight children, prompting HC to take suo-motu note of dilapidated buildings and mushrooming of illegal constructions in MMR.In its order, the bench observed, “There can be no two opinions that proper planning of the municipal areas can never be achieved if the persons, who by law are vested to govern the affairs of the corporation either by virtue of their employment or election as corporators, have no will to weed out such lawlessness of illegal constructions, dilapidated buildings and perpetration of encroachments.”The bench said that there were ideal laws to administer and maintain cities with high standards of municipal governance, but the reasons why there is gross failure to achieve such goals and ideals, reflecting very poorly on the municipal administration, are not too far to be noticed.“It can certainly be said that there is a failure of long-long years in preventing illegal constructions, encroachments and having such buildings as are dilapidated and which may lead to collapse, resulting in loss of innocent human lives,” the bench added.The bench also questioned why municipal councillors besides civic officials, should also not be held accountable for the menace of illegal constructions and encroachments. The judges wondered as to why municipal councillors should not be held responsible and accountable on the principle that every public position a person holds is accompanied by duties, obligations and responsibilities.“On every occasion, it cannot be that officers are to be held responsible for lawlessness and loss of human lives,” said the bench. “Any dereliction of such basic municipal duties by all stakeholders needs to be deprecated and recourse to the process of law, civil and criminal, is required to be taken to its logical conclusion in the event such illegalities are noticed,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-details-of-levying-penalty-on-illegal-constructions-in-mmr-101611340546963.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks explanation from collectors on non-transfer of mangrove areas to Maharashtra forest department||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed collectors of all coastal districts, City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco), Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), and Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) to submit affidavits explaining why they have not complied with the September 2018 order of the HC, directing to declare all mangrove areas as forests, and transfer the areas to the forest department.A public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Vanashakti claimed that there was willful negligence, and sought directions to immediately initiate transfer and handover of nearly 1,600 hectare of mangrove land under the jurisdictions of the said authorities to the forest department. The NGO sought to place the mangrove forests under the control of the chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).A division bench of justice Amjad Sayed and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the PIL, was informed by advocate Zaman Ali for Vanshakti that on September 18, 2018, the HC had reiterated its previous directions to declare mangrove areas as forests and transfer them to the forest department.In light of this, Ali submitted that the order applied to collectors of the coastal districts which included Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, as well as the three authorities namely Cidco, JNPT and MMRDA. The PIL submitted that while 15,311.7087 hectare of mangrove land came under the purview of the order, only a total of 13,716.7321 hectare was transferred to the revenue and forest department, while 1,594.9766 hectare was pending transfer. Ali submitted that pursuant to the 2018 HC order, the chief conservator of forests had reminded the collectors and the three authorities of non-compliance, but none of them complied, and hence, the NGO was compelled to approach the court.Apart from seeking directions to the authorities to transfer the mangrove land to the forest department and the chief conservator of forests, the PIL also sought initiation of contempt proceedings against the errant authorities as well as directions to the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) to refrain from processing any coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance applications for development purposes proposed in mangrove forest areas and buffer zones till completion of the transfer of mangrove lands to the forest department. The PIL also sought direction to restore the mangrove areas degraded since 2005. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the respondent authorities to file their replies within three weeks and is expected to hear the matter in the second week of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-explanation-from-collectors-on-non-transfer-of-mangrove-areas-to-maharashtra-forest-department-101611340426942.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Parent write to NCPCR over fee hike issues||Parents from across the state have written to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) over issues pertaining to fee hike in private schools in the state. In their letter, Indiawide Parents Association has asked the commission to look at issues concerning fee hike, harassment in case parents complain regarding hikes and the state education department’s failure to act against such schools. “Many schools in Maharashtra have been targeting students over fee disputes. We have complained to the state government on behalf of parents, but have not got any response. Despite sending a list of schools to the state government, the education department has not audited any schools and we thus hope that the commission directs the government to do so,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association. Sahai said that the state government should also work on appointing a chairperson for the Maharashtra State Child Rights Commission, a post which is currently vacant. Parents have also attached a list of schools where issues concerning fees are yet to be resolved. “Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, parents faced a lot of financial issues with job losses and pay cuts. Despite that, many private schools have hiked fees and have taken action against children whose parents have dues pending,” said a parent whose son was recently removed from the online school group for non-payment of dues, in Kalyan. Officials from the state education department said that since the subject of fee concerning private schools is sub judice, they cannot comment on the matter. A government resolution (GR) released on May 8, stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26, in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools, as per the current rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-parent-write-to-ncpcr-over-fee-hike-issues-101611340367065.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Zero daily Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s slum area of Dharavi for second time since pandemic started||For the second time since the first Covid-19 case was reported in Dharavi in April last year, no case was reported in the area on Friday. Before this, on December 25 zero cases were reported in a day. Dharavi, one of Asia’s largest slums, was once known as a prime hotspot, with hundreds of cases being recorded daily.The first case of Covid-19 in Dharavi was recorded on April 1 last year when a 56-year-old man tested positive. He succumbed to the virus within a few days. The total death toll in Dharavi has reached 312. Since June, there has been a sharp decline in daily Covid cases. The area’s average daily case count had come down from 47 in May 2020 to 18 in June 2020. The count had peaked at the start of May, with 94 cases recorded in a day on May 3. The number started plunging since June 1. The highest number of cases in June did not go beyond 34, as recorded on June 1.BMC officials say that Dharavi has come full circle in its fight against Covid-19. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward (Dharavi), said, “A lot of hard work has been put in by the frontline workers since the first Covid case in Dharavi. There has been a sharp drop in cases since June. There was a small spike following the Ganesh festival, which was concerning, but it dipped later.” For the past several weeks, Dharavi has been recording only single-digit Covid cases daily.Active cases at present in Dharavi are at an all-time low, with just 10 at present. The total count in Dharavi has reached 3,904, while 3,582 patients have already been discharged.The Dharavi slum, spread over 2.4sqkm, has 850,000 residents and a population density of 354,167 per sqkm, making it one of the most cramped spaces in Mumbai, itself the world’s fifth most densely populated city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/zero-daily-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-s-slum-area-of-dharavi-for-second-time-since-pandemic-started-101611340308095.html
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bumps up vaccination sites to six after encouraging turnout||After receiving better response to the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Friday, UT health authorities decided to open two more vaccination sites on Saturday.The fourth day witnessed a turnout of 66% at the four sites, an increase of 11% from Thursday.“From Saturday onwards, an additional site at GMSH-16 and a new one at civil hospital, Manimajra, will be made operational. By opening these sites, 200 beneficiaries will receive appointment messages, bringing down the number of health workers yet to be covered. However, the response at these sites remains to be seen,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, UT health director.For four days since the rollout on January 16, the drive was carried out at two sites at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32; Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16; and civil hospital, Sector 45. For now, vaccination is being conducted on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.On Friday, 110 people turned up at the Sector-45 civil hospital for inoculation, even though only 100 were expected. Meanwhile, 100% target was achieved at GMSH-Sector 16, but at GMCH-32, only 20% of the registered beneficiaries turned up for the shot. PGIMER also adds one more sitePGIMER added another vaccination site on Friday, where 73% health workers came forward for vaccination. The next drive here will be held at these two sites on Monday, following which more centres may be added, said hospital authorities.In Panchkula, 491 health workers got the vaccine shot at seven different sites in the district. This was only 41.6% of the targeted beneficiaries (1,178) for Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-bumps-up-vaccination-sites-to-six-after-encouraging-turnout-101611340306900.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai airport exports Covishield vaccines to international destinations||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Friday became the first airport in the country to export the vaccine to international destinations. CSMIA has initiated the international shipment of Covishield vaccine to Brazil and Morocco. The Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, departed from CSMIA carrying two million doses to Brazil via Emirates Sky Cargo and two million doses to Morocco on Royal Air Maroc. Overall, CSMIA has facilitated the movement of over 14.17 million doses of the Covishield vaccine across various international and domestic destinations. As a premier pharma hub of the country, CSMIA has placed a process for faster turnaround of Covid-19 vaccine export-import (EXIM) and transhipment movements. “Given the requirement for timely and temperature-controlled movement of the vaccine, the existing infrastructure at CSMIA enables the airport to offer a continuous temperature-controlled movement and seamless processing of pharma goods through the airport. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) implemented by the airport in anticipation of the vaccine distribution saw the terminal register a cargo processing time of just 23 minutes, right from goods acceptance to dispatch at the ramp,” said the airport spokesperson. CSMIA handles the largest portion of EXIM pharmaceutical air cargo movements in the country. The airport has handled 40 to 50 tons of vaccines per day and is home to Asia’s largest temperature-controlled export pharma excellence centre, a facility that has a one-time holding capacity of 800 tons for 2-8 degrees. It can cater to cargo meant for seven freighters at a time, as well as a Pharma-dedicated import cold zone offering 860 tons of 15 to 25 degrees storage and cold chambers offering 300 tons of 2 to 8 degrees storage.CSMIA is also India’s largest hub for ‘Envirotainer’ movements with over 60 power outlets for processing pharma active containers; CSMIA’s “Envirotainer Station” has processed over 2500 active containers within the airport and distribution to major pharma gateway airports across the country.Currently CSMIA witnesses around 14 to 15 cargo flights daily and handles an average of 800 tons of export and 700 tons of import cargo in a day. CSMIA caters to over 500 destinations, with 27% of its overall exports to Europe, 20% to America and 20% to African countries. The airport offers direct cargo connectivity to destinations such as Europe, America, Middle East, Africa, Japan, China, Hongkong and Singapore, and 60 domestic cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-mumbai-airport-exports-covishield-vaccines-to-international-destinations-101611340246856.html
23-01-2021||Mumbai||Kanjurmarg better than Aarey for Mumbai Metro-3 car shed, says govt panel||A nine-member committee appointed by the Maharashtra government has recommended that the car shed for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) be built at the plot in Kanjurmarg and not in Aarey Milk Colony. The committee was appointed on January 6 was given a month to submit its report, which it has submitted to the chief minister’s office in a record 15 days.State chief secretary Sanjay Kumar confirmed on Thursday that the report had been submitted to the chief minister’s office. “We were given a mandate and we have submitted the report,” Kumar said.While details from the report are yet to be released by the state, it is known that the panel has recommended the 102-acre Kanjurmarg plot, citing future expansion and integration of the Metro-3 and Metro-6 with a common car shed. A state official on condition of anonymity said, “The two committees appointed earlier had not examined future expansion. Considering Aarey is a 30-hectare (ha) plot, expansion will be tough in the future.”Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in an address from last December, had also stated expansion would be difficult in Aarey. In November 2019, Thackeray had appointed a committee under additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik, which had said in its report that the Aarey plot was the only viable option for the car depot.Another official from the state government said, “The Saunik committee report did not look at several aspects while recommending Aarey. Kanjurmarg is the only option for future expansion. If not today, the government will have to allocate land at Kanjurmarg in the future. In such a scenario, it is better to integrate Metro lines at one plot, for optimal utilisation of land and finances.”However, with the Bombay High Court (HC)’s stay over the land transfer, building a car shed at Kanjurmarg will be a tough battle for the state. Also, in a letter sent to Thackeray on Thursday, former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis had said his government approved the site in Aarey for the car depot after considering population estimates till 2053. “Between 2031-53, 13 trains of eight cars each will be dispatched in phases based on travel demand. For this, 1.5ha of the remaining 5ha will be utilised. This area has around 160 trees which will be transplanted in phases,” wrote Fadnavis in the letter. The state had said that the five-hectare plot has around 1000 trees. Fadnavis had also alleged that the recently-appointed committee was “a farce” and its report would recommend the Kanjurmarg plot.Activist and member of the Save Aarey group Zoru Bhathena said, “The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation had stated that eventually it would require 61 hectares in Aarey for the depot. This means that more trees will have to be cut in the forest area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kanjurmarg-better-than-aarey-for-mumbai-metro-3-car-shed-says-maharashtra-government-s-panel-101611339527523.html
23-01-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out at an automobile service centre in Delhi's Uttam Nagar area||A fire broke out at an automobile service centre in Delhi's Uttam Nagar area on Friday night. As many as 15 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, officials told news agency PTI adding that the fire department received information about the mishap at 9.41 pm. Efforts are currently on to douse the fire at the service centre and more details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-delhi-s-uttam-nagar-area-15-tenders-present-at-spot-101611339100696.html
