24-01-2021||Chandigarh||MC polls: Development issues matter in Mohali’s ‘new’ sectors||For around 50,000 residents of sectors 76 to 80 under Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), development issues matter the most in the upcoming Mohali municipal corporation elections.Even though these sectors came up much after other zones in the city, lack of basic amenities has been a major grouse for the residents.People have become used to the damaged roads, non-functional streetlights, badly maintained parks and stray animals on the loose. Schools, markets and community centres had been planned but no projects have been initiated. “We have decided to vote for candidates who will assure us of proper development of the area. Despite our repeated requests to carry out development works, GMADA does not take any action,” said MP Singh, president of the Residents’ Welfare and Development Committee, Sector 79.The committee’s requests for a school, dispensary, community centre and local bus service have remained unheard. Sampooran Singh, president of the Sector 78 Resident Welfare Association, said he felt he was living in a village and not in a city as roads in the area were badly damaged and parks had wild overgrowth. “Streetlights are missing too. We are requesting the party candidates to assure us that they will prioritise development and basic amenities of our area,” he said.Most of the roads in these sectors have not been recarpeted for several years. Stray cattle too were accident risks with neither GMADA nor the MC taking any initiatives to keep the animals off roads.No action has been taken against the owners of these animals that are actually domesticated but let loose to graze in parks or areas close to main roads.There is no market in Sector 80, and people have to travel a considerable distance to get regular supplies. The mini market in Sector 79 has no toilets for shopkeepers, residents complain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mcpolls-development-issues-matter-in-mohali-s-new-sectors-101611512949937.html
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||4 years on, project to treat effluents in Dera Bassi yet to take off||It has been more than four years since the foundation stone of the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) was laid at Saidpura village for scientific disposal of effluents from pharmaceutical units in the Dera Bassi area, but the project has failed to take off. Residents of 12 villages, including Bhankharpur, Issapur, Pragpur, Bakerpur, Ibrahampur, Dhanounani and Bhora had moved the Punjab and Haryana High court alleging that chemically polluted water was being discharged in the Dera Bassi drain. They blamed the state government for not taking action against the polluting units. The petitioners alleged that sewage discharge from factories was flowing into drains nearby and polluting the groundwater and, therefore, the tubewell supply.The Dera Bassi municipal council had leased out four acres of land for the project, which was to be executed by Mohali Green Environment Private Limited, an association of around 10 pharmaceutical companies.The firm had assured that the completion deadline would be March 2018, and in 2019 finalised local company Bantech Water Private Limited (formerly Bansal Envirotech) for engineering work. But even though Bantech readied the requisite documents for the project, it did not get the all-clear from the association.“We are pressuring the association to come up with a plant soon. It claims to be holding talks with two companies and hopefully they will be finalising things in the next two weeks,” said Satwinder Singh Marwaha, chairman of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) .Nav Rattan Munjal, director of Mohali Green Environment Private Limited said they would choose a company in a week’s time and start work on the project.Commenting on the matter, Siddharth Bansal, CEO of Bantech, said, “We received a letter of award from the association, finalising us as an implementing agency for the said project. We are in the process of finalising certain terms and conditions and will be in the implementation stage very soon.”Plans for the project were drawn out in 2014 and in April 2016, Manpreet Singh, the then chairman of PPCB, laid the foundation stone of the Rs80 crore plant at Saidpura that would cater to other villages close by.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-years-on-project-to-treat-effluents-in-dera-bassi-yet-to-take-off-101611512948696.html
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||3 booked for attack on former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh’s office||Three men with alleged links to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) were booked by police for attacking the Sector 79 election office of former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh on Sunday afternoon.Mohali senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh attributed reasons for the attack to personal enmity, saying three men had been booked under relevant sections. Their names were Sukhwinder Singh Shindi, former President of a truck union in Mohali, Jagtar Singh Zinda and Baljinder Singh Golu. Kulwant Singh, who heads the Azad group that’s contesting the upcoming Mohali municipal corporation (MC) elections, alleged that 30 to 35 men armed with sticks and sharp edged weapons attacked his office, leaving two or three of his workers with minor injuries. Investigations were continuing in the case, the SSP added. Zinda’s mother is contesting the MC elections from Kharar on a SAD ticket. Giving details of the attack to the media, Kulwant Singh, flanked by former SAD councillors Parminder Singh Sohana and Sukhdev Singh Patwari, alleged that the attackers arrived at the scene saying they were supporters of farmers and would gherao (surround) his office. They were followed by other men in vehicles armed with swords and sticks.Sohana alleged that as the men started vandalising the office “I tried to pacify the attackers but they were not listening to me. I repeatedly asked them to talk and reveal the motive of their attack, but instead they manhandled and attacked me with swords.” Calling it a “political vendetta against me and my group by the opposition,” Kulwant Singh said: “They have sensed that they will lose the elections so they have stooped low and sent goons to threaten us.”He said a complaint had been made and names of the attackers given to police with CCTV footage of the incident “in which faces (of the attackers) were clearly visible.”Countering the charges, SAD’s Mohali election convener Charanjit Singh Brar said: “The allegations levelled by ex-mayor Kulwant Singh and Parvinder Sohana are a result of excessive excitement whereas the entire episode is that of kisans gheraoing the office as the former mayor used the kisan (farmer) symbol for his party, which farmers see as taking undue advantage of their agitation. So, kisans came to gherao their office and Sohana went there with his armed men, which resulted in a scuffle. Allegations against SAD are purely baseless and frivolous.” Kulwant Singh parted ways with SAD on January 11 and 26 other party leaders resigned later in his support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-booked-for-attack-on-former-mohali-mayor-kulwant-singh-s-office-101611512889020.html
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||Former Chandigarh DEO who died of Covid among 24 R-day awardees||Harbir Singh Anand, former district education officer who died of Covid-19 on September 5 last year, is among 15 public servants to be awarded for their meritorious service by the Chandigarh administration on Republic Day.Besides them, six people and three non-government organisations will also get commendation certificates in the fields of social service, sports, art and culture.According to the citation, under Harbir Singh Anand’s supervision, the staff of mid-day meal kitchens used to prepare around 18,000 meals per day for the needy during the lockdown. “He worked day and night as a Covid warrior, and continued his diligent services till his last breath, just 25 days prior to his retirement,” it states.Meanwhile, three NGOs are being felicitated for their immense help and support to the administration’s efforts to help needy persons during the lockdown. Sree Chaitanya Gaudiya Math Mandir, Sector 20B, was one of the biggest contributors to the supply of cooked food to poor people. According to the citation: “They supplied desi ghee khichdi twice a day during this time.”Chandigarh Samooh Gurdwara Parbandhak Sangathan, an umbrella organisation of gurdwaras in the city, prepared large quantities of food in their kitchens. “Their workers worked dedicatedly day and night to support the administration in this cause,” states the citation. Sidh Baba Balak Sewa Mandal, Sector 29, a religious organisation, also cooked large quantities of food and provided it to the administration for distribution among the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-chandigarh-deo-who-died-of-covid-among-24-r-day-awardees-101611512710251.html
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||Vice-President’s office seeks draft schedule for Panjab University senate elections||The office of Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Panjab University chancellor, has sought a draft schedule for the senate elections.“You are requested to provide us a draft schedule for the elections to the senate of the university for placing before Vice-President of India/Chancellor of PU,” reads the letter addressed to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on January 21.The development comes after the varsity had conveyed to chancellor’s office that the process of conducting the senate elections has been initiated after receiving the nod from the Chandigarh administration. Earlier, the chancellor’s office had sought a proposal from the varsity on its further course of action with regards to the polls.On January 18, PU had written a letter to the chancellor’s office to inform that the UT administration has conveyed that it has no objection to the conduct of senate polls. The varsity had also stated the process has been initiated by seeking permission from other six state governments (Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan), where polling booths of different constituencies of the senate have to be set up.According to the letter, PU has said that the final election schedule will be proposed after the receipt of permission from the respective states. Moreover, the varsity has already requested the Punjab assembly speaker to elect two members from among themselves to the senate.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the chancellor, two are from the Punjab legislative assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected. The four-year term of the previous senate ended on October 31 last year. The term of the syndicate, PU’s executive body, also ended on December 31. Its members are elected from among the senators. Hence, the university is now functioning without a governing body.Ever since the senate elections were postponed – first in August and later in October last year – there have been a series of protests on the campus demanding immediate polls.Former senator Ashok Goyal said: “Neither the vice-chancellor nor chancellor has any role in the election schedule. Only the date of polling is to be announced. This is a tactic to delay the elections.”“The university should conduct the polls immediately, or things will come to a standstill after January 31,” said former senator Navdeep Goyal.PU registrar Vikram Nayyar said: “The university will take appropriate action as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vicepresidents-office-seeks-draft-schedule-for-panjab-university-senate-elections-101611512589032.html
24-01-2021||Other||24-year-old man shot by robbers in Navi Mumbai, 4 arrested||A 24-year-old man from Pen in Raigad was injured after he was shot in the leg by a group of robbers on Saturday on the Sion-Panvel highway. Kharghar police have arrested four accused in the case. According to police, the complainant Pratik Ravindra Aher, 24, a real estate agent, told police that he had come from Pen to Vashi, Navi Mumbai on his two-wheeler, to enjoy the weekend. “Around 10pm, he was returning via the Sion-Panvel highway when he decided to take a break and smoke a cigarette near Kopra village. The four accused demanded his phone, money and bike but he refused to give them. One of the accused then took out a gun and shot Aher in the leg before fleeing the spot,” said an officer from Kharghar police station. Police arrested Vipin Thakur, 19, Gopal Singh, 23, Abhinandan Sharma, 23, and Muchan Thakur, 19. They were staying at Kopra, Sector 10, Kharghar. Local police and the crime branch started an investigation and checked CCTV footage of the area to find evidence. Footage from Kopra village showed four people moving around suspiciously. “We checked with the locals and found out that on Saturday, only four people arrived to stay in a chawl room. We laid a trap and arrested the accused. The firearm and bullets were also seized from them. The accused later confessed to the crime and told police that they needed money to set up a hotel,” said a police officer.Police said Aher had suffered bullet injuries on his left thigh. An alert passerby informed the police and the victim was taken for treatment to MGM Hospital in Kamothe. Suresh Mengade, deputy commissioner police, zone 1, Navi Mumbai, said, “We have registered a case against the accused under section 397 (robbery, dacoity, attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24yearold-man-shot-by-robbers-in-navi-mumbai-4-arrested-101611511808560.html
24-01-2021||Other||CM to attend UP Day’s celebration in Noida||NOIDA: The Noida authority is not leaving any stone unturned to beautify the city for an event to celebrate Uttar Pradesh foundation day, to be held Monday. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is scheduled to attend the event in Noida on Monday at the Noida Haat in Sector 33A, located right in the heart of this industrial town.This is the first time that any Uttar Pradesh chief minister will attend an event for the state’s foundation day in Noida. The state government celebrated the day with an event in Lucknow on Sunday. The authority has been painting city walls, central verge, repairing footpaths along roads near the venue and cleaning each nook and corner of areas in and around Sector 33A. The Noida Haat that houses shops for the state’s weavers and handloom workers has been decked up.“The chief minister had inaugurated the Rs101 crore indoor stadium on January 24. During Monday’s event, some more projects will be initiated while some others which are ready will be opened for public use. We have made all arrangements for the event,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority.According to the authority, the CM will inaugurate 40 projects worth a total of ₹295.66 crore for the city. These include the resurfacing of the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, Vedvan Park in Sector 78, inaugurating construction for community centres in multiple sectors, and development of a wetland in Sector 91, among others.Apart from this, the CM will throw open a total of 26 projects having a budget of ₹410.69 crore. These include an underground parking in Film City in Sector 16A, Biodiversity Park in Sector 91 and an underground parking in Sector 3, among other projects. The decision to celebrate UP’s foundation day across the state was taken by the state government. It is an annual event being held in the state since 1950Sourced said the CM may reach Noida Haat via helicopter if weather permits, otherwise he will reach via car. “Since the Republic Day Parade is scheduled in Lucknow on Tuesday, he will return to the state capital right after the Noida event,” said a state government official, not authorised to speak to the media. The CM is likely to reach at 12pm and the event will be over by 2pm, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-to-attend-up-day-s-celebration-in-noida-101611511628020.html
24-01-2021||Noida||UP Rera hands over stuck realty project to Noida authority after buyers refuse||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP Rera) has decided to hand over a stuck realty project – Festival City located in Sector 143 along the Noida Expressway – to the Noida authority after the promoter failed to deliver it.“As per Section 8 of the Rera Act we can hand over stuck realty projects to the concerned development authority in case homebuyers refuse to take over, after the promoter has already failed to deliver the project. In the case of Festival City, the developer could not finish the project and the buyers’ association is also not interested in taking it up. Therefore, the Rera has decided to hand it over to the Noida authority,” said Rajive Kumar, chairman of the UP Rera.The Festival City project is spread over 25 acres and has space for shops, offices and residential villas. It was launched in 2012 and supposed to be delivered by 2016, but the developer could only construct the civil structure of commercial space. Since March 2019, the UP Rera has been hearing a plea filed by homebuyers against the promoter without reaching to any conclusion. It had also offered the buyers’ association an opportunity to complete the project but the move failed to yield results.“The buyers’ association can take over and finish if the realty project is at an advanced stage. Since this project needs a lot of construction work to finish, the buyers’ association is not interested in it. As per rules, the buyers’ association has first right of refusal to take over such a stuck project,” said Kumar.Noida authority officer on special duty Rajesh Kumar said, “We will look into it once we receive instructions from Rera.”Buyers said that they are not in a position to finish and deliver the project due to multiple reasons.“We lack technical experience and expertise and do not have adequate finances to finish such a big project. In view of all these issues, we refused to accept the offer made by the Rera,” said a buyer.As per RERA, the promoter required Rs380 crore to finish this project which had high-end residential villas. The promoter told Rera he invested around Rs160 crore out of the Rs380 crore and constructed steel pillars to build structures for the commercial project. Bhasin Group promoter SS Bhasin, who was developing this project, is behind bars in connection with a fraud case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-rera-hands-over-stuck-realty-project-to-noida-authority-after-buyers-refuse-101611511567824.html
24-01-2021||Noida||Driving hundreds of kilometres, farmers brave odds to participate in tractor parade||Ghaziabad/Noida: Love Preet Singh, a 27-year-old farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, drove his tractor for almost a day to cover about 435 kilometres with his group to reach UP Gate on January 23, to participate in the protesting farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day. Hundreds of farmer groups are headed to UP Gate from different parts of UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab to be a part of the proposed tractor parade.Singh said his group consisting of 70 people and 14 tractors drove through jungle areas around his village in order to reach UP Gate. Most farmer groups are using the NH 9 and the Delhi-Meerut Road to reach UP Gate in Ghaziabad.“There were restrictions in our area as officials were persuading us not to go for the tractor parade. However, we gave them the slip and drove about 20 kilometres in a nearby jungle area and then headed to UP Gate. Later, our families called us up and said that officials were surprised to know how the tractors slipped out silently. It was a bit difficult initially but there was no stopping us. The work for sugarcane crops in fields is still going on but we left everything behind,” Singh said.“Each of the tractors consumed diesel worth about ₹7,000 for one side of the journey. But we took out our savings as each of us wanted to be a part of this historic event. This is our second outing to UP Gate. Initially, we came in hired cars in December and then went back. This time our families did not come but our children were eager to join us,” he added.Hardeep Singh, an 18-year-old man from Lakhimpur Khiri who has completed his class 12 studies, is a first timer at UP Gate. He said he wants to learn agriculture techniques by meeting other farmers there and will pursue farming later on.“The farming sector is being modernised, and I wish to implement the same to my farmland, besides continuing my education. During the entire 24 hours journey, we faced harsh weather and chill, besides dense fog. But we kept on moving, covering ourselves with blankets. With the ongoing agitation, I feel that issues of farmers which had been on backburner have become talking points and this will benefit the farming sector,” he added.Hundreds of tractors along with trolleys have started lining up at the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway and the beeline has now extended up to the NIB-crossing (Noida) beyond the Khoda Colony area on the expressway.Dilbagh Singh, another farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri, said that if the demands of farmers for repeal of the three new laws are not met, they have other plans in place after the tractor rally.“After this tractor parade, we will start growing limited crops and it will only be sufficient for our families and for families of our labourers. This will mean that we will stop growing extra crops and supplies will thin out. It will be another mode of protest from farmers in coming time,” he added.Kashmir Singh, who is a farmer and member of ‘Chandra Youth Club’ from Amroha, also arrived at the UP Gate driving his tractor for ten and half hours to cover a distance of about 150 kilometres on NH-9.“Our group has come with 70 tractors while only 30 tractors stayed back in our village, Chandra, for use in fields or for any emergency use. If need be they also will be called to UP Gate. With our savings, members of our group have procured yellow-coloured t-shirts with the slogan “I love kheti” (farming). Our tractors will bear the National Flag and also the flag of our club,” he added.The farmers joining the UP Gate protesters were allotted tents by the UP Gate farmers’ committee while many have come with their trolleys attached, on which they have set up small huts covered with tarpaulin for shelter.“We have asked our farmers to come with trolleys and bring food items for about five-seven days. We have no count of how many will come but they are coming in hundreds and will gather at UP Gate till late Tuesday. We are coordinating with district officials and our volunteers are ready to ensure that our tractor parade goes on smoothly and in a peaceful manner,” said Rakesh Tikait, farmers’ leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee said that thousands of farmers in tractors have already started from their respective districts in UP and Uttarakhand while some groups are also to likely join from states like Odisha, Chattisgarh and Maharashtra.Chilla border readies tractorsMeanwhile, farmers camped at the Chilla border are also busy preparing for the rally on January 26, after getting the nod from the Delhi Police.“Our target was for 1,000 tractors and over one lakh of our supporters to reach us. People are gathering here gradually and we hope to go from the Dalit Prerna Sthal to Chilla border, then Akshardham and Kranti Marg before returning,” said Shailesh Kumar Giri, national spokesperson, BKU-Lokshakti.Farmers also said that they will coordinate with the police and administration to avoid any confrontations and to carry out a peaceful parade.A spokesperson for the Bhanu faction said that 200 of their tractors will move from the border to the Mayur Vihar flyover before moving onto the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway before returning to the starting point.“The number of tractors would have been higher if our supporters were not being stopped mid-way. But we will carry out a peaceful protest irrespective of any obstacles,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU-Bhanu.Meanwhile, following security threats and expected farmer movement, Noida police is on high alert.“We are yet to receive any official route guidelines from Delhi and will allow movement only on the allowed route. We are prepared to take necessary action if there is any vandalism or public disorder,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/driving-hundreds-of-kilometres-farmers-brave-odds-to-participate-in-tractor-parade-101611511447919.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||As temperatures remain low, Mumbai records very poor air quality||After a week’s respite from poor quality air, Mumbai's air quality deteriorated over the weekend. As temperatures remained relatively low, an overall air quality index (AQI) in Mumbai was measured at 310 on Sunday, which was in the 'very poor' category.On Sunday, Mumbai’s overall air quality was only slightly behind Delhi’s air quality where an AQI of 339 was measured. Last Monday, Mumbai had recorded the cleanest air this year with an AQI of 156 (moderate). However, on Saturday, the AQI dropped to 320 and continued to remain 'very poor' on Sunday.The AQI is a pollutant measuring indicator that is calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded across 10 locations in the city and the suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as 'good'; 51-100 as 'satisfactory'; 101-200 as 'moderate'; 201-300 as 'poor'; 301-400 as 'very poor' and above 400 as 'severe'.Six of the 10 locations measured an AQI that was in the 'very poor' category. Navi Mumbai recorded the worst air quality with an AQI of 374, closely followed by Andheri where an AQI of 340 was recorded.Also read: Covid vaccine tracker How many are inoculated in India and the world“Owing to the presence of high pressure in western India, calm winds are prevailing in Mumbai and the surrounding regions. Additionally, regional contribution of winds in Mumbai is predominantly from oceanic air which is carrying pollution and dust from north-west India. This condition is leading to very poor AQI in Mumbai. With movement of high-pressure system to the west, the condition will be relaxed slightly which is going to improve the AQI to 'poor' for Mumbai in the next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.Days and nights were pleasant in the city and the suburbs with temperatures remaining low. The minimum temperature at Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) was 17.4 degree Celsius, which was a degree above normal. At Colaba, the minimum temperature was 20 degrees Celsius, also a degree above normal.Maximum temperature at Santacruz was recorded at 31.3 degrees, which was a degree above normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature was 29.6 degrees Celsius, which was at par with normal.KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of western region, IMD, said, “From Monday, minimum temperatures are likely to fall in parts of north-central Maharashtra and Mumbai, Thane regions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-temperatures-remain-low-mumbai-records-very-poor-air-quality-101611511198252.html
24-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad officials yet to confirm route for farmers’ tractor parade||Ghaziabad: Confusion prevailed over the final route of the farmers’ tractor parade as officials of the Ghaziabad police and district administration on Sunday night said they received no communication from the Delhi Police regarding the route. The farmers’ leaders, however, said they also have plans for one route with them which was also decided upon by Ghaziabad officials. The tractor parade is scheduled for the Republic Day on Tuesday even as the Delhi Police on Sunday gave an in-principle approval to agitating farmers to carry out their tractor rallies in the national Capital from three border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur (UP-Gate) -- on Republic Day Detailing the route for Tuesday, the Delhi Police said farmers at Singhu Border will cover 63 kilometre and their rally will pass through places such as Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Kanjhawala, Bawana, and KMP Expressway before returning. The rally from Tikri will pass through Nangloi, Najafgarh, Jharoda, and KMP Expressway and cover a distance of 62.5 kms. The farmers at Ghazipur will drive their tractors through Apsara border, Hapur road, Kundli Expressway (Eastern Peripheral Expressway) while covering a total of 68 km. The protesting farmers on January 7 had also carried out a tractor march at the EPE which led to major disruption in traffic.Since a major part of the tractor parade will be led through the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh in Ghaziabad, it was expected that the Ghaziabad officials would release the route and diversion plans on Sunday. “We are not in knowledge of the route issued by the Delhi Police as they did not convey it to us till late Sunday. Once we receive any official communication from them, we will release the route plan of the tractor rally in Ghaziabad,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad, also said that there was “no official confirmation of route from the Delhi Police.” On the other hand, members of the farmers’ committee at the UP Gate protest site said they have a plan in which it is proposed that the parade will move from UP Gate/Ghazipur to Anand Vihar and further to Apsara Border, from where the rally will proceed to Mohan Nagar, Meerut tri-crossing before proceeding to Duhai interchange of the EPE. “At EPE, the rally will move towards the Dasna interchange of EPE and thereafter travel back to UP Gate. The Ghaziabad officials were also part of the meeting when the route was chalked out. We have also proposed that from UP Gate/Ghazipur, we wish to move to Akshardham and then take a U-turn to return to Anand Vihar from where the original route will be followed,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee. The farmers’ leaders on Sunday afternoon also went to Delhi to have a look at the route. Rakesh Tikait, another farmer leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that the tractor parade will start once the Republic Day parade at Rajpath ends.“We agreed to it as we have no competition with our soldiers and armed forces. We can happily take out our parade once they complete their parade at Rajpath. The Delhi Police also told us that both the parades cannot go on simultaneously. So, we will start our tractor parade after the Republic Day parade ends. Our parade will also march tableaus showing poor farmers. After ending our tractor parade, we have no plans to stay in Delhi and will return to our protest site,” he said. “There were allegations that the farmers were “anti-nationals”. So, we are holding our parade to give a reply to all such allegations. Our tractors will march, and we will be holding the tricolour. We had come here thinking that we will have to stay here till April/May. But now we think that we will have to stay here till October/November. Our farmers and tractors have increased in numbers in the past couple of days,” Tikait added. The farmers at UP Gate had been on protest since November 28, 2020 and have also been occupying the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway since December 3, 2020. (With input from HTC, Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-officials-yet-to-confirm-route-for-farmers-tractor-parade-101611511327837.html
24-01-2021||Noida||Three persons arrested for illegal sand mining in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Three persons were arrested on Sunday for illegal sand mining in Hindon river basin in Greater Noida. The police said that the gang had been involved in the illegal activity in the Knowledge Park area for some time.The suspects were identified as Annu Momnathal, 35, Ajay Singh, 32, and Manish Singh, 33. Annu is a resident of Momnathal village while his accomplices are residents of Safipur in Knowledge Park area, the police said. “The police received information about illegal sand mining along Hindon river. The suspects were digging a pit for sand mining. They had reached the spot in a car and also carried a tractor trolley to load sand. The police team conducted a raid early morning and arrested three suspects and also seized the sand-laden tractor, a countrymade gun, a car and two spades from their possession,” said Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida. The police said that Annu is a seasoned criminal wanted in at least five cases of sand mining and extortion in Greater Noida. “He used to roam around in the neighbouring villages and enquire if someone needed sand for any kind of construction or development work. The gang used to steal sand early morning and sold it to people at cheap rates,” Pandey said. A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 4 and 21 of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, and Section 379 (theft) of IPC at Knowledge Park police station. The three suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, the police said. The additional DCP said that the police teams have been sensitised to conduct frequent patrolling of river belts and act against people involved in illegal sand mining in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-persons-arrested-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-greater-noida-101611510307769.html
24-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Jal Vayu Vihar residents concerned over safety following multiple break-ins||Noida: Residents of Jal Vayu Vihar in Sector 25 are concerned about the safety in the locality following multiple instances of burglaries in the last week. According to the residents, four break-ins took place over a span of four days. “There were four burglaries between January 16 and 19, three of which were in the same block. Since October last year, there have been 11 such incidents, and most of them have not been worked out by the police,” said Pradeep Kumar, chairman, residents welfare association, Jal Vayu Vihar.He said that one of the blocks where seven of the incidents have occurred has a separate gate. The police suspect insiders’ role as most of the cases have taken place when the occupants were out only for a few hours. Following the incidents, RWA has decided to shut a few gates in the area. But not all residents agree with the step.“Our house was broken into during the lockdown when most of the gates were locked. So, this is not a guaranteed solution. Several residents in the area are retired defence personnel and senior citizens. People are concerned about their safety, and some concrete actions need to be taken to ensure that the problem is resolved,” said Shyam Bajpayee, a resident of the area.The residents alleged that the break-ins are happening despite the presence of a police post inside the colony. Recently, upon requests by the residents, the police have heightened surveillance and two police personnel in civil clothes have been posted in the area.“We have a few leads and we will work out the cases soon. Our teams are staying on alert,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-jal-vayu-vihar-residents-concerned-over-safety-following-multiple-breakins-101611510248361.html
24-01-2021||Noida||Man sends morphed pictures of employee to her fiancé, booked||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old woman was allegedly harassed and blackmailed by her employer and has filed a complaint in the matter at the Sector Beta 2 police station. The police have registered a case and launched an investigation into the matter. The complainant is a resident of Sector Omega – 2 in Greater Noida. In the complaint, she alleged that her employer sent her morphed photos to her fiancé and asked him not to marry her. She stated that she has been working as an interior designer at a private firm since 2016 in Surajpur industrial area. “On December 11, 2020 I got engaged with a Ghaziabad resident. However, when my employer came to know this, he couriered some morphed photos of mine to my fiancé and asked him not to marry me,” she alleged in the complaint.As per the complaint, on December 26, 2020, the suspect allegedly created a fake email ID and again sent some morphed photos to her fiancé. “This has created a difficult situation for me. The suspect offered me a live-in relationship, which I disapproved of. He has threatened to break my impending marriage. I only work at the company and I do not have any other relation with my employer,” she alleged in the FIR.She further alleged that on January 4, she had the approached Beta 2 police but her application was not accepted. She then moved the Surajpur district and sessions court, which directed the police to register an FIR and probe the matter.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that based on the court’s order a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 354-A (sexual harassment), Section 506 (criminal intimidation) and Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 67 of the IT Act, 2008 on Friday. “The woman alleged that the suspect used an email ID to send her morphed photos. We have asked the cyber cell to investigate the allegations. We will take actions based on evidence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-sends-morphed-pictures-of-employee-to-her-fianc-booked-101611510247749.html
24-01-2021||Noida||GB Nagar district gears up for higher turnout in Covid-19 vaccination||NOIDA: Taking note of less than 50% turnout during the second session of Covid-19 vaccination on Friday in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district administration has decided to convince the health-care workers, including the Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and sanitisation workers, about the efficacy of Covishield being administered to them. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that there is a general hesitancy among health-care workers about the efficacy of the vaccine. “We are also running the information campaign launched by the Centre to clear their apprehension about the vaccine. We are also planning to share, through digital media, experiences of senior doctors of the country who have taken Covid-19 vaccine,” he said. During the second session of the first phase of the vaccination drive in the district, Covishield could be administered to only 2,059 persons against the target of 4,200 health-care workers. Similarly, during the inaugural session on January 16, 393 health-care workers were vaccinated against the target of 600 personnel.  The DM further said that the health department could not ensure 100% participation of health workers due to some network issue. “Since Co-Win app is a key component of Covid-19 vaccination, the system needs a steady internet connection to upload the details of beneficiaries and their doses. Our vaccination officials could not make any amendment in the lists made many days ago. We have decided to resolve it by adequate number of data entry operators with laptops at all the vaccination booths in the coming sessions,” he said. As many as 4,200 persons will be vaccinated each on January 28 and 29 in the district. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that after the analysis of low turnout in vaccination on Friday, it was found that while nursing and paramedics of some private medical institutes were more reluctant, the ASHA and Aanganwadi workers could not get the information on time. “While in some government hospitals, 85% health workers were inoculated, the turnout was little over 10% in some private hospitals. Also, many of the shortlisted beneficiaries, who has gone on leave after working as corona warriors for nine-odd months, could not participate in the vaccination. In the next two sessions, we’ll increase the number of booths to include them,” he said. Some doctors believe that higher officials should get the jabs themselves to inspire confidence in safety and efficacy of the vaccine. “There is a lack of administrative consensus on vaccine. To inspire confidence among the reluctant health workers, the higher officials of the district, including the DM, the commissioner of police and the CEOs of development authorities, should also take the shot,” said a doctor of a private hospital, preferring anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-district-gears-up-for-higher-turnout-in-covid-19-vaccination-101611510188454.html
24-01-2021||Noida||Noida coldest in NCR, cold wave conditions to return||Noida: With a maximum temperature of 13.8 degrees Celsius, Noida on Sunday emerged as the coldest city in the national capital region (NCR), data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed. On Sunday, Noida recorded the lowest maximum temperature among the NCR cities, IMD officials said. However, the minimum temperature for the city was recorded at 9.8 degrees Celsius against 8.8 degrees a day earlier. The maximum temperature wend down by five notches, from 18.7 degrees on Saturday to 13.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday. According to the IMD data, the average maximum and minimum temperatures for NCR, based on Safdarjung observatory on Sunday, were recorded at 15 degrees Celsius, six degrees below the season’s average, and 8.8 degrees Celsius, a degree above the season’s average, respectively.While the minimum temperature for Noida soared by a degree Celsius in the past 24 hours, weather analysts said that the minimum temperatures will too fall over the next 24 hours by 3-4 degrees Celsius.IMD has predicted extreme winter conditions for the region till January 28, with dense to very dense fog in the morning hours, moderate to dense fog during the day time, and cold wave conditions persisting throughout the day.“Extreme winter conditions are round the corner due to different meteorological conditions. Sunday saw cold day for most of the NCR, and from Monday onwards the minimum temperature will also begin to fall and may hover around 4 to 5 degrees Celsius. The region will see cold wave and cold day at the same time by January 26. The harsh conditions would persist at least till January 28,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.For a cold day, the maximum temperature should be either below 15 degrees Celsius or it should be 4.5 degrees Celsius below the season’ average. For cold wave, either the minimum temperature should be below 4 degrees Celsius, or it should be below 4.5 degrees of the season’s average.“The reason for the mercury falling is majorly the icy cold north-westerly wind, while the thick layer of fog will block the sunlight. The fog layer will be at surface during the early morning hours and elevate about 300 metres above the surface by the day time. So, there would be no sunlight and earth won’t have any heat to radiate either, all these factors would matter over the next three to four days,” Srivastava added.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad continued being under ‘very poor’ levels. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida was 322 against 325 a day earlier. AQI of Greater Noida was 388 against 319 on Saturday, while Ghaziabad’s AQI was 390 against 314 a day earlier.An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-coldest-in-ncr-cold-wave-conditions-to-return-101611510187766.html
24-01-2021||Dehradun||'Negative RT-PCR report, registration mandatory': Centre's SOP on Mahakumbh||The Central government, through a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the Mahakumbh fair in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, said that negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report will be mandatory along with registration for all pilgrims who wish to attend the fair scheduled from February 27.The SOP was issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on January 22 but was made public on Sunday. The guidelines state, “The Government of Uttarakhand would widely publicise, as also convey to all other state governments, that devotees with negative RT-PCR test report (test done 72 hours prior to the date of visit) shall only be allowed to enter the Kumbh mela site. The devotees may carry such test reports either on their mobile phones or in hard copies.”It further mentions that all devotees who are desirous of attending the Kumbh mela shall register with the Government of Uttarakhand and obtain a compulsory medical certificate from the nearest community health centre/district hospital/medical college in their state.The Centre further asked the state government to ensure that the healthcare workers and the other frontline workers “engaged during Kumbh mela medical and public health operations are vaccinated on priority in the ongoing vaccination of this group. Only vaccinated healthcare and other frontline workers be deputed for Kumbh mela duties.”Also read: Force Taliban to reduce violence and agree to truce, Afghanistan tells PakistanAs around 10 lakh people are expected to attend the mela on a regular day and about 50 lakh on the auspicious days, the Centre has asked the state government to increase bed capacity across state hospitals.This year, the Kumbh mela would be held in Haridwar. There are six auspicious days - Magh Purnima (27th February 2021), Mahashivratri (11th March 2021), Somvati Amavasya (12th April 2021), Baisakhi (14th April 2021), Ram Navmi (21st April 2021), and Chaitra Purnima (27th April 2021). These days are expected to witness a surge in crowds, congregating at Har Ki Pauri Ghat, for the holy dip.The guidelines mention, “The existing bed capacity of government, referral and private hospitals, all combined, is about 2,800 in Haridwar, Rishikesh and Dehradun. This needs to be substantially augmented. The expected surge of the floating population and the potential outbreak of Covid-19 or other epidemic-prone diseases will overwhelm the existing facilities.”The Centre asked the state government to establish “mega-size temporary hospitals (1000 beds) that would augment bed capacity by at least 2,000 beds...” Testing facilities will also be increased with setting up of mobile testing facilities, including container-based RT-PCR mobile labs within the Mela site and/or at temporary hospitals that would be established.The Central government has said that Uttarakhand government shall widely circulate a statement to all the states well in advance, clearly specifying that vulnerable population (ageing over 65 years, pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years, those with underlying comorbid conditions) shall be discouraged to attend the Kumbh mela.The SOP further emphasises on following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour of wearing face masks and a strict adherence of six feet social distancing norm. The state government has been asked to keep a provision of distributing free masks and establishing contactless hand washing and sanitising stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/negative-rt-pcr-report-registration-mandatory-centre-s-sop-on-mahakumbh-101611509191328.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Consider plea to increase awareness on Constitution, laws, Bombay HC asks academicians||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently asked a social activist to approach academicians, central and state government authorities and place his plea before them to spread awareness about contents of Constitution of India, Right to Information (RTI) Act and Consumer Protection Act, among masses before them. The social activist through public interest litigation (PIL) had also sought directions to include such laws as compulsory subjects of education for undergraduate and postgraduate level courses. The bench, however, declined to state that by issuing such directions it would be indulging in judicial over-reach and stepping into the domain of the other organs of the state and disposed of the PIL.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Ravindra Ghuge, while hearing the PIL filed by agriculturist Sanjay Kale, was informed by advocate Pradnya Talekar, that her client had repeatedly written to the Governor of Maharashtra, state higher and technical education department and state universities in Maharashtra for initiating steps for awareness about laws related to public importance and also requesting to make these laws as compulsory subject of education at higher-level studies. However, as his suggestions had not been heeded, he had resorted to filing the PIL. According to the PIL, the Constitution of India, RTI Act and Consumer Protection Act laid down fundamental rights, fundamental duties and other rights including the right to information, right to inspect, right to good services, which are very much essential in day-to-day activities or transactions. Every person living in a democratic India should know about these laws or rights to achieve the goals enumerated in the preamble of the Constitution.The PIL further added that keeping citizens informed was an obligation of the government and was also the responsibility of society to adequately educate every component of it so that the social level is kept up.In light of these submissions, the PIL sought directions to the central government to enforce as a condition of license to all cinema halls to exhibit free of cost at least two slides/messages/short film on important rights and duties in each show undertaken by them and also sought such telecasts on TV and Radio channels including those run by the governments.The petitioner submitted that issuance of such directions would hold significance in the backdrop of the upcoming Republic Day as well. After hearing the submissions, the bench declined to pass any directions and asked academicians and the educational authorities to consider and decide on the activist’s demand. Justifying the stand, the chief justice, while referring to the foreword written by former Chief Justice of India Yashwant V Chandrachud in a book authored by justice KK Mathew, which read, “in our present dispensation, a judge cannot, except for honourable exceptions, lay plausible claim of legal scholarship” said, “We certainly are not exceptions and, therefore, would never dream of claiming legal or any other scholarship. Why we say so is because of the nature of concern expressed in this PIL petition.”The chief justice added, “As judges, we primarily don the hat of an adjudicator. Having regard to the manifold activities concerning administrative work that we perforce are bound to discharge, we also don other hats. An attempt is made by the petitioner by presenting this PIL to make us don the hat of an academician too and interfere in academic matters, a field of activity where we have little or no expertise.”While disposing of the PIL the bench noted, “There could be a judicial overreach and stepping into the domain of the other organs of the state, if we were to entertain the prayers in this PIL petition. We are, therefore, of the considered opinion that the matter must be left to the discretion of the experts in the educational field. The petitioner is granted leave to pursue his remedy before such authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/consider-plea-to-increase-awareness-on-constitution-laws-bombay-hc-asks-academicians-101611509048324.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccination: First phase in Mumbai may be completed in 1 month||With the boost in the overall turnout of healthcare workers (HCW) for vaccination over the past two days, officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said there was a possibility of completing the first phase within a month. In Mumbai, around 130,000 HCWs have registered for inoculation on the centralised application Co-WIN, of which 70,000 work at private hospitals. Owing to a technical glitch in the app at the beginning, vaccination centres achieved only 50% of its target. Due to this low turnout, the civic body had estimated that it would take almost two months to inoculate HCWs in the city. However, with the introduction of a walk-in option, the overall turnout of beneficiaries has now reached 90% at most vaccination centres like King Edward Memorial (KEM), Rajawadi and Kandivli-based Shatabdi hospitals. As HT reported on Sunday, some centres like BKC jumbo centre and Lokmanya Tilak general hospital (also known as Sion hospital) have increased their vaccination centres to 10 from the initial five. “In the beginning, the turnout was low. Also, we were asked to vaccinate four days a week which wasn’t in the plan earlier. So, we thought it would take two months to complete the first phase. But now, with the rise in the turnout, we are expecting to complete the first phase of the vaccination within a month,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. So far, on a daily basis, the Co-WIN app is regenerating 20-30% names of beneficiaries who were already shortlisted previously for vaccination. BMC officers believe once the glitch is fixed, the turnout will rise further. “We have already sought permission from the authorities to allow us to increase the vaccination centres. With this approval, we will be able to include more peripheral hospitals,” said Kakani. According to BMC, of the 19,194 shortlisted beneficiaries, 13,164 were inoculated at 10 vaccination centres in the past five days of the vaccination. This comes as an overall 68.58% turnout. With the completion of the first phase, BMC will start vaccinating frontline workers from solid waste management and insecticide departments, police personnel and health officers, among others. “We have their list ready. Once, we are almost done with the first phase, we will open the link for their registration,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccination-first-phase-in-mumbai-may-be-completed-in-1-month-101611508868422.html
24-01-2021||Pune||Experts to preserve and maintain heritage Pune railway station building||In a bid to preserve and maintain the heritage site of the Pune railway station building, the Pune railway division is now going to appoint a private agency to maintain the heritage site. It will be the first time when a private expert agency will be appointed for the cleaning and maintenance work of the heritage building by the Pune railway division. “We are trying to consult an expert agency for the maintenance of the main building of the Pune railway station, as it is our important and heritage building. The cleaning and maintenance of the building needs to be done properly, if it would have been normal then our staff would only have done it, but it is a British era building built in stone and needs to be conserved and maintained properly. So, we are now looking for agencies who are working in this field of maintenance of heritage sites and soon they will be hired for the work,” said Pune divisional railway manager (DRM) Renu Sharma. According to Sharma, the main purpose of hiring the agency is for outside cleaning and maintenance of the building. “The offices and rooms on the inside are cleaned and maintained on a daily basis. As it is a heritage site, it needs to be preserved well in that way and should shine when passengers come to the railway station building. We cannot do any changes to the building as it comes under the national heritage sites, but yes we can certainly maintain it in the right manner with the help of expertise.” added Sharma. Pune railway station main building is one of the oldest structures in the city which was inaugurated on July 27, 1925. It is a one storeyed building with the main entrance porch in the middle of it. One platform lies within this heritage building and other six platforms are newly built. A total of 200 train operations are carried out from the Pune railway station (prior to the Covid-19 pandemic) and around 2, 00,000 passengers travel daily. Mandar Lawate, city-based historian said, “In 1858, a small building of Pune railway station was built and a single line of railway was running which was started initially from Pune. Later on during 1925, the existing building of the Pune railway station was built and at that time railway track lines were expanded to two, earlier during the era of steam engines, only trains from Bombay to Pune were running. Later, when Pune railway station became a junction, railway lines were increased towards south Maharashtra. Since railway lines increased, platforms increased, electrification of trains was done and the Foot over Bridge (FOB) was built for crossing platforms.” BOX A brief history The train operations at the Pune railway station began way back in 1858. Initially, only one train was running from Khandala to Pune. Later on, when the railway lines were expanded, train operations started to Solapur and Miraj in 1886. The existing building of the Pune railway station which is a ‘national heritage structure’ was built on July 27, 1925.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/experts-to-preserve-and-maintain-heritage-pune-railway-station-building-101611508628807.html
24-01-2021||Pune||Central government proposes Neo, Lite and Water Metro for tier two-three cities||In a major boost to public transport in tier two and three cities, the Central government has proposed Metro Lite, Neo-Metro and Water Metro which will provide an efficient mass public transport system. The proposed metro types are eco-friendly, energy-efficient, cost-effective which are ideally suitable for the traffic needs of tier 2/ 3 cities. Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MoHUA) secretary Durga Shankar Mishra chaired a conference in Pune on the project with urban development principal secretaries of all state governments and union territories. The conference was also attended by the managing director of Maha Metro Brijesh Dixit and the managing directors of all other metro corporations of India. The secretary (Urban Development) of the state government and MDs of all metro companies participated through video conference. Mishra, Dixit, MD Maha-Metro, Alkesh Sharma, MD of Kochi Metro and Bhushan Gagrani, secretary of Maharashtra government were physically present for the meeting in Pune. Mishra said, “India is a very diverse country and cities in India have a population ranging between 10-15 lakhs to 1.5 crore. All these cities need robust, reliable, safe and an environmentally friendly public transport system which will make these cities more habitable. A robust transport is therefore of utmost importance for the growth of any city and hence an appropriate public transport system needs to be proposed, depending upon the size of commuters and the economic activities of the city.” He said, “A metro system which has been built in Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Pune, Mumbai may not be suitable for tier-2 or tier-3 cities since the commuters are lesser in these cities as compared to the tier 2 or tier-3 cities. The very high Peak Hour Per Direction Traffic (PHPDT) will only justify the rail-based standard gauge metro system. However, the tier-2 and tier-3 cities should have appropriate capacity mass rapid transport system like Metro Lite, Metro Neo and Water Metro. Metro Neo is the rubber tyre based articulated bus system which will draw power from an overhead electric conductor. It will have a dedicated elevated right of way which will ensure un-interrupted mass transit of commuters. Similarly, Metro Lite is very popular in Europe and advanced countries. The Metro Lite is a tram-like system which does not require the paraphernal of a rail-based metro system.” MD Kochi, proposed a water metro system which will be helpful to provide the mass transit system in kayals (creek) of Kerala coast, canals and waterways. Dixit said, “A meeting was also convened for the companies involved in the manufacturing of various components related to the metro, buses, Metro Lite, Metro Neo and Water Metro. In the meeting, emphasis was laid on metro companies for indigenization of coaches under Atma Nirbhar Bharat. Representatives of Alstom, Titagarh, BEML, ABB, Siemens, Electroline, Tooltech, Diamler Benz, Mitsubishi, Knorr Bremse, Secheron, Ansaldo and Faiveley participated in the conference. These companies showed a keen interest in the rolling stock requirement of Metro Lite, Metro Neo and Water Metro. The large-scale implementation of Metro Lite and Metro Neo to tier-2, tier-3 cities of India will transform the way of life of commuters in these cities and improve economic activities in these cities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/central-government-proposes-neo-lite-and-water-metro-for-tier-two-three-cities-101611508627564.html
24-01-2021||Pune||Machine operator crushed to death in Bhosari||A machine operator was killed after getting stuck in a finishing machine at a factory in Bhosari, Pimpri-Chinchwad on Saturday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Bibishan Kirtan Mahakud, (23), a resident of Swapna nagari in More vasti area of Chikhali, Pimpri-Chinchwad. The accused man was identified as an employee of the company where Mahakud was working as Harishchandra Bapurao Kalme (46) a resident of PCNDT in Moshi Pradhikaran. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s paternal uncle Balakrushna Kirtan Mahakud (30) also a resident of Swapna nagari. The Mahakud family is from Orissa, settled in Pune for work. The 23-year-old was working on the vibratory finishing machine that was not well maintained, according to the police. Around 1:45pm on Saturday, as he was working on it, he got stuck in it and his chest was crushed on impact, according to the complainant. A case under Section 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Pimpri police station against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/machine-operator-crushed-to-death-in-bhosari-101611508628120.html
24-01-2021||Pune||Book on slain RTI activists, murder cases released||At least three accused have been acquitted in the cases of murder of Right to Information (RTI) activists, according to a study undertaken by two journalists, Vinita Deshmukh and Prasanna Keskar. In one particular case, the death was deemed accidental.The findings were compiled in the form of a book and published through a video conference that was attended by former government officials Wajahat Habibullah and Shailesh Gandhi along with activist and founder of Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) Sanjoy Hazarika and convenor of RTI Katta Vijay Kumbhar and Sandeep Shetty, brother of slain RTI activist Satish Shetty. “These slain RTI activists are martyred soldiers. This is patriotic. We have to become deserving of the freedom that this law provides us and it is not difficult to do so. We have to simply stand up and support those fighting in place of those killed,” said Habibullah, a retired Indian administrative service officer and former chief information commissioner of India. “The demeaning of RTI activists has been accepted by society without any rebuttal. Instead of right to information, it has become right to history. This needs to change,” said Shailesh Gandhi, also a former CIC and RTI activist. The history of activists who have suffered in the past decade for their work in the Right to information (RTI) was documented in the form of a book titled ‘Life and Death in the time of RTI: Case Studies from Maharashtra’. The book tracks the aftermath of 13 deaths of activists in Maharashtra. The two authors of the report and the resultant book stated in their report, “In recent years, Maharashtra has reported processing RTI applications between 7-8 lakh annually, placing it only second to the Central government’s performance in term of averages.” The 13 cases the two tracked included Satish Bhoja Shetty, killed on January 13, 2010 in Pune; Dattarey Patil killed on May 26, 2010 in Kolhapur; Ramdas-Ubale Gadegaonkar killed on August 28, 2010 in Nanded; Vitthal Gitte killed on April 22, 2013 in Beed; Premnath Jha killed on February 24, 2012 in Thane; Kapurchand Gupta killed on November 12, 2012 in Mumbai; Sunil Loharia killed on February 16, 2013 in Thane; Vasant Patil killed on July 22, 2013 in Mumbai; Abrar Ahmad Ansari killed on December 17, 2013 in Thane; Bhupendra Vire killed on October 15, 2016 in Mumbai; Mohan Waghmare killed on February 24, 2017 in Yavatmal; Suhas Haldankar killed on April 9, 2017 in Pimpri-Chinchwad; Shailesh Nimse killed on April 20, 2018 in Thane. “The son of Dhedgaonkar had burnt all documents that he had gathered through RTI applications after his death. His body was found by the side of the road and deemed as an accidental death eventually by the local police. In the case of Datta Patil, his family had shut the documents in a godown and did not wish to revisit them. It was too painful for both families to revisit the events,” said Keskar while addressing the conference. In the course of filing the report, Keskar met with family members of most of the 13 subjects. While some like Sandeep Shetty have been fighting the fight against the government organisation, some have shut the doors on the work their relatives had done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/book-on-slain-rti-activists-murder-cases-released-101611508568911.html
24-01-2021||Other||Man attacked for stopping two people from drinking outside his house||PUNE The police have booked two people in an attempt to murder case for allegedly attacking a man in Khadak on Wednesday night.The injured man has been identified as Najimulhaq Anwarulhaq (30), a resident of Guruwar peth. The accused have not been identified yet, said police.Anwarulhaq sells clothes from his house on the first floor of the residential building in order to earn a living, according to his complaint.On the night of January 18, he saw two accused allegedly drinking alcohol at the steps outside his house. When the complainant asked the two to not drink outside his house, the two threatened him with dire consequences, according to the complainant.Two days after, the two arrived at Anwarulhaq’s house and told him that they wished to buy clothes from him and wanted to speak with him outside.As Anwarulhaq followed them outside the door, one of the two stabbed him in the face, neck and back with a sharp blade that was hidden in his waist belt under his shirt.The injured man was rushed to Sassoon General Hospital where he is undergoing treatment for the injuries while the police are looking for the accused.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered at Khadak police station.Police sub-inspector Rahul Khandale of Khadak police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-attacked-for-stopping-two-people-from-drinking-outside-his-house-101611508567682.html
24-01-2021||Pune||Minor among two held for murder in Warje||A minor boy was among two held by Pune police on Sunday for the murder of a man in the case of a murder of a 28-year-old man in Bhusari colony, Kothrud on January 20. The deceased was identified as Jagdish Jitenra Pardhe, (28), a resident of Warje Malwadi. He was strangled and attacked with a sharp weapon on his forehead, face, and chin in an alleged effort to hide his identity, according to police. The adult was identified as Malinga Sharnappa Mhetre, (21), a plumber and a resident of Warje in Pune while the other was identified as a minor boy of 16 years, according to senior police inspector Shankar Khatke of Warje Malwadi police station. While Mhetre himself is a plumber, the family members of the minor are in the business of selling fruits for a living, according to the police. The reason for the murder, however, could not be ascertained. The body was found along the service road leading to Shinde Farm in Kothrud on the morning of January 20. “The man was kidnapped and killed in Warje and the body was dumped in Kothrud. The case has, therefore, been transferred to Warje Malwadi,” said Police inspector (crime) Balasaheb Bade of Kothrud police station. A case of murder and criminal conspiracy was first registered at Kothrud police station on January 21. It was later transferred to Warje Malwadi police station and a case under Section 363 (kidnapping), 302 (murder), 201 (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-among-two-held-for-murder-in-warje-101611508568187.html
24-01-2021||Other||Pune district reports 506 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||PUNE The district reported two deaths and 506 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, according to the state health department.The progressive cases now stand at 3.85 lakh out of which 3.65 lakh have recovered, 7,939 have been reported dead and 12,002 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The city reported 222 new cases taking the total cases to 197,325 and zero deaths. The death toll stands at 4,472. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 132 new cases taking the total to 96,489 while one death was reported which took the death toll to 1,307. Pune rural reported 152 new cases which took the total cases to 91,628 while one death was reported which took the death toll to 2,122.The department reported that 1,743 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.12 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.18%. Also, 2,752 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.08 lakh.In addition, 45 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52, 011. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.53%.Out of 1,42,07,595 laboratory samples, 20,09,106 have been tested positive (14.14%) for Covid-19 until January 24. Currently 2,08,993 people are in home quarantine and 2,309 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-506-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-101611508508383.html
24-01-2021||Pune||PMC to conduct inquiry into Ramtekdi garbage processing plant fire||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to conduct an inquiry into the fire which occurred at the garbage collection and processing plant at Ramtekdi on Saturday night.A major fire broke out at the PMC garbage collection and processing plant located at Ramtekadi industrial area. The PMC fire department rushed to the spot and used 11 fire tenders and water tankers to douse the fire. The plant was set up four years ago. The capacity of the processing plant was 25 tonnes per day when it was started and now it had increased to 75 tonnes per day. It used the Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) technology to process the garbage. Additional municipal commissioner Dr Kunal Khemnar visited the spot on Sunday along with local corporators. He said, “We visited the plant and took details of the incident. There are close circuit television (CCTVs) cameras here. We have taken the CCTV footage for investigation. We will conduct an inquiry and file a detailed report of the incident. The plant processes daily garbage and produces RDF. Company supplies RDF to different companies to use in boilers. The capacity of the plant is 75 tonnes per day. We found that there was two days of RDF in the plant.”He further said, “We will get a detailed report of the incident in two days. The company had insured the plant. Company officials told us that they will clear all garbage and start planning as early as possible. Prime facie we don’t find any evidence of man-made incidents. It looked like an accidental mishap. However, we are starting an inquiry.”The first unit of RDF was initiated by PMC in 2008. The contract was given to Hanjar to process 1,000 tonnes of garbage per day. The plant was never run on full capacity and it closed down in 2014. The technology used by Hanjar was green technology to recycle mixed solid waste into valuable products (Refuse Derived fuel).At that stage, it was new technology and very few players in the market who had been using this technology and producing RDF. Due to less competition, processing companies were getting good returns. Now, companies have increased in the market and RDF is getting less value in the market.Vivek Velankar, a civic activist, said, “Corporation should conduct an inquiry about the fire incident at the Ramtekdi garbage processing plant. How and when the fire broke and what is the reason behind that. The report should be made public. At present, garbage is the most discussed topic in the PMC. We have already taken objection to appointing an agency to process garbage without bothering to do any tendering to pick a contractor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-conduct-inquiry-into-ramtekdi-garbage-processing-plant-fire-101611508507703.html
24-01-2021||Other||Pune dist to conduct vaccination drive at 55 sites||PUNE The district administration has allowed walk-in vaccinations in a bid to increase the number of beneficiaries getting vaccinated, as per orders by the state government.The vaccination will be carried out for five days this week at 55 sites in the district.There will be no vaccination drive on January 26.Dr Satish Pawar, additional in charge, director of health services, said, “For the coming week, the vaccination would go on for five days and the number of sites would be increased to 511 from the previous 395 sites. We had sent names of 511 sites for the launch on January 16 which was later changed to 395 as ordered by the central health ministry. Now the health ministry has left us with the choice on the number of sites. We will start vaccination at the originally finalize sites from this week.”Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said, “We will have the original 55 sites as planned earlier. We will have 23 sites for rural Pune and 16 each for Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) which have to be finalised yet.”Earlier the PMC had stopped Covid-19 vaccination at three private hospitals for two day due to the technical glitches on Co-WIN app. The vaccination was later started in these private hospitals after the state allowed walk-in vaccination for the registered staff members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-dist-to-conduct-vaccination-drive-at-55-sites-101611508450260.html
24-01-2021||Pune||Sassoon doctors save injured pregnant woman, baby||The doctors at city-based BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital proved to be saviours for a 21-year-old primigravida (first-time pregnant woman) with 36 weeks gestation who had an accidental fall.The accident took place on January 1 at 7pm after the woman fell from a two-wheeler.According to the doctors from the hospital, the woman had received an open injury over the abdomen with a sharp stone. The patient was immediately rushed to the hospital’s casualty at around 11:30 on the same day. On examination, it was found that the patient had two anterior abdominal wall defects of two centimetres each above umbilicus with omentum popping out.Dr Ramesh Bhosale, professor and head, department of obstetrics and gynaecology, said, “An ultrasonography was done and was suggestive of hemoperitoneum. We immediately took the patient for exploratory laparotomy and C-section. The patient was managed jointly by obstetricians and surgeons.”“On the opening of the abdomen fundus of the uterus had two injuries of two centimetres each and hemoperitoneum of 800ml was suctioned. We could successfully deliver a live female child of 2.1 kgs. The newborn had two superficial wounds of two centimetres and five centimetres apart on the left buttock. The placenta was posterior in attachment and there were no signs of separation. We did not find any injuries to the rest of the abdominal organs. The patient needed one unit of blood transfusion during operation,” he said.Post the surgery the baby was taken care of by Dr Arati Kinikar, professor and head, department of paediatrics, and her team.“Due to vigilant, quick diagnosis and timely intervention, a live baby was delivered and major complications of hemorrhagic shock and severe blood loss could be prevented. Sassoon hospital is well equipped and ready to handle such emergencies, at any time,” said Dr Muralidhar Tambe, dean, BJ Medical College and Sassoon hospital.“The major complications in road traffic accidents include placental abruption (1.6 per cent), unspecified antepartum haemorrhage (4.7 per cent) and preterm birth (8.3 per cent),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sassoon-doctors-save-injured-pregnant-woman-baby-101611508449459.html
24-01-2021||Pune||‘I want to take science to common people through literature’||Jayant Narlikar, an eminent astrophysicist and a writer, has been elected as the president of 94th Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, a prestigious annual Marathi literary meet, which will take place in Nahsik this year. Jayant Narlikar shared his thoughts with selected media representatives. Here are excerpts...Had you ever expected to be the president of the Marathi Sahitya Sammelan? What was your reaction?Honestly, I had never thought I would receive this honour. Mukund Kirloskar, editor of Kirloskar magazine, used to tell me that I could be the president of this literary meet, but I had never thought that it would be true. I feel it is a great responsibility. I want to spread different forms of science through various tools. Literature is an important one.As president of the Sahitya Sammelan, how will you encourage the youth to write more?Even when I didn’t have this honour, I used to take part in various activities which encourage the youth to write. I have always participated in workshops, meetings and various activities. For me, it is another year full of opportunities to do this. I want to take science to the common people. There should be more scientific writing for common people. Some organisations have been working on this. But there is a lot to do.What made you keep writing in Marathi?Literature is a great medium to cultivate scientific temper. One can understand and express better in their mother tongue. Take the example of Albert Einstein, he would start talking in German when he got really excited. That’s why I emphasise on education through the mother tongue. At least primary education must be taught in their mother tongue. It helps develop an interest in Science and Mathematics.Technology has spread but do you think scientific temper in the society has been developed?I am disappointed to say that, I do not see scientific temper. People use modern technology for superstitions. For example, some people use a high tech phone to check Shubha Divas (good day). Technologically advanced tools are not being used to develop a scientific attitude. I still see superstitious thoughts even among well-educated people. It is really disappointing.Do you think this chair will attract more people towards science writing?I really hope that science writing will prevail now. Sahitya Sammelan is a great opportunity to do that. People from various backgrounds and various parts come to attend this event. Interactions take place and I am wishful for using this opportunity to spread scientific temper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/i-want-to-take-science-to-common-people-through-literature-101611508448826.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Operation all out: 52 wanted accused arrested; warrants against 59 in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police on Saturday carried out a combing operation across the city and arrested 52 wanted accused, and issued arrest warrants against 59, involved in non-bailable offences. The police also arrested 31 externed criminals in the operations which were carried out at 223 places, from Saturday night to till Sunday morning. A total of 1,369 criminals were also checked to ensure the law-and-order situation in the city.The “Operation All-Out” is carried out every month across the city before any major event, under the guidance of Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said, “The combing operation was started to maintain law and order situation in the city, as well as deter habitual offenders once or twice a month. This time, the operation was carried out on Saturday night, ahead of Republic Day”.The combing operation, that was carried out at 223 locations, found 349 suspects allegedly involved in the mobile, chain, two and four-wheeler theft cases, as well as those persons who had been externed from the city but had returned on the sly. On further investigation, the police arrested 52 wanted accused who were absconding or evading arrest in cases registered against them. Over 66 people were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, while 33 were arrested with weapons.The police carried out nakabandi at 101 major places across the city. Twelve drivers were arrested under the charges of drunk and drive, while the action was taken against 2,497 vehicle owners. Ahead of the Republic Day, the police arrested 31 externed (preventive arrests) criminals, checked 739 hotels and lodges. Foot-patrolling were carried out at 444 sensitive locations. The operation will be carried out every month to ensure the law-and-order situation in the city, as well to nab habitual offenders. “The operation was undertaken under the supervision of joint commissioners of law and order, deputy commissioner of police, assistant commissioners and senior inspectors. Maximum manpower available with each police station was deployed,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/operation-all-out-52-wanted-accused-arrested-warrants-against-59-in-mumbai-101611508448199.html
24-01-2021||Gurugram||Two dead, two injured in separate accidents in city||Two people died while two others were injured in three separate road accidents on Saturday . Speeding trucks allegedly rammed into different cars in Sector 10 and on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, said the police. In the third incident, a cab rammed into a stationary truck near Iffco Chowk, injuring both the passenger and the cab driver.The truck drivers fled the spots leaving the vehicles behind. Cases have been registered and investigation is being conducted, said the police. In the first case, Naresh Singh, a resident of Jhajjar, had gone to Gurugram on Saturday for personal work. “My nephew Ankur Kumar, who works in the food supplies department, was returning home to village Hasanpur in Jhajjar after work. He was driving a Dzire car and I was following his car. When we were crossing village Chandu, a speeding truck rammed into his car,” Singh said. The driver was driving rashly and had an head-on collision. The driver fled the spot leaving the truck behind. Ankur was severely injured. Naresh Singh pulled him out of the car. “He was bleeding profusely. I informed the police and hospital ambulance. We took him to Sector 10 Civil Hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival,” he said. In the other accident, Rajbir Kumar, a resident of Tijara of Alwar in Rajasthan, was killed. The deceased, a truck driver, was on his way from Alwar to Bahadurgah to deliver footwear. “He was the second driver in the truck. We had dinner near Farukhnagar and then he took control of the wheels. When we crossed Farukhnagar toll tax a truck was driving slow ahead us. He suddenly applied brakes and our truck rammed into it from behind,” said the Arjun Kumar, brother of the victim. Kumar said the driver neither used indicator nor gave any signal before stopping. We called an ambulance and rushed my brother to a government hospital. “Doctors declared my brother dead as he had suffered multiple fractures and a head injury,” he said. The police said, in both incidents cases, were registered against the truck drivers who are yet to be identified under sections 304 A (Death by negligence) and 279 (Rash Driving) At Farukhnagar and Rajendra Pak police stations.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said they have registered both cases and are conducting investigation. “We have identified the truck owners and drivers. They will be arrested soon,”he said. In the third incident, a 55-year-old associate director of a private company was injured after the cab he was travelling in from Sector 70 to the airport collided with a stationary truck near Iffco Chowk on Saturday morning around 6.30am. Lieutenant Colonel (retd) Tauhid Munif, in his complaint to police on Saturday, alleged that when the cab reached near Sector 18 road, it rammed into a stationed truck which was parked on the middle of the road. “The truck driver had neither placed safety reflector cones nor had used any indicator. My driver and I suffered injuries. Passersby took me to a private hospital and the driver to Civil hospital. The cab was also damaged,” he said. A case under sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way), 427 (Mischief causing damage) and 337 (causing hurt) of the IPC was registered on Saturday at Sector 17/18 police station against the truck driver, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-dead-two-injured-in-separate-accidents-in-city-101611508390392.html
24-01-2021||Pune||Jayant Narlikar selected as president of Marathi literary meet to be held at Nashik||Jayant Narlikar, an eminent astrophysicist and writer, has been elected as the president for the 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, a prestigious annual Marathi literary meet which will take place in Nashik from March 26-28 this year. The decision in this regard was finalised on Sunday during the meeting of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal members, which took place in Nashik.Narlikar, a well-known astrophysicist and emeritus professor at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (Iucaa) has received many national and international awards and honorary doctorates. Narlikar is internationally known for his work in cosmology, for championing models alternative to the popularly believed big bang model. “His selection was made on the basis of majority opinion of selectors rather than an unopposed one,” said Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal president Kautik Thale Patil. His work has been on the frontiers of gravity and Mach’s Principle, quantum cosmology and action at a distance physics. He has also worked on problems related to quasars, black holes, among others. Apart from his scientific research, Narlikar has been well known as a science communicator through his books, articles, and radio/TV programmes. He is also known for his science fiction stories.Narlikar was awarded Padma bhushan in 1965, at the young age of 26. In 2004, he was awarded Padma vibhushan while in 2011 the government of the state of Maharashtra honoured him with the state’s highest civilian award of Maharashtra Bhushan. In 2014, the Sahitya Akademi, the premiere literary body in India, selected his autobiography ‘Chaar Nagaratle Majhe Vishwa’ for its highest prize in regional language (Marathi) writing.Yakshanchi Denagi, Waman parat na Ala, Antral ani Vidnyan are some of his popular books in Marathi. This is a rare occasion that a celebrated scientist has been chosen as the president of Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan.Eminent writers and former presidents of Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan expressed happiness over Dr Naralikar’s election for this year’s literary meet. Sadanand More writer and former president of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, said, “In the 70s when his thesis came out, a demand was raised that he should get Bharat Ratna. At that time, Acharya Atre had said that he is our Vishwa Ratna. He is down to earth and he is still connected to the roots. He has not forgotten our mother tongue Marathi language. He has been writing in Marathi to spread scientific information. I congratulate Mahamandal for electing him.”Laxmikant Deshmukh, writer and former president of Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, also expressed optimism after this decision. “He is a well known scientist in the world. Through his simple writing, people started to read science fiction in Marathi. In this period, we have been drifting away from science, it is a very good decision. Scientific temper needs to be prevailed through literature. He should have been elected early. But it’s better late than never,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jayant-narlikar-selected-as-president-of-marathi-literary-meet-to-be-held-at-nashik-101611508391178.html
24-01-2021||Gurugram||Tractor rally to feature tableaux showcasing cultures of states||The Republic Day tractor rally by protesting farmers camping at Jaisinghpur Khera on the Haryana-Rajasthan border will feature tableaux demonstrating the flavours of different states, said protest organisers. Sanjay Madhav, state convener, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Rajasthan, said the march would be led by 26 trolleys depicting cultural symbols from different states. “In the front, we will have 26 trolleys. These trolleys will include tableaux from different states since people from states such as Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Kerala, among others, are protesting here” said Madhav. He said that while most farmers would proceed ahead for the march, some will stay behind at the protest site. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, and Maharashtra have been protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district since December last year. Another group of farmers is camping at Dharuhera while farmers from Mewat are agitating at Sunehra-Junehra on the Haryana-Rajasthan border. These farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Harvinder Singh Gill, a farmer from Shri Ganganagar, said that cavalcades of tractors had reached the Dharuhera protest spot and additional tractors would continue to arrive till Monday night. He said that the Haryana police had told them that they would be able to proceed for the march from the spot. “We have spoken to the police deployed here and they have given us permission for proceeding ahead. We are expecting tractors from every village in our district to reach Dharuhera by tomorrow from where we will proceed towards Delhi on January 26. Tractors are continuously arriving every hour. They will be joining throughout the night today and until tomorrow. All farmers are looking forward to the tractor march and will contribute to this historic moment,” said Gill. Nearly 4,000 police officials will be deployed at different points across the city ahead of the rally by protesting farmers on Tuesday, said Gurugram police officials. Earlier on Saturday Delhi Police gave permission to the protesting farmers to enter the national capital.“Strict security arrangements have been made as per the orders issued by Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao to maintain law and order in the city,” said Subhash Boken, public relation officer (PRO), Gurugram Police.Maulana Arshad Meel, who is spearheading the Haryana-Rajasthan Mewati Kisan Andalon (movement) protest at Sunehra-Junehra near Punhana, said that farmers had reached out to the Punhana police for permission regarding the march. “We will be proceeding towards Delhi at 9am on January 26. We are in touch with the deputy superintendent of police of Punhana and have shared our plans,” said Meel. He said that while farmers would be starting from Sunehra in Rajasthan, other farmers will be joining from Haryana. “We are expecting a significant turnout on Tuesday. The rehearsal that we conducted on Saturday alone saw the presence of some 200-300 tractors,” said Meel. Rampal Jat, Kisan Mahapanchayat president, said that farmers will be starting their march from Gurugram on tractors on Republic Day. “Farmers will be arriving at Gurugram first and will proceed towards Delhi from here. We have requested all farmers taking part in the march to wear a traditional Rajasthani turban,” said Rampal Jat. He said that the starting point for the march in Gurugram will be decided on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/tractor-rally-to-feature-tableaux-showcasing-cultures-of-states-101611508389575.html
24-01-2021||Gurugram||Western disturbance to usher in another cold spell||After a brief respite, another cold spell is likely to return to the city, starting Monday, under the influence of a fresh western disturbance. Officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday that the temperature could dip by 3-4 degrees Celsius this week. “From January 25 onwards, very cold northwesterly winds are likely to blow over the plains in Delhi-NCR due to which we can expect a drop in temperatures. The cold spell is expected to persist for three-four days until January 28,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting centre. While the IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record either minimum or maximum temperatures on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department’s AWS, in Palam in Delhi, recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 10.5 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature at 15 degrees Celsius. The Palam observatory, according to the meteorological department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. As per IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 7 and 16 degrees Celsius respectively on Monday. As per the IMD’s bulletin for the day, the current spell of dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets over Haryana is likely to persist till January 26. The city’s air quality stayed in the “poor” on Sunday with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin recording the air quality index (AQI) at 300 —a deterioration from Saturday’s AQI reading of 285 in the same category. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to deteriorate marginally and remain in the upper end of the “very poor” category on Monday and Tuesday. Subsequently, over the next five days, the air quality is largely expected to remain in the “very poor” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/western-disturbance-to-usher-in-another-cold-spell-101611508387688.html
24-01-2021||Gurugram||Four burglaries across city on Saturday night raises security concerns||Four burglaries reported from Sector 56/57, Palam Vihar and Sushant Lok-1 on Saturday night have raised concerns over security among residents. Members of the residents’ welfare associations (RWA) of the areas said that burglars were able to break in despite the presence of security guards in their areas and deployment of police personnel posted in the vicinity. The police said that only locked houses were targeted. Tushar Bhootra, a resident of Block G in Sector 57 who works in a private bank, said that he had left for Jaipur on January 10 with his family. “On Saturday, I received a CCTV notification on my mobile phone following which I asked my neighbour to visit my apartment. He told me that the doors were broken and the apartment ransacked. I left for Gururgam and reported it to the police,” he said. Two burglaries were reported from Sector 56/57, which, residents say, is one of the most unsafe residential areas. Joginder Singh, former RWA president of Sector 57, said that at least one such incident is reported almost every day. “Almost all the blocks have been targeted once despite regular police patrolling and security guards. We have installed CCTV cameras, but still, the numbers are rising,” he said. The RWA has demanded a thorough investigation by the police and requested an increase in patrolling. Acting on the complaint, two police teams along with a fingerprint expert visited the block and collected evidence from six houses where such incidents have been reported. In the incident reported from Sector 43, the house of one Ankit Goyal, who moved to the city from Dehradun and has been staying in the house with his wife for the past three years, was burgled. On Saturday, the couple left for work around 10.30am and returned around 7pm. “My wife discovered that the house was ransacked and cash and jewellery were missing. Also, other valuables were found to be missing,” he said. The police said they are trying to identify the burglars based on the CCTV footage. “The house break-ins in our area came to light around 6am when some neighbours saw padlocks broken and immediately alerted us,” Bhim Singh Yadav, president, Sector 43 RWA, said. FIRs were filed under sections 454 (house trespass) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code in four instances.The assistant commissioner of police (crime), Preet Pal Sangwan, said “We have formed a special team, comprising an inspector and four personnel, to track down the burglars. Patrolling has been intensified on all roads connecting borders. We have also decided to hold regular meetings with the residents of the area to step up vigilance in light of the incidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-burglaries-across-city-on-saturday-night-raises-security-concerns-101611508388252.html
24-01-2021||Gurugram||At 55%, Sunday sees lowest turnout for Covid-19 vaccination drive||Of 1,200 private sector healthcare workers, targeted for the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Sunday, only 660 were inoculated at the 26 sessions sites in the district. This indicates coverage of 55%, the lowest since the vaccine roll-out began on January 16.Health department officials said they are confident of a more successful drive on Monday, with 6,000 public and private sector workers slated to receive the vaccine jab at more than 101 session sites across the district.Sunday’s vaccine coverage is down from 58% the previous day, when 3,055 out of 5,230 targeted inoculations were achieved, and the average vaccination rate of around 77% in the district so far. Officials did not directly discuss reasons for the diminishing turnout, but said that steps to emphasize vaccine safety and efficacy are being discussed. “We are planning more outreach exercises so that public trust in the vaccine can be maintained. There will be a statewide awareness drive about the same on Monday. I have not directly received any queries or concerns from healthcare workers about the vaccine, so I cannot comment on whether there is hesitancy among people,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, Gurugram.However, a medical officer overseeing Covid-19 vaccinations at a session site in Sector 56, said, “Vaccine hesitancy is certainly a problem. I have had to personally reach out to many workers who come under my healthcare centre and answer their questions, about the vaccine itself as well as the differences between Covishield and Covaxin. There are some genuine concerns after the news of a healthcare worker dying after immunisation.”A 56-year-old health worker at Bhangrola primary health centre, who had received a Covid-19 vaccine shot on January 16, died due to cardiac arrest last Friday. The district health department officials said that preliminary findings showed that the death might be unrelated to vaccination as the woman had shown no adverse reaction to the vaccine in the last five days. A final report is awaited in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/at-55-sunday-sees-lowest-turnout-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101611508330216.html
24-01-2021||Gurugram||Section of Atul Kataria Marg to be shut for underpass work||A sloping section of the Lt Atul Kataria Marg, where a 700-metre underpass is to come up, will be shut from Monday till February 28 for excavation work, officials said. “We’ll be starting the construction of the underpass from Monday. For this, there we will be a six-metre-deep excavation. The excavation will be done in a sloping manner. Due to the width of the road being extremely narrow, we cannot take any risk of allowing traffic movement on even one lane, as it could lead to injuries or even casualties,” said Puneet Kumar, executive engineer, construction division, Public Works Department (PWD).Between Monday and Wednesday, the closure though would be on a temporary basis to allow commuters to accustom themselves to the route diversions. “There is a high volume of traffic on the stretch. Hence, we cannot close the stretch all of a sudden. There has to be prior notice. We are giving commuters three days’ time to get used to the blockade and the route diversions. Only people with emergencies would be allowed to pass through during this period. From Thursday onwards, however, the section of the stretch would be permanently closed till February 28,” said Kumar.Once the excavation work is completed, work on shifting utilities will commence.As per PWD’s plan, commuters travelling from Atul Kataria Chowk towards Sheetla Mata Mandir will be diverted via Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road and the Bus Stand Road, in the opposite direction.The 700-metre bidirectional underpass is expected to ease congestion between Sheetla Mata Mandir and Signature Towers. Once constructed, commuters travelling from Signature Towers can access the L-shaped underpass near Huda nursery, while those travelling from Sheetla Mata Mandir can access it near Shubh Vatika Banquet hall.A flyover is also being constructed at the junction to ease traffic movement between the bus stand and Kapashera border. The underpass and flyover are expected to cumulatively cost around ₹60 crore. The two infrastructure projects are expected to benefit residents travelling towards the Dwarka Expressway, Gurgaon railway station, Gurgaon bus stand, Kapashera border, Sheetla Mata temple, Signature Towers and the Huda City Centre.The construction of the flyover and underpass was announced in July 2015 but construction was delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/section-of-atul-kataria-marg-to-be-shut-for-underpass-work-101611508329415.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body rejects BEST’s proposal to install 30,000 advertising kiosks on electric poles||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has rejected the proposal of Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) to install 30,894 advertisement kiosks on electric poles in the island city, citing the safety of the pedestrians and motorists. The BEST, on the other hand, has written back to BMC to reconsider the decision as it will cause ₹24 crore loss to the already loss-making transport body. The Congress has alleged that the BMC is helping the private contractor to exit the project by not permitting him. The BEST, before the lockdown, had appointed a private contractor for generating revenue from advertisements from electric poles in the island city. As per the agreement between the contractor and BEST, the contractor is ought to pay BEST ₹8 crore yearly between 2020 and 2023, which amounts to ₹24 crore for a period of three years. However, the contract was given on the condition that the contractor will get a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the civic body and Mumbai Traffic Police.Following this, the contractor had applied for the NOC from the BMC before the lockdown. The BMC’s license department recently wrote back stating, “Electric poles are erected on the footpath having narrow access, including the divider on road. Considering the direction of the Bombay high court (HC) dated June 27, 2019, the BMC shall not grant permission for the subject kiosks. Considering the application for installation cannot be approved, it is thus rejected.”The BEST is the electricity distribution company in the island city. Subsequently, the general manager of the BEST, Surendra Kumar Bagde, wrote to BMC stating, “I would like to bring to your notice that BEST is facing huge financial loss, as we provide services in a very economical way. Under these conditions, the revenue from non-tariff and non-ticketing avenues assume the most significance. The advertising revenue through kiosks will be able around ₹8 crore annually. I assure, that our bidder shall abide by all the safety protocols suggested by the BMC. Given the above, I sincerely request you grant permission to all agencies appointed by the BEST.”However, the BMC has relied on the Bombay high court order dating back to June 2019. The BMC, while rejecting the proposal has directed its officials to frame a policy within six months, and has also said that in the larger public interest and public safety the BMC shall forego some revenue.However, Congress corporator Ravi Raja who is also BEST Committee Member and leader of Opposition in the BMC said, “I have written to the BMC that the joint municipal commissioner has rejected the proposal. This denial is a contractor driven decision and this must not be tolerated considering the BEST is already under severe financial losses. I have requested municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal to take action in the matter, failing to which, I shall approach the anti-corruption bureau.”Anand Wagaralkar, joint municipal commissioner of the BMC was unavailable for comment citing his busy schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-rejects-best-s-proposal-to-install-30-000-advertising-kiosks-on-electric-poles-101611508328347.html
24-01-2021||Gurugram||Protesters voice objections to WTE plant at Bandhwari landfill||Around 90 citizens from Gurugram, Faridabad and Delhi staged a protest outside the Bandhwari landfill site on Sunday, voicing their objections against a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant that is proposed to come up at the site. Residents from Bandhwari and Mangar villages, which are closest to the landfill, besides campaigners from the Aravalli Bachao citizens’ group, raised slogans and sang to mark their objections.The group, which including at least 30 children, detailed its apprehensions over the prospect of a WTE plant in the Aravallis, which would further perpetuate the environmental degradation brought about due to the landfill. Protesters also alleged that environmental clearance (EC) for the proposed WTE has been obtained in violation of the environment ministry’s environmental impact assessment (EIA) rules.Talking about the potential threat to ecology and human health, Dr Sarika Verma, an ENT specialist based in Gurugram, said, “Dioxins and furans generated by WTE plants are among the most toxic substances known to man. Inhaling these can lead to respiratory disorders, cardiovascular diseases and lung cancer.” Verma also pointed out that fly ash, a residue of incinerated waste, is extremely toxic. “When it is dumped in the open, it contaminates the soil, air, surrounding water bodies and groundwater as well,” she said.Dhir Singh, a resident of Bandhwari village, said, “Ever since this landfill came here 10 years ago, it has completely poisoned our groundwater. A WTE plant will poison the air as well.” Singh also pointed out that in March 2018, when the Haryana State Pollution Control Board held a public hearing for the project, it was not adequately publicised. “No one received any advance notice of a public hearing. Those who did go never received a copy of the minutes of the meeting. As people who will be most affected by the WTE plant, we were never offered a fair chance to voice our objections,” he said.Municipal commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, and additional commissioner, Jaspreet Kaur, did not respond to multiple requests for comment on Sunday. Dhiraj Kumar, the MCG’s joint commissioner, did not directly address allegations made by Sunday’s protesters, but clarified that the MCG is moving ahead with its plan to reclaim the landfill site and that the construction of the WTE plant will commence soon.“Our main issue is availability of land within the demarcated site. At present, there is not enough to start construction of the WTE plant because of the quantity of waste which has accumulated. The process of bioremediating legacy waste has begun and we are trying our best to clear it up soon, so that there is enough land for the WTE plant,” Kumar said.Ecogreen Energy, the MCG’s concessionaire for waste management and the executive body behind the WTE plant, could not be reached for comment on Sunday. Speaking to HT last Thursday, a spokesperson for the company had estimated a time frame of at least two years for the WTE plant to start operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/protesters-voice-objections-to-wte-plant-at-bandhwari-landfill-101611508328859.html
24-01-2021||Gurugram||Groundwater remediation unlikely before landfill is fully reclaimed: MCG officials||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is yet to take steps for remediation of groundwater in Bandhwari village, where an active and unsanitary landfill is alleged to have contaminated the underlying aquifer and the drinking water supply of the area. Officials privy to the matter said the task, despite being mandated by the National Green Tribunal, is unlikely to be taken up before the landfill site is fully reclaimed, but did not clarify when the reclamation process will be completed.In a recent report submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has stated, “Steps for decontamination of groundwater have not been taken by MCG as the dumpsite is active... Groundwater decontamination may be done after removal of contaminating sources.”As part of ongoing litigation in the matter, the NGT, last year, had asked the CPCB to “give its independent report of status (of the landfill) as on 31.12.2020, particularly with regard to ground water contamination and proper manifest system for treatment of leachate...”The ongoing dumping of nearly 2,000 tonnes of mixed municipal waste per day at Bandhwari, along with the presence of at least 3.3 million tonnes of non-bioremediated legacy waste, make groundwater remediation a challenging, if not nearly impossible, task, officials said.Residents of at least two nearby villages, meanwhile, said they are growing increasingly reliant on private tankers and packaged drinking water to meet their needs. They also warned of a possible public health crisis in the nearby settlements of Bandhwari, Mangar, Baliawas, Dera and Gwal Pahari, where groundwater continues to be used for bathing, feeding of cattle, and irrigation. Locals have also claimed a high incidence of cancer and other unusual health conditions as a result of groundwater contamination from the landfill, although this claim is yet to be proven epidemiologically.Dhiraj Kumar, joint commissioner, MCG (Swacch Bharat Mission), confirmed that there are no immediate plans to assess the extent of, or remediate groundwater contamination in the area. “There is not much that can be done about it immediately. Even if one were to try and decontaminate the water table, it wouldn’t get rid of the landfill itself, which is the alleged source of the problem. Our focus is to treat all the remaining legacy waste and process about 20,800 kilolitres of leachate which has accumulated at the site. If we can control the leachate, then there is no threat of groundwater contamination.”In this regard, the CPCB report notes that some progress has been made, with nearly 12,200 litres of accumulated leachate having been successfully treated in the last four months, using three different leachate treatment plants on site. The treated leachate (about 550 kilolitres per day) is then sent to the Behrampur sewage treatment plant for further processing. “Test reports of treated leachate are meeting the standards for treated leachates specified in Schedule II of SWM Rules 2016,” the CPCB report states.Kumar, as well as a senior official in the MCG’s sanitation department, expressed doubts over the extent of groundwater contamination in the area.“There is no evidence of it existing, or existing due to the landfill. We had carried out tests in 2018 as part of an environmental impact assessment, for the waste-to-energy plant, which is going to come up in Bandhwari. The EIA report did not find any presence of groundwater contamination,” said the sanitation inspector, seeking anonymity.However, this claim runs contrary to past assessments. A 2017 inspection by the CPCB, ordered by the NGT, found that the groundwater contained iron, manganese, boron, calcium, chlorides and nitrates in excess of the country’s drinking water standards (IS 10500:2012). An independent report from 2015, by Rekha Singh, an environment expert certified by the Quality Council of India (under the MoEFCC), found that the groundwater in Bandhwari contained calcium, cadmium, magnesium, fluoride, phenolic compounds and mercury in excess of the country’s drinking water standards.Rajender Harsana, a dairy farmer from Bandhwari, said, “There are about 2,000 households in the village. More and more are shifting to getting their drinking water privately, either in the form of tankers or bubble-top packages. I would urge authorities to have a look at the quality of water that our borewells are giving. Buying filtered water is very expensive for most of us. My children drink milk from cows that are given the polluted water. I am worried about the long-term impact this will have on their health.”In August 2019, a report by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute suggested that contamination from the landfill has likely spread downstream via the underlying aquifer, to the neighbouring villages of Mangar, Baliawas and Gwal Pahari. Groundwater samples from 14 locations within a five-kilometre radius of the landfill were found to be “highly contaminated” with pathogenic bacteria and heavy metals in excess of the country’s drinking water quality standards.MCG officials declined to comment on the findings of these reports. MCG commissioner, Vinay Pratap Singh, could not be reached for comment on Sunday despite multiple attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/groundwater-remediation-unlikely-before-landfill-is-fully-reclaimed-mcg-officials-101611508267578.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records very poor air quality as temperatures remain low||After a week’s respite from poor quality air, the city’s air quality deteriorated over the weekend. As temperatures remained relatively low, an overall air quality index (AQI) in Mumbai was measured at 310 on Sunday, which was in the very poor category.According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), on Sunday, Mumbai’s overall air quality was slightly behind Delhi’s air quality with an AQI of 339.Last week, the city had recorded the cleanest air this year with an AQI of 156 (moderate). However, on Saturday, the AQI dropped to 320 and continued to remain very poor on Sunday.Six of the 10 locations measured an AQI that was in the very poor category. Navi Mumbai recorded the worst air quality with an AQI of 374, closely followed by Andheri where an AQI of 340 was recorded.“Owing to the presence of high pressure in western India, calm winds are prevailing in Mumbai and the surrounding regions. Additionally, the regional contribution of winds at Mumbai is predominantly from oceanic air which is carrying pollution from north-west India and dust. This condition is leading to very poor AQI in Mumbai. With the movement of the high-pressure system to the west, the calm condition will be relaxed slightly, which will improve the AQI to poor for Mumbai in the next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.Days and nights were pleasant in the city and the suburbs with temperatures remaining low. The minimum temperature at Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) was 17.4 degree Celsius, which was a degree above normal. At Colaba, the minimum temperature was 20 degrees Celsius, also a degree above normal.The maximum temperature at Santacruz was recorded at 31.3 degrees, which was a degree above normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature was 29.6 degrees Celsius, which was on par with normal.KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of the western region, IMD, said, “From Monday, minimum temperatures are likely to fall in parts of north-central Maharashtra and Mumbai, Thane regions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-very-poor-air-quality-as-temperatures-remain-low-101611508148273.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Husband asking wife to drop case against him does not amount to domestic violence, says Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC), while hearing the pre-arrest bail application of a Pune resident, held that there was nothing wrong in a married man insisting that his wife drop a case of rape and sexual assault which she lodged against him before marriage. The court said that the man had fulfilled his promise of marriage, but the wife insisted on persecuting him even after marriage by lodging a 498A case against him, hence, he deserved to be granted pre-arrest bail in the domestic violence case.A bench of justice Sarang Kotwal was informed by advocate Shivraj Kunchge that his client was married to the woman who had lodged a complaint of rape against him in 2017. In 2018 his client was arrested and released on bail in January 2019, on the condition that he would not contact the woman. However, in September 2019 the woman acceded to his clients’ proposal and they got married. In March 2020, the woman lodged a domestic violence case against the man (her husband).According to the first information report (FIR), after marriage, the couple stayed together in a house provided by the woman’s mother till December 2019. The FIR states that during the period, the man assaulted the woman and kept insisting that she withdraw the rape case against him. Thereafter the woman went to her mother’s house where the husband visited her till March 2020, after which, he stopped visiting her, thus prompting the registration of the domestic violence case against him on November 23, 2020. While seeking pre-arrest bail, Kunchge submitted that the domestic violence FIR had no allegations attracting ingredients of section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The emphasis was on the previous case for which some proceedings are going on and the applicant is already granted bail in that case. He, therefore, submitted that the applicant’s custody in this particular case is not necessary.Additional public prosecutor SH Yadav for the state, however, opposed the application and stated that the FIR did mention instances of domestic violence against the man, hence the application should be rejected.After hearing the submissions, justice Kotwal observed, “Obviously, if both of them are married, the applicant would expect that his wife would not have any accusations against him. That by itself may not amount to the offence described under section 498A of IPC. Apart from this allegation, there are hardly any allegations attracting section 498A of the IPC. The applicant is already granted bail in an earlier case registered at Kondhwa police station. His custodial interrogation on the basis of these allegations is not necessary. The applicant deserves the protection of anticipatory bail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/husband-asking-wife-to-drop-case-against-him-does-not-amount-to-domestic-violence-says-bombay-hc-101611508028406.html
24-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM for a day, 20-year-old Shrishti Goswami takes stand on 3 points||Twenty-year-old Shrishti Goswami from Haridwar took charge as the chief minister of Uttarakhand for one day on Sunday. She gave suggestions on three main points - safety of children and girls, checking drug usage among youngsters and stopping hill migration in the state.Goswami, on the occasion national girl child day on Sunday, made her suggestions during the child assembly session while she interacted with officials in Dehradun.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said nominating Goswami as the chief minister of child assembly for a day and organising a session in the state legislative assembly on national girl child day is a matter of pride and respect for all the girls in the state. Rawat said such initiatives would help girls in finding their identity. “Such initiatives will also inspire them to fulfil their responsibilities towards the society. Our girls are shining in various fields and I wish Goswami all the best for her bright future,” he saidGoswami, a student of B.Sc agriculture at a Roorkee-based institution, while symbolically holding the position of the state's CM for one day, reviewed various ongoing government-run development programmes after officers made presentations before her.She was chosen for the honour after she was elected chief minister in a mock ‘Bal Vidhan Sabha’ (children’s state assembly) in a symbolic event organised by the state commission in 2018 for protection of child rights and to help the children understand the democratic system.Also read: UP govt orders no diesel for tractors as farmers gear up for Jan 26 rallyGoswami, while talking to reporters, said she has made many important suggestions, especially with regard to ensuring the safety of children and girls, checking drug usage among youngsters and stopping hill migration in the state.“As the CM, my priority was issues related to children as I know what kind of problems they face. These suggestions will be put before the State Child Rights Commission which will then be conveyed to the CM,” she said.On the episode being similar to Anil Kapoor-starrer Bollywood movie 'Nayak', Goswami said, “That is reel and this is real. I was so excited that it was happening for real. And I must thank our CM Trivendra Singh Rawat for this,” she saidWhen asked whether she would like to join politics in future, she said she is already part of the child assembly. “If an opportunity comes in future, why not, I may join politics,” she said.Goswami said she also raised the issue of safety of girls while they are commuting to colleges. “I asked the DGP to ensure girls feel safe when they go to college and come back home,” she said.The state minister for higher education Dhan Singh Rawat earlier welcomed Goswami and other members of the child assembly at the state legislative assembly. Rawat later gave her and other members of the child assembly certificates recognising their participation in the special event.Pravin Goswami, her father said he is very proud that for the first time a girl has been honoured like this to be the CM of a state. “This will not only inspire my daughter to strive higher in life but also other girls in the state. If they work hard, nothing can stop them from achieving anything,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-for-a-day-20-year-old-shrishti-goswami-takes-stand-on-3-points-101611499132701.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Not sexual assault if minor is groped without 'skin to skin contact, intent': HC||Groping a minor's breast without "skin to skin contact" cannot be termed as sexual assault as defined under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the Bombay High Court has said.Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court, in a judgement passed on January 19, the detailed copy of which was made available now, held that there must be "skin to skin contact with sexual intent" for an act to be considered sexual assault.She said in her verdict that mere groping will not fall under the definition of sexual assault.Justice Ganediwala modified the order of a sessions court, which had sentenced a 39-year-old man to three years of imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl.As per the prosecution and the minor victim's testimony in court, in December 2016, the accused, one Satish, had taken the girl to his house in Nagpur on the pretext of giving her something to eat.Once there, he gripped her breast and attempted to remove her clothes, Justice Ganediwala recorded in her verdict.However, since he groped her without removing her clothes, the offence cannot be termed as sexual assault and, instead, constitutes the offence of outraging a woman's modesty under IPC section 354, the high court held.While section 354 entails a minimum sentence of imprisonment for one year, sexual assault under the POCSO Act entails a minimum imprisonment of three years.The sessions court had sentenced him to three years of imprisonment for the offences under the POCSO Act and under IPC section 354. The sentences were to run concurrently. The high court, however, acquitted him under the POCSO Act while upholding his conviction under IPC section 354."Considering the stringent nature of punishment provided for the offence (under POCSO), in the opinion of this court, stricter proof and serious allegations are required," HC said."The act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of sexual assault," it said.Justice Ganediwala further said in her verdict that "the act of pressing breast can be a criminal force to a woman/ girl with the intention to outrage her modesty".The POCSO Act defines sexual assault as when someone "with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault".The court, in its verdict, held that this "physical contact" mentioned in the definition of sexual assault must be "skin to skin" or direct physical contact."Admittedly, it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast. As such, there is no direct physical contact i.e. skin to skin with sexual intent without penetration," the HC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-sexual-assault-if-minor-is-groped-without-skin-to-skin-contact-intent-hc-101611496504698.html
24-01-2021||Bhopal||'Aapka Jai Shri Ram ho jayega', MP protem speaker warns Mamata Banerjee||Taking 'offence' to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's refusal to deliver her speech at the Prakram Diwas event after 'Jai Shree Ram' slogans were raised, Madhya Pradesh pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma on Sunday said if the CM will shy away from taking Lord Ram's name, then she will be finished. (Agar aap Ram bolne se chukengi to apka Jai Shri Ram ho jayega).Sharma also said he is sending a copy of Ramayana to Banerjee with the hope that she will read the religious text and say 'Jai Shree Ram' with pride."Mamata didi's objection to Lord Ram was not right. Mamata Didi, we expect you to not hate Jai Shri Ram. This country is Lord Ram's. Every person in this country is Lord Ram's. Every Chief Minister of this country is in Lord Ram. You belong to West Bengal, the state where the fight for freedom started. The priest from your state left their worshipping to sing 'Vande Matram' during the freedom struggle," he said."The way you raised objection to Ram, are you under pressure from Bangladesh? Or, would you not say Jai Shree Ram because you are under pressure from extremist Muslims? Don't be under pressure from anyone and say Jai Shree Ram. Because, if you will shy away from taking Lord Ram's name, then you will be finished," he added.Yesterday, Banerjee did not deliver her speech at an event at Victoria Memorial to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose "in protest" to 'Jai Shree Ram' slogans raised when she was invited to speak.She said "government programme should have some dignity" and it "is not fair to insult somebody whom you have invited". The event was presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.In her brief remarks, a visibly upset Mamata Banerjee said it was a government programme and not that of a political party.Netaji's birth anniversary is being observed as Parakram Diwas in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/aapka-jai-shri-ram-ho-jayega-mp-protem-speaker-warns-mamata-banerjee-101611494976786.html
24-01-2021||City||Tamil Nadu farmers, labour unions to join tractor rally on Republic Day||Tamil Nadu’s farmers and labour unions will also participate in the Republic Day tractor rally in various districts across the state.Farmers and trade union workers will march from their taluks or villages towards the district collector’s office or a prominent location where they will congregate. “Tractors, bullock carts and two-wheelers or whatever vehicle we get, we will carry out a parade,” said AIKSCC state coordinator K Balakrishnan. “Since the tractor is the symbol of a farmer, we want to have a minimum of one tractor in every district but farming districts like Nagapattinam will have hundreds of tractors.”Eight delta districts in Tamil Nadu, including Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Tiruvarur, will see maximum strength of the rally. There won’t be a rally in Chennai as there is no agricultural land in the capital city but its adjoining district will participate.“Police have been contacting farmers associations and labour unions over the phone since Saturday to ask us about our plans,” said Balakrishnan. “District police have particularly asked owners of tractors not to participate.”Also read: In Tamil Nadu, Rahul Gandhi offers a solution to deal with ChinaCuddalore district police have issued a note that they have received information of farmers planning a tractor rally on January 26 and warned against gatherings due to the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly since a new variant of the virus emerged earlier this month.“Those who organise protests and gather in large numbers will be severely punished as per law as it may cause a surge in cases,” the Cuddalore police’s statement read. “Tractors without permission used in this rally will be penalised according to Motors (Vehicles) Act (1988) under sections 177, 179 and 207 and the tractors will be seized.”Senior Tamil Nadu police said that they have not issued any specific instructions regarding the rally on Republic Day. “We will be following the existing government order that’s in place due to the pandemic,” said Tamil Nadu’s director general of police, J K Tripathy. The order mandates that for any public activity to be conducted, permission must be sought from the district collectors and from the city police commissioner in Chennai. “We will make duty arrangements for whatever activity is permitted by district collectors and if it’s not permitted, law and order action will be initiated.”About 3,000 members from farmers organisations and workers from labour unions of the opposition DMK and Left parties were detained for protesting in Chennai’s Raj Bhavan on Saturday, said Balakrishnan. DMK and its allies have protested and launched hunger strikes in support of the agitating farmers in Delhi. However, the ruling AIADMK government has been in favour of the three new farm bills so the Bharat Bandh called on December 8 was subdued in Tamil Nadu.The state government said that they have not discussed this matter as yet. “The state hasn’t received any information so far we haven’t decided on any precautionary measures,” said AIADMK spokesperson Vaigaichelvan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tamil-nadu-farmers-labour-unions-to-join-tractor-rally-on-republic-day-101611495060645.html
24-01-2021||Jaipur||Directorate General of GST Intelligence detects fake invoices worth over 700 cr||Fake invoices worth close to ₹800 crores were detected by the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) (Jaipur) zonal unit in past 40 months, said officials of the investigating wing of Goods and Services Tax (GST) intelligence wing.According to official data of the department, between July 1, 2017, and January 23, 2021, the DGGI arrested 25 people of which 21 have been arrested for issuing fake invoices.“The total detected amount in major fake invoice cases is ₹798.88 crore, of which ₹204.86 crore has been recovered by this zonal unit,” said a DGGI official.On Saturday also, five people, including a chartered accountant (CA) were arrested on charges of a case of preparing fake bills of more than ₹1,000 crores by the zonal directorate of GST intelligence.Acting on tip-off, an investigation was initiated against Vishnu Garg, aged 45 years, resident of Vaishali Nagar, Jaipur Proprietor of M/s. Vikas Trading Company, M/s. Shri Shyam Traders, M/s. Vinayak Associates, M/s. SP Enterprises, M/s. VK industries & Corporation.Also read: In Tamil Nadu, Rahul Gandhi offers a solution to deal with China"Intelligence suggested that he was indulged in the creation of fake firms and issuing fake invoices without any actual supply of goods and thereby resulting in availing of fraudulent ITC (Input Tax Credit) on such invoices. He had created and operated 20 other such firms which also issued fake invoices. On the basis of preliminary inquiry, it came to light that he was actively indulged in breaching of various provisions of the CGST, Act, 2017, RGST, Act, 2017 and IGST Act," said an official.He added that searches were conducted on January 21 at the residence and office premises of Vishnu Garg and various incriminating documents were resumed."The total value involved in the fake invoices issued by these 25 firms is ₹1004.34 crore, involving total ITC of ₹146.08 crore. This amount is detected on the preliminary investigation and may increase later. Garg was the mastermind behind this bogus billing and had issued invoices to around 200 firms located in Rajasthan, MP, Telangana etc. He issued bills/invoices mainly relating to timber, scrap, plywood, gold etc. Investigation has also revealed that he created the said firms for the sole purpose of fraudulently passing of the ITC on the basis of fake invoices without actual supply of Goods. A total amount of Rs. 4.05 crore has been deposited till date," the official added.Badri Lal Mali, 27, and Mahendra Saini, 23, both Resident of Tonk district, actively participated in the operation of this fake invoice racket and helped Vishnu Garg in running these firms. "Further, chartered accountant Bhagwan Sahay Gupta, 41, (resident of Jaipur) was also actively involved in providing assistance and guidance to run 21 fake firms out of 25 fake firms. All four of them (Vishnu Garg, Badri Lal Mali, Mahendra Saini and CA Bhagwan Sahay Gupta) were operating and handling this fraud together. On the basis of preliminary inquiry, it came to light that they were also indulged in breaching of various provisions of the CGST Act, 2017 and rules made thereunder," said the official.Further, Pradeep Dayani, 31, resident of LB Nagar, Hyderabad, Telangana actively assisted in running of a firm in Hyderabad in connivance with Garg. He issued invoices, transferred remittances on commission basis and filed returns. He also had one more firm registered in his name for the same purpose of issuing invoices without supply of goods. Supply of ₹17.35 crore was made from these two firms and ITC of ₹3.15 crore was passed on fraudulently.Vishnu Garg, Badri Lal Mali, Mahendra Saini and CA Bhagwan Sahay Gupta have been arrested under Section 69 of the CGST Act, 2017. Pradeep Dayani has been arrested under Section 69 of CGST Act, 2017 for committing non-cognizable and bailable offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/directorate-general-of-gst-intelligence-detects-fake-invoices-worth-over-700-cr-101611494378193.html
24-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee takes dynastic politics jab at BJP national leaders||Trinamool Youth Congress president and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday took jabs at top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, on the issue of dynastic politics at an election rally in his Lok Sabha constituency.“BJP leaders are regularly accusing Mamata Banerjee and me of indulging in dynastic politics. What about them? BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s son is a legislator in Madhya Pradesh. So are the sons of Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP leader Mukul Roy. Suvendu Adhikari was an MLA and minister in this state, his father and elder brother are Lok Sabha members and his younger brother headed a civic body. These people have no right to talk about dynastic politics,” Banerjee said at a rally in Kultali in South 24 Parganas district.Going a step further, the young MP from Diamond Harbour said, “I challenge the BJP. If their leaders declare today that only one member from their families will remain in politics I will leave politics in 24 hours. Only Mamata Banerjee will be into politics from my family. Why doesn’t the BJP introduce a bill in the Parliament on this issue?”Reacting to Banerjee’s statement, the BJP said it was a diversionary tactic on the eve of the assembly polls due in March-April.“Abhishek Banerjee tried to divert people’s attention from raging issues, such as high unemployment rate and lack of industrial growth in Bengal. Who says Singh and Vijayvargiya’s sons cannot be legislators? As far as Roy and Adhikari are concerned, both were in the TMC when members of their families were given electoral nomination,” said Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the BJP’s Bengal unit.Also read: UP govt orders no diesel for tractors as farmers gear up for Jan 26 rallyOn Sunday, Banerjee also singled out Adhikari for calling him an “extortionist” at several rallies held after the former TMC leader joined the BJP on December 19 in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah.“I have with me today a copy of the letter that Sudipta Sen, owner of the Saradha chit fund company, wrote to the chief metropolitan magistrate in Kolkata. Sen alleged in the letter that he gave ₹6 crore to Adhikari. Sen also wrote that he gave money to Adhikari the night before he went underground. Once we come to power after the polls, I will settle the scores,” said Banerjee.“If Banerjee has any proof against Adhikari he should give it to the Central Bureau of Investigation which is probing the Saradha scam. The CBI is not a caged parrot anymore,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-takes-dynastic-politics-jab-at-bjp-national-leaders-101611491410073.html
24-01-2021||City||Notorious interstate contract killer Dhanji Pandey arrested in Bihar||Notorious interstate contract killer Dhanji Pandey alias Dhananjay Pandey was arrested by Bihar police from his native Karup village under Kargahar police station area of Rohtas district on Saturday night.Pandey was wanted in more than 15 cases of murder, loot, attack and extortion in bordering districts of Bihar, Jharkand and Uttar Pradesh. He was infamous for his cold-blooded approach and for not missing his targets of contract killing, often done in broad daylight, police said.Successfully dodging three states’ police and continued involvement in murder, loot and extortion cases, made his name synonymous with terror for the people living in his area of operation. Courts in Rohtas and Kaimur had issued warrants of attachments against the criminal in seven cases, police said.He had committed last murder in Rohtas district in 2017 when he shot dead businessman Jhunni Lal Chaudhary in Kargahar market.On a tip off that Pandey was to arrive at his native village to participate in a family function, a police team led by Kargahar SHO, Sushant Kumar Mandal, raided his house and arrested him in the night, superintendent of police, Ashish Bharti said.Also Read: Men from Bihar nabbed, illegal firearms factory busted in poll bound West BengalRohtas police had contacted their UP and Jharkhand counterparts for information on Pandey’s criminal antecedents and senior police and intelligence officers were interrogating him for information about his associates and white collared people who were providing him shelter and support in the three states, Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/notorious-interstate-contract-killer-dhanji-pandey-arrested-in-bihar-101611484179340.html
24-01-2021||Kolkata||Men from Bihar nabbed, illegal firearms factory busted in poll bound West Bengal||Two men from Bihar’s Munger district were arrested from an illegal firearm manufacturing unit in the Kaliachak area of West Bengal’s Malda district, late on Saturday night, said police. The unit was located in a slum where mostly rag-pickers live, it added.The raid was jointly conducted by the local police and the Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police.The arrested men were identified as Md Azam and Md Faruque, STF officers said. They are in their early thirties. The police have started a manhunt for the person who was funding the operation.The unit was located in the Kabari Chandpur village in the Alipore-I panchayat area. One finished and seven unfinished semi-automatic .32 caliber pistols were seized during the raid along with a large quantity of tools and some ammunition.Must Watch: ‘Parties concerned over law & order situation’: CEC Arora on West Bengal pollsAn official said on condition of anonymity that information about the unit was given by a man who was arrested by the STF in Kolkata a few days ago.“The men from Munger came to Malda to make illegal arms. The rag-pickers provided a perfect cover for the unit. Since a lot of outsiders come to the village to buy discarded plastic goods for recycling, the arms business was running without arousing suspicion among local people,” the officer said.In 2018, Kaliachak police unearthed a similar factory at Shersahi village and recovered 24 firearms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/men-from-bihar-nabbed-illegal-firearms-factory-busted-in-poll-bound-west-bengal-101611483289241.html
24-01-2021||Jaipur||Republic Day tractor rally from Rajasthan to feature tableaus from states||The protesting farmers at Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan’s Alwar district will display tableaus of different states during their Republic Day tractor parade. The Rajasthan tableau will be based on a desert theme with posters of Kalbeliya (folk) dancers, dessert, camel and hut etc.Meanwhile, extending support to the farmers' tractor rally, against the three Central farm laws, the state unit of the Congress party has mobilised its leaders and workers to make the rally successful.The rally preparations in the state started after the Congress Working Committee meeting in Delhi. The Rajasthan Congress leadership has asked the party MLAs, especially from the Jaipur division, to bring as many tractors and vehicles fitted with tricolor.The Congress leaders and others will be reaching Kotputli on January 25 and will join farmers at Shahjahanpur the next day before proceeding further. There will be no use of party banners, only tri-colour will be used, said a senior Congress leader, who didn’t wish to be named.There is a buzz that senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi could also arrive here to meet farmers following reports of construction of a helipad in Shahjahanpur.“The agitation will be turning two months old on Monday. We haven’t seen such an insensitive government; around 125 people have died but they aren’t listening to farmers. The way they are holding talks and making offers, shows that this government stands for corporates and not for farmers,” said Amra Ram, national vice president of All India Kisan Sabha.He said, “On January 26, jawans will hold a parade in Delhi and the kissan will take out a tractor parade. We will display tableaus of around 14 states in the parade and around 2000 vehicles, including tractors, will participate. At 8 am, the parade will start for Delhi from Shahjahanpur under Kissan Sanyukt Morcha banner.”Amra Ram claimed farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Orissa, West Bengal, Assam, Karnataka and Tripura had arrived for the rally and many more will be joining."The farmers in the vicinity of Shahjahanpur and those from districts such as Jaipur, Alwar, Shri Ganganagar, Sikar, Jhunjhunu and others, will participate in the rally in big numbers,” he said.Also Read: Maharashtra farmers converge in Mumbai against farm laws, to be joined by PawarConvener of the Kisan Mahapanchayat, Rampal Jat said, “We will start our rally from Gurugram. Farmers, who may not be able to reach here, are asked to take out a march in their respective districts and tehsil. “We have asked all farmers not to let their tractors be parked at houses on the R-Day,” said Jat.Jat and his supporter farmers had carried out a tractor rally in Dudu town in Jaipur district on Saturday. The RLP Member of Parliament, Hanuman Beniwal, is also camping at another site at Shahjahanpur border in support of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/republic-day-tractor-rally-from-rajasthan-to-feature-tableaus-from-states-101611481255917.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 vaccinations: Around 60 paramedical staff of prisons department inoculated so far||Around 60 paramedical staff of the Delhi prisons department have been inoculated so far during the Covid-19 vaccination drive, officials said on Sunday.The vaccination drive began in the national capital on January 16 and the healthcare workers, who were at the forefront of the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, got the first shots of the vaccine."Around 60 paramedical staff of the prisons department have been vaccinated so far. They were vaccinated on different dates at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. The vaccination will help boost the morale of the jail officials and security forces personnel, who were at a high risk of catching the virus due to the nature of their job," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.According to a senior jail official, the prisons department has around 200 paramedical staff.The department had asked around 3,600 staff members, including security personnel, to enroll themselves for receiving the coronavirus vaccine shots.Around 1,600 jail staff, 1,000 Tamil Nadu Special Police personnel who carry out security duty at the Tihar Jail and 1,000 personnel of paramilitary forces have been enrolled for the purpose.A total of 292 prisons staff had contracted the infection till Saturday, officials said, adding that only two are still under treatment while 290 have recuperated.Of the 118 jail inmates who have tested positive for the viral disease so far, 116 have recovered while two have died, they said.Among the three prisons in the national capital, the first Covid-19 case was reported in the Rohini Jail on May 13 last year.Two Covid-positive inmates of the Mandoli Jail -- both senior citizens -- died on June 15 and July 4 last year.Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, the prisons department has remained vigilant and instructed its staff to not only maintain hygiene and social distancing, but also spread awareness among the inmates in the three jail complexes, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/around-60-paramedical-staff-of-delhi-prisons-department-inoculated-for-covid19-101611480883173.html
24-01-2021||Lucknow||UP becomes 1st state to have 2 airstrips for landing, take-off of fighter planes||With the completion of the construction of the 3,300-metre-long airstrip near Kurebhar on Purvanchal Expressway, Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country with two airstrips on expressways to facilitate emergency landing and take-off of fighter planes.Speaking to ANI, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Uttar Pradesh said, "The construction of Purvanchal Expressway being completed rapidly. The construction of the 3,300-metre-long airstrip near Kurebhar on the expressway has been completed. All categories of aircraft can land on this airstrip. The Indian Air Force is likely to test the airstrip soon."Notably, Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country with two airstrips on expressways. One airstrip is on Lucknow-Agra Expressway while the other is on Purvanchal Expressway. Airstrips on expressways are designed to facilitate emergency landing and take-off of fighter planes.Earlier, the Indian Air Force had examined Yamuna Expressway and Agra Expressway. Aircraft like Mirage 2000, Jaguar, Sukhoi 30 and Super Hercules had already landed on Lucknow-Agra Expressway. Uttar Pradesh government is trying to connect the entire northern part of the country with expressways.The Hindon and Agra airbases of the Indian Air Force will be able to use the runway of all three expressways if needed. Also, these airstrips of Uttar Pradesh can serve the Air Force to respond against China and Pakistan in case of any war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-becomes-1st-state-to-have-2-airstrips-for-landing-take-off-of-fighter-planes-101611479680612.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||2 detained for shouting Pakistan Zindabad slogans hours before R-Day||Two men were detained after they were seen allegedly shouting ‘Pakistan zindabad’ slogans near Khan Market metro station in New Delhi during the early hours on Sunday.In the backdrop of the security apparatus being on a high alert because of the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday, passersby called the police control room to report the incident.The two men told police that they had hired yulu bikes and named them Hindustan and Pakistan, to race with each other. They said they raised the slogans during the context of the race, senior police officers said. No arrests have been made in the case so far, they said.The incident took place around 1 am, when some locals and passersby reported the matter to the police. The call triggered panic among the security agencies as the New Delhi area has been put under multi-layer security cover due to the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday.Also Read: Delhi Traffic Police issues advisory for Republic DayAccording to the police, a PCR call was received at around 1 am at Tughlaq Road police station reporting that some people were shouting ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ slogans near Khan Market metro station.A police team found two men and three women present at the spot. "They had hired Yulu bikes. On questioning, it came to light that these two families, along with their children, had come for sightseeing around India gate and had rented Yulu bikes. They started racing on Yulu bikes and had named the bikes after countries, which also included Pakistan. They said that during the race, they shouted those slogans to cheer for the two respective teams," said a police officer, who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-detained-for-shouting-pakistan-zindabad-slogans-hours-before-rday-101611478057133.html
24-01-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 vaccination: Karnataka government withdraws order to consider airport staff as frontline workers||The Karnataka government on Sunday withdrew a circular issued to consider airport staff as frontline workers for Covid-19 vaccination, informed the state health department.In an earlier circular dated January 22, the state government said that staff members of all airports will be considered as the frontline workers and will thus be eligible for the vaccination. It was directed to the authorities at Kempegowda International Airport KIAL, Mangaluru International Airport, and also at Belagavi, Hubbali -Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, and Bidar.In a new notification issued by the Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Services, the state government said that only the staff of the airport covered as healthcare or frontline workers, as defined by the Government of India, will be included in the list of Covid vaccination.The Serum Institute of India's (SII) vaccine COVISHIELD was administered to 1,36,882 people while Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN was administered to 1,774 people in the state till January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-withdraws-order-to-consider-airport-staff-as-frontline-workers-101611478108275.html
24-01-2021||Bangalore||Illegal mining should be stopped across Karnataka, says Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday said that illegal mining should be stopped across the state. If anyone is running mining operations illegally, they should immediately submit an application and the department concerned will verify it, he further said.Yediyurappa's made the comment after his earlier statement asking unauthorised miners to apply for regularisation triggered a major political slugfest.The CM on Sunday said that he's statement was misquoted and mentioned that he had not said that he would legalise the illegal quarries.Pointing out the illegal mining work at the Baby Betta area in the Mandya district, he said that the mining work here is affecting the Krishna Raja Sagara (KRS) dam. The Chief Minister said that he had already instructed people to stop the illegal mining in and around Baby Betta."The road and highway constructions require gravels from quarries. But, the crushers should be set up under guidelines and within the legal framework," he added.Earlier, we had faced an acute gravel shortage for construction works; it will not be repeated again, he further said.Yediyurappa said that if the shortage of gravel arises the cost of construction will be raised.The development came after the death toll in the Shivamogga stone quarry explosion increased to six on Saturday.Yediyurappa later commented on the First Division Assistant (FDA) examination of Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC), exam's paper leak incident, and said that he has suspended the officers in connection with the case. "I will order a probe into this and will take stern action," he added.Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSE) on Saturday postponed the First Division Assistant (FDA) examination, which was scheduled to be held on January 24 after six people were arrested and question paper was seized from their possession.Meanwhile, Yediyurappa also reacted on Karnataka farmers' planned protest on Republic Day under Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), a farmers' movement to show support to their counterparts protesting against the farm laws in New Delhi."I will not disturb their protest, but their protest should be peaceful. The BJP government is a pro-agrarian community," he said.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/illegal-mining-should-be-stopped-across-karnataka-says-yediyurappa-101611476557615.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai added less than 3000 cases of Covid-19 this week||Mumbai added 2,814 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 3,355 related deaths between January 17 and January 23, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows. The number of fresh cases and the death toll show a downward trend in the city, which has consistently reported less than 7,000 active Covid-19 cases since January 15. The city had recorded less than 8,000 active Covid-19 cases between January 2 and January 15. Active cases had dropped to below 10,000 on December 15 last year.On January 17, the cases stood at 302,757 with 531 new infections and seven deaths. On January 18, only 395 new cases were recorded which showed a decrease from the day before and 7 deaths were recorded. This took the number of Covid-19 cases to 303,152 and the death toll to 11,251 in the city. On January 19, Mumbai again recorded less than 500 cases as the new cases stood at 473 which took its tally to 303,625 and the death toll stood at 11,259 with 8 deaths recorded.Read more: India vaccinates more than a million in a week. Where do other nations standOn January 20, the city’s active case count touched 6,654, the lowest in the past seven months, since the Maharashtra government started to publish active case figures. The recovery rate stood at 93%. Moreover, as per data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), none of the 24 administrative wards in the city had over 500 active cases.On January 21, the city reported 527 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths, taking the tally to 304,653, and death toll to 11,278. The active cases in the city were 6,669. On January 22, the number of new cases recorded was less than 500 again as 483 fresh cases took the tally to 305, 136 cases in the city. On January 23, there were 305,571 cases of Covid-19 and the death toll in the city was 11,297.Read more: Zero daily Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s slum area of Dharavi for second time since pandemic startedVaccinationOn January 23, which was the fifth day of the vaccination drive, Mumbai recorded a high turnout of healthcare workers and achieved 90% of its target at the 10 centres across the city. On January 22, the turnout was 92% with 3,539 out of 3,852 shortlisted healthcare workers getting the Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccination drive will resume on Monday.So far, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has successfully completed vaccination drives on five days, including January 23, and vaccinated 13,365 healthcare workers.Mumbai now has 265,000 vaccine vials after the city received another 125,000 vials on January 22. Last Wednesday, Mumbai had received the first lot of 139,500 vaccine vials from Serum Institute of India (SII).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-added-less-than-3000-cases-of-covid-19-this-week-101611474764034.html
24-01-2021||Bangalore||Expelled AIADMK leader Sasikala is stable, says hospital||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala, who is serving a jail term in a corruption case and has been hospitalised for Covid-19 is stable, according to the hospital where she is undergoing treatment.The symptoms have reduced and she is now stable, authorities at Victoria Hospital where Sasikala is being treated said on Sunday.Her sister-in-law J Ilavarasi, who is also serving a prison term in the corruption case, has tested positive for coronavirus and has been admitted to Victoria Hospital.In a bulletin issued by Dr C R Jayanthi, the Dean and Director of the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, which manages Victoria Hospital, said the 66-year old Sasikala's symptoms have reduced and her condition is stable."Conscious, alert and well oriented. Stable and comfortable, taking oral food normally and walking with support," the bulletin said.Sasikala is being continuously monitored in the ICU of the hospital, Jayanthi said.Ilavarasi, on the other hand, is asymptomatic and stable and is without oxygen support, hospital sources said.Sasikala, the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's close aide, who is serving her jail term at the Parappana Agrahara Prison here, had complained of fever and breathlessness on Wednesday last, a week before her release.She was shifted from the prison and admitted to the Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, also known as Bowring Hospital.Sasikala was sentenced to four years imprisonment in February 2017 in the ₹66 crore disproportionate assets case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/expelled-aiadmk-leader-sasikala-is-stable-says-hospital-101611474336112.html
24-01-2021||Patna||Eight Bihar cops injured in attack by men involved in illicit liquor trade||At least eight policemen were injured, two of them seriously, in an attack carried out by men involved in illegal sale of liquor at Madhubani village of Bihar’s West Champaran district on Saturday evening.On Sunday, sub divisional police officer (SDPO) of Ramnagar, Arjun Lal said a case has been registered at the local police station against 30 named and 150 unknown offenders. "Raids are on to arrest the accused. No arrests have been made in this connection so far," said Lal.Havildar Vijay Kumar Singh’s leg was fractured and seven other policemen from Ramnagar police station, too, received injuries when they were attacked during a raid following inputs of illegal liquor trade at Madhubani village of Ramnagar block, about 265 km north of state capital Patna.“We had definite information about the illegal sale and manufacturing of spurious liquor. Just when the police were trying to catch hold of some liquor traders, a group of villagers, many of them women, attacked the police,” said a police officer.Also Read: Bihar’s Congress in charge’s task cut out amid murmurs of splitHe said the crowd pelted stones forcing the outnumbered cops to retreat. At least two police vehicles were damaged in the incident which took place around 7pm on Saturday.“The injured policemen were immediately rushed to the government hospital at Ramnagar, from where, havildar Vijay Kumar Singh was referred to government hospital in Bettiah,” said SDPO Arjun Lal.Police have registered a case under Sections 147, 148 and 149 of the IPC among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/eight-bihar-cops-injured-in-attack-by-men-involved-in-illicit-liquor-trade-101611473272548.html
24-01-2021||Dehradun||20-year-old Shrishti Goswami is Uttarakhand CM for a day, a la Nayak||20-year-old Shrishti Goswami from Haridwar is a one-day chief minister of Uttarakhand, marking the national girl child day on January 24, in a rare instance of real life copying a movie --Anil Kapoor starrer Nayak.Goswami, while symbolically holding the position of the state's head for one day, will review various ongoing government-run development programmes. For the first time in the history of Uttarakhand, a girl will become the state’s chief minister, even if it is symbolic and just for a day.Goswami, a student of B. Sc agriculture at a Roorkee-based institution, was chosen for the honour after she was elected chief minister in a mock ‘Bal Vidhan Sabha’ (Children’s State Assembly) in a symbolic event organised by the state commission, in the year 2018, for protection of child rights and to help the children understand the democratic system.A resident of Daulatpur village, Goswami’s symbolic ascension to the CM’s post for a day on January 24, has received a nod from the incumbent chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.“I wholeheartedly thank CM Trivendra Singh Rawat for allowing me to become CM of Uttarakhand for one day. On January 24, the National Girl Child Day, officials from various departments will make five-minute-long presentations before me. I will give them suggestions, particularly on the issues related to girl-child safety,” said Goswami.Goswami idolises Mother Teresa and Haridwar-based team India hockey player Vandana Kataria. She said she would also want to give her inputs to the government on the agriculture sector, which supports the livelihood of more than 65% of the state’s population.Usha Negi, chairperson of the child rights body said, "Goswami, who participated in the children’s assembly, was elected its chief minister by members of the mock House for three years. Hence, to mark the occasion of girl child day on January 24, she will hold the real CM’s office for one day."Negi said that during the day, a three-hour session of a mock children assembly will also be held in the state assembly in Dehradun."It will be held from 12 noon till 3 pm, during which, officials of at least 12 departments including PWD, education, women and child development, tourism and others will give a presentation before Goswami, who will also review the various development programmes of the state," she said.Also Read: Uttarakhand to give ₹15 lakh to kin of martyrs, says CM Trivendra Singh RawatBoth Goswami and her parents-- father Pravin Goswami, a trader and mother Sudha Goswami, a housewife-- have expressed happiness and gratitude on the honour and said it will send the message that girls are no less than boys and can achieve anything they want."We are extremely proud of our daughter’s achievement. It will send a message to all the parents to never hold back their daughters and support them fully to pursue their dreams," her parents said.Darshan Singh Rawat, the media coordinator of CM Rawat, said, "The move will inspire the girls of the state and the country to dream big and never feel inferior to boys. They are equal to boys and can achieve their dreams with hard work and determination."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/20yearold-shrishti-goswami-is-uttarakhand-cm-for-a-day-a-la-nayak-101611471216699.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra farmers converge in Mumbai against farm laws, to be joined by Pawar||Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra are gathering in Mumbai for an agitation against the three Central farm laws, in solidarity with the farmers protesting at Delhi borders.The farmers have converged under the banner of Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM), supported by other social and political organisations.Around 15,000 farmers gathered at the Golf club maidan at Nashik on Saturday before marching to Ghatandevi near Igatpuri. On Sunday they started to march to Mumbai.SSKM convenor Ashok Dhawale said the agitation was an attempt to expand the two month old fight against the farm laws. “We will organise sit-in protests at Azad Maidan. On Monday, we will organise a ‘morcha’ to Raj Bhavan which will be attended by top leaders like Sharad Pawar, Aaditya Thackeray and Balasaheb Thorat,” said Dhawale.Members of labour unions and political parties such as the Congress, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) and Communist parties will also join the farmers’ morcha.“Our main demand is repeal of these farm laws and enactment of a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSP) across the country along with the withdrawal of electricity amendment bill,” said Dhawale. He added that the agitation will conclude with the hoisting of the national flag on January 26, the Republic Day.Also Read: Farmers march from Nashik to Mumbai to take part in 'Kisan Gantantra Parade'Thousands of farmers have been protesting at different borders of Delhi since November 26 last year against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The farmer leaders decided to extend the agitation to state capitals with an aim to sensitise the urban population of the farmers’ plight.Recently, labour unions marched in South Mumbai and held a rally at Azad Maidan in favour of the farmers. Prominent farmer leader Raju Shetti and social activist Medha Patkar addressed the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-farmers-converge-in-mumbai-against-farm-laws-to-be-joined-by-pawar-101611466237176.html
24-01-2021||Patna||RJD led Opposition plans massive human chain against farm laws on Jan 30||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) led grand alliance is readying to form a massive human chain on January 30, across Bihar, in solidarity with farmers protesting against the three Central farm laws and in support of other agriculture-related demands.All the GA allies including Congress, CPI-ML( liberation), CPI and CPM, have decided to participate in the event, billed as the first major show of strength by the main opposition bloc, after its narrow loss to the National Democratic Alliance in the recently concluded assembly election despite winning 110 seats out of the 243 on offer.The event is being held to support the demand for repeal of the three farm laws, converting the minimum support price (MSP) regime into a law, withdrawal of draft energy bill, 2020, scrapping the provision of punitive action against farmers for burning stubble and re-introduction of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act, scrapped in 2006 by the Nitish Kumar-led government.RJD state president Jagdanand Singh has already directed party’s district presidents to mobilise workers for the event. They have been asked to finalise the spots in their respective districts for formation of the human chain.“The human chain event would be a big show with huge participation. The grand alliance supports the repeal of the farm laws as sought by the agitating farmers and wants to highlight how the farm sector in Bihar has suffered due to scrapping of APMC Act. The preparations are in full swing,” said RJD state president.CPI-ML (liberation) state president Kunal said the human chain would touch all district headquarters, state highways and national highways as well as blocks and gram panchayats and will be joined by leaders and party workers of all GA constituents. He said leaflets have been sent to the party’s district units to publicise the event for wider public participation.“The human chain’s basic aim is to create consciousness that the Central government is working against the interest of farmers by trying to give private players greater control over the agriculture sector. In Bihar, the farmers are not getting MSP on their produce and it’s because of the scrapping of the APMC Act and the mandi system,” said Kunal.Also Read: Bihar’s Congress in charge’s task cut out amid murmurs of split“We are expecting participation of a few lakhs of people in the human chains this time,” he said, adding, the final route chart would be announced on January 25 after the meeting of all GA allies in Patna. “We have a plan to form the human chain in different pockets so that the city’s adjoining areas like Bihta and Maner are also connected,” he added.The Congress, the CPI and the CPM as well as a large number of farmers’ bodies, aligned with the left parties, have also begun mobilising support for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjd-led-opposition-plans-massive-human-chain-against-farm-laws-on-jan-30-101611464704815.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||Dense fog shrouds Delhi, minimum temp rises to 8.8 degrees Celsius||A thick blanket of fog shrouded Delhi on Sunday, lowering visibility to 100 metres and affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Dense fog reduced visibility to 200 metres at Safdarjung and 100 metres at Palam. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres.Dense to moderate fog is predicted in Delhi for the next four days, the IMD said. The city's minimum temperature, however, rose to 8.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, due to easterly winds and a cloud cover over the city, an IMD official said.  Easterly winds are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, increasing the minimum temperature.The mercury is predicted to drop to four degrees Celsius by Tuesday as dry, icy winds have started blowing from the snow-clad western Himalayas towards the plains, the IMD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dense-fog-shrouds-delhi-minimum-temp-rises-to-8-8-degrees-celsius-101611463724555.html
24-01-2021||Bhopal||Kamal Nath files breach of privilege notice against 3 officers of health dept||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and the leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Kamal Nath, has filed a notice for breach of privilege and contempt of the house against three officers of the state health department claiming they played a suspicious role in the postponement of the winter session.Kamal Nath’s offensive comes after most of the employees working at the MLA rest house reportedly claimed that they were found Covid 19 positive in Rapid Antigen tests conducted on December 24 before the assembly session but didn’t receive any report or SMS in this regard. They added that they were found to be Covid-19 negative in the RT-PCR test, conducted within two days of their positive report and were told to resume work within a week.Nath’s notice to assembly speaker, signed by five Congress MLAs, said, “Three officers either themselves or on the direction of someone hatched a conspiracy to cancel the notification issued by the assembly secretariat on November 27 regarding winter session. They hatched the conspiracy of fake Covid 19 test at assembly secretariat and MLA guest house and presented the wrong data in the all-party meeting.”“By doing this, they violated the oath of allegiance and true faith to the Constitution of India. They worked against public interest and interrupted the tradition of holding a winter session of the assembly. They have constitutionally breached the privilege of members of the assembly of attending the session and they also interfered in the autonomy and supremacy of the assembly and made contempt of the house by their deeds and false statements,” he said further in the notice.“In the all-party meet, it was said that eight people out of 271 had tested positive in the assembly secretariat while 67 out of 281 had tested positive at the MLA rest house. Out of the 67, a list has been given of 34 employees, who had tested positive. Most of the employees in this list said they resumed work within a week without following Covid-19 treatment protocol,” said Nath in the notice.Also Read: Farm laws: Cong leaders among 1,000 booked in Madhya Pradesh“Similarly, a large number of employees were found positive but the area was not declared a containment zone and no further investigation into the source of the virus found in a large number of employees at the MLA rest house was done,” reads the notice.Protem speaker and BJP MLA Rameshwar Sharma said, he will read the notice before saying anything.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/kamal-nath-files-breach-of-privilege-notice-against-3-officers-of-health-dept-101611459904431.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out at Akashwani Bhawan in Delhi||A fire broke out on the first floor of the Akashwani Bhawan on Sansad Marg early Sunday morning, a Delhi Fire Services (DFS) official said.No injuries were reported, he said.A call was received at around 5.57 am. Eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, Director, DFS.The flames were doused, he said, adding that the fire started from room number 101 and was caused by some electrical appliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-akashwani-bhawan-in-delhi-101611458240693.html
24-01-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee reacted in allergic manner to Jai Shri Ram slogans: Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's grandnephew||Objecting to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee not delivering her speech during Parakram Diwas event at Victoria Memorial here, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's grandnephew and BJP leader CK Bose on Saturday said that 'Jai Shri Ram' is not a slogan to which one should react in an "allergic manner."The event was held to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose."Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose stood for unity. He had people of all communities in Azad Hind Fauj. Whether you say 'Jai Hind' or 'Jai Shri Ram', I do not find any difference. Jai Shri Ram is not a slogan to which one should react in an allergic manner," CK Bose told ANI."I think the CM need not have reacted adversely to a slogan whether it is 'Jai Hind' or 'Jai Shri Ram'. This is not the day to do any politics. It is a day to celebrate, it is a day to pay homage to the soldiers and martyrs of the Indian National Army," he added.The West Bengal chief minister did not deliver her speech "in protest" during the event at Victoria Memorial to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose after 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans were raised when she was invited to speak.The chief minister said "government programme should have some dignity" and it "is not fair to insult somebody whom you have invited".The event was presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.In her brief remarks, a visibly upset Mamata Banerjee said it was a government programme and not that of a political party.The Trinamool Congress leader also said that she was grateful to the Prime Minister and cultural ministry for organising the event at Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-reacted-in-allergic-manner-to-jai-shri-ram-slogans-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-s-grandnephew-101611456978814.html
24-01-2021||Ranchi||Lalu Prasad Yadav airlifted to AIIMS Delhi as health worsens||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad was shifted to Delhi by air ambulance on Saturday evening after his health deteriorated while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ranchi, officials said on Saturday.An eight-member medical board at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) recommended that the former Bihar chief minister be shifted to a higher institute after he developed breathing trouble on Thursday evening.“Lalu Prasad is having trouble breathing for the last two days. On Friday, he was found to be having pneumonia. Considering his age, we have decided to shift him to AIIMS-Delhi on the advice of doctors for better treatment,” RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad told PTI.Lalu, 72, has tested negative for the coronavirus disease, the doctors said.“He needs specialised treatment and it was a collective decision to shift him to AIIMS, New Delhi,” the former CM’s son, and Bihar opposition leader, Tejashwi Yadav told reporters.Lalu was airlifted to Delhi through a green corridor and all the procedures, including seeking the CBI court’s permission, were completed after the recommendation of the doctors.The RJD leader has been convicted in three fodder scam cases. While he secured bail in two cases, his bail plea in connection with the third is pending with the Jharkhand high court.Tejashwi also met Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren at his residence during the day to seek cooperation of the state government in arranging an air ambulance.Earlier in the day, Lalu’s doctor Dr Umesh Prasad told reporters that the decision to shift him to AIIMS was taken to ensure better treatment. “He is a VIP patient and we don’t have adequate back up here to treat upon in case of exigencies,” Dr Prasad said, adding that there will not be any adverse impact on the leader’s health while shifting him to Delhi. “His lungs were functioning properly and the kidney condition was same,” he said.The former CM was admitted to RIMS with multiple ailments, including kidney ailments, in December 2018.On Friday, Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi, daughter Misa Bharti, sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi reached Ranchi on a special plane after being informed of the veteran leader’s deteriorating health.After meeting his father, Tejashwi told reporters that his condition was worrisome.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lalu-prasad-yadav-airlifted-to-aiims-delhi-as-health-worsens-101611449780623.html
24-01-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee declines to speak at Netaji event after chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram'||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday refused to speak at an official event attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to mark the beginning of the celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 124th birth anniversary after “Jai Shri Ram” slogans were raised just before Banerjee was to start her address.Bose’s birthday will be observed as Parakram Divas (Bravery Day), the Centre has said, and the year leading up to his 125th birth anniversary will be marked by cultural events dedicated to him.Banerjee expressed displeasure at Bharatiya Janata Party supporters at Saturday’s event shouting slogans. She said such an “insult” was unacceptable.With political tension rising in West Bengal, where elections are due in March-April, the tussle between the BJP and Banerjee’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) has intensified.On Saturday, after it was announced that Banerjee will address the programme, “Jai Shri Ram” slogans were raised by some in the audience at the lawn of Victoria Memorial Hall. Prime Minister Modi was present at the event.“I feel a government programme must have some dignity. This is not a political programme but a government programme and it is for the public and all political parties. I am grateful to the Prime Minister that this event is being held in Kolkata. But you have no right to invite someone to a government programme and insult that person. In protest, I am not saying anything,” Banerjee said before raising her own slogan, “Jai Hind, Jai Bangla”, meant to project Bengal’s identity.The BJP said Banerjee’s reaction reflected her mindset of appeasement politics, while the ruling TMC said no one can teach lumpens to be dignified.Speaking after the West Bengal CM, Modi said Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat, or self-reliant India, project would have made Bose proud. “The nation is following the path Netaji showed. I often think how Netaji would feel seeing India surging ahead, its army getting modern weapons and planes such as Rafale guarding the nation. How proud he must have felt seeing India giving vaccines to other nations,” said Modi.The TMC’s Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “Modi’s speech made the purpose of his visit before the polls quite apparent. But it misfired. It will have no impact on voters.”The BJP leadership saw nothing wrong with the slogans. “None of the dignitaries said anything. Why did she lose her cool? It reflects her mindset of appeasement politics. (She) appeases a particular community before elections,” the BJP’s Bengal incharge Kailash Vijayvargiya told PTI.State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “By raising Jai Sri Ram slogan in a government function, they have not only insulted her, but also the CM of the state, deliberately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-declines-to-speak-at-netaji-event-after-chants-of-jai-shri-ram-101611448527207.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||HC directs SPCA to take custody of hippo confined with Asiad Circus management||The Delhi High Court Friday directed the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animal (SPCA) to immediately take the 9-year-old hippopotamus who has been illegally kept by the Asiad Circus management and place it in the zoo.The high court also issued non-bailable warrants against the proprietor of Asiad Circus, whose licence had been revoked by the authorities in 2017, to ensure his presence at the next hearing on April 15.Justice Prathiba M Singh noted that despite repeated directions, the proprietor of the circus Riazuddin Khan has failed to take a stand on the issue and has not disclosed the location of the male hippopotamus.“Delhi SPCA to immediately take steps for seizure of hippopotamus from the circus or any other person. Security and assistance shall be provided by the police to the officials of SPCA team going for seizure of the animal,” the court said, asking SPCA to file a report after taking action.It also directed the high court registry to give default notice to Khan’s advocate, who vakalatnama was on record as no one appeared to represent him in the case.The court said if the hippopotamus is seized, it be temporarily placed in Delhi Zoo and if the animal is recovered from some other place and there is problem in transportation, he shall be placed in the local zoo there.It also directed that authorities shall take care of the animal till further orders of the court and listed the matter for further hearing on April 15.The high court was hearing a petition filed by the animals rights organisation, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) in 2018, seeking immediate seizure of the male hippopotamus.It said the hippopotamus was imported by the Asiad Circus company from Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park in Patna in February 2015 and was being trained to give "performance illegally" and treated with cruelty.Advocate Aman Hingorani, representing PETA, submitted that the circus has been closed and the management is not likely to appear in the court.The plea said the hippopotamus was forced to live a solitary life by the management of the Asiad Circus for entertaining people, far away from his parents who are in a biological park in Patna.The high court had earlier issued notices to the Asiad Circus, Delhi government, Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF), Animals Welfare Board and Central Zoo Authority on the plea which also sought that the animal be transferred back to the biological park where its parents are.The average age of a hippopotamus is 40-50 years.The petition has also sought direction to extend the role of the MoEF to frame rules for protection of exotic wild animals, including their exchange, transfer, acquisition and use, to reduce their sufferings.It has said the animal was born in a zoo and was living with his parents and it was "cruel to separate" him from his family and forced to live a lonely life depriving the basic social life.On receiving complaints that a hippopotamus was confined, the organisation conducted an investigation of the circus in September 2017 at Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh and in October, 2017 in Delhi.It has mentioned in its investigation report that the lone hippopotamus was confined in an enclosure which did not meet the minimum space requirements and it was inhabitable, containing murky and filthy water in the tank.It has also said that hippos are aggressive and keeping such an animal at a place like a circus could be a huge risk and threat to human lives."The Asiad Circus is apparently in violation of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act since it continues to exhibit, train and use animals for performances despite revocation of its registration certificate...," it has claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-directs-spca-to-take-custody-of-hippo-confined-with-asiad-circus-management-101611447867061.html
24-01-2021||Bhopal||Farm laws: Cong leaders among 1,000 booked in Madhya Pradesh||A case has been registered a case against 1,000 unidentified people including Congressmen for allegedly using criminal force and involving in rioting to deter public servant from discharging their duty during a rally against the Centre’s farm laws in Bhopal on Saturday, police said. Former CM Digvijaya Singh was among the 110 arrested Congress leaders, said Upendra Jain, ADG Bhopal.Attacking the BJP-led state government Kamal Nath said, “Police used force against the farmers and Congressmen during the peaceful protest. This barbarism act of BJP-led state government is unacceptable.”However, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “The protest is not for farmers but for retaining the posts in MPCC. Congress leaders are more concerned about their posts than farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/farm-laws-cong-leaders-among-1-000-booked-in-madhya-pradesh-101611446214580.html
24-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt seeks withdrawal of land scam case against ex-IAS, 2 others||The Rajasthan government has moved an application in court seeking to withdraw a case filed against a retired IAS officer and two other civil servants charged in a case related to alleged irregularities in land allotment. A charge-sheet was filed against the three in 2016, when BJP government under Vasundhara Raje was in power.The three officials are retired IAS officer GS Sandhu, former Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) officer Nishkam Diwakar and Onkar Mal Saini, a serving RAS officer. Sandhu is now an advisor to Rajasthan Cricket Association president Vaibhav Gehlot, son of CM Ashok Gehlot. The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) had lodged an FIR on December 3, 2014.The case dated back to 2011, when a Congress government under Ashok Gehlot reversed a decision by the first Raje government in 2005 not to give a single deed to a private firm for three khasras of agricultural land in Jaipur’s Jagatpura area. Khasra is a local unit for measuring land. The three were arrested, but were released on bail. In July 2019, Sandhu and Diwakar submitted a representation to the Gehlot government urging it to review and withdraw the case. On January 19, 2021, an application was moved in court to withdraw the case.In the withdrawal application, the state government said that the probe hadn’t found any evidence to show that the officials had benefitted in any way or been involved in any conspiracy.The BJP criticised the decision. “The government is withdrawing cases against former officials and giving new postings to those who are still serving and facing corruptions charges, said party’s spokesperson Mukesh Pareek. A senior ACB official said the government can withdraw a case in public interest under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Sandhu said: “It was purely an administrative decision taken at the government level and in good faith.” The next hearing is on February 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-seeks-withdrawal-of-land-scam-case-against-ex-ias-2-others-101611445815969.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||AAP says DDA owes civic bodies ₹2,000 cr; BJP says pursuing matter with Centre||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday alleged that the Delhi Development Authority( DDA), which comes under the Centre, owes more than ₹2,000 crore to the BJP-led north and south corporations.AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj questioned the BJP as to why the corporations had not initiated the process to get the funds back from the DDA.Bhardwaj said, “The DDA, which comes under the BJP-ruled Central government, owes more than ₹2,000 crores to north and south corporations. According to the data, the DDA owed around ₹857 crore to the north corporation till March 31, 2018. Based on this figure, if we calculate, the amount comes to ₹1200 crore today.”He said that the DDA owes close to ₹535 crore to the south corporation.The civic bodies in Delhi — north, east and south — have been run by the BJP for the last 14 years.Bhardwaj said, “The BJP should immediately disclose why they have not taken initiative to get this money from the DDA, despite both the agencies being under them. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta should tell what are the steps that have been taken to bring this money back from the DDA.”The BJP has been blaming the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi for not releasing funds to the corporations due to which they are unable to pay salaries to employees.But Bhardwaj said, “From the time Gupta has become the Delhi BJP chief, he has maintained only one line which is that the Kejriwal government should give some amount to the BJP-ruled corporations. We have witnessed that the corporations have stopped all their revenue garnering ways like collection of property tax, advertisements, toll tax and others. Today, the revenue from these sources is not coming to the corporations but going to the leaders of the BJP.“DDA officials did not respond to HT’s query seeking a response on the AAP’s allegations.Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra said, “There is no doubt that several government bodies, including Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Transport Corporation, power Discoms and the DDA owe money to the corporations. But that doesn’t free the Delhi government from paying the funds it owes to the corporations. The corporations are pursuing with all agencies to get their dues and MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj should also ask the Delhi government to release municipal funds and to make Delhi Jal Board, DTC and power discoms pay their dues.”Malhotra added, “We want the Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to tell us when he will pay RS 13000 crore due to the corporations? Where is the ₹26,000 crore of Delhi Jal Board?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-says-dda-owes-civic-bodies-rs-2-000-cr-bjp-says-pursuing-matter-with-centre-101611433761656.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Indira Nagar in Turbhe 1st Covid-free area in Navi Mumbai||The Indira Nagar area of Turbhe ward has become the first in Navi Mumbai to become Covid-19 free.An area comprising a slum population of around 36,000, Indira Nagar had just seven active cases in January and all recovered on Wednesday. An intensive contract tracing, enrolling local leaders, social workers and general practitioners have helped reduce the numbers, claimed Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC).The area has had 13 deaths so far here. However, there was not a single death after June. The cases in Indira Nagar were at their peak in August and September.Medical officer Maithili Shinde, in-charge of Indira Nagar Health Centre, said that her team made sure that at least 20 contacts of every positive patient were traced and quarantined.“Be it a factory worker or an APMC worker, we made sure that the contacts were quarantined along with the neighbouring four chawls,” Shinde added.With the population largely being uneducated, the major challenge that the medical officers faced was to convince them to get tested and use masks. “We sought help from local leaders and visited the homes of people and counselled them. We had to make them understand the importance of using masks and sanitiser, and reporting to us in case of any symptoms,” Shinde said.Even before the state government had started the drive of ‘My Family, My Responsibility,’ the NMMC had conducted a survey of senior citizens in the area and made a record of those with comorbidities.“This survey was done in June and July, and also conducted a second survey after the state government’s directives. After the posting of Abhijit Bangar as the new NMMC chief, testing centres were increased and we started stressing on testing for all,” Shinde said.The medical officer had conducted an online meeting with around 20 general private practitioners in the area and asked them to alert NMMC if anyone complained of even a common flu.“In this area, normally a person visits a doctor for flu only if the case worsened or they prefer over-the-counter medicines. Already, there was a delay in meeting the doctor and hence we told the private doctors to alert us when such patients came and we sent our ambulance to get the patient to the testing centre. If found positive, the report was sent directly to the doctor,” Shinde said.She had also interacted with the citizens via a Facebook live which was initiated by a local corporator there in order to spread awareness.Till now, Indira Nagar had 228 positive cases, of which 215 were recovered and 13 died. “The health workers worked systematically here. If anyone found positive, their whole machinery came into action. There was no incident of any negligence in the area. We also conducted many drives to distribute essentials to the needy during the lockdown,” Mahesh Kotiwale, Shiv Sena Turbhe region head, said.Gajratai Inkar, a resident of Indira Nagar, said, “We were frequently attended to by the corporation officials and told about the importance of the precautions that need to be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indira-nagar-in-turbhe-1st-covid-free-area-in-navi-mumbai-101611433913386.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||AAP MLA Somnath Bharti gets two years in jail for attack on AIIMS staff||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Somnath Bharti stood disqualified on Saturday after a city court sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment in a 2016 case for assaulting All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) security staff and destroying public property.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on Bharti, the MLA from Malviya Nagar. The judge, however, granted Bharti bail to enable him to file an appeal before the high court against the conviction and jail term.Under the Representation of the People Act, a legislator stands disqualified upon being sentenced to jail for a minimum of two years. The membership of the House is lost with immediate effect.Former ASG and senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, citing a 2013 judgment by the Supreme Court, said a legislator is disqualified immediately after he has been convicted and sentenced to a minimum two years of imprisonment.“Any MP/MLA or MLC, who gets a minimum imprisonment of two years, stands immediately disqualified according to the Lily Thomas vs Union of India judgment of the apex court. The legislator will have to take a stay on the conviction to remain in the fray. Mere suspension of sentence or the jail term will not suffice,” Luthra said.Reacting to the judgment, AAP said, “We respect the judiciary and have full faith in it. However, we feel an injustice has happened to Somnath Bharti in this case. Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. He works 24 hours for his people. People in his constituency are quite saddened to hear the news of his conviction.”“Somnath is filing an appeal. We are confident that justice will be done to him at the appellate level,” the party added.Bharti said he believes in the judiciary and would file an appeal against the judgment in the higher court. “I have complete belief in the judiciary. I am preparing an appeal and will file it as soon as it’s ready.”Delhi assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel said Somnath Bharti has not been disqualified as yet.“I am out of Delhi and will return by Sunday evening. I will seek legal opinion for the next step... In any case, as per the tenth schedule, the Speaker gets a time of three months to decide on a disqualification petition for any MLA of the legislative assembly,” said Goel.The court, however, acquitted Bharti’s associates and co-accused Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey for want of evidence. The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from RS Rawat, the chief security officer of AIIMS.According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down a portion of the boundary wall and fencing at AIIMS, using an earth mover.“The court is of the considered view that the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against accused Somnath Bharti,” the magistrate said in the judgment passed on January 22.The court also said the mindset to cause damage to public property and infrastructure is an attack on the common man.“The infrastructure and public property of the country are not of any leader, party or government but these are national assets. The infrastructure is built up with the contribution of every poor, every tax payer, middle class and every section of society. While exercising the democratic rights, people must not forget about national duty to preserve the national assets and resources meant for each and every citizen,” the judge said in the sentencing order.The court convicted Bharti of various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 147 (rioting).It also held the AAP MLA guilty under Section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The offences carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail.In its judgment, the court said the prosecution had duly proved that the mob which had gathered on September 9, 2016, around 9.45am at the drain behind AIIMS, was intent on demolishing the wall and fencing put up by the hospital.The judge also noted the testimony of Rawat that the mob was led by Bharti where he and some of the unknown members of the unlawful assembly were instructing the earthmover operator to not stop the demolition work despite the complainant requesting them to desist.It also said no document regarding the order of demolition of the wall and fence was produced, nor was any government machinery official accompanying the MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-mla-somnath-bharti-gets-two-years-in-jail-for-attack-on-aiims-staff-101611433170062.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Only 1 Covid death in 24 days in Bhiwandi||The Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) has recorded just a single Covid death in the last 24 days while the daily case count has reduced drastically.The change is owing to conducting more RT-PCR tests and eliminating antigen tests completely, claimed the BNCMC commissioner Pankaj Ashiya.Since December 30, 2020, there has been only one death in Bhiwandi due to Covid, on Saturday, raising the total deaths so far to 347.Ashiya said, “Since the last three months, we have lowered the use of antigen tests as its reports were not accurate. We decided to only depend on RT-PCR tests to trace the Covid patients on time. In the last three weeks, we have not done a single antigen test. The early identification of cases and treating on time has led to no deaths between Dec 30 and Jan 22.”The BNCMC carries out antigen tests only for pregnant women or those who have to undergo emergency surgery.The neighbouring Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), on the other hand, carries out 700 antigen tests on a daily basis and the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) carries out 4,000 antigen tests per day.The BNCMC carries out around 150-200 RT-PCR tests a day at present and it has the lowest daily case count in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which is less than 10 positive cases per day and, at times zero or one, since December. The progressive cases so far are 6,845.“Our positivity rate is less than one per cent now. Our focus is on sustaining the same and not leading to increase in cases in the future,” said Ashiya.Only one hospital, the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Bhiwandi, is presently dedicated for Covid patients, where only 3-4 Covid patients are taking treatment while the rest are in home isolation.The Bhiwandi city recorded 170 cases on June 20, 2020, its highest number of positive Covid cases in a 24-hour span. However, it has managed to reduce the count after that.Ashiya claimed that the local community leaders were roped in while Mohalla clinics were opened.“The Mohalla clinics have shut as very few people visited the clinics. The civic body has also shut its Covid centre. There is a positive vibe throughout the city. People are aware now and also act on time,” said Arbaz Shaikh, 40, a resident of Shantinagar, Bhiwandi.Thane exceeds target in vaccination driveMeanwhile, for the first time since the vaccination drive began in Thane, the number of immunisations crossed 102 % on Saturday. With special permissions from the state, the district conducted an increased number of vaccinations within Thane Municipal Corporation, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation and Ulhasnagar civic body. (With inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-1-covid-death-in-24-days-in-bhiwandi-101611433612470.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray’s statue unveiled in Mumbai||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday unveiled a statue of Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray on his 95th birth anniversary, in Colaba, in presence of his family members and senior political leaders cutting across party lines. For the first time, since the formation of the three-party coalition, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state, top state politicians CM Thackeray, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, former CM and opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray came together to unveil the statue. No speeches were given at the function as it included the only unveiling of the statue. The nine-feet bronze statue is the first of the Sena supremo in the city, where he established his political party and shaped his political life.Chief Minister Thackeray called it an “unforgettable” moment of his life, while Aaditya Thackeray, minister and grandson of Bal Thackeray termed it an “emotional” moment.Read more:PM Modi pays tributes to Balasaheb Thackeray on his birth anniversary“There is a memorable moment in my life. Everyone knows that the Shiv Sena supremo was a great leader of the country and his thoughts will continue to guide us in future also. Throughout his career, he had close ties with many political leaders. I am happy that the senior leaders of all political parties came together today keeping aside the political differences,” said Uddhav while speaking to media persons after the function.The programme brought leaders from opposite sides from the political divide on one stage, including NCP chief Pawar, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, MNS chief and Uddhav Thackeray’s cousin Raj Thackeray, Union minister Ramdas Athawale and Maharashtra Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was not present at the programme. The body language of the estranged cousins Uddhav and Raj seemed cordial, as the two brothers were seen discussing the details of the statue that stood atop a 14-feet pedestal. Raj, who arrived first at the venue in south Mumbai, left after the inauguration. Fadnavis was also seen exchanging a few words with Pawar at the event.Aaditya, speaking to reporters after the programme, said, “This is an emotional moment for me. My grandfather Hindu Hridaysamrat Shiv Sena pramukh Balasaheb Thackeray had so much love for Mumbai and seeing the sea of people who have gathered here is special. This is his first statue in Mumbai.”On the leaders from other political parties gracing the event, Aaditya said that Bal Thackeray “treasured” his friendship, therefore, all leaders had come to the programme forgetting political divide. Leaders including NCP’s Chhagan Bhujbal, Congress’s Aslam Shaikh, BJP’s Pravin Darekar, MNS’s Amit Thackeray and others were present at the event. The statue stands on a 14-foot pedestal which has two-feet landscaping and has been installed at a traffic island at Colaba. Thackeray’s statue also bears the famous opening lines of his speeches “Jamlelya majhya tamam Hindu bandhavano, bhaginino ani matano (All my Hindu brothers, sisters and mothers gathered here)” inscribed in golden colour at the bottom of the statue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-founder-bal-thackeray-s-statue-unveiled-in-mumbai-101611433133413.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||25-year-old woman kidnapped by two men in a car, strangled to death||A 25-year-old woman, who worked as an accountant at a medicine wholesale shop in Chandni Chowk, was abducted in a car allegedly by two men -- one of them was a friend of hers -- and driven around the city for nearly four hours before being strangled to death and her body dumped at an isolated spot in outer Delhi’s Alipur area on January 19, police said.On Saturday, the police claimed to have solved the kidnapping and murder case after arresting the two suspects and recovering the Santro car in which the murder allegedly took place. The entire crime was planned by the woman’s 24-year-old friend, Ankit (single name), because of a financial dispute he had with her, the police said. The police have no revealed the identity of the woman.According to the police, she wanted to avail of a loan of ₹2 lakh for some personal work and asked Ankit to help her. Around two months ago, Ankit took ₹47,000 from her for helping her get the loan. However, he neither got her the loan nor returned the money, despite her repeated demands, a senior police officer said.“As the woman was pressuring Ankit to return her money and was threatening to file a police case, he planned to kill her and included his friend, Nitesh (single name) in his plan,” the officer said, adding that the woman knew Ankit for the past four years as they worked in the same wholesale shop.Around a year ago, Ankit started working for a different firm, in Chandni Chowk itself, where Nitesh was also employed. Both men belong to Holambi Kalan near Narela in outer Delhi.On January 19, the woman left her workplace for her home in Jahangirpuri. But when she did not reach home and her cellphone remained switched off, her family members filed a missing person complaint. A kidnapping case was registered at north Delhi’s Kotwali police station, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.While the Kotwali police team was conducting searches, her body was found on January 20 by the Alipur police after they were informed about an unidentified body by a passerby. The body was preserved at the Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospial mortuary for identification purposes.On January 22, the Kotwali police learnt about the body in the mortuary and showed it to the missing woman’s parents, who identified it as that of their daughter.“We added Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 (murder) in the case and began our probe. The call details of the woman’s cellphone were analysed. Through technical surveillance and human intelligence, we caught her friend Ankit who confessed to the crime. His interrogation led to the arrest of Nitesh,” said the officer.About the sequence of the events, the officer said Ankit urged the woman to meet him near the Peeragarhi Metro station on the pretext of resolving their dispute.“Ankit was waiting in the car with Nitesh. He asked her to get in and drove around for around four hours on the pretext of discussing their issue. Around 10pm, the duo strangled her using her phone charger wire and threw the body in Alipur. They took away her phone and purse containing her ID papers and ₹3,400 cash. All items have been recovered,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25yearold-woman-kidnapped-by-two-men-in-a-car-strangled-to-death-101611432675222.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Placement offers withdrawn, IIT graduates look for jobs on social media||Sumit (name changed), a mechanical engineer who graduated last year with a dual degree from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), has been looking for a job on social media since August 2020. He was among the few lucky students to secure a job in the first week of the placement drive at the institute in December 2019 and was hopeful of joining soon after his graduation, but the offer was rescinded by the company that had hired him.“I’ve applied for a number of positions since then but haven’t received any positive thing yet,” said Sumit, who is among a pool of graduates from various reputed IITs now looking for jobs on social media sites.Last year, most IITs had reported a good round of placements for the batch of students graduating in 2020. However, by August, several recruiters decided to withdraw their offers as their finances had been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.While some IITs are allowing students to take part in the placement drives being held for the current batch, others are providing job leads through alumni networks. However, most of the recent graduates are left in the lurch. “Since August 2020, I have sent a number of mails to placement in-charge and dean of student affairs seeking permission to sit for this year’s placement session, but there has been no positive response. So I have started looking for jobs by highlighting my strengths on social media and job portals,” said Sumit. Despite repeated attempts, the placement cell of IIT-B did not respond to queries.At IIT-Madras, last year’s batch got a total of 1,050 offers, including 126 pre-placement offers (PPOs). Of these, 28 were withdrawn, according to professor CS Shankar Ram, advisor (training and placement), IIT-Madras. The institute is now allowing graduates, who lost their jobs or could not secure a placement offer in the previous round, to appear for the ongoing placement season. The institute had also reached out to recruiters to reinstate their offers.In May 2020, IIT-Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao had made a public appeal to recruiters to not withdraw offers as students, who had secured jobs, would not be allowed to appear for placements again. Over 1,100 students had received job offers at IIT-Delhi during the placement drive of 2019-20, of which 11 were withdrawn. “Students were provided support up to July 2020. Currently, openings for graduated students are available through the office of career services (OCS), alumni networks and notice boards,” said Anishya Madan, head, OCS, IIT-Delhi.However, job options through alumni networks and notice boards are few, said graduates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/placement-offers-withdrawn-iit-graduates-look-for-jobs-on-social-media-101611432893448.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||90% turn up again in Mumbai to take their shot against Covid-19||For the second consecutive day on Saturday, Mumbai recorded a high turnout of beneficiaries for vaccination shots, achieving 90% of its target at the 10 vaccination centres across the city. On Friday, the fourth day of the drive, the turnout had been 92% with 3,539 out of 3,852 shortlisted healthcare workers (HCWs) receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccination drive will resume on Monday. On Saturday, 4,374 HCWs were vaccinated out of the shortlisted 4,842. Of them, five reported minor reactions (like dizziness) to the vaccine shots and were kept under observation for 30 minutes before being discharged. No one needed hospitalisation. So far, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has successfully completed vaccination drives on five days, including Saturday, and vaccinated a total of 13,365 HCWs. There will be no vaccination drive today. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in charge of the public health department in BMC, said, “The turnout has been better as there is more awareness now and the system has been streamlined. People are gaining confidence after seeing others being vaccinated successfully.” Mumbai now has a total of 2.65 lakh vaccine vials, having received another 1.25 lakh vaccine vials on Friday. “These will be sufficient to vaccinate two doses for all our HCWs. When phase two of the drive starts, in which frontline workers will be administered the vaccine, we will get more vials again,” Kakani said. Last Wednesday, Mumbai had received the first lot of 139,500 vaccine vials from Serum Institute of India (SII). Of the 10 vaccination centres in Mumbai four are in KEM Hospital (where 733 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 2,330 people have been vaccinated so far), BYL Nair Hospital (where 456 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 1,423 people have been vaccinated so far), Cooper Hospital (where 565 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 1,573 people have been vaccinated so far), and Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (where 278 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 1,122 people have been vaccinated so far).Vaccination centres have also been set up in four peripheral hospitals: Bhabha Hospital in Bandra (where 391 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 1,056 people have been vaccinated so far), VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz (where 89 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 352 people have been vaccinated so far), Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar (where 640 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 1,993 people have been vaccinated so far), and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli (where 740 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 2,125 people have been vaccinated so far). The remaining two centres are in the jumbo Covid-19 facility at Bandra Kurla Complex (where 467 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 1,280 people have been vaccinated so far), and Sir JJ Hospital (where 19 people were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 111 people have been vaccinated so far).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/90-turn-up-again-in-mumbai-to-take-their-shot-against-covid19-101611432712513.html
24-01-2021||City||Cyberabad police nab gang involved in ₹12 crore gold heist in Tamil Nadu||The Cyberabad police in Hyderabad on Saturday arrested an inter-state dacoit gang which allegedly robbed gold ornaments worth nearly ₹12 crore from Muthoot Finance, a private gold loan financing firm, at Hosur in Krishnagiri district of Tamil Nadu on Friday.The police arrested eight people involved in the crime and seized gold ornaments weighing 25 kg and ₹93,000 in cash. The police also seized seven weapons, 10 magazines, 97 rounds of bullets, a lorry container, a Tata Sumo sports utility vehicle and 13 mobile phones from them.“The Hudco police in Krishnagiri district of Tamil Nadu has already booked cases against them under Section 395 and 397 of the Indian Penal Code, besides Section 27 (1) of Indian Arms Act,” Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjannar told reporters on Saturday.The arrested men were identified as: Rup Singh Baghal (22), Shankar Singh Baghal (36), Pavan Kumar Vishkarma (22) (all from Madhya Pradesh), Bhupender Manji (24) and Vivek Mandal (32) (both from Jharkhand), Teak Ram (55) and Rajiv Kumar (35) from Uttar Pradesh and Lulya Pandey from Maharashtra. Another person, Amit, from Indore in Madhya Pradesh is absconding.Six of the accused wearing helmets carried out a daring robbery at the Muthoot Finance branch at Hosur at 9.30 am on Friday by threatening the office staff at gun point, besides beating up the security guard.“The accused decamped with the loot on two wheelers and reached the Bangalore-Tamil Nadu border, where they packed the ornaments in a box and kept the box in a container vehicle. They proceeded towards Nagpur via Hyderabad – some in the container and others in a Tata Sumo,” Sajjannar said.Following an alert form the Krishnagiri district police, the Cyberabad police kept a watch on the movement of the vehicles. After ascertaining the details furnished by the Tamil Nadu police, the special operations team of Balanagar police intercepted the container vehicle at Medchal which had the stolen goods and weapons, the Commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyberabad-police-nab-gang-involved-in-rs-12-crore-gold-heist-in-tamil-nadu-101611431930938.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 4°C fall in temp from Jan 26, cold wave return likely, says IMD||After a brief respite, the capital is likely to return to cold wave conditions starting on Republic Day when the minimum temperature is likely to drop by 3 to 4 degrees Celsius -- the fallout of weather factors at play in the Himalayas and in the northern plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.The Western Himalayas experienced widespread snowfall and rain on Friday and Saturday, and an induced cyclonic circulation was over Punjab and its neighbourhood in the plains . A western disturbance loomed over north Pakistan and its neighbourhood as a cyclonic circulation.Under the influence of such atmospheric factors, widespread rain or snowfall with moderate thunderstorms, lightning and hail are likely to lash Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh over the weekend, according to the IMD’s Saturday bulletin.Uttarakhand is also expected to experience similar weather. Light rain and thundershowers are likely in isolated places over north Punjab, north Haryana and Chandigarh until Sunday.“There has been widespread snowfall in the hills on Friday and Saturday. Rain is also likely over north Punjab and north Haryana. From January 25 onwards; very cold northwesterly winds are likely to blow over Delhi which will lead to a significant fall in minimum temperatures. On January 26, 27 and 28, minimum temperature is likely to fall to 4 degree C over Delhi,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting centre.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 20.4 degrees C, 1 degree below normal ,and minimum temperature of 8 degree C on Saturday. Delhi recorded “very poor” air quality on Saturday with an air quality index reading of 326.“Wind speed is likely to reduce on Sunday as wind direction will change from southeasterly to northwesterly tomorrow. During transition of wind direction, wind speed is low which affects dispersion of pollutants. Winds are likely to be northwesterly during next three days blowing at 10 to 12 kmph, not enough for adequate dispersal of pollutants so air quality is likely to be in poor to very poor category for the next few days.,” said VK Soni, a scientist at IMD’s air quality division.Dense to very dense fog is likely over pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next 4-5 days; and over Bihar, north Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Sikkim and Odisha during the next 2-3 days.Cold day or severe cold day conditions are likely over some pockets of Uttar Pradesh during the next 2-3 days and over Haryana during the next 24 hours. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over north Rajasthan during January 24 to 27 and over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh on anuary 26 and 27, according to the bulletin.According to IMD, a cold day or severe cold day is classified as such on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees and maximum temperature of 4.5 degree C or 6.4 degrees C below normal.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches less than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees C in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-4-c-fall-in-temp-from-jan-26-cold-wave-return-likely-says-imd-101611432079150.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Fourth member of south Mumbai drug cartel held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) On Saturday arrested one person in connection with the cartel run by Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, grandson of a late former gangster Karim Lala.The accused Salman Usman Pathan is the fourth member of the gang to be arrested by NCB. He supplied mephedrone (MD) in south Mumbai and operated from Parel and Dongri areas, said an NCB officer. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said that this was the first time that a drug laboratory was busted in south Mumbai, and drugs and cash collectively worth ₹10 crore were recovered in last three days.Pathan was externed from Mumbai before lockdown. He was arrested in a drug case by Pydhonie police station in 2019. He started staying in Navi Mumbai area and operated the entire drug syndicate with his associate Arif Bhujwala, said the officer. NCB has launched a manhunt for Bhujwala. His drug laboratory was busted in Dongri, on Wednesday evening and the agency had seized 12 kilograms of mephedrone, a pistol and cash ₹2.18 crore, from his residence and laboratory. Several other materials that were used to prepare drugs were also seized.NCB has also seized a diary from Bhujwala’s residence, in which codes and some of the networks of the drug cartel are mentioned. On questioning the arrested the accused, it was learnt that Bhujwala exported brown sugar and other materials from India and supplied MD abroad by airway, said NCB officials.NCB has also found mentioned in the dairy that they have sold drugs worth ₹90 lakh in a few days. It appears that the accused have made money around ₹500 crore from this drug cartel and they use hawala to circulates money within the country and outside India, added NCB officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fourth-member-of-south-mumbai-drug-cartel-held-101611432352472.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Rise in turnout prompts Mumbai civic body to increase vaccination units||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has introduced a walk-in option to boost the turnout at vaccination centres in the city after glitches in the Covid vaccine intelligence network (CoWIN) app have lowered the turnout. CoWIN has been developed by the Central government to manage the vaccination drive and many healthcare workers (HCWs) are not receiving notifications for their inoculation appointments despite being registered on the app. BMC has been conducting the mass immunization programme in the city through 10 vaccination centres that have 31 units among them. In the first phase, the civic body’s target is to inoculate 4,000 HCWs daily. However, in the first three days (January 16, 19 and 20), the centres struggled to meet this target and instead barely reached the halfway mark. On Friday, BMC introduced “walk-ins”, which helped centres reach 93% of the daily target. BMC said that while walk-ins would receive vaccinations, priority would be given to those with appointments generated by CoWIN. “With time, technical glitches in the app are getting resolved. Soon, they [beneficiaries] will start getting appointment messages on time. So, to better channel the process, the priority will be provided to the HCWs with appointments; then the walk-in beneficiaries,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. On Friday, a few vaccination centres like King Edward Memorial (KEM) and Rajawadi Hospitals, recorded turnouts of more than 100% of the daily target. Kakani said no beneficiaries would be turned away in such event. “No one will be sent back without vaccination. On Friday, due to the rush, we also provided additional vaccinators for the inoculation. Also, all centres have enough vaccines to immunize more than their targets,” said Kakani. BMC also plans to increase the number of vaccination centres. “We have over a dozen peripheral hospitals who are well equipped to run the mass vaccination process. With the further rise in the turnout, we will start including them among vaccination centres,” Kakani said. As of now, CoWIN has been regenerating 20-30% names of beneficiaries who have already been shortlisted for vaccination daily. “The Central government has been informed about it and they are working on it. Hopefully, it will be resolved within two to three days,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. On Thursday, the Association of Hospitals, a trust comprising private hospitals, had approached BMC, seeking permission to inoculate in-house HCWs in their hospitals under the supervision of BMC auditors. Kakani said no decision has been taken on this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-in-turnout-prompts-mumbai-civic-body-to-increase-vaccination-units-101611432292418.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||921 more birds dead in Maharashtra, count soars to 15,445||The bird death count is on the rise in Maharashtra. On Saturday, 921 bird deaths were reported including those of 814 poultry birds, pushing the count to 15,445 in the last 16 days, as the first set of bird deaths were reported on January 8.Of 814 poultry birds, 289 bird deaths were reported in Jalgaon, 200 in Buldhana, 78 in Yavatmal, 70 in Beed, 52 in Amravati, 39 in Solapur, 19 in Thane, 17 in Raigad, 15 in Gondia, 11 in Hingoli, 9 in Nagpur, 7 in Satara, 4 in Osmanabad, 3 in Jalna and one in Akola were found dead.The state animal husbandry department found mortalities in 53 other birds such as herons, sparrows, parrots in Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Pune, Satara, Ahmednagar, Nanded and Chandrapur.Read more: Bird flu confirmed in 5 more districts of MaharashtraThe samples of birds have been sent to the ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, a nodal body for testing bird flu cases, to confirm the cause, said state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh.The ICAR-NIHSAD has confirmed bird flu deaths in poultry birds in eleven districts till date. The state has culled and destroyed a total 39,483 poultry birds, 8 ducks, 35,515 eggs and 53,046 kg of poultry feed so far.The Central government has also communicated to the state government that avian influenza virus cannot survive if cooked or boiled at a temperature of 70-degree Celsius in three seconds, and properly cooked chicken and boiled eggs are safe for human consumption, states the release. The government has issued an appeal to the citizens that they should not consume raw, half-cooked poultry meat or eggs. They have also directed chicken shop owners to strictly use gloves, a mask covering mouth and nose, stringent hygiene practices in the shop and to maintain social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/921-more-birds-dead-in-maharashtra-count-soars-to-15445-101611432052502.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi man critical after he gets shot at over parking||Bhiwandi taluka police on Saturday booked a man for firing at a 34-year-old man after the victim refused to give him space for parking his bike.The victim has suffered three bullet injuries and is in critical condition. Read more: Bhiwandi: Attack on 2 ahead of gram panchayat electionsThe incident occurred at 6pm when the accused and the victim had an altercation over taking reverse turns. The accused then fired three shots at the victim, Prafull Tangadi. Read more:Two open fire on homemaker in BhiwandiSenior inspector, Ram Balsingh said, “We are verifying all the facts given by the victim’s friends and family. Tangadi suffered three bullets, one at chest, stomach and leg. He is admitted to the private hospital for treatment. We are in a process to register a case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-man-critical-after-he-gets-shot-at-over-parking-101611431812664.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests Bhiwandi jeweller for financing production of MD||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested a jeweller from Bhiwandi for allegedly financing the manufacturing of mephedrone (MD), and also seized commercial quantity of the contraband from his shop. The agency was conducting searches at the jeweller’s home at the time of going to print. “Once the searches are over, we will reveal the actual quantity of drugs seized,” said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede.He said the jeweller’s name, which officers did not reveal, cropped up during the interrogation of Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan and disk jockey (DJ) Rohit Verma alias Rahul Verma, both of whom have been arrested by the agency in a drugs case. The jeweller used to finance Pathan and Verma, Wankhede added.NCB has found a recent transaction of around ₹20 lakh transferred by the jeweller to Verma. There are several other transactions between them, which are being verified, Wankhede added.The jeweller will be produced in court on Sunday.The agency is also looking for another accused, Arif Bhujwala, who calls himself the new Pablo Escobar – the notorious Colombian drug lord. The officer said Bhujwala came in contact with Pathan for drug manufacturing but soon developed new acquaintances in Dubai and started a laboratory to produce MD on the fourth floor of Noor Manzil building in Dongri. He lived in the same building on the fifth floor. Bhujwala spent huge sums on purchasing high-end cars and properties worth more than ₹10 crore in south Mumbai, said the officer.He has installed biometric system at his door and multiple CCTV cameras in and around his house to keep an eye on law enforcement agencies. His gang members used to monitor movement of people in the entire area and that was how he managed to evade arrest. NCB suspects that Bhujwala escaped from back door, when a team reached the building.NCB is also conducting raids at multiple places in Pune, as the agency has identified a person who used supply MD to Pathan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncbarrests-bhiwandi-jeweller-for-financing-production-of-md-101611431632189.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Farmers start vehicle march from Nashik to Mumbai||Scores of farmers started their vehicle march towards Mumbai, on Saturday, to take part in protests against the farm laws. They are expected to assemble at the historic Azad Maidan in the city on January 24 where they will continue their agitation against three farm laws till January 26. On January 25, nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, state Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and other senior leaders from the state will participate in the protest and also address a farmers’ rally.The vehicle march is part of the agitation being undertaken under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and aims to intensify the farmers’ struggle in the main capital cities across all states demanding repealing of the farm laws.Organisers said about 15,000 farmers began the vehicle march from Golf Club Maidan in Nashik in tempos, pick-up trucks and other vehicles. They will be joined by other farmers on the way. The march will halt at Ghatandevi near Igatpuri on Saturday night and will resume from Sunday morning.“The three farm laws are anti-farmer, anti-people and pro-corporate and we want them to be repealed. We also want a central law guaranteeing remunerative MSP and procurement to be enacted by the central government among other demands,” said Ashok Dhawale, convenor SKM and president All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).The farmers will gather in Mumbai on January 24, and a massive dharna will be organised at Azad Maidan on January 25, after which a morcha to Raj Bhavan will be held. The protest will culminate with a flag hoisting on January 26, Republic Day. The organisers have claimed that around 50,000 farmers will participate in the protests.“To support the ongoing protest in Delhi against farm laws, vehicles are being carried out in several states. In Maharashtra, AIKS also started its march for Mumbai. From Nashik alone, 20,000 farmers have joined the march and we are expecting 50,000 farmers will reach in Mumbai, who on January 25 will reach Raj Bhavan and hand over a charter of demands to the governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari,” said Ajit Nawale general secretary AIKS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-farmers-start-vehicle-march-from-nashik-to-mumbai-101611431572499.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||11,500 offenders in Mumbai pledge to not commit crimes||Mumbai Police took stern preventive action against more than 11,500 criminals in the city last year, with a hope that the extensive action on anti-social elements would prevent future crimes and make the city safer. The police are making the criminals sign legal bonds under provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), pledging that they would not indulge in any criminal activity. On violating the bond terms, the accused would attract heavy fines or imprisonment. Chaitanya Siriprolu, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson, said the city police made 8,549 habitual and 3,045 hardened criminals sign the bonds under sections 107 and 110 of CrPC till December 18, 2020. “The police have forfeited the deposit/surety of 46 criminals for breach of bond under 110 CrPC and five of them were sent to jail. The deposit/surety of 43 criminals were forfeited under 107 CrPC and seven of them were sent to jail for breach of the bond. The amount of forfeited bond is as high as Rs15 lakh in some cases,” said Siriprolu. The bond amount is fixed roughly equal to the approximate annual income of the offender or his family. “We want to send a strong message to these anti-social elements that the police department would come heavily on them if they do not refrain from indulging in criminal activities. They will now think twice before committing any crime,” the senior officer added. To collate the information of criminals, all the 95 police stations across Mumbai are also preparing a list of the top 25 criminals in their records, such as regular trouble makers, hard core criminals or local goons. After through assessment of their criminal activities, the police officers decide the names of those criminals against whom preventive action is to be taken. The initiative was started by commissioner of police Param Bir Singh and is being implemented by Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order) last year. The drive was intensified from mid-November 2020. “These preventive actions are not the ordinary ones that the police used to take in the past. To make the action more effective, we have increased the security amount as high as Rs25 lakh,” said Nangre Patil. Earlier, the offender could get away by executing bonds for petty amounts ranging between Rs10,000 and Rs15,000 and would continue with the activities unabated. The bond amount is now increased to bring in a deferent effect in the preventive actions, he added. “The offender has to either deposit the said amount or provide a surety in the same amount through a guarantor who must have assets worth the bond amount. If the offender violates the bond terms and indulge in any criminal act then the bond amount is forfeited or the surety. This has become an effective deterrent,” said an ACP from the central region. The city police are also preparing to take on dreaded criminals by invoking provisions of the Maharashtra Prevention Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act against them. The police chief has the power to send a criminal behind bars for two years under MPDA. Officers said the personnel are being trained on how to prepare watertight cases with strong documentation to ensure that MPDA charges are not legally challenged. “The preventive actions tighten the police’s grip over criminals and they act as a deterrent to keep criminals under control and surely help prevent future crimes,” said Nangre Patil. “Strong preventive actions will be the key factor for effective policing in the city in coming times. Special preventive action drives such as Operation All Over (city-wide raids) would also be regularly done,” said Siriprolu. The 11pm task Every night, all the 95 police stations get an order at 11pm from joint commissioner of police (law & order) directing them to take surprise action on criminals in their areas from 12am to 3am. Nangre Patil has asked all the police stations to carry out surprise raids to nab criminals committing a particular type of crime. “If for one night, the officers are asked to nab burglars, they are given the task of catching chain snatchers the next day. The officers are not privy to the task prior to the 11pm order. Every police station has to then send a daily report of the action taken the previous night to the police headquarters the next morning,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/11500-offenders-in-mumbai-pledge-to-not-commit-crimes-101611431392273.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil to hold statewide tour to expand party||Two days after expressing his desire to become the chief minister and necessity to expand the party, Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Maharashtra chief and senior minister Jayant Patil is all set to carry out a statewide tour — ‘NCP Parivar Samwad Yatra’ from January 28. Patil would be travelling to every assembly constituency and all the districts in phases during the tour starting Maoist infested Gadchiroli district.His objective is to strengthen the organisation by having a dialogue with party cadres, discuss what they are dealing with and resolve them. The tour will also help in creating an atmosphere for better coordination with Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners — Shiv Sena and Congress — at the local level, Patil said.In the first phase, he will be covering 82 assembly constituencies situated in 14 districts covering Vidarbha region and parts of north Maharashtra and by travelling around 3,000-km in 17 days. During the tour, he would be attending 135 meetings and 10 public rallies.“It is an attempt to understand issues being faced by the party cadres and resolve them. We have already received around 761,000 suggestions from the party workers through a statewide feedback digital initiative called ‘Abhipray Abhiyan’. The tour will allow us to discuss the suggestions with them in person for implementation. The exercise will help in strengthening and expansion of the party in the coming future,” he told reporters at NCP headquarters at Ballard Pier on Saturday.“As head of the party, I must meet and connect with cadres, review the local situation, encourage them and also revive the organisation where it is not strong,” he added.A few days ago, the state NCP president expressed his aspiration to become the chief minister (CM) of Maharashtra. He said anyone who has been in politics for a long period would desire to become the CM but his party does not have numbers. He also said that party supremo Sharad Pawar’s word would be the final one on the issue.“It is obvious. Everyone in politics would like to become the CM one day, but the decision of Pawar saheb is final for us. We have only 54 MLAs and going by the situation, I don’t believe it is possible to get the CM’s position. We need to improve the number of MLAs, and expand the party,” Patil has said in response to a question in an interview at Sangli.Patil is considered as one of the most trusted aides of the NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. In the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections, he was appointed as head of the state NCP unit in April 2018.During the tour, he will cover Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia, Yavatmal, Washim Nagpur, Wardha, Amravati, Akola, Buldhana, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon district, where the first phase is going to culminate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ncp-chief-jayant-patil-to-hold-statewide-tour-to-expand-party-101611431212269.html
24-01-2021||Other||PMC fraud: ED arrests top men of Viva Group||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday morning arrested the managing director Mehul Thakur aka Monti of Viva Group and the firm’s chartered accountant (CA) Madangopal Chaturvedi in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case. A local court has remanded them to police custody till January 27.Thakur is nephew of legislator Hirendra Thakur. His family promotes the Viva Group. The arrests come after raids at five locations, including at Hirendra Thakur’s Virar office. Hitendra Thakur said they were cooperating with ED, as they had nothing to hide. He has claimed that all their dealings were through cheques and were in black and white. “We are prepared to answer all their queries and are even willing to visit the ED’s office. We have nothing to hide,” he has said. On Friday, ED searched several premises belonging to Viva Group and its associates, including an office and residence of Thakur in Virar, an office in Andheri, and two residential premises of two financial consultants of the group at Juhu and Chembur. The agency claimed it recovered Rs73 lakh and some incriminating documents during the searches. ED suspects that Thakur and Chaturvedi had complete information of the alleged irregularities linked to Pravin Raut, former director of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, a subsidiary of Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL). HDIL is accused of defrauding PMC Bank of over Rs6,670 crore by fraudulently obtaining nearly 70% of the bank’s overall loans. ED officers suspect that the money routed by the accused was eventually parked in Viva Group. Officers said Chaturvedi was instrumental in carrying out the alleged irregularities and would prepare the balance sheets. He had allegedly also deleted some WhatsApp conversations and sold off his laptop to destroy evidences. ED had launched a money laundering probe in PMC Bank case after Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) registered a criminal case in September 2019 against HDIL, its promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and son Sarang, former bank chairman Waryam Singh, managing director Joy Thomas, and others for allegedly causing a loss of thousands of crores to the bank to benefit themselves. The prosecution complaint has been filed against Wadhawan and others under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). The investigation also revealed that the Wadhawans, allegedly in connivance with Viva Group, diverted more than Rs160 crore from HDIL to many companies belonging to Thakur’s firm in the garb of commissions. These funds were apparently diverted illegally from PMC Bank, the ED said on Friday. The agency has also initiated investigation in another case against Wadhawan, Sarang and others for allegedly diverting Rs200 crore sanctioned by Yes Bank to a firm, Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd. This loan was allegedly siphoned off by the Wadhawans by showing a fictitious purpose. During the investigation under PMLA, it was revealed that the Wadhawans illegally transferred two commercial properties, of Mack Star, valued at Rs34.36 crore, in Kaledonia building, Andheri (East), to Viva Holding, a company of Viva Group. For the transfer of the said two properties, separate sale agreements dated June 26, 2017, were prepared, in which the sale value for both the properties was shown Rs34.36 crore in total. In the sale agreement, the purchase amount was shown to be paid via 37 cheques by Viva Holding to Mack Star Marketing Pvt. Investigation has revealed that these cheques were never encashed to the account of Mack Star, and Viva Holding never made payments for the purchase of the said property. The Wadhawans had illegally transferred these properties to Viva Group in violation to the article of association of Mack Star. Further, Viva Holding never showed these properties in its balance sheets. ED had earlier stated that the investigation under PMLA had revealed that Rs95 crore had been siphoned off by Raut through HDIL, in active conspiracy and connivance with various persons. The sources of the funds were illegally availed loans or advances by HDIL from the PMC Bank. There was no document or agreement in support of these payments made to Raut. Further, as per the ledger of HDIL, the funds were given to Raut for acquiring land in Palghar area. ED’s investigation also revealed that Raut paid Rs1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri from the proceeds of crime. Of this, Madhuri transferred Rs55 lakh as interest-free loan to Varsha Raut, wife of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. The amount was further utilised for purchase of flat in Dadar (East), ED said. The agency claimed Varsha Raut and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha Raut has allegedly received Rs12 lakh from this entity as overdrawn capital converted to loan, on a contribution of mere Rs5,625. The loan amount still remains outstanding, ED stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-fraud-ed-arrests-top-men-of-viva-group-101611430972472.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department announces RTE schedule, registrations open from Feb 9||The state education department has announced the schedule for admissions under the 25% Right to Education (RTE) quota for the academic year 2021-22. Online registrations for admissions under the quota shall begin on February 9.This year, there will be only one lottery for admissions under the quota, which will be conducted on March 5. After the lottery, a waiting list will be released in as per the vacant seats in schools, across the state. Students can then claim admissions against vacant seats. If there are vacant seats, even after the admissions under the waiting list are over, remaining students can be allotted on a lottery basis.While the registration process shall continue until February 26, 2021, selected candidates have to submit their documents between March 9 to 26.The education department said that it shall act against parents who give fake or incorrect addresses while registering their children to get a favourable school. “Such admissions can be cancelled and legal action shall be initiated against such parents,” said a circular issued by the department.In 2020, due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, admissions under the RTE were delayed by several months. Even as the education department had allowed parents to take provisional admissions and send documents online, only over 85,000 students confirmed admissions as against 1.15 lakh seats in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-announces-rte-schedule-registrations-open-from-feb-9-101611430792281.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination drive: Nine Maharashtra districts record over 100% turnout||Nine districts in Maharashtra on Saturday recorded a more than 100% turnout for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. A total of 24,282 healthcare workers (HCWs) in 290 centres across the state were inoculated on the fifth day of the drive, leading to its highest turnout of 83%. The state government’s decision to allow walk-ins for HCWs at vaccination centres without any prior appointment has helped boost its numbers over the expected turnout.A week since the nationwide drive commenced on January 16, 99,242 HCWs have been vaccinated till 7pm on Saturday in the state, according to the state public health department. Mumbai city recorded a 93% turnout, with 1,484 vaccinated, and Mumbai suburbs recorded a 70% turnout, with 2,033 vaccinated on Saturday. Among the districts that registered more than 100% turnout on Saturday, Gondia recorded a 143% turnout with 428 people vaccinated. Gadchiroli recorded a 136% turnout where 542 people were vaccinated and Wardha recorded a 119% turnout where 715 people were vaccinated. Amravati, Jalna, Beed, Dhule, Hingoli and Nanded recorded more than a 100% turnout, while Osmanabad got a perfect 100%. Raigad and Parbhani, however, achieved less than 50% of the target for the day.From Monday, January 25, the vaccination drive will be conducted at 511 centres, up from the current 291. Archana Patil, director, health services, said the drive will be held five days a week, except on Tuesday and Sunday from the coming week.N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Mission Health, said, “In each of the 511 centres, around 100 HCWs will be vaccinated per session.” Of the shots given on Saturday, 297 were Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, Ramaswami said. With the next vaccination session scheduled for Monday, the state will hit a landmark of vaccinating 100,000 HCWs.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state-appointed task force said, “The numbers are picking up everywhere. In rural areas, there is a better turnout and acceptance compared to urban centres. HCWs must come out and get themselves vaccinated, even if they have had Covid-19 in the past.”Meanwhile, the state on Saturday recorded 2,697 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,006,354 till date. The state also recorded 56 deaths, taking the toll to 50,740 fatalities till date. The number of active cases in the state have now reduced to 43,870. On Saturday, Mumbai recorded 435 new cases and 10 deaths taking the total number of cases to 3,05,571 with 11,297 fatalities till date. On Saturday, the state also discharged 3,694 patients with a total number of 19,10,521 recoveries till date. The state’s recovery rate is at 95.22%. Meanwhile, with the polio vaccination drive scheduled on January 31, the Covid-19 drive will not be undertaken on that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-nine-maharashtra-districts-record-over-100-turnout-101611430313899.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Nottingham university graduate contests Maharashtra gram panchayat polls, wins||It was almost a ‘Swades’ moment for 30-year-old Sushant Pawar when he spent time at his native village in Gadadewadi in the Beed district of Aurangabad. A health post sanctioned for the village almost 15 years ago was yet to be constructed and electricity and water-supply was still a huge concern for the entire village. Pawar, a computer engineer from the University of Nottingham and a Mumbai-based restaurateur then constituted the ‘Yuva Gram Vikas’ with six others which won the recently held gram panchayat polls in the state. “I was born in the village but when I saw that nothing has changed in the last three decades, I decided to take it up. Our panel’s agenda was also simple - we will concentrate on water supply, electricity, building a hospital and constructing houses for the poor in the next five years,” said Pawar.The restaurateur also belongs to a family with a bureaucratic background. While his father retired as the municipal commissioner of Vasai-Virar corporation, his uncle still works with the state government. “Even if my family works for the government, I will never understand the system, unless I am a part of it. I am sure I will get to learn a lot if I start at the grassroots level,” he said.Maharashtra’s 12,711-gram panchayats went to polls on January 15. For gram panchayat elections, the candidates usually form local-level panels that fight the elections. HT had earlier reported that this year, a large number of young men and women with no political affiliations, contested and won the elections. While many of the young guns are from the village, there are also candidates like Pawar, who moved out of their village to work in the cities. The village Pawar fought from - Gadadewadi - has a small population of 1,500 people. “I have worked in England and Mumbai. Here, I had also set-up a restaurant in Kamala Mills, Parel, however, we had to shut it owing to the pandemic and my father also retired around the same time, which is when we decided to stay near the village for some time,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nottingham-university-graduate-contests-maharashtra-gram-panchayat-polls-wins-101611430132432.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Highest 1-day turnout in Delhi as 86% beneficiaries get jabs||Delhi on Saturday recorded its highest single-day turnout in the Covid-19 vaccination drive, with 6,967 health care workers out of a target of 8,100 receiving the shot, as two districts recorded 100% turnout.With Delhi’s vaccination rate jumping to 86% on Saturday – one week since the national roll-out – the government is set to take a call on increasing the number of sites where the shots will be administered in the coming week, according to people with knowledge of the matter.The number of sites may be increased in hospitals where the vaccination rate has risen to 90% or above, and more in addition to the current 81 will begin their counters on Thursday.“Now that there has been an increase in the vaccination rate, the government will take a decision on whether more sites will be started in hospitals that have increased their vaccination rate to 90% or more. In addition, some of the hospitals that had been removed from the initial shortlist where the drive was to be rolled out will also open up their sites. A decision will be taken on Wednesday,” a senior official from Delhi’s health department said.The jump of 17 percentage points when compared to Thursday’s vaccination number was largely due to the government’s Co-WIN platform being tweaked to allow out-of-turn jabs for registered beneficiaries.Cumulative vaccination data for Delhi since January 16 shows that the Capital has so far inoculated 10.75% of 240,000 health care workers identified and registered with the government.Northeast Delhi topped the list as the number of beneficiaries it vaccinated on Saturday exceeded its target. The district vaccinated 206 people instead of 200, a trend not seen in any other district in Delhi so far.This was followed by the Shahdara district, which completed its target of administering the jabs to 600 health care workers. Shahdara had vaccinated the least people on Thursday.“Delhi has had five days of Covid-19 vaccination till now and after the first 2-3 days of low turnout, things have started looking up since Thursday. We have inoculated a total of 25,762 (61%) health care workers so far in the Capital, out of the target of 42,578,” a senior health official said, asking not to be named.Also Read| Only 35% health care workers in Delhi's Shahdara district have got jab so farOn Saturday, three districts reported over 100% coverage for centres giving Serum Institute of India’s Covishield – Shahdara, South, and North-East Delhi.At the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in South district, 110 people were vaccinated on Saturday. A senior doctor said, “Initially, there were a lot of negative reports about the vaccines in the media and people were concerned. However, when they saw senior doctors and staff take it, they were convinced.”At South district’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is being administered, 67 people received the shot on Saturday. “Health care workers wanted to wait and watch to see whether there were any adverse events and when they saw that the vaccine was safe, others came forward,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.Delhi on Saturday reported 24 cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), of which one in South-West district may be categorised as “severe”.The beneficiary, a 35-year-old woman, had initially complained of a pain in the arm, which was categorised as a “mild” AEFI. However, she later developed chest pain, nausea, and low blood pressure and was given adrenaline. “Whether it will be categorised as mild or severe will be discussed tomorrow,” said a senior district official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-highest-1-day-turnout-in-delhi-as-86-beneficiaries-get-jabs-101611429514775.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Woman, her baby killed in Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway mishap||A 37-year-old Mahim resident and her infant died in an accident on Saturday evening near Dhanori village in Palghar’s Kasa. The mishap took place after the four-wheeler’s tyre burst and it collided with a truck moving ahead it after the driver of the van, Ayan Shaikh, lost control over the vehicle.There were 10 people in the van at the time of the accident. “The victims have been identified as Nazneen and one-year-old Muzain. All the passengers in the car are from the same family and they were on their way to Vapi, Gujarat, to attend a wedding,” said assistant inspector Umesh Patil of Kasa police station.The two victims were on the rear seat when the accident took place. Shaikh and the other members of his family have sustained injuries and are admitted to the Kasa government hospital, said Patil. The other injured have been identified as Shaheen Naik, 46; Ashiq Ali, 65; Tuba Shaikh, 7; and Zoya Shaikh, 6. A local, Prashant Rajgire, who was passing by the area, witnessed the accident and rushed to the family’s aid. He helped in getting the injured out of the car and rush them to the hospital“We have registered a case under section 304(a) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Motor Vehicle Act against Shaikh and will arrest him as soon as he is discharged from the hospital. We are probing further,” said Patil. The post-mortem reports of the two victims are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-her-baby-killed-in-mumbai-ahmedabad-highway-mishap-101611429652299.html
24-01-2021||Other||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Memes troll PU over indecision on mode of exams Memes trolling Panjab University have started doing rounds on social media even as the authorities remain undecided on the mode of holding the semester exams. The memes appeared on social media pages, highlighting the plight of students as they await a final decision. Several meetings have already been held by the university since December but then authorities are yet to announce the mode for odd semester exams. With exams likely to be conducted from mid-February, the level of anxiety among students is rising. Former councillor takes eco-friendly route to win over voters Former BJP councillor Sahibee Anand, who is contesting the Mohali municipal corporation elections from Phase 7, has taken the eco-friendly route to campaign. With the civic body elections on February 14, Anand is making the most of the battery-operated vehicle, bought for about ₹4 lakh, to ferry the elderly residents of his ward from one place to another. Chai in kulhad puts tea vendor in soup With the ban on use disposable cups and people’s reluctance to take tea in regular cups in Covid-19 times, a tea vendor in Sector 17, Chandigarh, was hoping he had made the right choice by serving the piping hot beverage in kulhad (earthen cups), but he was wrong. Garbage collectors have refused to take the kulhads for disposal, leaving the vendor in a fix. Are we really ready for environment-friendly alternatives to disposable plastic/thermacol cups? Road Safety Week lasts a month in Chandigarh The Road Safety Week has stretched to an entire month this year with the Chandigarh Traffic Police celebrating related activities daily. On Saturday, a drive was conducted to affix reflective tape on cyclists entering the city from Nayagaon. Awareness drives and workshops have been held regularly, says deputy superintendent of police, road safety, Jaswinder Singh, driving home the point. UT-based activist wins national awards for road safety Chandigarh-based road safety activist Harpreet Singh was conferred two awards by the ministry of road transport and highways in Delhi earlier this month. He was conferred a gold national award for his work on Good Samaritan law, and a silver national award for his work on road safety. Social distancing during R-Day celebrations, PGI style Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has asked department and section heads to nominate one person from each department to participate in the Republic Day celebration as a precautionary measure amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The flag-hoisting ceremony will be followed by the director distributing sweets. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh, Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-101611429412176.html
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||Only 35% turn up for Covid vaccine in Chandigarh||Even though two more vaccination sites were operationalised in Chandigarh, the pace of inoculating healthcare workers against Covid-19, which was gradually picking up during the week, witnessed a dip on Saturday. Only 345 of the targeted 1,000 beneficiaries turned up at the eight vaccination sites during the day, accounting for the lowest achievement rate of 34.5% since the nationwide drive began last Saturday. The city had reported a sudden jump to 66% on Friday from Thursday’s 55%, prompting the health department to operationalise more vaccination sites. The idea was to increase the number of eligible beneficiaries and bring down the number of healthcare workers yet to be covered. Chandigarh’s overall achievement rate stands at 52.5% so far.Tepid response continued to be witnessed at the two sites at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, as only 28% beneficiaries got the jab on Saturday. At the two sites at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, 21% turned up. The old site at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, recorded 65% achievement rate, while the civil hospital in Sector 45 saw 100%. At the new sites — one at GMSH and the other at the Manimajra civil hospital — only 18.5% of the 200 targeted beneficiaries came forward to receive the shot.“We are spreading awareness among health workers to remove doubts and misinformation about the vaccine. Most doctors have been administered Covishield shots, and we are trying to reach out to other healthcare workers as well,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department.In order to make the process more convenient, if any employee misses the jab on the designated day, they can come on any day of their choice to get vaccinated, said Dr Nagpal, adding that till now only seven cases of minor adverse effects have been reported among the beneficiaries in the city. 2,712 inoculated in Mohali so farDr KK Talwar, adviser, health and medical education, Punjab, was among 392 healthcare workers who took the Covid-19 vaccination in Mohali on Saturday. “Go for the vaccination. There is no need to fear,” said Dr Talwar, while motivating others. He also stressed upon the need to educate people and allay apprehensions about the vaccine. Aashika Jain, additional deputy commissioner, said 2,712 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the district so far. She said 924 were vaccinated at nine session sites on Friday, while 392 turned up on Saturday despite a holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-35-turn-up-for-covid-vaccine-in-chandigarh-101611429292285.html
24-01-2021||Delhi||Police give ‘in principle’ nod for Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi||The police on Saturday gave an ‘in principle’ nod to farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders to carry out their proposed “tractor march” on Republic Day, covering a distance of around 100km within the national capital.Delhi Police did not officially share details of conditions that were laid down for granting permission for the rally.A police officer, privy to the meeting between police and farmers, said, “The approval was given in principle for now. The farmers will have to give a signed undertaking that they will not enter the New Delhi and central Delhi areas on Republic Day. The proposed routes will be in the vicinity of places where farmers are already protesting, but within the national capital. They will also have to give an undertaking that the rally will not disrupt Republic Day arrangements. We will speak to them again tomorrow.”Police teams will escort the tractors on the day of the rally to maintain law and order.In the undertaking, the farmers will have to share details of the number of tractors, timing of their rally, number of protesters and their day’s plan, among other details. Police will then verify the undertaking and issue a “written permission.”According to farmer leaders, police have allowed them to enter the national capital from five different routes that will be decided by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — a group of several farmer organisations protesting against the three new farm laws across the country— by Sunday.Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj Abhiyan said farmers will enter Delhi from all the existing protesting sites — Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur, Shahjahanpur, and Palwal. “The farmers will enter the national capital on January 26 and take out a parade on Republic Day for the first time. It will be historic… There won’t be any fixed duration for the parade since all tractors coming from different parts of the country will participate in it,” he said.Yadav said the farmers will cover a distance of over 100km in Delhi during the parade. “All farmers will return to their protest sites afterwards. There is no plan to stay in Delhi. We will take out a peaceful march. It will not have any effect on the Republic Day parade or security arrangements,” he said, adding that the Sanyunk Kisan Morcha will finalise the route and make it public on Sunday.Another farmer leader, Rajinder Singh Bir Singh Wala, said there won’t be any cap on the number of tractors entering Delhi on Tuesday. “We have asked the farmers to prepare tableaux on their tractors and trolleys but their height should not be too much, for safety purposes. All tractors, including those already there at the borders and those coming from different parts of the country, will participate,” he said.But president of Krantikari Kisan Union, Darshan Pal, said the march may continue for two days. “The number of tractors participating in the march is huge. It will take time to finish the march. It might take two days to complete it,” he said.Police officers who attended the meeting said they reached a consensus with the farmers following several rounds of meetings since January 18. “ In principle, we have agreed that the tractor rally will only be in areas around the borders where farmers are on sit-in protests. They won’t come to central Delhi via Ring Road. For example, the tractor rally from Singhu border will enter Delhi and will move around areas such as Alipur, Bawana, Narela, and other adjoining areas. The rally starting from Tikri border will cut through Nangloi, Mundka, Sultanpuri. Similarly, farmers at the Ghazipur border will be allowed to take their rally out in Ghazipur, Anand Vihar, and towards Apsara and Bhopra borders,” a second police officer said.On Saturday, the protesting farmers said they had increased security at protest sites, a day after a man, after being caught by farmers at Singhu border, alleged that efforts were being made to incite violence.Also Read| 'Our march will have no effect on R-Day Parade,' says Yogendra YadavAt the Singhu border, volunteers were seen checking bags and packets of visitors near the main gate area. “Our leaders have asked us to remain vigilant. We are checking the handbags of women visitors also because the man who was caught yesterday told us that there are two women in his group, who are at the protest site in an effort to incite violence,” said a farmer volunteer.On Saturday, volunteers at Tikri border were also seen asking protesters to remain vigilant. Harinder Bindu, head of the women wing of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), said, “Efforts are being made to disrupt our protest. All the volunteers have been asked to remain extra careful and keep an eye on visitors. The protesters living in trollies and tents have also been asked to keep a check on their surroundings. Volunteers are also checking bags and frisking people.”Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha in Punjab, said that the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to form a team of 2,000 volunteers to keep a vigil during their Republic Day tractor rally. “These volunteers will also be provided uniforms and they will keep an eye out to prevent any untoward incident during the march,” he said.Security up at bordersDelhi police on Saturday increased security at the interstate borders, where farmers are camped. Senior police officers claimed that the security was increased in the backdrop of the full dress rehearsal for the Republic Day.“Unlike previous years, the security is more this year because of the protests. There are chances that criminal elements may try to disrupt Republic Day preparations by posing as protesting farmers. The idea was to ensure that such groups do not get to mobilise and disrupt the dress rehearsal or the preparations in Delhi. The extra security will stay until the completion of the Republic Day celebrations,” one senior office said.The increased reinforcements is also significant because on Friday night, the farmers had held a press conference to allege that the Haryana Police had planted some men among the protesters to fuel violence during the tractor rally on January 26.Also, on Friday afternoon, a farmer who had come to Vigyan Bhawan, got violent and vandalised his own vehicle when police refused to allow him entry since his name was not mentioned in the list of farmer representatives. There was no complaint filed or action taken against anyone in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-give-in-principle-nod-for-republic-day-tractor-rally-indelhi-101611428683598.html
24-01-2021||Other||Bird flu: Highly infectious H5N1 virus found in samples sent from Panchkula||The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, has confirmed presence of the highly infectious H5N1 influenza virus in four samples collected from farms in Panchkula’s Barwala-Raipur Rani poultry belt. The lab also confirmed the presence of H5N8 virus in samples from four other poultry farms.It was on January 7 that the Bhopal lab first confirmed bird flu (H5N8) at two poultry farms in the area. The following day, the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, sent more suspected samples from four farms to Bhopal for confirmation. The Panchkula administration, too, collected samples from more farms where mortality was high and sent them to Bhopal.“Four samples positive for H5N1 avian influenza virus,” states the report released by the Bhopal institute on Saturday evening, a copy of which is with HT. Confirming the development, Dr Mohinder Pal Singh, director, NRDDL, Jalandhar, said: “Apart from our lab, samples were collected by a team of experts from the central government as well. They have found presence of H5N1, which is the most dangerous. Unlike H5N8 strain, its transmission to humans is more, and hence it must be controlled.” “The fear remains about mutation of this virus (H5N1) inside human beings. No one can tell how it will react after mutation. To avoid a pandemic among humans, this must be controlled at the animal level only,” said another expert, who did not wish to be named.The report further mentions that samples from four farms – Maharaja in Khatauli, Tara-1 and Tara-2 in Batour and Single in Mauli – have tested positive for H5N8 avian influenza virusThe report is addressed to the secretary, department of animal husbandry and dairying, at the Centre and director, animal husbandry, Haryana.Earlier, 81,000 birds were culled at two poultry farms where bird flu was confirmed on January 7 besides another one in the infected zone. The culling operations went on for over a week and concluded on January 17.Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, and director general, animal husbandry and dairying, Haryana, Dr BS Laura did not revert to queries. Darshan Kumar, president, Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association, insisted that “no new farm has been found infected”.All about H5N1 and H5N8 influenza virusAccording do WHO, H5N1 is a type of influenza virus that causes a highly infectious, severe respiratory disease in birds called avian influenza.Human cases occur occasionally, but it is difficult to transmit the infection from person to person. However, in humans, it can cause severe diseases and a high mortality rate.If the H5N1 virus were to change and become easily transmissible from person to person while retaining its capacity to cause severe diseases, the consequences for public health could be very serious.Avian influenza A (H5N8) viruses have been rapidly spreading, most likely via wild migratory birds in Asia and Europe, in recent months and causing deaths in wild birds and outbreaks in domestic poultry.Human infection with the H5N8 virus cannot be excluded, although the likelihood is low. In fact, to date, no human case of such infection has been detected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-highly-infectious-h5n1-virus-found-in-samples-sent-from-panchkula-101611429053673.html
24-01-2021||Other||Day 2: 18,000 more birds culled at Dera Bassi farm||To prevent the spread of avian influenza, 18,000 more birds were culled at Alpha Poultry Farm in Behra village of Dera Bassi on Saturday.As many as 53,000 poultry birds are to be culled at two farms in the village: Alpha and Royal. The operations began at Alpha on Friday. So far, 29,200 birds have been culled.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that the district animal husbandry officials had been directed to ensure proper disposal of the carcasses. A force of 125 men and 15 labourers were conducting the operation with two JCBs, three fire guns, 10 foggers and 10 jet suction machines, along with 10,000 kg lime available for ensuing sanitisation. The culling will continue on Sunday as well.Suspected case in another farmMeanwhile, another sample forwarded to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, by Evergreen Poultry Farm in the same village reported symptoms of bird flu.The samples have been forwarded to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, for confirmation. This farm had around 50,000 birds.Surveillance increasedSurveillance in the district has been doubled with special attention being given to areas around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos and poultry farms. Sampling has also been increased district-wide. “As of now, 654 samples have been collected in 12 days,” said Dayalan.Directions have been given to poultry farmers to strictly follow standard protocols for biosecurity measures. To avoid the spread of misinformation, efforts are afoot to build awareness among people that chicken and other poultry products are safe to consume when cooked at at least 70 degree Fahrenheit temperature; raw poultry products should not be consumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-2-18-000-more-birds-culled-at-dera-bassi-farm-101611429052340.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to open Pune’s Yerawada prison for jail tourism||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced that the state will start jail tourism by throwing open Pune’s Yerawada prison to public, including students and researchers. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will inaugurate the facility on Republic Day. Subsequently, other prisons will be taken up for jail tourism, the minister added.Spread on over 500 acres, Yerawada jail is historic, as several freedom fighters, including Mahatma Gandhi and Subhash Chandra Bose, have been jailed there, Deshmukh said. Terrorist Ajmal Kasab, who was captured and tried for his role in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, was hanged in the jail in November 2012.“In the first phase, we will start jail tourism with Yerawada jail. It has historic importance. Cells where Mahatma Gandhi, Subhash Chandra Bose, Motilal Nehru were lodged will be opened to visitors. Information will be given to visitors about their time in prison. Besides that, the place where the Pune Pact was singed between Gandhiji and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, will also be made open,” the minister said.The visitors will be charged nominal fees, the minister added. School students will be charged ₹5, while college students will have to pay Rs10. For the general public, the fare will be Rs50. Deshmukh added that the state has ensured that there is no contact between visitors and current inmates during the visits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-open-pune-s-yerawada-prison-for-jail-tourism-101611428812331.html
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||28-year-old golfer creates milestone at Chandigarh Golf Club||In a first, Pukhraj Singh Brar scored a hole-in-one on par 4 at Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) on Saturday, setting a new milestone in the premier club’s 52-year-old history.The 6’-7” tall green-card member sunk the ball on a 369-yard 17th green. “This is the first ever recognised hole-in-one on the 17th hole,” said CGC president Ravibir Singh Grewal, congratulating Brar on his extraordinary feat.A 28-year-old mechanical engineer with a tractor company in Pune, Brar, who plays to a 12-handicap, said he picked up golf during the Covid-19 pandemic and drew inspiration from his father Kulbir Singh Brar, also an avid golfer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28yearold-golfer-creates-milestone-at-chandigarh-golf-club-101611428632470.html
24-01-2021||Mumbai||Boeing 737 Max unlikely to resume flights soon in India||The globally grounded Boeing 737 Max, that has been given go-ahead to resume operations by global aviation regulators recently, doesn’t seem to be returning to Indian skies anytime soon. Indian aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) seems to be taking time before finally allowing 737 Max to operate in the country to fly the planes again.Budget carrier SpiceJet is the only airline having this fleet. It has 13 such aircraft which currently continue to be grounded.Though the country’s civil aviation regulator had taken part in Boeing’s proposal for training pilots to fly the revamped 737 Max in September last year. It is yet to take a call on allowing these planes to fly again.A Delhi-based senior DGCA official said, “We are in no hurry for recommencement of 737Max operations. We will allow the aircraft type in Indian skies only if its safety aspect is assured.”The United States’ aviation regulator- Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) approved the B737Max to fly in November 2020. The Airworthiness Directive (AD) issued by the FAA mentioned the requirements that must be met by airlines operating Boeing 737Max planes. These included; installing software enhancements, completing wire separation modifications, conducting pilot training, amongst others, ensuring that the airplanes are ready for service.American Airlines became the latest carrier to resume flights using the B737 Max, a year and ten months after the aircraft was globally grounded. It operated B737 Max service between Miami International airport and New York’s LaGuardia on December 31, 2020.Shortly, Brazil’s National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) too followed suit. Canada’s transport ministry too announced its approval for 737 MAX to fly again in their country starting January 20, 2021. Reports said that Europe’s civil aviation agency European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) too is expected to approve the aircraft type in the coming week.Boeing’s 737 Max was involved in an Ethiopian Airlines flight crash on March 10, 2019, killing over 180 passengers and crew members. A flight of Lion Air, an Indonesian low-cost carrier, had also crashed in October 2018, leading to suspicion over design faults in the aircraft model. It was after these accidents that the DGCA had stated in March 2019. The statement had stated that no 737 Max would be allowed to enter or transit Indian airspace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/boeing-737-max-unlikely-to-resume-flights-soon-in-india-101611428392555.html
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||Striking waste collectors resume work in Chandigarh, RWAs want charge of garbage collection||A large section of the striking garbage collectors returned to work on Saturday, resuming waste collection in the southern sectors. Taking note of the harassment caused to residents due to the strike running into multiple days, the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) also called an emergency meeting, where it was sought that waste collection be left to the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs).The municipal corporation last month took over door-to-door garbage collection in Sectors 1 to 30, which did not go down well with the informal cart-based collectors. To lodge their dissent against the move, they stopped picking up garbage from houses in areas beyond Sector 30, causing refuse to pile up at homes and on streets. After MC officials yielded to some of their demands after a meeting on Friday, the garbage collectors decided to return to work.“After detailed talks with MC and realising the inconvenience caused to residents, the garbage collectors decided to get back to work,” said Om Prakash Saini, chairman, Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society that claims to represent 80% of the informal sector.However, Shamsher Lohatiya, president of the local unit of Akhil Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangathan (ABMS), which represents another section of garbage collectors, said they may again go on strike next week if MC didn’t rollback the takeover. A meeting regarding this is scheduled with MC commissioner KK Yadav next week.‘Residents always at receiving end’“Garbage collection and segregation has become a Herculean task for the municipal corporation. Worse, due to their impractical decisions, residents end up suffering time and again, despite paying taxes,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC. The body’s general secretary JS Gogia narrated how some RWAs had to hire private trolleys during the deadlock between MC and waste collectors.President of the Sector 46-D RWA, Kedarnath Sharma said, “A similar situation should not arise again. RWAs must seek legal recourse against MC for creating disorder in garbage collection. The older system must be fine-tuned rather than introducing a new one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/striking-waste-collectors-resume-work-in-chandigarh-rwas-want-charge-of-garbage-collection-101611428211415.html
