26-01-2021||Noida||Greater Noida set to house two data centres||GREATER NOIDA: Greater Noida is all set to become home to two data centres as NTT, a Japanese firm, has bought six acres of land to set up a mega project up in Sector Techzone-IV of Greater Noida West.The firm NTT will invest ₹1,000 crore for this data centre. It will have a 70 megawatt capacity, said officials.Before this, another investment for a data centre project had come from YOTTA Infrastructure, a subsidiary of the Mumbai-based Hiranandani Group. In this 250 MW-capacity data centre, YOTTA will make an investment of ₹6,000 crore in Sector Knowledge Park 5. The company has 20 acres of land allotted for this project.The Greater Noida authority hopes that these two investments will help lure other domestic and international investors for IT-enabled services in the city.“The project coming to Greater Noida is a huge success for us as it will bring big opportunities with it. It will create jobs and help us get more investment in this industrial town,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.According to the authority, the YOTTA project will have a 240 megawatt capacity facility with 25,000 racks across six towers. Officials of YOTTA Infrastructure were not available for comment. “These data centres will be operational by 2022. Once completed, Greater Noida will emerge as a hub of data centres in the country. These centres will store data of different social networking sites,” said Chandar.These two projects are set to create at least 1,500 jobs in Greater Noida’s IT-enabled field, said officials.YOTTA (Hiranandani Group) had applied for the project on October 15.“The project is a huge success for Uttar Pradesh and it will bring investment in this region,” said the developer’s promoter Niranjan Hiranandani on October 15, also the national president of national real estate development council and ASSOCHAM.“The building will house data centres for Google, Microsoft, Facebook and other such companies. This project will fuel growth in this city,” said Chandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-set-to-house-two-data-centres-101611684925716.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Aqua Line metro trains may skip stations with fewer passengers||Noida: Metro trains on the Aqua Line may soon skip stations where the passenger crowd is thin. According to officials of the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) said the plan is being considered to make metro availability at crowded stations faster during peak hours, which had been demanded by residents and commuters alike. The plan may be implemented from February 1. Ritu Maheshwari, NMRC’s managing director, on the occasion of Republic Day, hoisted the national flag at the NMRC’s office in Sector 29. “In order to reduce the travel time on the Aqua Line and to improve efficiency of services, NMRC will soon run its trains by skipping low-ridership stations during peak hours,” Maheshwari said in a press statement.Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said details of the timings and the stations that will be skipped have not been finalised yet. If the new plan comes into effect, commuters will be able to travel between Noida to Greater Noida in 30 minutes. Currently, it takes 45 minutes to reach Noida from Greater Noida and vice versa. Stations with low ridership include sectors 143, 144, 145, 146, 147 and 148, among others.This year, Aqua Line saw its highest ridership yet on January 11, with 11,511 passengers, after resuming service post lockdown on September 7, 2020. The average daily ridership on the Aqua Line before the lockdown in March last year was 22,758, while the average daily ridership in December last year stood at 7,915.In her address to the NMRC employees on Republic Day, Maheshwari said that in the coming years, the NMRC should try to achieve excellence in all areas of metro operations and prove to be a model organisation for other metro companies. She congratulated the NMRC operations team for providing glitch-free services to commuters in the past two years of operations. The corporation is currently operating the 29.07 kms Aqua Line from Noida’s Sector 51 to the Greater Noida Depot. The line has 21 elevated stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/aqua-line-metro-trains-may-skip-stations-with-fewer-passengers-101611684925174.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Rioters were outsiders, say farmer leaders at UP Gate||Ghaziabad: Farmers’ leaders at UP Gate have distanced themselves from incidents of violence reported on Republic Day in Delhi, claiming that the people who indulged in these incidents were “outsiders”. They said the protest will continue as usual at the sites.Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said that the people who indulged in violence were “trying to sabotage” the protest. He arrived at UP Gate around 3pm after his tractor rally.“It is not in my knowledge if any flag was put up at the Red Fort. I will enquire if such a thing has happened. We suspect that there were some outsiders who got into our rally and were not obeying our repeated requests. They were trying to sabotage our protest. However, our tractor rally went on well and our protest will continue at the UP Gate site,” he said.“Many of the protesters who had come to attend the rally have gone home while others will stay on at UP Gate and carry on our protest,” he added.On Tuesday evening, the protesters brought in the body of the 25-year-old man who was killed due allegedly to an accident his tractor met with near ITO in Delhi.Rajkishor Singh, one of the spokespersons for the UP Gate farmers’ committee, said the man, identified as Ravneet Singh, had gone to Delhi in his tractor.“His body was brought to UP Gate and will be handed over to his family. He was from Bilaspur in Rampur district,” he added.Police personnel at the site in Delhi said the man was allegedly driving the tractor rashly before the vehicle rammed into a barricade and overturned. The farmers, meanwhile, claimed that the man sustained a hit on his head allegedly by a teargas shell, as a result of which he died, but they refused to go ahead for an autopsy.On Tuesday morning, some of the farmer leaders stood at UP Gate till 11am while many of the protestors, including those upon tractors, broke open the barricades at the border and entered the national Capital.“Those who created a ruckus with tractors and indulged in violence were quick in their actions and their body language revealed their intentions, and the fact that they could not be farmers,” BKU’s national press co-ordinator Shamsher Rana said in a statement issued Tuesday night.“We will continue our protest till the three laws are repealed. I have never seen such a big protest in my life and the government will be impacted by this agitation. From now on, they will think 100 times before taking any decision,” said 69-year-old Shankar Singh, who joined the protest from Iglas in Aligarh and took part in the 24-hour relay fast at UP Gate.For the tractor rally, officials of the Ghaziabad administration as well as the Uttar Pradesh police had held several rounds of talks with farmers’ leaders during the past couple of days. Even the local intelligence wing from Ghaziabad was active on a day-to-day basis.“The Delhi Police issued their press release about the route and plan and we also received communication on Monday. There is no intelligence failure on the part of Uttar Pradesh; besides, there has been no law and order issue in our area and many farmers have returned,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls made repeatedly for his comments.After incidents of violence in Delhi came to light, hundreds of tractors which were part of the rally made a hasty retreat as many returned to the UP Gate protest site, while others took to the Delhi-Meerut Road and NH-9 to rush to their hometowns.Officials of the traffic police said that tractors followed the designated rally route in Ghaziabad. The officials, however, said they did not have figures for the number of tractors which entered the district on Tuesday and said that the figures were not readily available.“Many of them entered the Ghaziabad district from Apsara border side and went to Hapur road, and took up the designated route to UP Gate. In wake of the situation, we have our traffic personnel deployed. The Delhi Police have barricaded four of our border points including the one at Kaushambi and Surya Nagar,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police, Ghaziabad (rural).(With input from HTC, Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rioters-were-outsiders-say-farmer-leaders-at-up-gate-101611684805202.html
26-01-2021||Kolkata||'BJP wants to establish 'Ram rajya' in Bengal': Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram||The Bharatiya Janata Party wants to establish 'Ram rajya' (rule of lord Ram), in West Bengal by winning the coming assembly polls, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari said on Tuesday at a rally at Nandigram in East Midnapore district. He was the legislator from Nandigram before resigning from the assembly and joining the BJP on December 19.Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee has announced that she will contest the seat alongside Kolkata’s Bhawanipore, her old seat.Adhikari’s statement came days after the BJP ran into a major controversy when some supporters raised the “Jai Sri Ram” slogan during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s programme in Kolkata where legendary freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary was celebrated on January 23.“Many people contest an election but only one wins. I believe in the politics of inclusiveness wherein the victor treats the losers as part of the democratic system and treats them with respect. Our Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of all people. This is lacking in West Bengal. At the birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose, the chief minister said the “Jai Sri Ram” slogan was raised to insult her. Nothing can be more sacred than Ram’s name,” said Adhikari.Also read: Explained - As tractor rally turns violent in Delhi, what farmers wantIncidentally, on Tuesday, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the (BJP), said it does not support the raising of the slogan at the event and called for identification of those involved.“Ram rajya means good ministration that treats Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Christians equally. Everybody gets two square meals a day, a roof on the head and a job. But our chief minister gets angry when she hears the name of 'Ram' while her nephew flares up when we call him extortionist,” Adhikari said at the rally which was held in support of the three farm laws that triggered an unruly agitation in Delhi on Tuesday.Following Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda, Adhikari had lunch at the home of a local farmer.“Many people ask why Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP. I was insulted for a long time in the TMC. Ministers and leaders mean nothing in the TMC. Only one post matters. Others have to follow orders. I have my spine intact. I could not accept it. Amit Shah welcomed me into the BJP,” said Adhikari and took jabs at the TMC by accusing its leaders of stealing money from the relief meant for victims of cyclone Amphan and food sent by the Centre during the Covid-19 pandemic.“The TMC’s boat is sinking. Nobody can save it now. The party’s young leader wears expensive shoes and uses high-end phones and SUVs,” said Adhikari without taking any name. “BJP workers are ready. I am ready to take on the challenge. I know the ground reality in Nandigram. My roots go deep,” said Adhikari, adding that the BJP will decide who will contest from Nandigram.“It is essential that the same party rules the nation and Bengal. Unless you drive out the TMC people won’t get jobs,” said Adhikari.On December 19, Adhikari and six sitting TMC legislators, a TMC Lok Sabha member, three MLAs from the Left and Congress and at least 20 other district-level leaders of the ruling party joined the BJP at Shah’s rally in Midnapore town. This marked the biggest defection of elected TMC leaders in the run-up to the assembly polls due in about five months.No TMC leader was willing to react to Adhikari’s statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-wants-to-establish-ram-rajya-in-bengal-suvendu-adhikari-in-nandigram-101611684242410.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Farmers’ rally in Noida goes off peacefully||Noida: In Noida, the farmers’ protest and tractor rally remained peaceful on Republic Day. However, a group of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) members blocked the Delhi-Noida road near Chilla border claiming that the police shortened the rally route to only two kilometres. Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of the BKU’s Bhanu faction went on a sit-in protest with some other farmers at the Chilla border for about three hours.“We were very upset at the way the government handled the protest. First, the Uttar Pradesh government detained several farmers in different districts and also seized their tractors to stop them from participating in the rally. On Tuesday, we had planned to visit Mayur Vihar and then to Akshardham. But the Delhi police had placed multiple layered barricades on the way,” he said. The farmers used tractors to remove one barricade year Mayur Vihar. However, they were stopped again near the Mayur Vihar Extension metro station and asked to take a U-turn to Chilla border, after which the farmers returned and blocked the Delhi-Noida road in protest from 1pm to 4pm.Members of the BKU-Bhanu faction had started gathering at Chilla border since Tuesday morning. Around 300 farmers marched towards Mayur Vihar in 50 tractors and 50 other vehicles such as cars and SUVs. Some of the farmers were seen sitting on tractors’ bonnets and were chanting slogans. The tractors were seen sporting tricolours and stickers saying “I love kisan.” The BKU-Bhanu’s tractor rally was held from 12pm to 1pm. Fourteen-year-old Chand Saifi was seen participating in the rally on his skateboard. “I am a student of class VIII in Aligarh. I have come from my home to participate in the rally and extend support to the farmers,” he said. When asked about his skateboard, he said that on Republic Day, the police personnel demonstrate their skills. “I am also demonstrating my skills of skating. This is what a farmer’s son can do,” he said.Meanwhile, members of the BKU’s Lok Shakti faction organised a parallel tractor rally starting from the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal to the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway to Mayur Vihar and New Ashok Nagar, after which they returned. SK Giri, general secretary and a spokesperson of the BKU-Lok Shakti, said that over 100 vehicles participated in the rally. “We had organised a meeting before the rally and sensitised farmers to maintain discipline. The police team accompanied us throughout the way. The programme was peaceful,” he said. Satyapal Yadav, a resident of Behlolpur village in Noida, was seen mounted on a tractor and playing ‘nagara’ (large drum) in the BKU-Lok Shakti rally. “Nagara is played on big festivals like Holi. Republic Day and the tractor rally are no less than Holi,” he said.Before the tractor rally started, a tractor overturned at the Chilla border in which a farmer leader, Rajiv Nagar, received minor injuries. The driver was allegedly performing stunts but lost balance and the tractor overturned.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the farmers’ protest in Noida remained peaceful. “The BKU-Bhanu members were confused over the route. They had to take a right turn from the first barricade in Mayur Vihar for New Ashok Nagar. But they breached the barricade and marched forward. The Delhi Police stopped them ahead and made them turn back,” he said. He said the police spoke to the protesting farmers after which the Delhi-Noida road at the Chilla border reopened at 4pm. The Noida-Delhi side of the road remains closed since December 1 due to the farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-rally-in-noida-goes-off-peacefully-101611684685230.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Approved route, timings for tractor rally flouted as UP Gate protesters reach Delhi||Ghaziabad: Senior farmer leaders on Tuesday expressed their displeasure after several conditions, put forth by the Delhi Police and accepted by the protesters, were flouted at the UP Gate border. This includes sticking to a pre-approved route and starting the tractor rally at an approved time, both of which protesting farmers allegedly flouted on Tuesday to reach and occupy Red Fort, before being pushed back. Many of the protesters who were headed to ITO and then to the Red Fort had entered Delhi from UP Gate on the Ghaziabad-Delhi border.Hundreds of tractors, vehicles and trolleys had lined up at UP Gate when around 9.30am, a group of protesters allegedly broke the barricades at the UP Gate flyover and entered Delhi before clashing with the police . One of the major clauses put forth by the Delhi Police was that the tractor rally will begin at noon, after the Republic Day parade was over in Delhi .Further, the protesters also allegedly played loud music with music systems installed on their tractors, and many of them were fitted with trolleys. Both had been barred as part of the undertaking.Some of the senior farmer leaders HT spoke to were upset with the developments that took place in the national Capital.“It had been planned that the protesters would need to be controlled but they wanted to enter Delhi and many even went ahead to ITO and the Red Fort, which were not on the designated route. All the chaos that took place amounts to failure of the leaders to give appropriate directions or control the gathering,” said a senior farmer leader from the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).“Instead, they should have held a meeting Monday night when the majority of the tractors had come in at UP Gate and briefed them about the route. Majority of farmers are not locals and are not privy to the route or roads,” he added.The Delhi police Monday evening had conveyed to the farmers’ leaders in writing that the proposed route for the tractor rally from UP Gate will move from Ghazipur border, Apsara border, Hapur road, IMS College Lal Kuan and back to the UP Gate/Ghazipur border.A majority of the route was under the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad district but most of the tractors allegedly went towards Akshardham in Delhi, where certain groups of protesters allegedly pulled out and brandished swords at the security personnel deployed at the site.As per the designated route, the tractors were to move to road number 56 from the Ghazipur roundabout but a majority of tractors allegedly moved on to the expressway lanes, after breaking barricades at UP Gate, and managed to reach Delhi.Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and national spokesperson of the BKU, had on Monday said that the rally will go up to Akshardham.The route towards Akshardham was not part of the designated route that was given a nod to by the Delhi Police. Tikait was seen on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway trying to persuade protesters to follow the designated route but they paid no heed once they entered Delhi after breaking barricades at the UP Gate flyover.He returned to UP Gate around 3pm but declined to comment over the chaos and violence in Delhi, saying that he is not in knowledge of the developments.“Our andolan (movement) is peaceful and will remain peaceful. It is a conspiracy. I had called for going to Akshardham but Delhi Police had barricaded some points on the designated route. It must be inquired who were behind such incidents,” Tikait said.Thousands of protesters, which include farmers, volunteers, NGOs and other organisations, have been camping at the UP Gate protest site since November 28 and have occupied the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway since December 3.The Delhi Police in a statement said that the force worked with the farmers for the tractor rally and worked as per terms agreed upon, besides taking up required arrangements.“The Delhi Police acted with restraint for a long time but the protesting farmers violated the agreed upon conditions and started their march before the designated time and resorted to rioting and violence. The police took all the required measures to maintain law and order. This protest has led to many policemen being injured and caused a lot of damage to public property,” the Delhi Police said in a statement.(With input from HTC, Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/approved-route-timings-for-tractor-rally-flouted-as-up-gate-protesters-reach-delhi-101611684565203.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Actor Deep Sidhu denies removing tricolour, calls protest 'symbolic'||Amid a massive outrage over protesters hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, actor Deep Sidhu, who was present during the incident, sought to defend their action, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest.The 'Nishan Sahib' flag, a symbol of Sikh religion, is seen at all Gurdwara complexes.In a video posted on Facebook on Tuesday evening, Sidhu claimed it was not a planned move and that they should not be given any communal colour or dubbed as fundamentalists or hardliners.“To symbolically register our protest against the new farm legislation, we put up 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag and also raised the slogan of Kisan Mazdoor Ekta,” said Sidhu.The flag represents the country's “unity in diversity”, he said while pointing towards 'Nishan Sahib', the triangular saffron flag with the emblem of 'Khanda', a two-edged sword, Chakra, a disc, and two Kirpans that cross each other at the handles.He stated that the national flag was not removed from the flagpole at the Red Fort and that nobody raised a question over the country's unity and integrity.Leaders across the political spectrum condemned the violence and the Red Fort incident, with the Congress' Shashi Tharoor saying he supported the farmers' protests from the start but cannot condone "lawlessness"."Most unfortunate. I have supported the farmers’ protests from the start but I cannot condone lawlessness. And on #RepublicDay no flag but the sacred tiranga should fly aloft the Red Fort," the former union minister said on Twitter, tagging a tweet that carried a video of the incident.         Sidhu, who has been associated with the farmers' agitation for the last many months, said "anger flares up" in a mass movement like this when the genuine rights of people are ignored.“In today's situation, that anger flared up,” he said.Sidhu was an aide of actor Sunny Deol when the latter contested from Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Deol, now a BJP MP, had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation.Swaraj Abhyan leader Yogendra Yadav, who is among the leaders spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, said Sidhu had been disassociated "from our protest right from the beginning"."When he participated in a protest at Shambu border and seeing their activities, the farmer unions had decided to keep them away from our movement," he said.The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions that is leading the protest against the three central farm laws, also disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.Sidhu, however, said that Tuesday's incident should not be seen in isolation as they have been holding their protest for the last six to seven months.“And it (today's incident) was a continuation of that,” he said.Sidhu said the protesters did not go to Delhi to hurt anyone or damage public property, nor they had any weapon.“We held a peaceful protest without destroying anything or causing any damage to the public property…we exercised our democratic right peacefully,” he claimed, adding, “If we think one person or a personality could do such a big mobilisation of people, then it will be wrong.”Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort.Over 80 police personnel have been injured in the violence.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-tractor-rally-republic-day-protests-tricolour-actor-deep-sidhu-denies-removing-calls-protest-symbolic-delhi-police-farm-laws-red-fort-firing-101611683185949.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Now, GB Nagar plans to inoculate 20,500 health-care workers in next two sessions||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration, which faced dismal turnout in the first two sessions of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, has now planned to inoculate as many as 20,500 health-care personnel in the next two sessions to be held on January 29 and 30. For the purpose, the district health department has prepared 82 booths in 30 vaccination centres for the two sessions under the first phase, officials said. GB Nagar district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that so far 2,452 out of 24,453 health workers have been vaccinated in the district. “The response of health workers for inoculation is not very encouraging. While the turnout was 65.5% (393 out of 600) in the first session on January 16, it was 49.02% (2,059 out of 4,200) in the next session on January 22. We have decided to cover the remaining 22,001 health workers in the four sessions left in the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive,” he said. He further said that to cover maximum number of health workers, the number of vaccination booths and hospitals have also been increased. “We had 42 booths in 14 vaccination centres in the last session, which has now been increased to 82 booths in 30 vaccination centres. Not only that, we had made arrangements to inoculate 100 persons at each booth in the earlier rounds, which has now been increased to 125 persons at each booth,” Ohri said. The CMO also said that the last two rounds of vaccination for the first phase will take place on February 4 and 5. “To ensure 100% turnout in the coming sessions, the vaccination officials have already started sending text messages to beneficiaries about their mandated date of vaccination. They are also inspiring the ASHA and Aanganwadi workers about the benefits of vaccination, who had shown their reluctance in earlier rounds of inoculation,” he said. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district in-charge of Covid-19 vaccination, said that since vaccination portal was not working properly during earlier sessions of vaccination, 100% participation of health workers, marked for inoculation, could not be ensured. “Since Co-Win app is a key component of Covid-19 vaccination, the system needs a steady internet connection to upload the details of beneficiaries and their dosage. Our vaccination officials could not make any amendment in the lists made many days ago. We have decided to resolve the issue by adequate number of data entry operators with laptops at all the vaccination booths in the coming sessions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/now-gb-nagar-plans-to-inoculate-20-500-health-care-workers-in-next-two-sessions-101611684145158.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Tractor rally in Noida ends peacefully, BKU faction blocks Delhi-Noida route||The farmers’ protest and tractor rally remained peaceful in Noida on Republic Day but a group of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) members blocked the Delhi-Noida road near Chilla border claiming that the police shortened the rally route to only two kilometres.Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of the BKU’s Bhanu faction went on a sit-in protest with some other farmers at the Chilla border for about three hours.“We were very upset at the way the government handled the protest. First, the Uttar Pradesh government detained several farmers in different districts and also seized their tractors to stop them from participating in the rally. On Tuesday, we had planned to visit Mayur Vihar and then to Akshardham. But the Delhi police had placed multiple layered barricades on the way,” he said.The farmers used tractors to remove one barricade year Mayur Vihar. However, they were stopped again near the Mayur Vihar Extension metro station and asked to take a U-turn to Chilla border, after which the farmers returned and blocked the Delhi-Noida road in protest from 1pm to 4 pm.Members of the BKU-Bhanu faction had started gathering at Chilla border since Tuesday morning. Around 300 farmers marched towards Mayur Vihar in 50 tractors and 50 other vehicles such as cars and SUVs. Some of the farmers were seen sitting on tractors’ bonnets and were chanting slogans. The tractors were seen sporting tricolours and stickers saying “I love kisan.” The BKU-Bhanu’s tractor rally was held from 12 pm to 1pm.Fourteen-year-old Chand Saifi was seen participating in the rally on his skateboard. “I am a student of class VIII in Aligarh. I have come from my home to participate in the rally and extend support to the farmers,” he said. When asked about his skateboard, he said that on Republic Day, the police personnel demonstrate their skills. “I am also demonstrating my skills of skating. This is what a farmer’s son can do,” he said.Meanwhile, members of the BKU’s Lok Shakti faction organised a parallel tractor rally starting from the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal to the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway to Mayur Vihar and New Ashok Nagar, after which they returned.SK Giri, general secretary and a spokesperson of the BKU-Lok Shakti, said that over 100 vehicles participated in the rally. “We had organised a meeting before the rally and sensitised farmers to maintain discipline. The police team accompanied us throughout the way. The programme was peaceful,” he said.Before the tractor rally started, a tractor overturned at the Chilla border in which a farmer leader, Rajiv Nagar, received minor injuries. The driver was allegedly performing stunts but lost balance and the tractor overturned.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the farmers’ protest a remained peaceful. “The BKU-Bhanu members were confused over the route. They had to take a right turn from the first barricade in Mayur Vihar for New Ashok Nagar. But they breached the barricade and marched forward. The Delhi Police stopped them ahead and made them turn back,” he said.He said the police spoke to the protesting farmers after which the Delhi-Noida road at the Chilla border reopened at 4 pm. The Noida-Delhi side of the road remains closed since December 1 due to the farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tractor-rally-in-noida-ends-peacefully-bku-faction-blocks-delhi-noida-route-101611682207350.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Noida police induct special commando unit on Republic Day||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Tuesday inducted a team of 25 commandos who have been specially trained to handle emergency situations. The commandos clad in black uniform also participated in the Republic Day parade with other police personnel at Surajpur police lines. Alok Singh, GB Nagar police commissioner, said that these commandos have been trained by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Madhya Pradesh. “This unit is called ‘Pinaka Commandos’. The name ‘Pinaka’ has been taken from Lord Shiva’s Dhanush. This is a highly trained commando unit which will further strengthen the Noida police,” he said. Sriparna Gongulee, additional commissioner of police (crime), GB Nagar, said that the Noida police had selected the 25 personnel and sent them to MP for a commando training. “They have now joined back their duties in Noida. They have a black uniform and are equipped with safety gears. If required, they will be engaged in emergency situations like hostage and terror-like situations,” Gongulee said.While addressing the gathering after the parade, the police commissioner said that the GB Nagar police did a commendable job during the Covid-induced lockdown. “During the coronavirus outbreak, the police personnel worked as corona worriers by helping people get necessary grocery items, rushing patients to hospitals, making containment zones, and helping migrant workers, among others. In this process, three personnel also lost their lives to Covid-19 in the district,” he said.Singh accepted that the rise in cyber crime has really created a challenge to the police. “To deal with law and order issues, the police commissionerate system was launched on January 13, 2020. Now, SP/SSP level officer is heading different departments like cyber crime, women safety and the three zones of the district. The manpower and infrastructure have improved for better policing in Noida,” the CP said.Suresh Rana, UP minister for sugarcane development, attended the R-Day programme as chief guest. On behalf of the state government, Rana presented the platinum medal to the police commissioner for his excellent work. Kumar Ranvijay, addl DCP, Noida, was also conferred a platinum medal on the occasion. Besides, eight police personnel also received medals and cash prizes. On this occasion, the police also demonstrated its dog squad. The dog squad performed a mock murder scene in which a criminal killed a person and hid himself in the crowd. The police team and dog squad soon reached the spot after getting information and found the suspect’s shoe from the spot. A dog smelled the shoe for about one minute, and identified the suspect’s route. The dog swiftly took its handler to the suspect leading to his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-induct-special-commando-unit-on-republic-day-101611683125049.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority to build 10k flats under affordable housing scheme||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority has decided to construct 10,000 units under the Prime Minister affordable housing scheme in different sectors of the city, officials said on Tuesday.The authority will build the 10,000 units with the support from the private developers willing to take up the project. To make the project economically viable, the authority will allow the developers to use 10% of total housing project for commercial purpose to earn profit, the officials said. However, the authority is likely to conduct a survey beginning February 1 to first identify those, who are eligible and interested to take up these flats for use, they said.Also, the authority will offer additional floor area ration (FAR) in order to construct more units (other than EWS flats) so that the developer can earn revenue and deliver the affordable houses to people belonging to the economically weaker section, said the officials.“We will invite applications from the interested private developers next month and then the work on this project will begin,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.Under the scheme, the central government offers ₹1.5 lakh fund for one unit having a covered area of 30 square metres and the state government gives ₹1 lakh. The remaining expenditure will be borne by the developer or a group of developers, who will show interest in this project, the officials said.The authority has decided to allot group housing land in sectors 1, 2 and 3 in Greater Noida West. Though a developer will get to build additional units in a housing project to make profit, the EWS units should be at least 35% in the project, said the officials.The authority will give an opportunity to small developers, who can take up three, five and ten hectares to develop units. Small developers can also form a consortium and then take up the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-to-build-10k-flats-under-affordable-housing-scheme-101611682945022.html
26-01-2021||Noida||With drastic drop in bird population, waterbird census paints a grim picture of Dhanauri wetland||Noida:The Asian Waterbird Census -2021, which was held on Sunday, painted a grim picture of Dhanauri wetland — only seven Sarus cranes were spotted suggesting a drastic drop in the overall bird population. Ironically, the wetland – yet to be recognised by the government as a wetland and awaiting protection for the several years – had been proposed to be declared as a Sarus crane sanctuary and a Ramsar site or a wetland of international importancein 2017 by the district forest department.Located at Dankaur in Greater Noida, the wetland sprawls over 101.21 hectares, of which about 33 hectares was under water, as per a remote sensing exercise in 2015. However, as per this year’s survey, the wetland has witnessed a more than four times drop in its overall bird population since last year, prompting ecologists to raise concerns. On January 17, the waterbird census was conducted in the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, while Surajpur wetland saw the census on January 2. According to the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC), 2021, held by Wetlands International South Asia and the Gautam Budh Nagar district forest department on Sunday, only 48 species of water and water-dependent birds were spotted. A total of 1,344 birds —which included 20 resident species and 28 migratory species — were spotted during the day’s census. Last year in January 2020, the first ever AWC was held at Dhanauri and had found a total of 6,227 waterbirds belonging to 59 species, of which 21 were resident species and 38 were migratory species. The AWC-2021 recorded only four species listed on the Red List of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as threatened, against 11 of last year. The census also pointed out that the waterbody has shrunk and human intervention has led to heavy habitat loss. “The situation of Dhanuari is very critical and immediate remedial actions are required to save the habitat. Against spotting of 31 Sarus cranes last year, we spotted only seven this time. Sarus cranes are what Dhanauri is primarily famous for. Apart from this, the lake has virtually disappeared and only a small marshland or pond remains. Rest of the wetland area had been converted for agricultural use. Whatever water is left has also been largely covered by water hyacinth. The wetlands are fast shrinking with larger dried area turning into grassland. There is an open cattle grazing and human disturbance. It’s time that the wetland is protected before it’s too late,” said TK Roy, ecologist and conservationist, AWC. He said that the waterbirds are one of the key indicators of a wetland’s health with a good number indicating that the wetland has adequate feeding, resting, roosting and foraging spots. Asserting that they are aware and concerned about the deteriorating condition of Dhanauri wetland, the forest department officials stated that the prime reason for the current conditions was that the area was out of their jurisdiction. “We have initiated a process of recognising it. But that is a tedious task as it requires several surveys followed by land acquisition. Meanwhile, we have written to officials concerned in the authority to manage the area and also speed up the process to acquire land so we can declare it as a protected wetland,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar.According to the AWC-2021, the major winter migratory species that flock from central, north Asia included Common Teal ( migrates from north Asia), Northern Shoveler ( migrates from north Asia), Northern Pintail (migrates from north Asia), Greylag Goose (migrates from Central Asia), Bar-headed Goose (migrates from Central Asia), Gadwall (migrates from north Asia), Mallard (migrates from Central Asia), Pied Avocet (migrates from temperate Central Asia). The IUCN Red-listed threatened species recorded in the wetland included Black-tailed Godwit, Painted Stork, Sarus Crane and Black-headed Ibis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-drastic-drop-in-bird-population-waterbird-census-paints-a-grim-picture-of-dhanauri-wetland-101611682884988.html
26-01-2021||Gurugram||11 drones pressed into service to keep check on farmers’ rally in Gurugram||The police on Tuesday pressed 11 drones into service to monitor the farmers’ tractor rally at key points along their designated routes. The police said drones were to keep a check on anti-social elements as well as to streamline vehicular movement on roads. The drones were also used to check if anybody was carrying weapons to the protest.The drone teams coordinated with the traffic police at each intersection and also with their counterparts on the ground about farmers’ movement. Drones were deployed at Sehrawan, Dharuhera, Bilaspur, Manesar, Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sirhaul toll, Rajiv Chowk, Old City, near Kapashera border, Hero Honda Chowk, Farrukhnagar and Pataudi.Each drone was monitored by a team of four officials, headed by an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), with technical experts handling the controls.Nearly 4,000 police personnel, including deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and ACPs, were deployed at the key spots along the route taken by the farmers on Tuesday. The police said that this was the first time that so many drones were used to monitor a large-scale movement. The department owns one drone and had hired the rest from private agencies.Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Manesar), was seen monitoring the first drone at Manesar border near Sehrawan. He was checking the traffic movement, parking of trucks and placement of jersey barriers through the drone and instructed the placement of shipping containers to prevent the entry of farmers into Gurugram. “The drones came in handy and gave a distant view to know the exact movement of vehicles. We could monitor a distance of up to two kilometres and kept updating the personnel, who were on alert,” he said. The police said they decided to use drones for monitoring due to the long distances, as farmers started their march towards Manesar from Shahjahanpur in Alwar district at the Haryana-Rajasthan border, Sangwari Chowk in Rewari and Masani village, near Dharuhera. “We were expecting them to reach by 1pm but they got delayed and reached Manesar around 3.30pm as they were driving slow and were waiting for the farmers from Shahjahanpur, who started late. The police force coordinated well and passed timely information, which helped to manage the law and order situation,” said Yadav. Yadav was seen monitoring and passing information through wireless handsets, and was in constant touch with teams from Dharuhera and Bilaspur. “Drones also helped us for parking the trucks on the NH-8. We parked them on a stretch of at least two kilometres, as a security layer. Drivers were asked to park their trucks on the main carriageway and we did not allow any vehicle to pass. We were also recording the movement and were informing the PCR vans just before the rally was about to reach their point of jurisdiction,” he said. More than 300 vehicles had proceeded towards Manesar from multiple locations in Rewari and Dharuhera, to protest against the farm laws. The farmers carried out the tractor rally on two different routes skirting Manesar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/11-drones-pressed-into-service-to-keep-check-on-farmers-rally-in-gurugram-101611682585697.html
26-01-2021||Gurugram||Government employees felicitated for Covid-19 duties at Republic Day celebrations in Gurugram||Government employees, who actively performed their duties during the Covid-19 outbreak last year, were felicitated during the 72nd Republic Day ceremonies at Tau Devi Lal Stadium on Tuesday.Most of them were involved in the distribution of cooked meals and dry ration, while others provided technical support in managing Covid-19 portals and assisted migrants in returning home through trains and buses. They were felicitated by the state education minister, Kanwar Pal, who was the chief guest of the ceremony.Six Gurugram police officials were awarded appreciation certificates for maintaining law and order in containment zones and helping migrants. One police personnel, Ami Lal of the Gurugram crime branch, was felicitated for donating convalescent plasma over six times to seriously-ill Covid-19 patients. Lal had contracted Covid-19 last August and after recovery, helped 12 Covid-19 patients by donating plasma.Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) employees, who were actively involved in food distribution, and employees from the health department were also awarded certificates.The staff at Civil Hospital were also motivated by health officials on Tuesday to maintain vaccine coverage. “Staff who have been vaccinated were applauded at Civil Hospital in Sector 10 to motivate others who are hesitant to take the vaccine,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.At Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 38, amid the limited gathering as per the Covid-19 protocol, cultural performances by students and march past by six contingents took place. Students from a government school in Sushant Lok bagged the first prize for presenting a camaraderie of Telangana and Haryana dance form.Some of the notable programmes included an act on water conservation, sanitation and ecological restoration to create awareness by students from a Jacobpura school, and folk dances like Lazim. Students were awarded cash prizes amounting to ₹2.51 lakh, according to the district administration spokesperson.Among the marching contingents were Gurugram Police, Home Guards and National Cadet Corps. Various government departments presented tableaux — MCG reflected upon the work done to prevent transmission of coronavirus, efforts to combat air pollution and sanitation activities, village development showed the ongoing projects on water conservation, while the Red Cross, Earth Saviour Foundation, Bandhwari, and Sai Sewa Foundation highlighted the work done to take care of the elderly and stray dogs in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/government-employees-felicitated-for-covid-19-duties-at-republic-day-celebrations-in-gurugram-101611682586238.html
26-01-2021||Gurugram||Guest house sealed, unauthorised construction razed in Ardee City||The enforcement wing of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Monday sealed a guest house and razed excessive constructions at a house in Ardee City.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that an illegal guest house was sealed in Ardee City as it was operating in violation of rules. “Last week also, two guest houses were sealed and this drive will continue in the coming days,” he said, adding that excess construction was also removed from a house in Ardee City.Officials also visited three houses in Sushant Lok, where owners had complained of cracks developing in their houses due to constructions in adjacent buildings. A team of enforcement wing officials that conducted the inspection were responding to complaints lodged by residents at the CM Window.“Although this is a bilateral matter, we decided that a construction audit of these structures should be carried out by structural engineers so that corrective action can be taken. A report is being sought in this matter,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, who was part of the team.Enforcement officials said that in the last 10 days, they have resolved 40 complaints, related to illegal guest houses, excessive construction, encroachments and illegal colonies, lodged at the CM Window.In a related development, the DTCP has also directed developers of affordable housing projects, where the construction is going on at a slow pace, to expedite the work.DTCP officials said that a review meeting was held to check the status of affordable housing projects. Details obtained from the developers were discussed in detail and a report prepared on its basis. The department said that while the progress of a majority of the projects was satisfactory, construction was found to be less than 30% in many.“We have issued directions to the developers not to demand more money from buyers till they carry out construction to a reasonable level. A report in this regard has also been sent to the headquarters,” said Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner. He said that the department has also recommended higher authorities to link payments in affordable housing to construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/guest-house-sealed-unauthorised-construction-razed-in-ardee-city-101611682584988.html
26-01-2021||Gurugram||Commuters take long detours to reach Manesar, Gurugram||Hundreds of commuters who were on their way to Manesar, Gururgam and further towards Delhi on Tuesday were in for a tough time as they were forced to take a 40-kilometre detour through Jamalpur, via Sector 10, which connects Hero Honda Chowk to the National Highway-48, due to the farmers’ tractor rally.Families, with toddlers in one hand and trolley bags and suitcases in the other, were seen crossing the borders on foot as autorickshaws they had boarded were not allowed beyond Sehrawan in Manesar on Tuesday.Borders witnessed chaotic scenes with people trying to cross the barricades with heavy luggage. People from Gurugram and Delhi booked cabs at the Manesar border and walked on the service lanes to boarded their cars after crossing the border near the National Security Guard (NSG) campus gate.More than 250 people returning from Rajasthan were in for a shock as the bus they were travelling in dropped them at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, 55 kilometres away from Sehrawan in Manesar.Naveen Gope, a Delhi resident who was returning after a three-day trip to Jaisalmer in Rajasthan with his family and friends, said they were dismayed upon finding out that they had to travel 55 kilometres on foot. “Luckily, we saw an autorickshaw driver and requested to drop us at a point where we could find transport. He dropped us at Dharuhera, where we had to wait for an hour to get another transport. We had to change five vehicles to reach Sehrawan,” he said.Commuters said that autorickshaw drivers, sensing an opportunity to make a quick buck, charged them high fares. Some were charged as much as ₹600 for a drop to the border, a trip which usually costs ₹100, where they could board a bus.A Delhi resident, who was returning from a trip from Udaipur with his friends, said they walked from Shahjahanpur to Manesar. Eight persons, carrying bags on their shoulders, walked 55 kilometres with short breaks and had community lunches offered by the protesters on the route. “Thankfully, we were not carrying much luggage, else we would have been in trouble. We could not find any transport to reach Gurugram where our other friends were waiting since the morning to pick us. Never in our lives have we walked so many kilometres at a stretch. Had we known about these restrictions, we would have returned a day later,” said Simrat Singh, a final-year student of Delhi University.Many families who were travelling from Panchgaon were asked to take the Sohna route to reach Gururgam. They had to travel two extra hours to cover a stretch of 16 kilometres.Hitesh Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Manesar), said that the routes were already announced and the borders were sealed on Tuesday morning due to the farmers’ tractor rally. “Commuters were informed at other checkpoints as well not to enter Manesar, as both the carriageways were blocked. Still, many came to check the situation physically. Many commuters, who had arranged for vehicles in Manesar area, were allowed to cross the stretch on foot. Despite knowing the situation, people did not refrain from moving on this stretch,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/commuters-take-long-detours-to-reach-manesar-gurugram-101611682525545.html
26-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers’ tableaux portray constraints posed by farm laws||On the lines of the official Republic Day parade, the tractor rally led by farmers also featured tableaux depicting different themes related to farmers and their protest against the new farm laws.While the tractor march from Dharuhera was led by one tableau, farmers camping at Shahjahanpur had prepared tableaux from different states mounted on 27 tractors. Besides the state-specific tableaux, a special tableau dedicated to farmers who had died during the course of the agitation was also displayed by protesters from Shahjahanpur.According to the protesters at Dharuhera, their tableau was meant to demonstrate why they believed the three contentious farm laws were perilous. Amandeep Singh Godara, who stood on the tableau with a symbolic noose around his neck, said that the idea behind the tableau was to visually demonstrate that the farm laws had dealt a deathly blow to farmers.“We have a noose around our neck to show that the government’s actions and treatment of farmers are killing us. While farmers are unhappy and dying under the weight of debt, the government, corporations and pro-establishment media are celebrating our misery,” said Godara, who was dressed in a white dhoti-kurta and turban.A resident of Sirsa, Godara has been involved in the protests since November.Besides the noose, farmers on this tableau had placards affixed to their chests to portray that farmers, labour and small businessmen would suffer due to the three laws. Posters of peasant leader Chhotu Ram were also plastered on the tableaux.Saddam Hussain, a farmer from Hanumangarh, said that the tableaux were a visual demonstration that farmers were not free due to the constraints posed by the three laws.Each of the tableaux led by the farmers from Shahjahanpur included pictures of important cultural identifiers of different states, besides a special tableau dedicated to farmers who had died during the protests.Sanjay Madhav, state convener, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Rajasthan, said that the tableaux gave glimpses of the village life in different states. “ The tableaux encapsulated the sacrifices made by farmers who had died in the protests so far. Besides this special dedication, other tableaux were state-specific,” said Madhav.Protesters said that farmers from multiple states, including Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Kerala, took part in the tractor rally on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-tableaux-portray-constraints-posed-by-farm-laws-101611682526201.html
26-01-2021||Gurugram||Tractor rally goes off without a hitch in Gurugram||Thousands of farmers from different states who have been protesting at Shahjahanpur and Dharuhera against the farm laws took out a tractor rally on Tuesday via NH-48 on the Delhi-Jaipur highway amid heavy police presence. Unlike neighbouring Delhi, where clashes broke out between farmers and police, the march remained largely peaceful. An altercation between locals from Sidhrawali and protesting farmers did take place, but the police diffused the situation. The tractor march began from Masani barrage at Dharuhera and Shahjahanpur at the Haryana-Rajasthan border around 11am and continued till 7pm. Farmers drove on the Delhi-Jaipur expressway for nearly four to five hours to reach the Government Polytechnic at Manesar, near the NSG training centre, from where they took a U-turn to return to their respective protest sites. While farmers from Shahjahanpur covered nearly 56 kilometres, farmers from Dharuhera covered nearly 29 kilometres on their way to Manesar. Farmers from Mewat also took out a tractor march in the region from Sunehra border to Punhana to Pinangwa to Shikrawa and back to Punhana and Sunehra. Maulana Arshad Meel, who is spearheading the Haryana-Rajasthan Mewati Kisan Andalon (movement) protest at Sunehra-Junehra, said that they covered nearly 50 kilometres. “We can’t estimate but many thousands of people participated in the march today,” said Meel.To prevent farmers from marching beyond the designated points, the Gurugram police had placed around 150 concrete blocks, weighing 20 tonnes each, to erect a four-foot wall. Over 100 steel containers affixed with heavy bolts and steel chains were also placed on the highway to prevent movement of tractors, said officials. The police also used drones extensively to monitor the movement of protesters and the movement of traffic. A police PCR vehicle and large teams were deployed at each kilometre point. Around 2,000 police personnel were deployed at Sehrwan and 1,200 were deployed at Manesar. Resham Singh, a farmer from Hanumangarh, said that farmers stuck to their routes and peacefully returned to their protest sites. “We followed the routes and stayed patient despite being attacked by unknown people who threw stones on our convoy. I don’t think the arrangements made by the police were strict. They were not around when people threw stones at us. The march continued peacefully because of farmers. The police had no role to play in the successful conclusion of the march. “At Dharuhera, the march started after farmers paid tribute and hoisted the Tricolour flag at the site. Master Harish, 42, a farmer from Khera Khalilpur in Nuh, who arrived at the protest site in Dharuhera on Monday, said that the tractor march would make citizens understand and appreciate the role of farmers. “Farmers are running from pillar to post to get these farm laws repealed. These laws are against farmers and need to be opposed at all costs,” said Harish, who drove a tractor during the march. Kalwant Singh Bhullar, his companion on the tractor, chimed in agreement. A resident of Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, Bhullar said that the march is the need of the hour. “We feed the country. Be it harsh winter or summer, we toil hard to produce food. We will convince the government,” said Bhullar. Labh Singh, a farmer from Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, who has been camping at Shahjahanpur protest site since last December, said that the cavalcade of protesting farmers proceeded towards Manesar before returning. “Around 700-800 tractors took part in the tractor rally. The government should now understand that farmers will not give up on their demands. We will now wait for the government to repeal the three laws,” said Singh. Sanjay Madhav, state convener, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Rajasthan, said, “While it’s difficult to give a number, 1,500-2,000 tractors from our protest site joined the march today.” Sukhjeet Singh, a farmer from Padampur in Shri Ganganagar, said that things were bound to change after the tractor march. “We are fighting for the rights of common people,” said Singh. The Haryana Police had deployed nearly 4,000 personnel at Manesar, Sehrawan and Bilaspur crossing to keep a check on movement of the tractor rally. A U-turn for the protesters had been carved out at Sehrawan, a kilometre before the NSG camp in Manesar. Police officials said that a divider on the Delhi-Jaipur highway was moved to ensure that tractors could take a U-turn to return. “All the traffic movement was videographed and photographed. Police personnel with water cannon and teargas shells were deployed, but were asked to use these only if required,” said Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Manesar). Varun Singla, deputy commissioner of police, Gurugram, said that the police had hoisted two large banners of the national flag so that protesters could pay respect. “We also hoped that the farmers would respect the dignity of the national flag and refrain from agitation,” he said. The police did not allow commuters from Jaipur to enter Manesar the national highway and asked them to take a detour. Even locals who wanted to reach Manesar were forced to take long detours to reach their homes, as they had to go via Jamalpur. Astha Modi, DCP (headquarters), said, “The teams managed law and order well and rally was carried out in Gurugram and Farrukhnagar. The KMP was closed on Tuesday morning by the Jhajjar police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/tractor-rally-goes-off-without-a-hitch-in-gurugram-101611682524998.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||R-Day weekend shopping therapy: Sale, discounts were a hit||For sale is the best time to shop is nothing new. But during Covid times when people have taken to online shopping more than ever before, what’s best than to shop at discounted prices over long weekend? Any shopaholic would agree! And this Republic Day, that’s what exactly happened. Most took maximum advantage of heavy discounts available at websites online and physical stores, too. Wait was worthwhile“I was eagerly waiting for the Republic Day weekend sale to buy a pair of wireless earphone and a smart watch since discounts on electronics are quite luring around this time. Even before the pandemic I used to shop mostly online since it’s convenient. But now, not just me even my parents prefer shopping online and have abandoned their old demands of going to various shops to check out the best prices available. Though online shopping we have ordered electronics, apparels, footwear and even groceries! Prompt service and a range of options with an added advantage of minimal contact has made online shopping comfortable and preferred choice for most during the last few months,” says Ritika Vaswani, a Delhi-based corporate employee. More discounts, more funKhusbhoo Wadhva, a homemaker, says she got great deals online this time around, even more than last year. She says, “For was my mother’s birthday, which went by recently, I bought everything online. I ordered for her a sweater, a hoodie and a jacket. In fact before ordering online, I went to a mall nearby my house and on checking out the discounts there I felt that the offers available online are definitely better. And the bill I paid this time around is lesser than what I had to shell out of my pocket last year around the same time. That’s a win-win situation for me!” Less crowded malls were a reliefUsually every year what makes news is the high number of shoppers who turn up at malls to avail discounts. But this time around, some shoppers say that they felt comfortable on witnessing lesser people since it allowed them to feel safe and follow Covid guidelines. Upasana Arora, an artist and designer, says, “I bought a pair of lounge wear, shoes and body mists from the Republic Day sale going on. I spent around ₹3,500 and am really happy with the discounted prices at which I bought these! I had a great time shopping at the mall as it was much less crowded unlike previous years when it used to be a struggle to even find a parking on January 26!”A Delhi-based pilot, Tej Pratap Singh Sandhu, adds, “I purchased trousers and some clothing for my wife, which was billed at about ₹5,000. I also bought some make-up for her. All this was possible for us to do because the mall wasn’t too crowded; may be because I went on the first day of Republic Day sale. But almost all stores had some or the other offer that made us save a lot. It was great fun to shop mark down.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-weekend-shopping-therapy-sale-discounts-were-a-hit-101611682167677.html
26-01-2021||Pune||Maharashtra CM inaugurates jail tourism in Pune||The "jail tourism" initiative was inaugurated by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray through video conferencing at Pune's Yerawada Central Jail on Tuesday. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar was present at the prison premises on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day.The launch of the event was done by 10 students from Genba Sopanrao Moze Vidyalay, chaperoned by three teachers, and were among the first few tourists at the jail premise.“Now one doesn’t need to commit a crime to visit the jail. Instead of “jail bharo”, people can now indulge in “jail firo”. This book by Balasaheb Thackeray describes the jails of yesteryears often described as containers with phenyl, aluminium cutlery with some space to sleep. That cutlery served all kinds of purposes,” said Uddhav Thackeray while speaking through video conference.He also reminisced the historical importance of the jail premise where the revolutionary Chapekar brothers were sent to the gallows for the murder of British official WC Rand and his security escort for their brutalities on citizens of Pune during the plague in the 1890s. The same yard where the Chapekar brothers were hung for their crimes was also where Ajmal Kasab, convicted in the 26/11 Mumbai terrorist attacks, was hanged to death.Also read: As tractor rally turns violent in Delhi, what farmers want“Nana Patole and Aditya Thackeray had spoken about expanding tourism in Maharashtra only days before this proposal was put forth. State home minister Anil Deshmukh came up with the unique idea and came to my house one fine day to put it across. ADG (prisons) Sunil Ramanand told me about the places where various freedom fighters were imprisoned. 150 years is not a short period. Even today, it is a specimen of an architecture. Balasaheb Thackeray had also been to this jail. He had written to Late Meena Tai. I happened to come across that letter recently,” said Ajit Pawar.The prison had been home to freedom fighters like Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Motilal Nehru, Sarojini Naidu, and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel during the freedom struggle of India."We visited the Gandhi yard, Nehru yard, the fashi (hanging) yard, and witnessed the history that we teach our children. It was an experience that brought those lessons to life," said Nathu Jagdale, teacher at Moze school.Local legislator Sunil Tingre, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, ADGP (prison) Sunil Ramanand, and police commissioner Amitabh Gupta were also present during the inauguration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-cm-inaugurates-jail-tourism-in-pune-101611678933937.html
26-01-2021||City||Andhra couple, who killed daughters to appease supernatural powers, sent to jail||A local court in Madanapalle in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Tuesday remanded a couple to 14-day judicial custody. The husband-wife duo is accused of killing their two daughters allegedly to appease supernatural forces.Malluru Purushottam Naidu, vice-principal of the local government women’s degree college, and his wife Padmaja, a gold medallist in mathematics who also runs an IIT-coaching institute in the town, were moved to Madanapalle sub-jail later in the evening.The killings took place on Sunday and the police have been grilling the couple for the last two days to find out the actual reason for the murder of their daughters – Alekhya (27), a post-graduate in forest management and Sai Divya (23), an MBA pursuing music course at KM Music Conservatory in Chennai. The couple allegedly performed some strange pujas for several days at their residence.Also read: Farmers' body Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls off tractor rally with immediate effectIn the afternoon, the police moved them to Madanapalle government hospital for Covid-19 testing before taking them to the police station and then to the court. However, Padmaja refused to cooperate with the police for conducting a medical examination.“She went hysterical while going to the hospital. She claimed herself to be an incarnation of Lord Shiva and that she had poison in her throat, and so, there was no need for conducting any Covid-19 test on her,” Madanapalle inspector of police Srinivasulu said.She went on saying that she had already driven away Covid-19 from her. “Shiva is back, work is done. I am Shiva,” she screamed.The police inspector said as Padmaja refused to enter the hospital, the doctors came out and took her throat swab sample at the police van. Later, the police took the couple to the police station for formal registration of the case.On Monday evening, the bodies of the two daughters were cremated at the local crematorium. While Padmaja did not turn up for the cremation, Naidu lit the pyre. “We unnecessarily killed our own daughters. We don’t deserve to live,” he lamented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/andhra-couple-kills-daughters-to-appease-supernatural-powers-sent-to-jail-101611675542043.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||'Maharashtra handled farmers' stir maturely': Pawar jabs Centre over Delhi clash||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra, comprising parties like Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), have condemned the violence by the farmers in Delhi, at the same time also put its onus on the Central government for its mishandling of the farmers protests at the Delhi borders.Former Union agriculture minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar blamed the Centre for the violence in the national capital. “No one will support such violence but then the question arises who forced them to indulge in such acts? It was squarely the responsibility of the Central government to talk to the farmers and solve this impasse,” he said.Also read: Farmers' body Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls off tractor rally with immediate effect“From the last 60 days, these farmers from Punjab and Haryana were sitting patiently at the Delhi borders asking for the farm laws to be withdrawn but the government displayed no serious intentions to solve this matter,” said Pawar. He warned the government to deal with the matter maturely or have Punjab slip into a state of anarchy.Pawar lauded Maharashtra government for handling the farmers' protest. “There was a farmers' protest in Mumbai as well but the state handled it very sensitively and in a mature manner. The Central government should have done the same with the tractors rally,” said Pawar.He said using force will not achieve anything. “Even now, the government needs to sit down with the farmers and initiate a dialogue to solve this issue. If the government feels it can achieve its goals by using violence then it’s mistaken,” he added.State Congress chief and Maharashtra revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat also pinned the violence on the Modi government. “The farmers have been camping from the last 60 days but the Central government was just wasting time instead of indulging in serious talks. Besides, the government was branding the protesters as ‘Khalistanis’. Such actions forced the protesters to the wall,” accused Thorat.The protesting farmers on Tuesday clashed with the police at several places in Delhi and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO area in the heart of the national capital. Hundreds of them deviated from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and fire tear gas.The Shiv Sena was quick to taunt the BJP-led Central government. “This is one of the blackest days in the history of India. Now, the question is why did the farmers lose their patience? Had this incident occurred anywhere else, they (read BJP), would have demanded resignations from Sharad Pawar, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee or even from Uddhav Thackeray, now whose resignation will they demand? questioned Sena MP Sanjay Raut. “The Central government needs to introspect,” he added, saying that there was a farmers' rally in Mumbai as well which was handled efficiently by the MVA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cong-ncp-sena-condemn-violence-slam-centre-for-mishandling-farmers-protest-101611673866206.html
26-01-2021||City||Ahead of civic and panchayat polls, BJD to hold sports tournaments to woo youths||Ahead of the civic polls later this year and gram panchayat polls next year, Odisha's ruling Biju Janata Dal is planning to organise football and cricket tournaments from panchayat to the district level in places where its base is under siege from the BJP.Beginning February 8 and 9, the party would host football and cricket tournaments respectively at tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district under the name of Mayurbhanj Premier League and then follow up with similar tournaments in the districts of Koraput, Malkangiri, Kalahandi and Nuapada. In all these districts, the BJP is proving to be its biggest challenger.BJP MLA Pranab Balabantray unveiled the logo, jersey and trophy for the Mayurbhanj Premier League at a function held at Baripada town. He said the party will later extend the programme to other districts after witnessing the success of the MPL. "The chief minister would launch some programmes to platform to the budding talents," said BJD MLA Amar Satpathy.At least 32 teams will be formed in every district for the premier league. The party has appointed an observer to select players who will take part in the tournaments. The tournaments will be organised by the youth and students wings of the BJD without the party's election symbol of conch and will carry the picture former chief minister Biju Patnaik.Also read: Amit Shah orders deployment of additional paramilitary forces in DelhiThe hosting of such tournaments comes in the wake of the state government building a brand-new hockey stadium - the largest in the country - in the steel city of Rourkela of Sundargarh district. With a seating capacity of 20,000, the stadium to be built on 15 acres of land will act as the second venue for the 2023 Hockey World Cup alongside the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar.Incidentally, the districts where the BJD is promoting sports are the places where the BJP is seeing an upsurge in its electoral fortunes. In Mayurbhanj district, the BJP won the Lok Sabha seat in 2019 general elections as well as 6 of the 9 assembly seats. In 2017 panchayat polls, the BJP had won 49 of the 56 zilla parishad seats. Similarly, in Sundargarh district, the BJP had won 3 of the 7 assembly seats and the lone Lok Sabha seat. In Malkangiri district too, it won one of the 2 seats.Describing the tournament as another poll gimmick, BJP spokesperson Golak Mohapatra said the BJD usually comes up with such ideas to garner public support just before the elections. "These announcements come just before the elections. In 2019 elections, the BJD had given mobile phones to youths in the name of Biju Yuva Bahini and distributed crickets bats and balls, but once the elections are over, the party doesn’t remember the youngsters who worked for them during the polls,” said Mohapatra.However, BJD leader Subrat Chhatoi said there was no politics in holding such tournaments. "If the BJD is holding such tournaments it is only to help youngsters," he said.Political analysts said the new plan may not succeed as the youths in these districts want employment rather than sops.“It is doubtful if the youths in these districts can be wooed with football and cricket tournaments. At best, they are just short-term measures," said Gyana Ranjan Swain, political science professor at Gangadhar Meher University in Sambalpur. "The government should instead focus on creating a culture of sports across schools and colleges through various schemes."Political analyst Rabi Das said youngsters and students were seen inclining towards the BJP during last elections. "So, the programme might be a plan of the BJD to revalidate its support base among youth mass. At a time when youths are in a dire need of job, the plan of the ruling party may not yield many fruits,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-civic-and-panchayat-polls-bjd-to-hold-sports-tournaments-to-woo-youths-101611669664251.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally drops to 157||Delhi on Tuesday reported 157 new cases of Covid-19, pushing its total tally to 6,34,229. This was the fifth consecutive day that the national capital recorded less than 200 Covid-19 cases in a day. However, Tuesday’s numbers marked a slight increase from the 148 cases that were reported on Monday.Delhi has been witnessing a steady decline in daily caseload of the coronavirus disease for a few weeks now. The positivity rate has also dipped to 0.24%.Th157 fresh cases were detected from the 64,973 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, according to Delhi government's health department. Out of these, 36,236 were RT-PCR tests and 28,737 antigen.The death toll reached 10,820 after seven more fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the daily bulletin released by the health department.The government bulletin also stated that 102 beds in the Covid care centers are occupied by individuals who have been placed under quarantine following repatriation flights. While some 703 individuals are currently placed in home isolation.Currently, inoculations are underway in Delhi across 81 vaccination centres where 7,408 healthcare workers of the originally targeted 8,100 have received a shot of either Covaxin or Covishield vaccines, two vaccines currently approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Monday witnessed an all-time record of vaccinations, as 6 of Delhi’s 11 districts recorded turnouts over 90%.India reported 9,102 cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, the lowest in 237 days. The total number of recovered cases now stands at 1.03 crore (1,03,45,985) as of Tuesday, which translates to a recovery Rate of 96.90 per cent, one of the highest in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-s-daily-covid-19-tally-drops-to-157-101611668120477.html
26-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal farmers hold mammoth rallies; TMC, Congress condemn Delhi Police||While chaotic scenes at the tractor rally held by Punjab farmers in the national capital drew the attention of the nation, in poll-bound Bengal, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Congress condemned the Delhi Police and announced agitation across the state. The Left parties and members of the Sikh community on Tuesday successfully held rallies in the districts and Kolkata.“We condemn the baton charge on farmers and use of tear gas shells by the Delhi Police. We will organise protests in all districts on Wednesday,” said Becharam Manna, president of the TMC’s peasants’ front and legislator from Haripal in Hooghly district.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee took to the social media to offer her support to the farmers."Deeply disturbed by worrying & painful developments that have unfolded on the streets of Delhi. Centre's insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers & sisters has to be blamed for this situation. First, these laws were passed without taking farmers in confidence. And then despite protests across India & farmers camping near Delhi for last 2 months, they've been extremely casual in dealing with them. Centre should engage with the farmers & repeal the draconian laws," her tweet read.In Hooghly, a long agitation against acquisition of farm land by the erstwhile Left Front government for the Tata Motors small car plant at Singur helped chief minister Mamata Banerjee oust the 34-year-long rule of the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led coalition in 2011. Ratan Tata had to shift the project to Sanand in Gujarat. Another land movement was led by her at Nandigram in East Midnapore district.Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury announced that his party would hold a road blockade in Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon in protest against Delhi Police's action.Also read: 'Violence by some elements unacceptable', says Punjab CM Amarinder SinghThe peasants' front of the CPI(M) and other Left parties held rallies with tractors, motorcycles, auto-rickshaws and cars across all 23 districts, demanding withdrawal of the Centre's recent farm laws. Farmers also walked for kilometres in long processions.The rallies of the Left parties started after the government's official programmes on the occasion of Republic Day. The biggest rallies were seen in East Burdwan, Hooghly, Murshidabad and East Midnapore districts.Amal Haldar, senior peasants' front leader of the CPI(M) said, “More than 600 tractors and two thousand motorcycles took part in the rally that passed through Burdwan town. This is the biggest farmers’ protest in the state’s recent history.”Top CPI(M) leaders, including Bengal Left Front chairman Biman Bose and CPI(M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, led a huge roadshow in the heart of Kolkata along with leaders of and supporters of other Left parties on Tuesday afternoon.Videos of the Left rallies went viral on social media.Members of the Sikh community took out rallies with cars and SUVs and drove past the state headquarters of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in central Kolkata.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been supporting the farmers of Punjab ever since they started the agitation outside Delhi. Banerjee even sent Derek O'Brien, the TMC's leader in the Rajya Sabha, and some other MPs to interact with the agitators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-farmers-hold-mammoth-rallies-tmc-congress-condemn-delhi-police-101611662209105.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||AAP says violence has weakened the farmers’ movement, condemns attack||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has been supporting the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, condemned the violent protests on Tuesday and also blamed the Central government for “allowing” Delhi’s law and order situation to deteriorate from bad to worse.In a statement issued by the party, the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP said the violence has only weakened the farmers’ protest.“We strongly condemn the violence seen in today [Tuesday]’s protest. It is regrettable that the Central government allowed the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. The movement has been peaceful for the last two months,” said the party in its statement.Also Read: Anti-social elements infiltrated peaceful protest: Farm union condemns violence“Farmer leaders have said that those who indulged in violence today were not part of the movement and were external elements. Whoever they were, the violence has certainly weakened the movement which was going on so peacefully and in a disciplined manner,” the AAP said.Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal has visited the protesting farmers at the Singhu border at least twice. He visited the border on December 7 to review the arrangements made for them by the Delhi government which included tents and sanitation facilities.On December 8, when the protesting farmers had called for a Bharat Bandh, Kejriwal had alleged that he wanted to visit the farmers at Singhu but was instead put on “house arrest” by the Delhi Police.On December 27, he visited Singhu border again to participate at a cultural event organised by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-says-violence-has-weakened-the-farmers-movement-condemns-attack-101611663143914.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Tractor overturns at Delhi-Noida border, farmers put it back in no time||A tractor with two farmers on it overturned during a stunt at the Delhi-Noida border on Tuesday morning, as scores of protesters gathered here for demonstration against the new farm laws.The tractor was being driven in a circular path at a high speed when it lost balance and overturned, while the two persons on board got minor injuries during the act at the Chilla border in the morning.The sight of the overturned tractor, bearing a tricolour and a flag of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), was short lived as several protesters came together to put the vehicle back on its four tyres.A police official said there was no law and order situation at the site, as security personnel were deployed in large numbers and monitoring intensified in view of Republic Day.Members of BKU (Bhanu) are staying put at the Chilla border since December 1, demanding withdrawal of the three new central farm laws and legalisation of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tractor-overturns-at-delhi-noida-border-farmers-put-it-back-in-no-time-101611659323901.html
26-01-2021||Lucknow||On Republic Day, time capsule buried to mark 100 years of AMU||A 1.5 tonne time capsule encapsulating the history of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) history spanning over a century was buried 30 feet deep in the park opposite Victoria Gate during Republic Day celebrations to mark the university’s eventful centenary year on Tuesday.The historic cache of information built with high tempered steel for communication with future generations contains a copy of Sir Syed Album (by Khaliq Ahmad Nizami); essays and speeches related to the Mohammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh from 1875 to 1919 (compiled by Nawab Mohsin ul Mulk); History of MAO College, Aligarh (by Theodore Morrison); The Life and Work of Syed Ahmad Khan (by GFI Graham); Glimpses of Muslim Education in India, Vol. 1 and 2 (By Prof Shan Mohammad); The Aligarh Muslim University ACT XL of 1920 and Statutes of the University; Syed Ahmad Khan (by Prof KA Nizami); Jahan-e-Syed (by Prof Mohammad Asim Siddiqui and Dr Rahat Abrar); Hayat-e-Jawed (by Altaf Husain Hali-Urdu); Hayat-e-Jawed (translated by Prof Rafi Ahmad Alavi in English; Hayat-e-Jawed (translated by Dr Rajeev Lochan Naath Shukl in Hindi); History of MAO College, Aligarh (by SK Bhatnagar); Convocation Address by Dr APJ Abdul Kalam; Convocations at a Glance (1922-2018); Mohammadan Anglo-Oriental College Calendar (1911-1912); Aligarh Muslim University Calendar (1932); AMU Diary 2020; a single colour print out of Aligarh Muslim University Campus’ satellite image captured by Cartosat-2 on 28 October, 2018; list of chancellors and vice-chancellors of AMU; chronological history of AMU by Dr Rahat Abrar (1920-2020); postal stamp and speech of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the centenary celebrations on December 22, 2020.Also Read: On Republic Day, AMU to bury time capsule: Here’s what you need to know“This time capsule is for the benefit of future generations and includes the salient features of the glorious history of AMU,” said AMU vice-chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor, while presiding over the online function.He added that the most modern methods of preservation have been used. Mansoor pointed out that the line of demarcation between prehistoric and historical times is crossed when people cease to live only in the present, and become consciously interested both in their past and future.“History begins with the handing down of tradition; and tradition means the carrying of the habits and lessons of the past into the future,” said the vice-chancellor, emphasising the need of keeping the records of the past for the future.Quoting George Santayana, the vice-chancellor said, “Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.”Meanwhile, he also said that a committee has been constituted to sort out the modalities for excavating a capsule buried on January 8, 1877 by Lord Lytton (the then Viceroy and Governor General of India) during the foundation stone ceremony of the MAO College.He also spoke on the works of 5th Century BC historians, Herodotus and Thucydides, who helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history and the meticulous methods of Egyptians for preserving history. The vice-chancellor extended thanks to the time capsule committee members, AMU registrar, Abdul Hamid (IPS), Prof Mirza Faisal S Baig (chairman, Department of Mechanical Engineering), Prof MK Pundhir (Department of History), Dr Rahat Abrar (former director, Urdu Academy), Rajiv Kumar Sharma (university engineer), Dr Mohd Shahid (deputy director, Sir Syed Academy), Prof Ishrat Alam (chairman, Department of History), Dr Mohammad Yusuf (university librarian), Dr Mohammad Nadeem (Department of Computer Science), Dr Mohd Irfan (Department of Museology), Dr Rizwan Ahmad (Department of Remote Sensing and GIS Applications), Dr Parvez Mehmood (director, Computer Centre) and Mr Phool Chand Gond (IIT Kanpur). AMU registrar Abdul Hamid conducted the programme and highlighted the work of the time capsule committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/on-republic-day-time-capsule-buried-to-mark-100-years-of-amu-101611659003409.html
26-01-2021||Jaipur||'Farmers’ movement arisen from distrust': Ashok Gehlot||Launching a scathing attack on the central government, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the farmers are protesting for over two months, this has never happened in the history of the country. “The annadata (farmers) are insulted. Who has given them the right?” he said.The farmers are on dharna (protest) for the last two months, which is an unfortunate situation and not in the country’s interest, he added. "The annadata is not being heard and their sentiments aren’t understood, this is unfortunate. In such chilly weather, they are protesting and taking out tractor rally," Gehlot said.Addressing newspersons, he said, “The demands can be made by any section and there can be a way out. But the process adopted was faulty since the beginning… in Parliament also, the opposition wasn’t heard and had they submitted the matter to select committee, the opinion of farmers could be taken. The basic reason of this situation is distrust.”"In a democracy doesn’t government change its decisions? Changing or withdrawing decisions in view of public sentiments shows a big heart. Tomorrow, a new law could be brought after talks with farmers, but their approach shows they do not believe in democracy. Around 150 people got killed and had they believed in democracy, their thoughts had not been fascist and such a situation would not be there," said Gehlot.Also read: Farmer part of rally dies, protesters allege cops fired at his tractorWhen asked if the central government is afraid of Congress getting the credit, he said neither the farmers' organization, nor we want to politicise the movement.Gehlot went on to say that such a situation has come in the country where there is pressure on all institutions such as the judiciary, the CBI, IT and income tax department. "Conspiracies are done to topple the governments – earlier it was Goa, Manipur then Arunachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh - but they failed in Rajasthan as the public here was united," Gehlot stated.In a democracy, expressing disagreement should be welcomed but here if you disagree with the views of the government, then you are a traitor. These situations have been created inside the country, said Gehlot.The CM also appealed to the farmers to maintain peace and not resort to violence. He said there is no place for violence in democracy. “The farmers’ movement has been peaceful till now. There is an appeal to the farmers to maintain peace and not to commit violence. Violence has no place in democracy,” he tweeted.He said instances of violence will translate into the success of such forces that are trying to make the farmers' movement unsuccessful.On leader of opposition, Gulab Chand Kataria's claims, Gehlot said the BJP do not have much to say and they failed as the opposition. Kataria had said that the state government will topple if a cabinet shuffle takes place. Gehlot said such statements by the LoP and others are just to establish themselves in the party.“I have never seen the kind of disputes and infights there are in the BJP today. All are competing with each other and it's visible,” he said.BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the Central government constantly held dialogues with the farmers and even agreed to some of their demands. The government also proposed to suspend the new laws for one and a half years but the farmers leaders were misled by the Congress and some farmer leaders stayed adamant.He said the BJP in Rajasthan is united and the Congress will face defeat in the upcoming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/farmers-movement-arisen-from-distrust-ashok-gehlot-101611657869634.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Mobile internet suspended for 12 hrs at 5 protest sites in Delhi||With the farmers’ tractor rally turning violent on Tuesday, the Central government has ordered suspension of internet services for 12 hours at five border points of Delhi to ensure public safety. In an order issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, the Central government has suspended telecom services at Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk and Nangloi areas of Delhi. The order issued by deputy secretary (MHA) Shailendra Vikram Singh stated that even the adjoining areas of these five protest hubs will witness temporary suspension of internet services.Also read | Farmers’ tractor rally throws Delhi traffic out of gear“In exercise of the power conferred by Section 7n of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, read with sub-rule 1 of Rule 2 of the temporary suspension of telecom services (public emergency or public safety) rules 2017, and in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency it is necessary and expedient to order, the temporary suspension of internet services in the areas of Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk and Nangloi and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 12.00 hours to 23.59 hours on January 26, 2021,” read the order issued on Tuesday afternoon. The order was issued with the approval of the Union home secretary.The tractor parade planned on Republic Day as a symbol of farmers’ demand to repeal the three controversial farm laws turned violent and continues to be volatile.The last time Delhi saw such temporary internet service suspension was during the north-east Delhi riots in February last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tractor-rally-mobile-internet-suspended-for-12-hrs-at-5-protest-sites-in-delhi-101611657743153.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccination crosses lakh mark in Haryana||As Haryana recorded 894 coronavirus infections last week (Jan 18-24), the weekly climb has come down for the first time in eight months. The last time the state saw a three-figure weekly infection mark was in mid-May last year.The infection curve has thus continued with its flattening trend for a successive ninth week.The state, on Monday, also crossed the lakh-mark in terms of coronavirus vaccination.Additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora said that 33,215 healthcare workers (HCWs) were inoculated on January 25, a day designated as Covid-19 Vaccination Day by the state health department.“We are set to complete vaccination of about 1.9 lakh registered HCWs except those who cannot be given the vaccine as per guidelines (pregnant and lactating women, persons allergic to any vaccine). As on January 25, Haryana has vaccinated 1,05,401 HCWs. In the coming days, all the registered and eligible beneficiaries will be vaccinated,’’ the ACS said.Only 4 districts have critical positivity rateMeanwhile, only four districts in the state now have a critical positivity rate of more than 6%. Panipat is the latest to exit from the critical category, while Jhajjar with a positivity rate of 2.1% for a second consecutive week remained on the brink of entering the desirable positivity rate category of less that 2%, according to health department statistics.The sample positivity rate of the state further declined to 5.3 %. The case fatality rate stayed at 1.1 % and recovery rate was 98.3 %, as per the health department data.Faridabad’s positivity rate came down to 9.3%, Gurugram’s dropped to 7.9% and Panchkula’s to 6.7 %. Rewari’s positivity rate stayed put at 7.6 %.Sixteen districts – Panipat, Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Mahendergarh, Sonepat, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Yamunanagar, Palwal, Jind, Kaithal and Jhajjar – have a positivity rate of 6% or less but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Charkhi Dadri (1.3%) and Nuh (1%) continued to maintain their desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for the ninth week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccination-crosses-lakh-mark-in-haryana-101611656183411.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Tractor rally violence: Internet services snapped in parts of Delhi-NCR||Internet services were suspended on Tuesday afternoon in several areas of Delhi and NCR after the violence which erupted during the ongoing farmers' tractor rally in the national capital. An official statement issued by the Union home ministry (MHA) said that internet was suspended in Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk and Nangloi and adjoining areas."In exercise of the power conferred by section 7 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 read with sub-rule 1 of Rule 2 of the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) rules 2017, and in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency, it is necessary and expedient to order, the temporary suspension of internet services in the areas of Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk and Nangloi and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 12:00 Hrs to 23:59 Hrs on January 26, 2021," the MHA statement read.Also Read| Clashes, vandalism, tractors on roads: How farmers' march turned violentEarlier, the market association in Connaught Place had advised all shopkeepers to keep their stores closed on Tuesday with New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA) chief Atul Bhargava adding that although Republic Day was a day of peak sales for traders but safety of all was important so it was better to remain closed today. “We have asked the outlets, which would have opened by now, to close down,” Bhargava told news agency PTI.The tractor rally which was supposed to be taken out in Delhi in a peaceful manner on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day turned violent as the protesting farmers deviated from the planned routes and clashed with the police personnel in a bid to move towards central Delhi. The farmers were seen breaking through the barricades at several places, including Tikri and Singhu border areas with police resorting to tear gas to disperse them off. A protesting farmer lost his life during the scuffle after his tractor overturned on the DDU Marg near ITO in central Delhi. Protesters alleged that police fired at his tractor which led to the mishap.Also Watch| Protesting farmers clash with cops, storm Red Fort on tractorsMeanwhile, the Delhi Police had issued an alert all across and ordered officers to beef up security at the Rashtrapati Bhavan and residences of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Bajial. It also issued a traffic advisory where it urged commuters to avoid NH 44, GTK road, outer ring road, Signature bridge, GT road, ISBT ring road, Vikas marg, ITO and other such areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/internet-services-snapped-in-some-parts-of-delhi-ncr-due-to-farm-stir-violence-101611655900259.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Dealing with protesting farmers tightrope walk : Haryana DGP||Haryana Police chief Manoj Yadava has said that police have been managing the farmers’ protest through dialogue, better intelligence, preventive steps, and keeping an element of surprise in the movement of VIPs. Excerpts from an interview:How well is the state police force prepared to deal with the farmers’ protest? There is a strong presence of the police force on the ground. We have been on the job for almost two months now and have been able to maintain the situation with continuous dialogue. The march on KMP Expressway went off smoothly. So far, the situation has been managed through a combination of firmness and continuous dialogue. While respecting the farmers’ right to protest, we have made efforts aimed at confidence building measures. We are ready for a long haul.Are you seeking more central forces from the MHA keeping in view the escalation in number of protesters and vehicles?More central forces are on the way. In fact, 10 more companies of the central paramilitary forces (CPMF) arrived on Monday. These are in addition to 35 companies of CPMFs we already got (each company has 85 personnel). The more the protest intensified, the more boots on the ground we got.The police advisory cautioned on vehicular movement for three days on Delhi-bound national highways and expressways? Are there any measures in place to deal with the travel plans for case of medical emergency?There are multiple routes to reach Delhi. One can travel through Uttar Pradesh or go via Rohtak and Jhajjar to Gurugram. Though these will be longer routes and will consume more time. We have advised against movement on the KMP e-way as it will get clogged due to the return traffic of tractors once they finish the loop approved by the Delhi Police.Ruling party politicians have blamed the police for not controlling the mob during the Kaimla kisan mahapanchayat in Karnal? How is the police supposed to control agitating crowds without using force?It is a difficult situation. The government has given clear directions to the police to act in a restrained manner. It’s a tightrope walk for Haryana police. We are managing the situation through dialogue, better intelligence, preventive steps, and keeping an element of surprise in the movement of the VIPs. For over two months of agitation, we have tried to engage with the farmer leaders. The Kaimla episode was not a happy one for us. The only positive was that no one was injured or killed. We are trying to do our best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dealing-with-protesting-farmers-tightrope-walk-haryana-dgp-101611655222581.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Connaught Place to remain shut as farmers’ tractor rally turns violent||With farmers’ protest turning violent and protesters gathering at ITO, the market association in Connaught Place has advised traders to keep the shops closed on Tuesday.Members of the New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA) in Connaught Place said the initial plan was to open the market by 1.30 pm.“The police advised us to keep the shops closed. Usually, we opened the market in the afternoon on Republic Day as a lot of people visited us. But looking at the situation in Delhi, we have decided to keep the market closed...“It is a day of peak sales for traders but safety of everyone is important so it is better to remain closed today,” said NDTA president Atul Bhargava. Also read | Farmers’ tractor rally throws Delhi traffic out of gear“We have asked the outlets, which would have opened by now, to close down,” he told PTI.Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in Delhi and entered the Red Fort and ITO in the heart of national Capital, with hundreds of them deviating from the pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathicharge and tear gas. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/connaught-place-to-remain-shut-as-farmers-tractor-rally-turns-violent-101611654995231.html
26-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal: Good people can’t work in TMC, says Hooghly district MLA; quits posts||Making things worse for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Bengal’s Hooghly district where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made deep inroads in 2019 and wrested a Lok Sabha seat, Prabir Ghosal, the ruling party MLA from Uttarpara on Tuesday spoke out against the leadership and quit the posts of district core committee member and spokesperson. “Party leaders who are eager to work for the people are always stopped by a coterie in the TMC. I have been raising several issues related to development since the Lok Sabha polls but nothing has been done. A road in my constituency, for example, is lying incomplete for a long time. I am quitting the district core committee and the post of district spokesperson,” Ghosal said at a press conference on Tuesday afternoon. Asked whether he would join the BJP, Ghosal said, “I have no such plans yet.” Also Read: Cases drop, Bengal’s Covid Warrior Club faces uncertain futureGhosal immediately drew the ire of the TMC after he said at the press conference that Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP in December, was only second to Mamata Banerjee as an organiser. He also described former forest minister Rajib Banerjee, who quit the cabinet last week, as “an honest person who did a lot of good work”. The TMC leadership cautioned Ghosal and issued a show-cause notice. “I am hearing it from journalists. I have not received any letter or message till now,” Ghosal said around 2pm. Kalyan Banerjee, TMC Lok Sabha MP from Serampore in Hooghly district, said, “Ghosal is a two-headed snake. Those who want to work for the masses find work in all circumstances. He stays home all the time.” Ghosal is a veteran journalist and is known to be close to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He left his profession and joined politics on the eve of the 2016 assembly elections just like former Indian cricketer Laxmi Ratan Shukla, who left the TMC on January 5, saying he wants to return to sports. Shukla was the minister of state for sports and youth affairs and was elected from Howrah district, where he lives. Ghosal, on the other hand, was nominated from Uttarpara where his family is well known. Ghosal said he recently witnessed dirty politics to stop him from being invited to the inauguration of the administrative building of a local college where Kalyan Banerjee was the chief guest. “I formed the governing body of this college. In protest, I did not attend a rally of the chief minister on Monday,” said Ghosal. At Monday’s rally, Banerjee said leaders who are aware that they will not be fielded in the coming elections are flocking to the BJP. “Please leave the TMC as fast as you can. This party belongs to sincere workers,” Banerjee said on Monday, sending a message to dissidents like Adhikari who quit the assembly and the Cabinet and joined the BJP on December 19 along with six sitting MLAs and a Lok Sabha member. Asked whether he has been told that he would not be nominated for the polls due in April-May, Ghosal said, “The day Shukla left the party, the chief minister had called me up. When I told her about the problems I am facing, she said I can contest from another seat if I want to.” Another MLA from Howrah, Vaishali Dalmiya, daughter of former BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmya who entered politics in 2016 and subsequently won the Bally seat in Howrah district, was expelled by TMC last week for speaking against the party. She, too, alleged that legislators with good intentions are never allowed to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-good-people-can-t-work-in-tmc-says-hooghly-district-mla-quits-posts-101611654742750.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ tractor rally: Security beefed up at Rashtrapati Bhavan, PM residence||Amid violence during farmers’ tractor march in many parts of the city, Delhi Police on Tuesday afternoon issued an alert across the city asking officers to increase security at the Rashtrapati Bhavan, and residences of Prime Minister, home minister and lieutenant governor. Police said that large groups of farmers trying to gather outside such places could not be ignored and that they should be stopped so that there is no breakdown in the law and order situation. Also read | ‘Country’s loss...,’ Rahul Gandhi tweets on tractor march violence in CapitalThe order was sent to all district deputy commissioners of police and other units of Delhi Police.By around 2.30pm on Tuesday, hundreds of farmers had reached the ramparts of the Red Fort and hoisted a flag. Police were seen removing the flag while trying to remove protesters from the Red Fort.While farmers clashed with police who tried to stop them from marching to central and New Delhi area, one farmer died at DDU Marg in Central Delhi. Alleging that the man died after his tractor overturned when police fired at the vehicle, the farmers refused to hand over the body to the police or send it to the hospital and carried it during their rally. ITO in central Delhi resembled a war zone on Tuesday afternoon after police fired multiple rounds of tear gas shells while farmers clashed with the police. Police cane-charged protesting farmers in their attempts to stop them from going towards India Gate and Red Fort and farmers pelted stones, broke barricades and damaged police vehicles. Delhi Police officers said they were appealing to farmers at all places to not resort to violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-tractor-rally-security-beefed-up-at-rashtrapati-bhavan-pm-residence-101611653662767.html
26-01-2021||Jaipur||3 men gang-rape 25-year-old woman, then show up at home to threaten family||Three young men raped a 25-year-old woman in western Rajasthan’s Nagaur last week and later threatened to kill her family if they reported the crime, a police officer said.A case of gang-rape was registered on Monday after the intervention of senior police officers, a day after the family had dared to file a complaint. A local police officer who was under transfer allegedly hadn’t acted on their initial complaint.“We have launched an investigation into the case. A team is tracing the accused,” said S Sengathir, inspector general of police, Ajmer range.To underline that the police were taking the case very seriously, Sengathir added that a Deputy Superintendent of Police-rank officer had been tasked to handle the investigations.The three men had first stopped the woman when she stepped out to get buttermilk on January 19. She tried to evade them but wasn’t successful. The three took turns to rape her, then brutalised her with a glass bottle, she told the police in her complaint.The woman told her family about the gang-rape. But they didn’t initially file the police complaint after the men showed up at their door, threatening to kill them.It was only six days later, on Sunday, that the family summed up the courage to report the crime.A senior officer said the police would also look into allegations that local officers did not register the FIR when the family first complained to the police. The officer said it appeared that the police station in-charge, who was on his way out on transfer, did not react to the complaint.“We will find out if there is any negligence,” the officer said.Rajasthan reports the highest number of rapes and crimes against women in the country, in absolute numbers and as a proportion of their population. According to data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau, Rajasthan had reported nearly 6,000 rape cases in 2019, the last year for which nationwide crime figures have been released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/3-men-gang-rape-25-year-old-woman-then-show-up-at-home-to-threaten-family-101611648333508.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Farmers reach Red Fort, ITO intersection||By around 1 pm on Tuesday, farmers in tractors had reached the road outside the Red Fort where the tableaux from the Republic Day celebrations were kept. Delhi Police officers said the farmers had violated the terms of agreement on which they were allowed to hold their rally today. There was heavy security outside the Red Fort to stop farmers from entering the fort. Meanwhile, ITO in central Delhi resembled a war zone in the afternoon after police fired multiple rounds of tear gas shells while farmers clashed with them. While the police cane-charged the protesting farmers in their attempt to stop them from going towards India Gate and Red Fort, the farmers pelted stones, broke barricades and damaged police vehicles. Also read | Farmers’ tractor rally throws Delhi traffic out of gearThe standoff between police and farmers happened right in the middle of the ITO intersection. The farmers used their tractors to remove the railings from the dividers on Vikas Marg in ITO. Some of the groups of farmers had managed to escape police barricades and reach Red Fort. Delhi Police officers said they were appealing to farmers at all places to not resort to violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tractor-rally-farmers-reach-red-fort-ito-intersection-101611648141748.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ tractor rally throws Delhi traffic out of gear||The traffic in Delhi and around its borders was thrown out of gear on Tuesday after the farmers’ tractor rally deviated from its designated route. Delhi Traffic Police officials said roads around Meerut Expressway, Akshardham, Pragati Maidan, Vikas Marg, ITO, Mandi House, India Gate, Mukarba Chowk, Outer Ring Road, Delhi-Noida Link Road, Ghazipur border, Singhu border, and Chilla border had to be closed off for general traffic as the farmer rally got out of control. “Traffic is very heavy on GTK road, Outer Ring Road, Badli road, KN Katju Marg, Madhuban chowk, Kanjhawala road, Palla road, Narela and DSIIDC Narela roads. Please avoid these roads,” traffic police’s official handle tweeted. Also read | Tractor rally: Farmers reach Red Fort, ITO intersectionIn another tweet, they said, “Traffic is very heavy on Wazirabad road, ISBT road, GT road, Pushta road, Vikas marg, NH-24, Road no. 57, Noida link road. Please avoid these roads.”On Monday, the traffic police had released a diversion plan claiming that the tractor rally would stick to the route they had permission for.The tractor parade was start from the Singhu border and move through Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, DTU Shahabad Dairy, Barwala village, Pooth Khurd village, Kanjhawala T-Point, Kanjhawala Chowk, Kutubgarh, Auchandi border and Kharkhoda toll plaza.From Tikri, tractors were to pass through Nangloi, Baprola Village, Najafgarh excluding Phirni Road, Jharoda Border, Rohtak Bypass (Bahadurgarh) and Asoda Toll Plaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-tractor-rally-throws-delhi-traffic-out-of-gear-101611647601589.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ tractor rally: Protesters reach Delhi’s Ring Road||On the day of the Republic Day celebrations in the national Capital, protesting farmers on their tractors have reached Delhi’s Ring Road city at different parts of the city.Stopped by the police from taking a left turn towards Bhairon Marg, which leads to India Gate, protesters from Ghazipur, who were at Ring Road near Sarai Kale Khan, moved towards Rajghat. Separately, protesting farmers from Singhu border have also reached the Ring Road at Burari but have been halted by the police. The morning hours of the farmers rally have been marred by clashes between police and farmers. The protesters damaged barricades, police vehicles and pelted stones. In response, the police fired tear gas shells and cane-charged the farmers. Deviating from the routes agreed upon during the meeting where they were to hold their rally, the farmers entered parts of central and North Delhi. Places such as Rajghat are less than 5 km from India Gate where the Republic Day celebrations are being held. After several meetings with farmers, when the police had allowed them to hold the tractor march, the farmers had agreed not to enter the central and northern parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-tractor-rally-protesters-reach-delhi-s-ring-road-101611646221917.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers remove police barricades at Singhu, Tikri to begin tractor march before schedule||Farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws removed police barricades at Tikri and Singhu borders and headed towards Delhi on their tractors, motorcycles and SUVs on Tuesday morning. Many farmers started their march on foot and showered petals on security forces, including Delhi policemen. At Tikri border, senior Delhi Police personnel tried to caution the farmers about law and order but the protesters removed barricades while showering petals on them. The farmers started the tractor march before the scheduled time agreed to by the farm leaders and administration. A long queue of tractor-trolleys, cars, motorcycles and other vehicles was seen on the Ambala-Delhi and Rohtak-Delhi highways as part of the farmers’ Republic Day march. The farmers said they will reach Delhi and hold a peaceful protest, while their leaders kept making announcements to follow their guidelines and carry out a peaceful march. WILL NOT FOLLOW ROUTE GIVEN BY DELHI POLICE: FARMER LEADER Satnam Singh Pannu, the president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti, said they will not follow the route given by Delhi Police to hold their tractor march. “We will hold our tractor march on the Outer Ring Road. We have given 45 minutes to Delhi Police to remove the barricades and give us a clear path,” he told reporters. The farmers are also showing tableau of their respective states at both the borders. NO PROTEST AGAINST HARYANA MINISTERS Haryana ministers did not face any protest at the Republic Day functions. State agriculture minister JP Dalal unfurled the Tricolour at Rewari, while deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa did so at Mahendragarh and minister of state for social justice and empowerment Om Prakash Yadav took the salute at Jhajjar. The national flag was unfurled by the respective deputy commissioners in Rohtak, Jind, Dadri, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kaithal districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-remove-police-barricades-at-singhu-tikri-to-begin-tractor-march-before-schedule-101611643401114.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Farmers clash with police, try to enter central Delhi||Hundreds of protesting farmers have reached the Ring Road at Sarai Kale Khan and are moving towards ITO in central Delhi. By around noon, the protesters, who outnumbered the police, had taken over both carriageways of the Ring Road. Police had not allowed protesters to come to this part of the city as it is close to the India Gate lawns, about 4 kms, where the Republic Day function is being held. The farmers drove their tractors over the divider and have spilled on to both the carriageways. At the Singhu and the Ghazipur borders, protesting farmers clashed with the police and are trying to enter the main city, even as Republic Day celebrations are being held at India Gate amid high security. There were no reports of clashes at the tractor rally in Delhi’s Tikri border with neighbouring Haryana. At least two police vehicles were damaged in Singhu at around 11 am when police tried to stop protesting farmers from deviating from the route that was allowed for the rally. At Singhu border, thousands of farmers have got into both carriageways of the GT Karnal Road and are trying to enter the central parts of the national Capital. At Ghazipur too, police started cane-charging the farmers. Tear gas shells have been fired at both the borders. The tractor caused a huge jam on NH-24 and the expressway near Mother Dairy-Pandav Nagar flyway (near Sanjay Lake). The protesting farmers on their tractors have taken over the wrong carriageways. In violation of the police permission to take a U-turn from Ghazipur roundabout, they are heading towards Akshardham.Also read | All you need to know about farmers’ Republic Day tractor rallySenior police officers were spotted at the borders trying to pacify the farmers and stick to the route near the borders where they have been allowed to hold the rally. At Tikri border, which has remained peaceful, local residents were spotted on the main road welcoming the protesting farmers and supporting the rally. Around 40,000 police and paramilitary personnel have been posted near the three borders to stop farmers from entering the central and New Delhi areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tractor-rally-farmers-clash-with-police-try-to-enter-central-delhi-101611641720907.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality slips, no change expected for the next 2 days: IMD||Delhi’s air quality slipped marginally on Tuesday as the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am reached 336, in the "very poor" zone.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Monday was 323, also in the "very poor" category. Also Read: Delhi: Minimum temperature drops to 2.1 degrees Celsius; moderate fog over cityTuesday’s India Meteorological Department forecast said that no significant change was expected in the air quality of the city till January 28, and the average AQI is likely to remain in the middle range of "very poor" category on the CPCB scale. Meanwhile, Delhi’s maximum temperature on Monday fell to 18.4 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees below normal. The minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was recorded as 2.1 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-slips-no-change-expected-for-the-next-2-days-imd-101611640340635.html
26-01-2021||Kolkata||Cases drop, Bengal’s Covid Warrior Club faces uncertain future||Nineteen-year-old Alamgir Sheikh, a Covid-19 survivor himself, was once a proud member of the West Bengal government’s Covid Warrior Club. However, with the number of cases steadily dropping, the club and its members face an uncertain future. For instance, Sheikh has recently come to learn that the Kolkata hospital where he worked with Covid-19 patients doesn’t need his services anymore. “I received a letter from the hospital authorities that my service is not needed and that I should report to the state health department. Officials of the state health department told me and some other members of the club that our services are not needed any more,” said Sheikh who served in the hospital for five months.In June 2020, when the pandemic was raging, the West Bengal government formed the Covid Warrior Club comprising survivors. The members, mostly young people, were stationed in various hospitals to help treat Covid-19 patients. There are around 680 warriors across the state. “We used to do odd jobs in the hospital wards, like helping a patient when he needed to go to the toilet, helping him take medicines, change his clothes, eat and even talk to him to boost his morale. We did all of this when most people were even scared to go near them,” said Arob Sheikh, another club member.Now that daily cases have dropped to less than 500 per day -- from around 4,000 new cases being reported every day in November 2020 -- the club is being disbanded and the members have been asked to go home.Also read | Doctors plan to set up Covid-19 museum in Kolkata to commemorate pandemic fight“Some of us have been asked to go . The state-run hospital where I was stationed along with a few other Covid Warriors, used to give us lunch. But over the past two months, that was stopped. We had to buy our own lunch. Dinner and breakfast were, however, served at Salt Lake stadium where several Warriors were staying,” said Bapan Dewan.Also, the state government gave them a stipend of ₹15,000 per month which, some of them, like Alamgir, claim hasn’t come to them since December. Additionally, not all of them will be getting vaccine shots though around 580,000 government and private healthcare workers have been enrolled for Covid vaccination programme.“Covid-19 cases are now declining. The club members were all on contract and were given stipends regularly. Only those members who are still working in hospitals would get the vaccine,” confirmed a senior official of the state health department.Facing an uncertain future, these Covid Warriors have staged a protest against the state health department. Most of them were migrant workers, who had returned to West Bengal after the pandemic started and lockdown was announced in March 2020.The club was the brainchild of Dr Amarendra Roy, an orthopedic surgeon in Murshidabad. The first club was set up in Murshidabad and then it spread to other districts. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee herself had announced formation of the first club.“It is unfortunate how the club members served the government during an emergency. The government should think of something for them or people would think twice before volunteering in future. They were all migrant workers. Where will they go now?” asked Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cases-drop-bengal-s-covid-warrior-club-faces-uncertain-future-101611637340373.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||50% of Delhi population has Covid antibodies: What the latest sero survey shows||At least half of Delhi’s population may have been exposed to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the latest serological study in Delhi suggests. Here is what we know about the survey: • 56% of the 28,000 people sampled during a citywide survey tested positive for antibodies. • The number was particularly high in the south-east district at 62%, and now appears to fall in a territory that experts believe is close to the herd immunity threshold. • Herd immunity is when enough people have immunity – estimated to be 60-80% of the population in the case of Sars-Cov-2 – to a disease that leaves very few vulnerable people for it to spread to, slowing an outbreak. • The figures are as per a preliminary report of the fifth round of serological surveillance that was submitted to the Delhi health secretary on Monday. Also read | India reports less than 10,000 daily Covid-19 cases, tally over 10.76 million• The detailed report is likely to be submitted by researchers conducting the study from Maulana Azad Medical College by January 28. • The survey was conducted between January 11 and 21. • Experts said the survey’s results are in sync with infection trends seen in the capital • The city went through its worst phase of the outbreak late October and early November, and the number of new infections has now plummeted to a level not seen since when Delhi was still in some form of a lockdown in the summer. • A seroprevalence of 56% would mean a good number of people have been exposed to the infection. • For an infection like Covid-19, it is thought that herd immunity would be achieved when there is a seroprevalence between 60 and 80%. • A mathematical model by the universities of Nottingham and Stockholm has shown that the number could be in the low 40s in the context of restrictions in place to slow the spread of Covid-19. • Studies have shown that even in those without detectable amounts of antibodies, there is still some protection from the infection. • This means the spread of the disease will be very slow and there is unlikely to be a surge in cases in the near future especially with the vaccination drive now adding to the number of people protected against the disease. • The latest figure indicates an over 30 percentage point jump over the last sero survey that was conducted in October, before the city entered the third wave of infections. • Serological studies can be tricky to carry out and read, with sampling design and quality of kits holding a large influence on the outcomes. • Scientists have also cautioned that herd immunity as a concept has not been studied in the context of natural infection, and only refers to protection brought on by vaccines. • The concept of herd immunity does not hold when you talk about natural infection. • Herd immunity is calculated as 1-1/R0 only in the case of vaccine-induced immunity. In case of a natural infection, anyone who is infected also passes it on to others, which is not the case with vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/half-of-delhi-population-exposed-to-covid-virus-all-we-know-about-sero-survey-101611636740197.html
26-01-2021||Patna||Bihar’s ‘Pakadua Vivah’: A tradition still prevalent among upper castes||Sambhu Yadav, 27, was returning home after meeting his sister on Raksha Bandhan when an SUV suddenly pulled up near him in Bihar’s Munger district in August 2019. Within seconds, some unknown men dragged him into the SUV and took him to an unknown destination, where he was blindfolded, and his hands were tied. Yadav, who was kept in a dark room overnight, found himself at a temple the next day with a woman in bridal make-up sitting next to him. Before he could gather his wits, the temple priest began reciting hymns as two to three gun-trotting men oversaw their marriage.Such forced marriages, or Pakadua Vivah, are not isolated but part of a tradition in Bihar’s Begusarai, Munger, Banka, Khagaria, Madhepura, Purnia, Jehanabad, Jamui. Often eligible bachelors are abducted and forced to marry women, whose families cannot afford dowries. Forced marriages were so rampant in the early 1990s in Begusarai that a film, Antardwand, was made on them in 2010. The movie won a national award.Also Read: Bihar man abducted at gunpoint and married forcefully in instance of ‘Pakadua Vivah’According to the State Crime Record Bureau, 7,194 forced marriage cases were reported in the state between January and November 2020, 10,925 in 2019, 10,310 in 2018, 8,972 in 2017. Criminal gangs are often used to kidnap men and force them into wedlock. A large number of such cases go unreported given the fear of these gangs. Pakadua Vivah was again in the news this month when Shivam Kumar, 21, was kidnapped at gunpoint and forced to marry a woman in Bihar’s Jamui district on January 7. Similarly, Vaishali-resident Vikash Kumar was abducted around a month earlier on December 14, and forced into wedlock.Pakadua Vivah is more prevalent among the upper castes, where the demand for dowry is more. “It is mainly prevalent among Bhumihars and Yadav castes,” said a police officer.Police officers say gangs thrive on these high-profit and low-risk crimes and make huge money. They added such forced marriage ceremonies are invariably video-graphed. The gangs ensure such marriages are fully solemnised and brides are sent to their in-laws’ homes. Often such marriages last. Shivam Kumar has since left for Hyderabad with his newlywed wife to join the as a general duty soldier. Yadav, who runs an ice cream parlour, too, has no regrets. He said he got a sociable, pretty wife.But a 17-year-old abducted for marriage on January 19 was rescued in Lakhisarai and his five abductors were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-pakadua-vivah-a-tradition-still-prevalent-among-upper-castes-101611636201257.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||All you need to know about farmers’ Republic Day tractor rally||Tens of thousands of farmers have gathered on the outskirts of New Delhi ahead of a tractor procession against the three agricultural laws enacted in September. Here is all you need to know about the rally and the laws:•The procession will be taken along three routes centered around the farmer protest sites of Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur.• With their tractor procession, the protesters seek to rival the spectacle of the official Republic Day celebrations on the Rajpath boulevard in pomp and pageantry.• The leaders of the agitation plan to follow up with a march on foot to Parliament on February 1, when the government presents the Union budget.• The Samyukt Kisan Morcha said that while the Republic Day rally is planned as a one-day event, the scale of the protest could mean that the rally could spill over to the next day by the time they return to their starting spots located at three different rally routes in and around the capital. • Police have said about 30,000 tractors are likely to participate in the rally.• But farm leaders said the number of vehicles will be closer to 200,000 as the agitation will continue till the demand for repealing three contentious farm laws is met.Also read | No drugs, weapons, political party flags: Dos and don’ts for R-Day tractor rally• Police have allowed Tuesday’s parade to cover a length of 194km on stretches crossing the three principal border points that have become protest sites over the last two months.• Thousands of security personnel have been deployed at border points. The Delhi traffic police have asked commuters to avoid routes where protesting farmers will conduct the rally.• The farmers will also hold tractor marches from four places on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, but these won’t enter Delhi.• Farmer leaders have appealed to tractor parade participants to carry enough ration for 24 hours and ensure that the rally remains peaceful.• The farm unions have pressed on with a protest against the Centre, opposing the agricultural laws that ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales, and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.• Each procession of tractors will be led by a car that will act as a pilot vehicle, seating leaders of the movement. • In one trolley, a team of six contortionists will make an acrobatic presentation, each contortion representing a food-crop plant.• Farmer-artistes from Bengal have set up a mobile installation to pay a tribute to over 100 farmers who have died in the protests.• Tableaux of folk dances of Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan will be led by women. • Singhu and Tikri have become virtual tent cities with all possible amenities, such as 24-hour tea stalls, music sessions, prayer halls, canteens, gyms, libraries.•The government and farm unions have been unable to find a solution to the stand-off over 11 rounds of talks. • The farmers last week rejected a proposal by the Centre to put the laws on hold for 18 months. • Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday reiterated that farmers should accept the government’s proposal to suspend the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-farmers-republic-day-tractor-rally-101611635840150.html
26-01-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh to finish vaccinating all health workers by Feb 5 in phase 1||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to complete the Covid-19 vaccination of all the health workers on four days — January 28 and 29, February 4 and 5.The vaccination of the frontline workers will commence from February 11.The state Health and Family Welfare Department has planned to vaccinate around 900,000 health workers in the first phase.The department had organised two rounds of vaccination on January 16 and 22 during which 123,649 health workers have been vaccinated. The remaining 775,000 or so health workers will be vaccinated in the four rounds to be organised at the end of January and beginning of February.Also Read: US detects first case of Brazil coronavirus variantAdditional chief secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Department, Amit Mohan Prasad said, in the next two weeks the Health and Family Welfare Department will organise four rounds of vaccination drive across the state.The state government has fixed each Thursday and Friday of the week as Covid-19 vaccination days. In the coming four rounds, they have decided to vaccinate all the health workers who have not received the dose yet, he said.In the earlier vaccination round held on January 16, the Health Department had aimed to vaccinate 31,700 health workers. However, 22,643 health workers turned up for vaccination.Again, on January 22, the Health Department had planned to vaccinate 150,000 health workers but only 101,000 health workers were given the jabs.Prasad said the health workers should utilise their turn by getting themselves vaccinated. “They should know that there is a limited stock of the Covid vaccine in the country,” he said.“A number of people wish to get themselves vaccinated but the central government has set a priority order for the vaccination. According to it, those people who are vulnerable to Covid-19, who come in contact with infected people while imparting their duties and those who provide treatment to the Covid-19 patients will be vaccinated on priority basis. The health workers should take benefit of the government scheme and get themselves vaccinated. If they miss the vaccine dose then their turn will take a long time,” he saidIn the second phase, the state government has decided to give the dose to 1.8 million frontline workers in the 75 districts.Prasad said the health department has started preparation for completing the vaccination of the health workers in four rounds. “We have adequate vaccines in the cold chains across the state, the vaccinators are trained, the vaccination centres are equipped, and the date of the health workers is being updated regularly on the Co-Win portal. The department plans to organise over 7,000 vaccination sessions at 1,537 vaccination centers in the 75 districts,” he said.When asked about the low turnout of the health workers in some districts during the first and second round, Prasad said the district magistrates and chief medical officers of the districts that recorded low turnout had been directed to take required measures to increase the turnout. The district medical officers had been told to motivate the health workers to take vaccine dose to protect themselves from Covid-19 infection, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-uttar-pradesh-to-finish-vaccinating-all-health-workers-by-feb-5-in-phase-1-101611632599619.html
26-01-2021||Patna||Farmers’ protest: AICC Bihar in-charge to take out procession in Patna today||On Republic Day, agriculturists and Congress workers will be taking part in a march in Bihar’s capital in a show of solidarity with farmers’ tractor rally in the national Capital.Led by All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, the march will begin in Bikram, a sub-division of Patna.Das was scheduled to embark on an 11-day padyatra from January 27 but modified his plan to accommodate this march. Former Congress legislature party leader and party veteran Sadanand Singh, former governor Nikhil Kumar, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh, et al, were among scores of senior leaders who met Das at the BPCC office and discussed the road map for bolstering the party’s presence across the state.Also read | Rahul Gandhi accuses PM Modi of ‘leaking information’ about Balakot air strikeBeginning his padyatra from Bikram, the AICC leader will enter north Bihar region with a march in Vaishali and Muzaffarpur on Wednesday. Prominent state party leaders have been given responsibility to make the event a success in their respective regions.Das has also roped in about six-seven delegates from the AICC for feedback. “This is a unique exercise being undertaken by the in-charge to start organisational revamp later next month. The delegates are from other states, like Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, who would be able to provide Das an unbiased feedback,” said a senior BPCC leader.Party’s Republic Day celebration is also important as it is being held in presence of the AICC in-charge for the first time. Das is also likely to have an extended stay in Patna during the upcoming Budget session of the state legislature to assess performance of the party leaders inside the House.BPCC media in-charge HK Verma said Das has asked party workers to actively participate in the Opposition’s human chain formation on January 30 in support of the agitating farmers, who are demanding a repeal of three controversial farms Act by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/farmers-protest-aicc-bihar-in-charge-to-take-out-procession-in-patna-today-101611631459587.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Minimum temperature drops to 2.1 degrees Celsius; moderate fog over city||“Cold" to "severe" cold wave is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi for the next three or four days, according to India Meteorological Department At 8.30am, Delhi’s Safdarjung station recorded a minimum temperature of 2.1 degrees Celsius, 7 degrees below normal. Dense to very dense fog was observed in isolated pockets over Madhya Pradesh; dense fog in isolated pockets over Haryana, Bihar and Tripura and moderate fog was observed in isolated pockets over Delhi (Safdurjung & Palam), Uttarakhand, East Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya on Tuesday.Gwalior and Jabalpur recorded visibility of less than 25 metres each. Ambala, Bhagalpur, Kailashahar and Agartala recorded less than 50 metres each. Dehradun, Delhi (Safdarjung and Palam), Bahraich, Lucknow, Sagar and Dibrugarh recorded visibility of less than 200 metres each.Also Watch: Covid update: Delhi herd immunity; Goa near ‘normalcy’; Biden travel curbsCold, dry northwesterly winds have set in over the northern plains and adjoining parts of central India which are likely to persist for the next three or four days. Cold wave conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh and Saurashtra and Kutch during the same period.Current spell of dense to very dense fog over some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim is likely to persist over these areas till January 29. "Cold day" to "severe cold day" conditions are likely over pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh during the next three days.“A western disturbance which brought widespread snowfall to the Western Himalayan region on Friday and Saturday last week has passed.Northwesterly winds are blowing over Delhi bringing very cold air from that direction. The winds are chilly which makes the cold more perceptible. Minimum temp is likely to drop to 4 degrees Celsius in Delhi. This cold will persist for three or four days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head regional weather forecasting centre.According to IMD, a cold day or severe cold day is classified as such on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees and maximum temperature of 4.5 degrees Celsius or 6.4 degrees below normal.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches less than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-minimum-temperature-falls-moderate-fog-over-city-101611629479252.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray reviews restarting local train services for general public||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday called a review meeting to discuss restarting soon Mumbai's local train services for the general public, with COVID-19 protocols in place.Many senior officials of Railways along with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner, Mumbai police commissioner also attended the meeting.ALSO WATCH | Uddhav Thackeray reviews restarting local train services for general publicAt present, in view of the pandemic, only certain people categorised as essential workers are being allowed to board the trains with women commuters being allowed during dedicated time slots in the local trains.The state has a total of 6,159 Active Corona Cases, with an overall recovery rate of 94 per cent. The cumulative count of deaths stands currently at 11,307. The total number of positive cases in the state is 306393.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-reviews-restarting-local-train-services-for-general-public-101611627348368.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||HC order on ‘skin contact’ in sexual abuse to face test||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Monday said that they would challenge the recent ruling of the Bombay high court that acquitted a man of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act because of the absence of “skin-to-skin” contact with the minor victim, even as the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) took suo moto cognizance of the case and urged the Maharashtra government to seek a review of the judgment.In a letter addressed to Maharashtra chief secretary on Monday, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo asked the state “to take appropriate steps” over the January 19 verdict of justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay HC which reversed an earlier conviction of a 39-year-old Nagpur resident who pressed the breast of a 12-year-old girl.The HC stated that section 8 of the Pocso Act, which penalizes physical contact with sexual intent without penetration, did not apply here as the minor was still wearing her clothes when the accused groped her, and the section required “strict proof and serious allegations”.“The remark “skin-to-skin... with sexual intention, without penetration” also needs to be reviewed and the State should take note of this, as it seems to be derogatory to the minor victim,” the NCPCR letter stated.Taking exception to the HC’s interpretation, NCW tweeted: “The judgment will not only have cascading effect on various provisions involving safety and security of women in general but also put all the women under ridicule and has trivialized the legal provisions provided by the legislature for the safety and security of women.”Reversing a lower court’s order, the Bombay HC had observed, “Admittedly, it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast. As such, there is no direct physical contact i.e. skin to skin with sexual intent without penetration,” adding that the nature of punishment called for stricter proof.On February 5, 2020, an extra joint additional sessions judge, Nagpur found the man guilty under Pocso and the IPC sentencing him to rigorous imprisonment (RI) for three years.The HC reduced the man’s sentence to a year’s RI under section 354 IPC which pertains to outraging a woman’s modesty, while it upheld the previous conviction of wrongful confinement under section 342 of the IPC, which carried a sentence of six months in prison.“It has been observed by the Commission that the prosecution has failed in representing case of the victim properly,” the NCPCR chairperson wrote. “If the prosecution had made the submissions as per spirit of the Pocso Act, the accused would not have been acquitted of the serious offence against the minor,” the letter stated.According to a complaint lodged by the mother of the minor with the Gittikhadan police station, Nagpur on December 14, 2016, her 12-year-old daughter had gone out of the house to get a guava. On the way, the man stopped the daughter and told her that he would give her the fruit and took her to his house. In his house, the appellant pressed a breast of the minor and also attempted to remove her salwar.When she confronted him, he denied all wrong doing. The mother then proceeded to search his house and found her daughter locked in a room in a top floor. Upon release, the girl told her parent about what happened, following which a complaint was lodged.Responding to the NCPCR letter, state women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur said, “We will discuss it within the department after seeking opinion of the law and judiciary department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-order-on-skin-contact-in-sexual-abuse-to-face-test-101611621214815.html
26-01-2021||Bhopal||‘Such people mustn’t be spared’, says MP HC judge on comic Faruqui||The Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court on Monday reserved its order on the bail application of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, who was arrested in Indore on January 1 on charges of hurting religious sentiments and violating Covid-19 protocol during a New Year event.A single-judge bench of Justice Rohit Arya asked how someone could “take undue advantage of others’ religious sentiments”. “What is wrong with your mindset?” he asked.He said he was reserving the order on merits, after observing that “such people must not be spared.”MP additional advocate general, Pushya Mitra Bhargava, said, “We have opposed the bail prayer. All our opposition has been considered.”Faruqui was arrested on January 1 on the complaint of Hindu Rakshak Sangathan convener Eklavya Singh Gaud, who is also a son of a BJP MLA, Malini Singh Gaud, in Indore just before he was about to start his performance at a restaurant. He has been in jail since. The bail plea was moved by Supreme Court senior advocate, Vivek Tankha, and advocate Anshuman Srivastava on behalf of Faruqui and a co-accused Nalin Yadav on Monday. The order on Yadav’s application was also reserved. Tankha told the court that Faruqui has committed no offence in the case registered against him by Indore police. Srivastava said: “Police also accepted before the court that they didn’t find any evidence.” Government lawyer Amit Singh Sisodia, though, pointed to “objectionable comments” made by Faruqui in the past.“It is obvious to me that freedom of speech and expression is seriously compromised in this country,” former additional solicitor general and senior advocate Indira Jaising said.“Artists are not bound by the religious boundaries and that has been the beauty of art in the world. The Hon’ble judge viewing Munawar as a Muslim and not as an artist is being ignorant of the neutrality of artists who exercise their right of expression for or against anyone and everyone,” advocate Mehmood Pracha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/such-people-mustn-t-be-spared-says-mp-hc-judge-on-comic-faruqui-101611620154576.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Like chai by the Seine||Is it Volga or Thames, Nile or Seine? What is this watery world? With bits of dry land jutting out here and there, the landscape looks like a vast archipelago.This is Yamuna, and it is still Delhi.The river slices through the Capital, travelling from Haryana to UP. Most Delhiites, however, experience it as a bridge to be crossed. For a long time, the term ‘Yamuna-paar’ condescendingly denoted the neighbourhoods on the allegedly wrong side of the river. Indeed, the Yamuna in Delhi makes its presence felt most forcefully during the monsoon, when it floods over its banks, managing to reach the news headlines. Or when it becomes so polluted that it forms picturesque toxic foam that look like drifting glaciers. Some rooftop Tibetan momo places at Majnu ka Tilla do look over the river, but there it seems barely alive.But here on the fourth floor terrace of Cafe Karvaan, in south Delhi’s Abul Fazal Part 1, the Yamuna opens up like a grand riverfront. This foggy afternoon the watery panorama is giving the illusion of a sea—no exaggeration, you have to come here to check on the claim. The curvy road running by the river is clogged with cars and buses, and it does give the mild impression of being a poor country cousin to Mumbai’s iconic Marine Drive. Even from this distance, you can clearly see the birds flying over the river, and paddling upon its surface. A faraway tree is marooned in water, looking like the loneliest among the lonely.The terrace cafe opened this week. It is stocked with hundreds of a great variety of books, most of which are from the private collection of its founder, Asad Ashraf. Poetry collection ranges from Mirza Ghalib to Seamus Heaney. Wall portraits include writers Virginia Woolf and Qurratulain Hyder (she lies buried in a nearby cemetery). A limited selection of tea is on offer and the place still has no menu. Which really doesn’t matter. Try to be here to see Delhi’s great river at its best. The sight is breathtaking, and it just doesn’t feel like the city you know. Preferably drop by on a misty day, when the skyline of Noida’s sector 16 on the other side of the Yamuna remains hidden, and the river seems to extend to infinity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-like-chai-by-the-seine-101611619104464.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||‘Over half of city may have Covid antibodies’: Experts say after 5th sero-survey||At least half of Delhi’s population may have been exposed the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the latest serological study in Delhi suggests, with 56% of the 28,000 people sampled during a citywide survey testing positive for antibodies, according to people aware of the findings who asked not to be named.The number was particularly high in the south-east district at 62%, the people said, and now appears to fall in a territory that experts believe is close to the herd immunity threshold. Herd immunity is when enough people have immunity – estimated to be 60-80% of the population in case of Sars-Cov-2 – to a disease that it leaves very few vulnerable people for it to spread to, slowing an outbreak.“These figures are as per a preliminary report of the fifth round of serological surveillance that was submitted to the Delhi health secretary on Monday. The detailed report is likely to be submitted by researchers conducting the study from Maulana Azad Medical College by January 28,” one of the people added, asking not to be named. The survey was conducted between Jan 11 and Jan 21.Experts said the survey’s results are in sync with infection trends seen in the Capital: the city went through its worst phase of the outbreak late October and early November, and the number of new infections has now plummeted to a level not seen since when Delhi was still in some form of a lockdown in the summer.“A sero-prevalence of 56% would mean a good number of people in the city have been exposed to the infection. For an infection like Covid-19, it is thought that herd immunity would be achieved when there is a seroprevalence between 60 and 80%,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).To be sure, a mathematical model by the universities of Nottingham and Stockholm have shown that the number could be in the low 40s in the context of restrictions in place to slow the spread of Covid-19.“Studies have shown that even in those without detectable amounts of antibodies, there is still some protection from the infection. What this means is the spread of the disease will be very slow and there is unlikely to be surge in cases in the near future. Especially with the vaccination drive now adding to the number of people protected against the disease,” Dr Mishra added.The latest figure indicates an over 30 percentage point jump over the last sero survey that was conducted in October, before the city entered the third wave of infections.Serological studies can be tricky to carry out and read, with sampling design and quality of kits holding a large influence on the outcomes. Scientists have also cautioned that herd immunity as a concept has not been studied in the context of natural infection, and only refers to protection brought on by vaccines.“The concept of herd immunity does not hold when you talk about natural infection. Herd immunity is calculated as 1-1/R0 only in the case of vaccine-induced immunity. In case of a natural infection, anyone who is infected also passes it on to others, which is not the case with vaccinations. So talking about herd immunity in this case, when we don’t have a vaccine yet, will be a mistake,” said T Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, shortly after the city’s second sero survey.A particularly stark warning for Delhi could lie in the case of Manaus, a city in Brazil that was one of the hardest hit regions anywhere in the world, with its first peak in May. By mid-August, serological surveys suggested over 75% may have been infected and the city recorded a sharp turnaround with new infections reduced to a trickle.But cases began rising by October and as of the first week of January, hospitals in Manaus were overflowing with patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-half-of-city-may-have-covid-antibodies-experts-say-after-5th-serosurvey-101611614530860.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Thousands leave for Delhi ahead of rally from Punjab, Haryana||Thousands of tractors clogged key roads in north India on Monday as farmers left their homes in villages, hamlets and cities across Punjab and Haryana to join a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, aimed at pressing for the repeal of three recently passed agriculture laws.Unprecedented fervour about the farmers’ show of strength swept all three regions of Malwa Majha and Doaba in Punjab. Local people reported that the ubiquitous tractor, a symbol of pride and prosperity in the breadbasket state, was missing from its usual parking spot outside houses as entire families left for the Capital.Residents of villages along the highway set up langars, or community kitchens, to serve food to those on their way to join the protests and local shopkeepers offered water, juice and refreshments.“The population of my village is around 1,100 and around 100 men have left for Delhi for the tractor parade,” said Harwinder Singh of Pallah village in Amritsar district.In the Haryana districts of Rohtak, Jind, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Dadri, villages emptied out as farmers drove to Delhi in tractors-trailers, cars, SUVs and motorbikes. “Over 1,000 tractors belonging to our khap have moved for Delhi border. Villages are empty as men, women and children are headed towards Delhi. We will take part in the historic parade and the world will witness farmers’ struggle,” said Tekram Kandela, head of Jind’s Kandela khap, a community organisation.Many vehicles were freshly painted and decorated with flowers, with the Tricolour affixed on one side and carrying ration, mattresses and other essentials. “It was not possible for all farmers to reach Delhi, so, it was planned that people will gather at district headquarters on Republic Day for a peaceful protest. All arrangements are in place across districts,” said Resham Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), Bathinda unit.At the Punjab-Haryana border at Shambu, local traders reported surging demand for farm union flags, badges, stickers and other pro-agitation buntings. Jang Singh, Patiala president of Krantikari Kisan Union, said an appeal was made to villagers to send at least two members of their families to Delhi.Dayanand Punia, a farm leader from Bhiwani, said 1,500 tractor-trolleys left for Delhi from Loharu, represented by Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal. “The villagers have collected money to bear all expenses and compensate loss in any vehicle, if any incident takes place. Women in our villages will look after the fields in our absence. At least 11 women from each village will take in the parade,” he added.A long queue of tractors lined the highway from Rohtak to Tikri on the outskirts of Delhi. A 30km-long traffic snarl jammed the road near the Singhu border. Tractors were seen moving at a snail’s pace along the Ambala-Delhi stretch on National Highway-44 and other arterial roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thousands-leave-for-delhi-ahead-of-rally-from-punjab-haryana-101611612077290.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||SC gives Centre two weeks to decide on Rajoana mercy plea||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the government to decide on mercy plea of death row convict Balwant Singh Rajoana in two weeks, and said this would be the “last chance” for the Centre to move ahead on a matter pending since 2012.Rajaona was convicted over the assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh in August 1995, and handed the death sentence by a trial court in 2007. His sentence was upheld by the high court in 2010.The Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee and the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee had moved separate mercy pleas seeking pardon for Rajoana in March 2012. The President’s secretariat forwarded the two mercy petitions, along with similar appeals received from various organisations and individuals supporting Rajoana’s release, to the ministry of home affairs .In November 2020, the Centre informed the Court that the decision on mercy petition was put on hold awaiting the outcome of an appeal filed by Rajoana’s co-convicts. In January, when the matter was last heard, MHA told the court that Rajoana’s file had been processed at their end, and what remained was a decision by the President.In Monday’s hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested for a further three weeks. “The Government is examining the matter...Any decision would have some repercussions in the present circumstances,” he said.However, a three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde found no reason to grant more time. “By way of last chance, list the matter after two weeks,” the bench ordered. Rajoana’s lawyer, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, opposed the adjournment request by Centre on the ground that for over eight years, the Centre has been sitting on a slew of pleas seeking mercy for Rajoana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-gives-centre-two-weeks-to-decide-on-rajoana-mercy-plea-101611611349310.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Furnish relevant parts of charge sheet: Bombay HC to ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the counsel of former chief executive officer (CEO) of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta to submit relevant portions of the 5,000-page charge sheet filed by the Mumbai Police’s crime branch against him in the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case before it can consider his bail application.Dasgupta, who is currently lodged in Taloja jail hospital, had moved HC after the sessions court rejected his bail application on January 20. He has sought bail the grounds that all the co-accused in the case including the COO of BARC were out on interim bail. However, after the state assured the court that Dasgupta was being provided proper medical care in the jail hospital and that in the event of any emergency he would be shifted to a Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation hospital or Sir JJ Hospital, the court adjourned the hearing to February 2.The bench of justice PD Naik was informed by advocate Shardul Singh, for Dasgupta, that he was suffering from an acute ailment due to which he was prone to becoming unconscious. Singh referred to a January 15 incident wherein Dasgupta had fainted in Taloja jail and had remained unconscious for nearly 17 hours. He submitted that Dasgupta was moved to Sir JJ Hospital without any medical papers or instructions from jail doctors. Singh further submitted that as all the other co-accused in the TRP manipulation case had been granted bail by different courts including the main accused Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, Dasgupta too should be granted bail.However when the court sought to know whether the charge sheet was filed, Singh submitted that it was but the same was not annexed to the bail application as it was voluminous and ran into 5,000 pages. He added that only 10 pages of the charge sheet were relevant for the purpose of the bail application.The bench then directed Singh to prepare a compilation of the relevant portions of the charge sheet and submit it to the court before the next hearing.Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, for the state, submitted the discharge papers of Dasgupta from Sir JJ Hospital and also the January 23 medical report from Taloja jail hospital. Thakare submitted that Dasgupta’s condition was stable and he was under continuous monitoring by experts. He added that in the event of any emergency, Dasgupta would be shifted to NMMC hospital at Navi Mumbai or Sir JJ Hospital and similar facilities were extended to accused in other cases too. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that as Dasgupta’s condition was stable at Taloja jail hospital, his counsel should prepare a compilation of relevant parts of the charge sheet and submit it before the court and also serve the same to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/furnish-relevant-parts-of-charge-sheet-bombay-hc-to-ex-barc-ceo-partho-dasgupta-101611602476753.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to get five new cyber police stations on Republic Day||The city is getting five new cyber police stations that will start to function from Republic Day. Each of these cyber police stations will be located in five policing regions of the city, said joint commissioner of police (CP) (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil. Chief minister Uddhav Thackerey will inaugurate the stations at DB Marg police station on Tuesday.The new dedicated cyber police stations will not be entrusted with any law and order-related or regular bandobast duties and will be presently located in Shivajinagar police station, Govandi for East region; office of the additional commissioner of police at Carter Road, Bandra for West region; Samatanagar police station, Borivli for North region; DB Marg police station at Lamington Road for South region; and Worli police station for Central region.These police stations will be under the control of joint CP (law and order) while zonal DCPs and additional CPs of the regions concerned will supervise and review their functioning, said a senior police officer. Each of these stations would be headed by a senior inspector rank officer and would have four inspectors, six assistant inspectors, 10 sub-inspectors and 40 constabulary.The new cyber police stations will take up cybercrimes involving amount from ₹2 lakh to ₹50 lakh. Cases involving amount below ₹2 lakh will be investigated by the local police, whereas cases involving over ₹50 lakh would be dealt by existing specialised cybercrime police station at Bandra-Kurla Complex which comes under the crime branch.Presently, the city has only one dedicated cyber police station in BKC. “Decentralising the investigation and allocating new police stations at all the regions would make it convenient for the victims,” said a cyber police officer.The five new full-fledged police stations would also enhance the police’s response time to online frauds. In case of cybercrimes, the first two hours are considered to be golden hours, and the new police stations will help take timely action to save people’s money if all goes as planned, another senior officer said. Last year, the city’s only cyber police station managed to save ₹15 crore of cyber fraud victims who approached the police within the golden hour. The new cyber police stations will also improve the quality of investigation of online fraud cases as well as detection, conviction and recovery rate of cybercrimes. In 2020, the city police detected only 207 or 8.5% of the 2,435 cases registered with them.It is important to note here that cybercrime cases, which are registered under Information Technology Act as per government rules, have to be investigated by an inspector rank officer. “It’s important that the new police stations have sanctioned four inspectors, otherwise officers posted there would get overburdened with cases and the purpose of new dedicated police stations would not be served,” said cybercrime expert Ritesh Bhatia. Sources said that 50% of the staff at the new cyber police stations would be women.The existing dedicated cyber police station at BKC, which is overburdened with cases, has only three Inspector rank police officers. All the 95 police stations in the city also has small cybercrime units, but they have very poor detection and recovery rate, police sources said. “Limited manpower and resources are the basic issues cyber police officers face while making investigations of major professional cyber fraud gangs,” said an officer requesting anonymity. “The new cyber police stations must act proactively. Besides investigation, they should also devise a strong fraud money stopping or prevention mechanism. Also, they should regularly review newer modus operandi of cyber fraudsters and create awareness among masses. At present the police department is creating cyber awareness through its Twitter handle,” said cyber expert Prashant Mali. “The higher ups of the police department must understand the importance of training personnel at cyber police stations to detect newer types of cybercrimes as it is a fast evolving world,” cyber expert Vicky Shah said.In the past few years, cybercrime cases have increased by many folds. The cases include financial frauds by impersonating bank executives to obtains debit/credit card details, OTP, obscenity, lottery frauds, man in middle (MIM) attack cases, spoofing, card cloning, hacking, phishing, matrimonial site and frauds on social networking sites. The increasing rate of these crimes raised concerns as it directly affects masses.Cybercrime saw a rise in Mumbai in 2020 despite the Covid-19 pandemic with 2,435 cases of various cybercrime registered as compared to 2,225 cases in 2019. Cases of obscene WhatsApp chats/messages, emails, SMS, social media posts and morphing saw an increase as 247 such cases were reported in 2020 while the number was 239 in 2019. Detection of such case got poorer with only 91 cases detected in 2020 as compared to 104 in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-get-five-new-cyber-police-stations-on-republic-day-101611602298270.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Senior Shiv Sena leaders, ministers didn’t attend farmers’ protest in Mumbai||Even as senior leaders of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, joined the farmers’ protest at Azad Maidan on Monday, the Sena merely extended token support by sending Rahul Londhe, its youth wing functionary, as the party’s representative. Backing the farmers’ protests in New Delhi for the past two months, the Sena had extended support to the farmers’ march from Nashik and other parts of the state to Mumbai to protest against the Central government’s three farm laws. Ajit Nawale, Maharashtra general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, had said that Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray would remain present at the public meeting. Instead, the Thackeray scion and Maharashtra minister was in Kalyan, about 60km from Mumbai’s Azad Maidan, to inaugurate a rail overbridge. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the overbridge via video-conferencing from Matoshree, his residence in Bandra East. “We support their show of solidarity. But we still need to be careful about Covid, not just for us or the city, but even for the farmers who have assembled there,” said a senior Sena leader. Another leader indicated the party did not wish to be viewed as the one breaching the government-laid rules of no public gatherings during the pandemic. Ironically, Aaditya, urban development minister Eknath Shinde and Sena MP Shrikant Shinde were present at the government function in Kalyan, where hundreds had gathered. Speaking at the inauguration, when the protest at Azad Maidan was on, Thackeray said, “I humbly appeal to all political parties and leaders to avoid large-scale rallies, agitations and protests. Ending Covid is not in our hands, but at least let us not be Covid spreaders.” Thackeray, however, clarified the Shiv Sena fully supports the farmers. “From the MVA, Pawar saheb is leading it and the chief minister is speaking about it. However, even after 60 days, the union government has not yielded to the demands of the farmers. You [the media] should ask these questions,” Thackeray told reporters. Sena leaders Sanjay Raut was unavailable for comment despite several attempts. Sena MP and spokesperson Arvind Sawant said he was out of Mumbai. When the three farm bills were passed in Parliament, the Sena, which has 18 MPs in Lok Sabha, had backed the Bills. But later it walked out of Rajya Sabha when the Bills came up for voting. The Congress and NCP, its allies in Maharashtra, opposed the Bills in both the Houses. “The Sena doesn’t have any cohesive thinking on economy policy, or on agriculture or industries. They only make general statements and this has been since the time of Bal Thackeray,” said Prakash Bal, political analyst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/senior-shiv-sena-leaders-ministers-didn-t-attend-farmers-protest-in-mumbai-101611602297135.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB nabs absconding drug dealer Arif Bhujwala||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday arrested purported drug dealer Arif Bhujwala from Raigad in connection with the south Mumbai-based racket busted by the agency. Bhujwala was on the run after NCB on January 20 busted his drug laboratory at Dongri where he was allegedly manufacturing mephedrone (MD) for more than three years. An NCB officer said Bhujwala had fled from Mumbai by road and was hiding in Mangaon area of Raigad district at his friend’s place. NCB officers got a tip-off, following which a team went there and brought him to the NCB office in south Mumbai. NCB has also seized four vehicles owned by Bhujwala, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Bhujwala’s name cropped up during an interrogation of his associate and notorious drug supplier Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, a relative of late underworld don Karim Lala.Pathan was arrested from Navi Mumbai on January 20 where he was staying after being externed from Mumbai in 2019. The agency recovered MD and a pistol from Pathan. After questioning him, NCB raided Bhujwala’s house at fifth floor of a building in Dongri and recovered one automatic revolver and ₹21,825,600 cash.The agency also busted a drug laboratory on fourth floor of the same building and seized 5.69kg MD, 1kg methamphetamine and 6.126kg ephedrine. NCB also found packing material, utensils, weighing machines and other apparatus used to manufacture illegal drugs from the lab.NCB has also seized a diary from Bhujwala’s residence, in which codes and some of the networks of the drug cartel are mentioned. It also found some brown sugar packets at his residence. After inquiring the accused, it was learnt that Bhujwala exported brown sugar, MD and other materials by airway, said NCB officers.The agency has also found from the diary that the racket had sold drugs worth ₹90 lakh in a few days. During investigation, it came to light that Bhujwala owns at least 40 high-end cars including imported cars and a sports bike. A few car keys were also recovered from his residence in Dongri. He had also invested money in real estate business, added the officer.The gang allegedly supplied drugs to the UAE, Malaysia and Thailand and Bhujwala allegedly has link with drug networks, operated by members of Dawood gang, in Middle East and European countries, the officer said. As of now, NCB has arrested five members involved in the drug racket run by Pathan and Bhujwala including disk jockey Rohit Verma alias Rahul Verma and a jeweller from Bhiwandi area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncb-nabs-absconding-drug-dealer-arif-bhujwala-101611602116632.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||600 teachers, non-teaching staff protest new education policy in Mumbai||Around 600 teaching and non-teaching staff members from various teachers’ groups in the state participated in the farmers march on Monday. The teacher groups have shown support to farmer and labour unions fighting against the new laws and also raised their voice against the implementation of the New Education Policy (NEP).“The All India Organisation of Teachers and non-teaching employees of education institutes in the country have expressed their solidarity with this struggle. A nation-wide protest of all trade unions was called for, starting January 23, and we too, joined the struggle on Monday,” the joint statement by a host of teacher unions, including Shikshak Bharti, Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO) Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU), among others, under the common umbrella of Joint Platform of Teachers, said.In a joint statement, the teachers have highlighted how NEP violates the constitutional mandates of the reservation policy and Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act. “The new Act will break the present structure of education and could also result in the closure of thousands of schools and colleges. Not only will this lead to high drop-out rates, but it’ll also push more teachers and non-teaching staff in ad-hoc and contractual appointments,” said a Platform of Teachers spokesperson.The main demand of the teachers is that the government repeal the three new farm and labour laws and also withdraw NEP. “The fact that the Governor has refused to give us time to discuss such important matters is being highly criticised by all unions,” said a teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/600-teachers-non-teaching-staff-protest-new-education-policy-in-mumbai-101611602057371.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED raids 10 premises of Omkar Group in Yes Bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday conducted raids at 10 premises, including seven residences and three offices, belonging to Omkar Group, one of the leading builders in the city. The group has allegedly misused various permissions given for slum rehabilitation schemes and diverted around ₹450 crore by way of loan from Yes Bank. Various other alleged irregularities are also being investigated, a senior ED officer confirmed. The group was named in the charge sheet filed by ED in the Yes Bank case.Roles of Kamal Kishore Gupta, chairman of Omkar Developers; and Babulal Varma, managing director of the firm, are under ED’s scanner.Omkar Group is also suspected of conniving with Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) officials and forging and fabricating documents for wrongful gains by manipulating sanction of projects and allotment of flats, said sources.The spokesperson for Omkar Developers declined to comment on ED raids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ed-raids-10-premises-of-omkar-group-in-yes-bank-fraud-case-101611601876770.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||At 16.4°C, mercury drops to Mumbai’s lowest this year||The city woke up to a chilly Monday morning as temperatures dropped to 16.4 degrees Celsius — the lowest so far this year. Earlier, on January 16, a minimum temperature of 16.6 degrees was recorded at Santacruz.The Santacruz weather station, representative of Mumbai and suburbs, recorded a minimum temperature of 16.4 degrees Celsius, 0.4 degree below normal. This is the second lowest temperature of the ongoing winter season after December 22 last year when mercury dropped to 16 degrees Celsius. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 18.5 degrees Celsius, which was 0.5 degree below normal. Maximum temperatures also remained low with Santacruz recording it at 30.6 degrees Celsius, 0.1 degree below normal while it was 28.6 degrees Celsius at Colaba which was 1.2 degree below normal. The drop in temperatures was in line with the forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD). “IMD had forecast that minimum temperatures in and around Mumbai would drop owing to cold winds from the north. This trend is likely to continue for the next two-three days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.“At 16.4 degrees Celsius, Mumbai’s Santacruz recorded the lowest minimum temperature of January this year. It may dip further during the next three days due to cold winds from the north,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, SkymetWeather, on Twitter. Meanwhile air quality saw a slight improvement on Monday after two days of very poor air. An overall air quality index (AQI) — a pollutant measuring indicator — of 283 (poor) was recorded on Monday. Over the weekend, air quality had plummeted to very poor category with AQI at 320 on Saturday and 310 on Sunday. “Due to continuation of high pressure system in western India, calm winds are prevailing in Mumbai and surrounding regions. Additionally, continental pollution and dusty oceanic air is polluting the air further. This condition is leading to poor AQI in Mumbai. With movement of high pressure system to the west, calm wind conditions will be relaxed slightly which is going improve AQI for Mumbai in the next two days,” said a spokesperson from System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).Navi Mumbai recorded the worst air quality at 369 (very poor), followed by Malad at 322 and Andheri at 320.AQI was calculated by the SAFAR as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-16-4-c-mercury-drops-to-mumbai-s-lowest-this-year-101611601636655.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: Punjab to take on Karnataka in quarters||Mandeep Singh-led Punjab team has been on a roll in the ongoing Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy winning all their five league matches. After a successful run in the league stage, Punjab will now be facing defending champions Karnataka in the quarter-final tie to be played at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium, Ahmedabad, on Tuesday. Tremendous surge in players’ performances can be attributed to the fact that they prepared well for the tournament. Before Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy was announced by the BCCI, Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) had held camps in a phased manner. Openers Prabhsimran Singh and Abhishek Sharma have given good starts to their team and starred in the victories. Mandeep and vice-captain Gurkeerat Mann have done well in the middle-order. In their league game against Karnataka, Punjab had emerged victorious by nine wickets. Medium-pacer Siddharth Kaul bagged a hat-trick in that game. Other quick bowlers like Arshdeep Singh and Sandeep Sharma have chipped in with useful performances and backed their batsmen. Spinners Mayank Markande and Harpreet Brar have also shown their mettle. Coach Munish Bali would be expecting Punjab to beat Karnataka in the quarter-final tie as well and enter the semi-finals. With such fine run at display, if Punjab team play to their potential, they will be unstoppable.Squad: Mandeep Singh (captain), Gurkeerat Singh Mann (vice-captain), Rohan Marwaha, Abhinav Sharma, Prabhsimran Singh, Anmolpreet Singh, Anmol Malhotra, Sanvir Singh, Sandeep Sharma, Karan Kaila, Mayank Markande, Abhishek Sharma, Ramandeep Singh, Siddharth Kaul, Barinder Singh Sran, Arshdeep Singh, Harpreet Singh Brar, Baltej Singh Dhanda, Krishan, and Gitansh Khera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/syed-mushtaq-ali-trophy-punjab-to-take-on-karnataka-in-quarters-101611601456568.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro-5 corridor to be complete by December 2024: MMRDA||A major line that will ease commute in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Metro-5 (Thane-Bhiwandi-Kalyan), is expected to be completed by December 2024, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) said in a statement issued on Sunday. The 24.90-km elevated corridor will provide much-needed connectivity in areas heavily dependent on the suburban railway. It will also provide interconnectivity with Metro-4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarwadavali) and Metro-12 (Kalyan-Taloja). Of the 24-km line, a 12.7-km stretch between Kapurbawadi and Bhiwandi connects Kapurbawadi, Balkum Naka, Kasheli, Kalher, Purna, Anjur Phata, Dhamankar Naka, and Bhiwandi. The first pier cap of this stretch near Balkum in Thane was erected on January 22 this year, a senior official from MMRDA said. The state authority has also sought clearance from the Central government for the diversion of 1,971.71 square metres (sqm) of forest land in Balkum as well as of 377.86 sqm of area in Kasheli, Bhiwandi for constructing around 24 piers for the project.MMRDA is looking at implementing 337 kms of metro lines in MMR by 2026. The first two lines — Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) — are expected to be operational by May this year. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate the first rolling stock for Metro-2A and Charkop depot, which will be utilised as a common depot for both the lines, on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-5-corridor-to-be-complete-by-december-2024-mmrda-101611601396528.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar slams Maha governor, Centre at farmers’ rally in Mumbai||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday slammed the Centre as well as the Maharashtra governor over their behaviour towards farmers as thousands of them from across the state protested against the Centre’s contentious new farm laws at Azad Maidan in Mumbai.Pawar took on governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for not meeting the agitating farmers, saying that the latter had time to meet actor Kangana Ranaut, but not farmers. Later, farmers’ leaders, who led a march towards Raj Bhavan but were stopped by the police, tore off their memorandum after they were told that the governor was out of town and they could submit their demands to Raj Bhavan officials. The new agri laws seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.At least a dozen key leaders from the ruling NCP and Congress stood in support and solidarity with the protesting farmers, while Shiv Sena sent its junior youth wing leader as its representative. Eyebrows were raised over the stand by the Sena led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray later said the party fully supported farmers in their agitation.Addressing the farmers at Azad Maidan, Pawar said during his stint as Union agriculture minister in 2003, the UPA government had deliberated on the farm laws by convening three meetings with the agriculture ministers of states, but could not build a consensus over the contents. “The BJP-led NDA passed the laws without any discussion in parliament and in just one day on the basis of the majority. The Modi government has attempted to uproot the farmers through these laws, but the farmers have the power to uproot political leaders who have been acting arrogantly,” Pawar said.He said the laws were passed by crushing the constitution of the country. “The ruling party did not follow parliamentary customs, while passing the laws and undermining the power of the common man. The common man of the country can crush these laws and politicians too.”Pawar, in his speech slammed Koshyari, saying, “He has time to meet Kangana (Ranaut), but not for the farmers. It was the ethical responsibility of the governor to meet the agitating farmers and face their delegation. He should have stayed back at the Raj Bhavan, but he has no etiquette. He is a one-off governor in the history of Maharashtra,” he said.Raj Bhavan, however, said it had clarified to the organisers of the farmers’ protest that the governor would not be available on Monday as he was away in Goa for his address to the first session of Goa legislature. “He holds additional charge as Goa governor. The leaders of Samyukt Shetkari Morcha were informed on Sunday that the honourable governor will not be able to meet the delegation,” the clarification stated. After the rally, the farmers marched towards Raj Bhavan to meet the governor, but they were stopped by the police near Metro theatre. The police offered to allow a delegation of the farmers to meet Raj Bhavan officials to submit their memorandum. However, leaders of the farmers outfits refused to meet Raj Bhavan officials in the absence of the governor and tore off their memorandum that they were going to hand over to Koshyari. The farmers returned to Azad Maidan and will return to their villages on Tuesday after hoisting a flag on the occasion of Republic Day at the same venue. Besides the ruling parties, Samajwadi Party, all left parties, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and many social outfits and labour unions extended their support to the farmers’ protest in Mumbai. Besides Pawar, NCP leaders and state minister Jitendra Avhad, former party legislator Vidya Chavan, Congress’s state unit chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, state minister Sunil Kedar, former minister Arif Naseem Khan, Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap participated in the public rally on Monday at Azad Maidan in Mumbai. Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said the laws were passed by suspending the MPs who were demanding discussions on the bills. “The laws have no provision of minimum support price, will lead to the abolition of agriculture produce market committees, thrashing the system of public distribution and will benefit capitalists, stockists,” he said.Absence of the Sena leaders was conspicuous and led to a debate over the party’s stand on the farm laws. Shiv Sena leader and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said that his party supports the farmers. “Our leader Sharad Pawar attended the rally, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced his support. There are limitations in attending the public gathering in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, but we have extended our full support to the farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-slams-maha-governor-centre-at-farmers-rally-in-mumbai-101611601216644.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 100,000 Covid vaccinations||Maharashtra went past the mark of vaccinating 100,000 healthcare workers (HCWs) after it inoculated 35,816 HCWs — its highest so far in a day — across 477 centres in the state on Monday. Maharashtra and Mumbai on Monday also recorded their lowest daily Covid-19 figures since May 16 (254 days) and April 24 (280 days), respectively. Maharashtra added 1,842 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 2,010,948. Mumbai, meanwhile, added 348 new cases to take its tally to 306,398. The active cases in the state stood at 43,561, while the active caseload of Mumbai stood at 6,159.The state also reported 30 fatalities, of which seven are from Mumbai. The death toll rose to 50,815. Of the 30 deaths reported, 12 occurred in the past 48 hours and one in the last week. The remaining 17 deaths are from the period before past week.So far, the state has vaccinated 135,701 HCWs in the drive since January 16 across the state, said Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, health department. He added that on Monday 265 HCWs were given shots of Covaxin across six centres in the state. On Monday, the state recorded a turnout of 74%, the official added. The health department on Monday increased their vaccination centres from 290 on Saturday to 477. The turnout has increased after allowing HCWs, who are not on the list for that particular days’s session, to take their vaccination shot.In the two districts of Mumbai, so far, 17,164 HCWs have been vaccinated, the health department said. Mumbai reported a 77% turnout on Monday with 5,005 HCWs vaccinated at 10 centres and 65 vaccination teams were in action. According to data of the health department, Dhule, Wardha, Bhandara, Osmanabad, Satara districts reported over 100% turnout. Dhule district topped with 144% turnout as 864 HCWs were vaccinated, followed by Wardha with 120% turnout as 1,315 HCWs were inoculated.Bhandara district reported 113% turnout as against the targeted number of beneficiaries with 565 HCWs getting vaccinated. Osmanabad reported 106% turnout and Satara district reported 101% turnout, the data added.Meanwhile, Raigad district reported 40% turnout against the targeted beneficiaries on Monday with 321 HCWs getting vaccinated. Nanded district saw a turnout at 43%, while Aurangabad district reported a turnout of 48%. Nandurbar district and Solapur district reported a turnout of 50% and 51%, respectively.The vaccination drive will not take place on Tuesday and on January 30 owing to preparation for the Polio vaccination drive on January 31, the department said.Senior health department officials said issues with CoWIN app persists in some pockets, but it is not hampering the inoculation drive. The official added that so far there have been no serious reports of adverse effects following immunisation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-100-000-covid-vaccinations-101611600975887.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC says it’s committed to protecting waste lifters’ livelihood||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it is committed to protecting the livelihood of garbage collectors who are aggrieved of change in waste collection system in the city, but only a handful of them have come forward so far. The MC in a statement before the HC said in a survey, 1,284 collectors were identified and applications invited under the new scheme for which only 402 applications were received. However, out of them, 36 people have started working in the new door-to-door collection system through motorised vehicles as assistants or the vehicle drivers. Rest of them are reluctant to join even as the scheme was finalised after inking an MoU between them and the civic body, it added. The response came to a plea by 28 odd waste collectors who had approached HC last month after MC initiated waste segregation in parts of the city and started lifting it through motorised vehicles. They had sought directions to junk the system that allegedly prevented them from earning their daily livelihood. The MC says it has spent crores and purchased 425 vehicles at a cost of ₹32 crore for lifting the segregated waste. The livelihood of petitioners is well protected as per the decision of MC House reached at after the deliberations with the representatives of waste collectors, the MC says. It added that it is duty-bound to take effective steps for waste collection and disposal as per rules notified by the central government in 2016 and adopted in Chandigarh in March 2019 after due process of law. The rules provide for systematic process that comprises waste segregation, storage at source, proper collection, transportation and disposal. It further said that as per the MoU, those who are skilled are to work as drivers with these newly bought vehicles and others as assistants for waste collection. The charges were also agreed to by them in the December 2019 MoU signed between MC and their representatives, the MC has stated, demanding that the plea be dismissed as new system has been implemented after due deliberations. Meanwhile, the garbage collection mostly went on smoothly on Monday. Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri said after many days, they hadn’t received even a single complaint regarding garbage collection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-says-it-s-committed-to-protecting-waste-lifters-livelihood-101611600857842.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Schools expect good turnout with Class 5 to 8 starting from Wednesday||The Maharashtra education department’s decision to reopen schools for Classes 5 to 8 from January 27 is likely to get a good response from students. School authorities said a large number of parents have agreed to send their children to school. Schools said that as opposed to the initial resistance from parents before schools reopened for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23, parents are now getting comfortable with the idea of schools reopening, and added that they are expecting a good attendance from the first week itself. “We will have 100% students attending the school on the first day. We have several classrooms and have divided each division into two groups of 25 each. We have conducted meetings with parents and have taken them into confidence. They are eager to send their children to school with all protocols in place,” said Arjun Koli, principal of Karad Municipal School. Teachers said that with schools remaining shut for the past 10 months, parents are more worried about the loss of learning of students, especially in rural areas where there are hurdles in online learning. “Parents have been asking us as to when schools would start because they can see that learning online is not as effective as learning offline. Hence, we are hoping for a good turnout as most parents have signed consent forms to send their children,” said Rajan Garud, a teacher from a zilla parishad school in Kardal, Saphale. As per the standard operating procedures laid down by the education department, 50% students in these schools are to attend classes on a rotational basis. Similarly in the first few weeks, schools will conduct classes for three hours from 11am to 2pm. “We will not take a break in between. Students can use the washroom or drink water while classes are on but no break will be given as such to ensure the safety of children and teachers,” said Rajkiran Chavan, teacher at Samarth Vidya Mandir, an aided school in Solapur. There are over 106,000 schools that teach Classes 5 to 8 in the state with nearly 8,000,000 students enrolled as per the data of the Unified District Information System for Education (U-DISE), 2019. Barring Mumbai, schools in most parts of the state are expected to reopen for Classes 5 to 8 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-schools-expect-good-turnout-with-class-5-to-8-starting-from-wednesday-101611600856649.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh DSP gets President’s Police Medal||Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) (east) Gurmukh Singh has been awarded President’s Police Medal for his distinguished service, on the occasion of Republic Day. Gurmukh had joined the Chandigarh Police as an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in April 1989. He has since then worked on different posts and during 1998-99, served in the UN Mission at Bosnia. While being posted in the UT police’s cyber cell, he had in 2008 busted a gang of online lottery scammers with the arrest of a Nigerian. He played a key role in solving the infamous dacoity at a Tanishq showroom in Manimajra and recovered jewellery worth ₹10 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dsp-gets-president-s-police-medal-101611600736629.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Farmers march to Mumbai; nationwide protests today||Braving sore feet and cold nights, thousands of farmers and farm labourers from 21 districts across Maharashtra held a sit-in at south Mumbai’s Azad Maidan on Monday, protesting against the three contentious farm laws passed by the central government while also showing solidarity with farmers at Delhi’s borders who have been camping there for the past two months.The farmers, united under the banner of Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Sanghatana (SSKS), reached Mumbai on Sunday evening, a day before India’s 72nd Republic Day, when farmers in different parts of the country will take out rallies — some of them involving tractors — against the laws.At least a dozen key leaders from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Congress and the Shiv Sena, who form Maharashtra’s ruling alliance, stood in support of the farmers demanding repeal of the three laws that aim to open up agricultural trade. Farmers say the laws will eventually help big corporates.At the programme, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar hit out at the Centre. “The BJP-led NDA (National Democratic Alliance) passed the laws without any discussion in Parliament and in just one day on the basis of the majority... farmers have the power to uproot political leaders who have been acting arrogantly,” Pawar said.Pawar said during his stint as the Union agriculture minister in 2013, the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government deliberated farm reforms by convening three meetings with agriculture ministers of states, but could not build a consensus.The Centre, however, says the reforms were much needed, and will lead to new opportunities in agriculture trade. It says farmers are being deceived by people who have “misled them for decades”.In Maharashtra, farmers also tried to march towards the governor’s house, but the police stopped them. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who holds additional charge of Goa, was there to address the customary first session of state legislature on Monday.Farmers refused to submit their memorandum to Raj Bhavan officials.Monday’s protests saw farmers pouring in from Nashik, Nandurbar, Dhule, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Hingoli, Palghar and Thane districts, among others. Some of them walked as far as 200km.Nirmala Pagi, 35, a farmer from Palghar district, left her four children with her mother-in-law and joined the march. “The outcome of the farmers’ protest in Delhi is dependent on how much support they have from all of us. If we unite, maybe the government will listen to us and repeal the three farm laws,” she said.Farmers at Delhi’s borders, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have planned a tractor march on Republic Day. They also plan a march to Parliament on February 1.In the districts of Sonbhadra, Varanasi and Ghazipur in eastern Uttar Pradesh, farmers’ leaders alleged that the police asked tractor owners not to drive their vehicles on January 26, even as the opposition Samajwadi Party planned to organise a tractor parade.“All police personnel, including circle officers, station officers, sub-inspectors and constables have been instructed to remain in their respective police station areas and carry out vehicle checking, including tractors,” said a police officer in Varanasi, requesting anonymity.In Haryana and Punjab, a section of farmers continued to move towards Delhi in their tractors, leading to traffic snarls at several state and national highways.However, farmers’ bodies in the two states have asked protesters not to disrupt official Republic Day functions anywhere.In Karnataka, several tractors began reaching the outskirts of Bengaluru on Monday to participate in a planned parade. But farmers’ groups alleged that the state government was trying to restrict the movement of the vehicles.“If the government stops people from coming to Bengaluru, we will begin similar protests in every district...,” said Chamarasa Malipatil, honorary president of farmers’ group Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha.Protests were also planned in West Bengal, Rajasthan, Gujarat, parts of Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.(With inputs state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-from-maharashtra-stand-their-ground-on-new-agri-laws-101611600679996.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body seeks list of HCWs from private hospitals for vaccination||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sought a list of healthcare workers (HCWs) from major private hospitals who have registered on the CoWIN app, which is managing the vaccination drive. Following a proposal of private hospitals that was submitted last week, BMC may allow beneficiaries in the second and third phase to be vaccinated in their hospital premises under the supervision of civic officials. “We are in the process of getting the list of HCWs from private hospitals, following which the decision will be taken on the proposal submitted by the private hospitals,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. If approved, vaccination of HCWs as well as frontline workers and senior citizens by private hospitals would be allowed in the second and third phases of the drive. “Though we are yet to make a final decision... we are still contemplating as it will help bring vaccine centres closer to beneficiaries. Dispensaries and clinics can also prove beneficial for the public in the following vaccination phases,” said Kakani. According to private hospitals in the city, distance is preventing almost 50% of registered HCWs from getting inoculated. “Currently, there are only 10 vaccination centres in Mumbai, which is slowing down the mass immunisation programme. Each major hospital has over 2,000 HCWs. If the BMC permits us to inoculate them in our hospital premises, it will help save travel time resulting in better turnout,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital. In a meeting held on January 21, the Association of Hospitals, which is a trust comprising private hospitals, said staffers with experience in immunisation could administer vaccines under the supervision of civic officials. “Hospitals will submit the duly signed forms of each recipient of the vaccine to the authority at the end of each day. This way government/BMC authorities can be relieved of considerable burden,” said Dr Sujit Chatterjee, chief executive officer of LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-seeks-list-of-hcws-from-private-hospitals-for-vaccination-101611600678063.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh transport buses to run at full occupancy||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses will now be allowed to run at full seating capacity. The UT transport department has also decided to scale up CTU operations in a phased manner as per the requirement of public in view of route receipt, said an official.The restrictions on the number of passengers travelling in CTU buses were imposed last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure social distancing norms.In a notification issued on Monday, the department said, “It has been noticed that the transport departments of adjoining states of Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh had running operations with no restrictions on seating capacity on interstate as well as intrastate routes. Due to cap on seating capacity, especially in long-route buses, CTU was incurring heavy financial losses.”Consequently, the department decided that interstate and intrastate buses will be allowed to operate at full seating capacity by following preventive measures such as wearing of masks, maintenance of social distancing, thermal scanning and sanitisation of buses.On the intracity or local routes, the fare to be charged will be as per the notification issued on January 15, 2020, instead of flat rates being charged as on date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-transport-buses-to-run-at-full-occupancy-101611600676932.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer leaders deploy volunteers to check rumour-mongering during tractor parade||Ahead of farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day, Punjab farmer leaders on Monday said they have deployed volunteers to keep a vigil on rumour-mongers and have also asked protesters not to believe any rumour which could potentially disturb the peaceful march.Farmers from several parts of Punjab and Haryana on Monday continued to head towards Delhi to join the tractor parade against the Centre's three new agriculture laws.With the arrival of more tractors, traffic on the Ambala-Delhi highway slowed down at many stretches."We are all set for the tractor parade on Republic Day," Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said on Monday.Around 35,000 tractor-trolleys belonging to farmers who owe allegiance to the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) are taking part in the tractor parade, said Kokrikalan.He said the instructions have been issued to farmers not to believe any rumour that could disturb the parade.Trained volunteers have been deputed to keep a vigil on rumour-mongers and any unfamiliar person who could disturb the rally, said Kokrikalan, exuding confidence that the parade would be peaceful.Those who are participating in the parade have also been asked to maintain discipline. "Youngsters have been told to stay in the cavalcade," said Kokrikalan.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to growers to ensure their rally remains peaceful as their stir against the "anti-farmer" laws have been so far.Notably, the Delhi police on Sunday had said that over 300 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan to disrupt the tractor parade.Protesting farmers will be depicting farmers' suicide through their tableaux during the tractor parade."We will try to highlight several issues including of farmers' suicide," said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann.He said through one of the tableaux, farmers will be encouraged to fight for their rights rather than ending their lives."We will register our protest on this Republic Day," said Mann.As the demand for flags of farm bodies swelled, farmer leaders cautioned some people against selling the flags at a higher rate.Kokrikalan said the flags of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) were being manufactured and sold at ₹100 to 200 per piece by some printing presses. "We have asked such shops and sellers not to defame this agitation and farm unions by making money out of selling their flags at these rates," said Kokrikalan. "If they want to sell the flags, sell them at ₹10-20 a piece," he said.There is a huge demand for flags of different farm unions as many people were sporting these on their vehicles.Hundreds of tractors on Monday left from several places in Punjab and Haryana for taking part in the tractor parade.In Ludhiana, a 30-member team of doctors, nurses, lab technicians, paramedical and support staff on Monday left Delhi for providing medical care to farmers.Dr Arun Mitra, who was leading the team, said they will join the tractor parade with their ambulances and give on the spot medical aid to the needy."We are carrying medicines and equipment for minor surgical procedures," he said.Farmer leaders had said they would take out a tractor parade on Republic Day. On Sunday, the Delhi police had said the farmers' proposed tractor rally would start after the time period of the Republic Day celebration had ended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-leaders-deploy-volunteers-to-check-rumour-mongering-during-tractor-parade-101611600175263.html
26-01-2021||Other||CM Uddhav Thackeray inaugurates Patripool RoB, SATIS and smart city integrated command centre in Kalyan||Maharastra state chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the new Patripool rail overbridge (RoB) via video conference and used the event to stress the importance of wearing face masks to stay protected against Covid-19. The CM stopped his speech and pointed out to a few persons in the audience who were not wearing masks. The Patripool RoB on the Kalyan- Shilphata stretch was opened to vehicles on Monday afternoon, two years after the previous 104-year-old Patripool RoB was dismantled by the Central Railway (CR) as it was declared unsafe. “Even though we have gathered to mark the opening of the bridge, people should not forget that the pandemic is not over. Wearing a mask is important anyway,” said Thackeray. During the ceremony, both the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expressed different opinions on naming the bridge. BJP member of Parliament (MP) Kapil Patil, in his speech, said the bridge was named after the late president and scientist APJ Abdul Kalam, while Shiv Sena MP Shrikant Shinde declared the name of the bridge as Aai Tisai Devi bridge, after the local deity. The ceremony was attended by state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, urban development and public works minister Eknath Shinde, officials of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and local members of legislative Assembly (MLAs). “I have been visiting Kalyan-Dombivli for the last 30 years, and issues like potholes and traffic jams were always there. However, jointly we have managed to do some work now. I don’t mind naming the bridge after APJ Abdul Kalam, however, considering the local sentiments, there should not be any hesitation in naming it after Aai Tisai Devi,” said Thackeray.The Patripool bridge was temporarily lit in the colours of the Indian flag to mark Republic Day on Tuesday. The video of the lighting went viral on social media. The bridge, which has two 76-metre-long and 33-metre-long girders, is the longest in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), according to MSRDC officials. Although the work was initiated in December 2018, and the girders were ready within two months, several other hurdles like the Covid-19 lockdown, opposition from locals and re-designing the bridge caused delays. “CR had helped a lot in the timely completion of the project by holding special blocks when required. Also, MSRDC has been continuously following up on the work. With everyone’s support, we have finished the project, and the bridge is now open to the public,” said Rajeshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director, MSRDC. The previous Patripool bridge was shut and dismantled in November 2018. The new two-lane bridge will ease congestion on the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch by allowing easy commute between Kalyan-Dombivli, Thane, Bhiwandi, Navi Mumbai and Mumbai.Two crucial projects under smart city mission inaugurated in KalyanThackeray also virtually inaugurated two crucial projects – Kalyan station area traffic improvement scheme (SATIS) project and smart city integrated command control centre – under the smart city mission in Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday. The two projects are meant to decongest Kalyan city. “All developmental works in Kalyan-Dombivli will be taken up on priority and set open to public use,” said Thackeray. Aaditya Thackeray, who was present at the ceremony, said, “When a city is turned into a smart city, it is necessary to think about all sections of society.”Under the smart city mission, the civic body has undertaken works like installing traffic signals, CCTVs, and bus depot redevelopment at a cost of around ₹498 crore. The smart command control room will control the eight traffic signals installed across Kalyan-Dombivli. KDMC will start operating the signals from Tuesday from its headquarters. “If a driver violates traffic rules, the control room will help find the driver and take action,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.During his speech, Aaditya targeted former CM Devendra Fadnavis, saying that the earlier government was distributing “gajar” (fake promises) as opposed to the current government which is really working for people. However, BJP MLA Ravindra Chavan reponded, saying: “All the development works inaugurated today was passed by former state government and Central government, and this government is only implementing them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-uddhav-thackeray-inaugurates-patripool-rob-satis-and-smart-city-integrated-command-centre-in-kalyan-101611600436625.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains to open for all soon, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has begun brainstorming over resuming the local rail services for all in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and announced that it will start operations for the general public soon.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a high-level meeting with key officials from the government, railways, municipal corporations and health department to take stock of the situation. The government is expected to allow the general public to take local trains in limited time slots beginning from non-peak hours. The operations are expected to begin in the next few days.“The trains will soon be open for all. The risk of the Covid-19 spread has not yet ended. The possibilities and aspects to take the idea forward were discussed in today’s meeting,” a statement issued by the chief minister’s office stated.According to officials privy to the development, the state government, which was wary of opening railway operations for the general public so far, has now been convinced that it was time to begin the services. “The positivity rate in MMR has dropped below 5% and infection rate too is too low. All the departments and even the civic bodies in MMR were of the opinion that by taking measures to control the crowd, railway operations could be started in a staggered manner,” said an official who did not want to be named.The government is expected to allow commuters first during non-peak hours, before 7am and after 10pm, to begin with. “Crowding during the hours in which women are allowed has increased. Based on that experience, the operations will be allowed in calibrated manners,” the official said.Government and railway officials have been asked to tap the measures that need to be taken to control crowd. “Staggering office hours has almost been ruled out as it is not an idea that could be implemented in MMR. Colour coding and time slotting and their monitoring is a tedious job, but could be considered,” said another officer.Once the decision is taken, the state government will inform the railways, which in turn will seek permission from the Railway ministry. Railways officials have reportedly told the government that they would not require more than a day to resume 100% operations from the current operation of 85% services. The officials, however, said that the state government should have mechanism in place for crowd control. At present, select categories of people including essential services workers and women are allowed to board suburban trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-to-open-for-all-soon-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101611600376543.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to hold online exams for odd semesters from Feb 15||Panjab University has decided to conduct the odd semester examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate students in online mode from February 15 onwards.The decision on the mode of examination for students of PU teaching departments and affiliated colleges was announced on Monday after more than a month of deliberations.The examinations for the ongoing classes will start from February 15 while the semester examination of new batches will start from March 8. Moreover, the practical examinations of ongoing classes will be held between February 2 to 5. The practicals for new batches will be held at the end of February.Last year, PU had also conducted the semester examination of final year students online due to pandemic. Varsity also held the reappear examination of various categories from January 15 in online mode.Instructions for students to be issued shortlyPU controller of examinations Jagat Bhushan said, “The detailed instructions for students including downloading of admit card, question paper, attempting of question paper, submission of answer sheet will be made available on the examination portal notice board shortly.”Relief for studentsAs PU was not able to announce the mode of examination, the students of PU departments and affiliated colleges were growing anxious, waiting for the university to take a final call.The students associated with the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) had also submitted a memorandum to the varsity on Monday demanding that exams be held online.They had also demanded that the varsity should reopen the library for all students and should start hostel allotment for newly-admitted students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-hold-online-exams-for-odd-semesters-from-feb-15-101611600316615.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Another FIR filed against car designer Dilip Chhabria||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police registered yet another first information report (FIR) against car designer Dilip Chhabria for allegedly cheating a Chennai-based businessman to the tune of over ₹22 crore.Chhabria has already been arrested by the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of Mumbai Police’s crime branch in connection with the alleged car finance racket in December 2020.The fresh FIR is based on a complaint lodged by automobile spare parts supplier. “The businessman has alleged that he had supplied spare parts to Chhabria between 2016 and 2018, but Chhabria, with an intention of cheating him, did not make payment of ₹18 crore (towards the spare parts),” said an EOW officer requesting anonymity. Chhabria had allegedly also taken a big sum of money as loan. With interest, the loan amount has now gone up to ₹4.12 crore, which Chhabria owes to the complainant,” the officer added.The police booked Chhabria and his partners in the company for criminal conspiracy and cheating. Chhabria, known for giving futuristic makeovers to cars, was arrested by CIU on December 29 in connection with a car financing and dual registration racket.Later, actor and comedian Kapil Sharma registered a complaint with Versova police alleging that Chhabria had taken ₹5.7 crore from him for designing a vanity van but did not deliver it. Sharma approached CIU on January 7 and said in his statement that he had asked Chhabria to design a vanity van in 2017 and paid him ₹5.3 crore between May 2017 and 2018. In July 2018, Chhabria allegedly demanded ₹40 lakh more as GST, which Sharma paid but Chhabria did not deliver the van.Chhabria is presently in judicial custody in the car finance racket case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-another-fir-filed-against-car-designer-dilip-chhabria-101611600196951.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC seeks ₹1,058 crore from admn for 2021-2022||The municipal corporation has demanded ₹1,058 crore from the UT administration in its proposed budget of ₹1,590 crore for the financial year 2021-2022.Last year, it had received only ₹425 crore against its demand of ₹1,076 crore in grant-in-aid (GIA). Last week, the administration had promised to increase that GIA to ₹500 crore for the coming fiscal.The GIA projection has been made on the basis of the recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission, which the MC is yet to receive, even though UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had written to the Centre for its implementation.Seeing that the civic body has failed to generate its own funds, it is heavily dependent on the funds from the administration to carry out development and for routine expenditures like staff salaries.MC’s receipts for the financial year 2021-22 are estimated to be ₹469 crore. Traditionally, it has fallen short of budget estimates of receipts. For the current fiscal too, as per the revised estimates of receipts for 2020-21, it will earn only ₹317 crore against the budget estimate of ₹402 crore. MC officials blame the pandemic for the shortfall in its receipts.Budget deficit pegged at ₹62.91 croreThe MC has pegged the budget deficit for the coming fiscal at ₹62.91 crore. For the current financial year, the deficit is expected to be ₹117.69 crore.Recurring expenditure on salaries and other liabilities like power and fuel bills (revenue expenditure) is estimated to be ₹1,178 crore of the total budget outlay of ₹1,590 crore for 2021-2022.For new projects, development and infrastructure works, MC has reserved ₹412.45 crore (capital expenditure).The proposed budget will be tabled in the budget meeting next month. Following an approval with expected minor changes, it will be sent to the UT administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-seeks-1-058-crore-from-admn-for-20212022-101611600137836.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Charge of sedition justified against Kangana Ranaut: Complainant to Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC), while hearing the petition filed by actor Kangana Ranaut seeking quashing of the first information report (FIR) against her by Bandra police on charges of sedition, was informed by the complainant in the case that the actor’s tweets had not only intended to cause hatred between communities on religious lines but had also tried to create animosity in the minds of her followers against the state government.The affidavit further stressed on section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and said that the actor had continued using the social media platform even after she had given an undertaking to the court on November 24, 2020, that she would desist, and hence her petition should not be entertained.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition of Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel seeking quashing of the FIR, was informed by advocate Rizwan Siddiquee that as per the court’s directions, the actor had filed a reply to the affidavit filed by the complainant in the FIR, and was willing to argue the quashing of the FIR case.However, the court sought to know the content of the affidavit filed by the complainant Munawwarli Sayyed and hence posted the matter for hearing on February 5.Sayyed’s affidavit filed by advocate Rizwan Merchant opposed the petition, stating that the actor had been tweeting intending to “promote enmity and hatred inter se between different groups, caste, community, etc, but also intended to bring in the government of Maharashtra into feelings of hatred, contempt, enmity and disloyalty with a possibility and likelihood of breach of peace and creating an environment prejudicial to maintenance of law and order, public order and public tranquillity.”The affidavit further states: “[The petition by the actor] is premature to claim that no offence is made out against them in the FIR, and their refusal to attend the office of the investigating officer during the interrogation is a deliberate and willful attempt by the applicants to stifle and scuttle the investigation at a nascent stage.”While addressing the bench, Merchant stated that he would be arguing mainly on sedition charges against the actor and her sister, and hence required some time to argue the same.After hearing the submissions, the court said that it would allow both sides to argue on February 15, and complete hearing in the petition the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/charge-of-sedition-justified-against-kangana-ranaut-complainant-to-bombay-hc-101611600136612.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body vaccinates 5,005 HCWs on Day 6 of Covid-19 vaccination||On Monday, which was Day six of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) vaccinated 5,005 healthcare workers (HCWs), which is the highest number of vaccinations carried out in one day in the city so far. The civic body’s target was 6,500. BMC plans to double its vaccination target to around 9,500, but since today is a public holiday, the revised target is yet to be officially set, civic officials said. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, said, “We have 65 booths in nine vaccination centres managed by BMC. We anticipated 6,500 beneficiaries to be vaccinated on Monday, but we could vaccinate 5,005. This is not a bad figure as it is the highest till now.” Dr Gomare added, “No major side effects have been reported in any of the beneficiaries and we have been following up with beneficiaries who are reporting any post-vaccination symptom.” So far, over 20 cases of minor adverse effects have been reported to BMC. The symptoms include fever, body ache and weakness. However, these were all treated with basic medication and no one has reported severe adverse effects, BMC officials said. According to BMC’s data, 18,202 HCWs have been vaccinated as of January 25. The vaccination started in Mumbai on January 16. The turnout for the first three days was around 50%, however since last Friday, the turnout has been rising and was up to around 90% on Saturday before falling to 77% on Monday. Despite this, Monday saw the highest numbers of HCWs being vaccinated. The turnout has increased since BMC allowed HCWs to avail walk-in vaccinations even if they do not have prior appointments. The most vaccinations were undertaken at the civic-run KEM Hospital where 3,117 beneficiaries have received the Covishield shot. Sir JJ Hospital, where 145 have taken the Covaxin shot, has recorded the fewest beneficiaries. BMC aims to complete vaccinations of around 130,000 HCWs within the next one month in the first phase of the vaccination drive. The process might take longer as administering second doses to those who received their first shot in phase one will not start before February 15. Currently, BMC has the capacity to vaccinate 15,000 beneficiaries daily, but this will increase to 50,000 in later months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-vaccinates-5-005-hcws-on-day-6-of-covid-19-vaccination-101611600077289.html
26-01-2021||Kolkata||Congress-Left Front decide to contest 77 seats in Bengal; talks on for remaining||The Congress and the Left Front have decided to field candidates in 77 seats that were won by them in the 2016 West Bengal assembly elections. For the rest 217 seats, talks between the two parties are still on.“As of now, we have agreed on the principle that the 77 seats that were won by the Congress and the Left parties in 2016 Assembly elections will be in same status quo. At present, it's won't be possible to talk about the exact numbers. The sharing of the remaining 217 seats will be concluded by January 31,” said Pradip Bhattacharya, senior Congress leader.While the Congress had won 44 seats, the Left Front had won 33 seats in the last assembly elections in 2016. Leaders of Congress and the Left Front held a joint press conference after a meeting to decide the seat-sharing.The state assembly elections are just around the corner. The Congress and the Left Front partners, headed by the CPI(M), contested as allies in the 2016 assembly polls but could not stop the TMC from retaining power with 211 out of the state’s 294 seats. Since the Congress benefited more from the alliance and wrested 44 seats, the tie-up did not last.Also read: Karnataka HC bars Centre from sharing Aarogya Setu app data without user consentLeft Front chairperson Biman Bose said that the Left parties and the Congress would organise joint rallies on the Republic Day on Tuesday to protest against the contentious farm laws and in support of the farmers. He also said that on January 30 the Congress and Left parties would rally up to the Gandhi Bhawan.For the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the principal contenders in the upcoming West Bengal assembly election, change in vote share of the Left and the Congress may play a crucial role although the latter has weakened significantly in the districts since the 2014 Lok Sabha polls||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/congressleft-front-decide-to-contest-77-seats-in-bengal-talks-on-for-remaining-101611599782808.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government notifies 1,977-ha mangroves in Thane, Raigad as forest||The Maharashtra government has notified more than 1,977 hectare (ha) of mangrove area in Thane and Raigad districts as reserved forest, to be handed over the forest department for conservation under the section 20 of the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1927.In a gazette notification issued on January 20, the state revenue and forest department announced that 1,458ha of mangrove area across 14 villages in Thane district, including Vashi, Nerul and Ghansoli is to be handed over to the forest department. Additionally, almost 519ha have been notified in Pen and Roha talukas of Raigad district, according to the gazette notification reviewed by HT.“These are lands that were already with the mangrove cell. They were already notified as reserved forest under section 4 of the IFA. Due process was followed to check for any claims on the land by the district administration. This is the final notification that there are no claims on these lands and they are reserved forests, soon to be handed over to the forest department,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell) and an ex-officio executive director of the state mangrove foundation.On January 12, the state had notified 1,575.16ha of mangrove land along the state’s coast that is likely to be handed over to the forest department for better conservation (under section 20 of IFA, 1927). This is in line with a Bombay high court (HC) order directing the government to hand over all mangrove areas on government land to the forest department, around 16 years ago.In 2005, in an interim order, HC directed all mangrove areas on government land to be handed over to the forest department. HC reiterated its order on September 18, 2018. However, while district bodies are yet to hand over 1,592.8ha, state agencies such as Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) have failed to transfer approximately 1,147ha under their jurisdiction to the forest department.In December last year, environment group Vanashakti had issued contempt notices to all Konkan district collectors, the Konkan divisional commissioner and JNPT for failing to hand over mangrove land to the forest department. Earlier this month, Vanashakti filed a petition in the HC seeking immediate transfer of all mangrove land to the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-notifies-1-977-ha-mangroves-in-thane-raigad-as-forest-101611599896471.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai senior citizens-led gang dupes 500 job seekers of ₹10 core in 7 years||A 62-year-old retired civic body employee, a 66-year-old former woman police constable, a junior medical officer and a municipality sweeper, along with five others, formed an unlikely gang that staged elaborate cons, trumping reel-life plots, to dupe more than 500 job seekers of ₹10 crore over seven years. According to the Mumbai crime branch, who recently arrested the nine, the gang’s modus operandi involved luring people with employment offers in government bodies and then, audaciously, arranging for fake competitive tests, police verifications, medical examinations in public hospitals and even paying salaries for seven to eight months to keep its long con rolling and lure more victims. Police officers said that in the guise of a medical check-up, the accused would arrange for a table at some reputable public hospital such as JJ Hospital, KEM Hospital, Sion Hospital and Rajawadi Hospital, where a woman member of the gang would pose as a nurse. The accused forged appointment letters, medical certificates, police verification letters and even deposited salaries between ₹12,000 and ₹15,000 in the bank accounts of 27 victims, all in order to evade any suspicion and gain trust. The gang was headed by Prakash Sadafule, a retired Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) employee from Kandivli. He, police said, began the racket in 2014 with the help of a former woman police constable Priti Padmakar Thakkar (she retired in 1993) and two serving BMC employees — Rajendra Sapre, 57, a junior medical officer, and Nitin Dhotre, 39, a BMC sweeper. The police’s antennae went up after a woman resident of Sion lodged a complaint against Sadafule and his aides at Sion police station last year for taking ₹3.5 lakh under the pretext of getting her son a job in BMC’s water department. The police, through investigation, found that more than 100 people from Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and even Pune had approached the property cell in these places with similar complaints. The police said they arrested Sadafule and Dhotre on December 15, 2020, and then Thakkar on December 16. The other accused were arrested between December 19 and December 21, 2020. Police said investigation is going on and that the racket may have also been an inter-state operation with further arrests likely. The nine accused are still in judicial custody. Thakkar, the police found, had criminal cases of duping people on the pretext of providing them flats in Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) buildings at lower rates. Sadafule was a class IV employee in BMC who retired in 2016. Before his retirement, he was posted in a BMC beat chowki near Sion Hospital. “He was soft-spoken and had an assuring manner. He misused the quality, luring people with the promise of a [government] job and accepted money from them. Sadafule and Thakkar initially took money from around 100 aspirants,” a police officer said. According to the police, they took money in instalments. Thakkar introduced Dhotre, a sweeper in BMC, to Sadafule, to attract more job aspirants. The accused took a first instalment of ₹1 lakh from the new candidates. After one or two months, they called the victims for a medical test in a government hospital and for that, they took another instalment ranging from ₹50,000 to ₹1 lakh. “Sapre, a junior officer in the health department of BMC, used to take candidates for ‘medical’ tests to some government hospital such as Sion, Rajawadi, KEM or JJ, where another gang member, Satnam Sahani, 38, would pose as a nurse. She would get forms filled by the candidates, recording their ages, height, weight and other personal details. In some cases, candidates were asked to bring urine samples,” said the officer. The accused completed the hospital process in a few minutes so as to avoid suspicion and Sapre would convince the candidates that as the doctors were bribed by them, the medical check-up was just a formality,” the officer said. “The accused would then issue offer letters to the victims and would take another cash instalment at the time. For the fake police verification, the accused would use a hotel in the vicinity of Dadar railway station,” he added. During the process of police verification, the police officer said, another gang member, Kunal Jadhav, a dismissed civic employee, pretended to be an officer. Sapre would meet candidates outside Dadar railway station and bring them to the hotel where Jadhav would ask them a few questions and note down details on a fake form. The job aspirants were given forged appointment letters, medical certificates, police verification confirmations, IDs and several other documents in order to draw more money from them. Police said the forged papers were made by Prashant Kamat, 39, a DTP operator who was introduced to the gang by Jadhav. “The accused used to conduct exams as well, for which they used to hire a hall or school rooms. Kamat used to prepare question papers of 100 questions, in which they mostly asked general knowledge questions. When the aspirants gathered at the exam venue, the accused would ensure they would not interact with any school staff or caretaker or owner of the hall,” said assistant police inspector Laxmikant Salunkhe, property cell, crime branch. “After getting an offer letter and waiting for more than a year, some candidates started asking about their joining dates. The gang then started discussing about ‘salary’ to around 27 aspirants. Sadafule, for that purpose, engaged a money-transfer agent from Dadar and gave cash to deposit in 27 candidates’ accounts. They paid them for seven to eight months,” said police inspector Kedari Pawar of the property cell. During investigation, police seized several documents that had the aspirants’ private details, fake BMC letterheads, stamps, fake offer letters, ID cards and bank statements of salaries deposited in the accounts of the aspirants. One of the victims, Sumit Mohite, 30, who lives at Wadala, said, “My friend, Prashant Rane, who had already paid Sadafule for his job, introduced me to him in 2016. Sadafule offered me a job in Railways as a class III employee and took the first instalment of ₹1.5 lakh”. Sadafule later introduced him to Thakkar. “They gave me an offer letter in 2018 and Thakkar took ₹1.5 lakh from me at Kharghar, where she was staying on rent.. She used to always ask me to wait for a few days whenever I called her enquiring about the joining date. But after three years I realised that there was some foul play and I asked her to return my money. Thakkar then gave a cheque of ₹3 lakh in February 2019, which was dishonoured,” Mohite added. Another victim, who had completed HSC from Ambedkar College, said, on the condition of anonymity, “Around 15 youngsters from Wadala have paid Sadafule. I was also convinced by them and gave ₹1.5 lakh to him in April 2017. Sadafule promised me a job in BMC’s water department and conducted a medical test in May 2018. They asked me to visit Rajawadi hospital with a urine sample. Sapre met outside the hospital and took me inside where a nurse collected the urine sample and also checked my nails.” “After a week, Sapre called me for police verification in Dadar. He met me outside a hotel. One of his aides was sitting inside, pretending to be a policeman, and asked me a few questions like name and where I live ,” said the victim. “Sadafule told me that my offer letter has come, but he did not give it to me. He kept saying that I would join the job in a few months,” added the victim. The police said work of recording detailed statements of victims was going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-senior-citizens-led-gang-dupes-500-job-seekers-of-10-core-in-7-years-101611599596384.html
26-01-2021||Noida||Republic Day 2021: Noida Metro trains to run at 15 min interval||The Noida-Greater Noida Metro will run trains at an interval of 15 minutes for the entire day on Republic Day, officials said on Monday. The second anniversary of commencement of service of the metro network -- known as Aqua Line -- also falls on January 26. "On January 26, 2021 (Tuesday), on the occasion of Republic Day, Metro services on the Aqua Line will run at a frequency of 15 minutes for the entire day," a spokesperson for the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) said. The Aqua Line has a 7.5 minutes frequency during peak hours and 10 minutes during non-peak hours on regular days, according to officials.Services for commuters begin at 6 am and go on till 10 pm Monday to Saturday and 8 am to 10 pm on Sundays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/republic-day-2021-noida-metro-trains-to-run-at-15-min-interval-101611599025385.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Doctors at Kasturba hospital threaten strike from Feb 1 over unpaid salaries||Doctors of Kasturba Hospital, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, are likely to go on an indefinite strike from February 1 over non-payment of salaries for the past three months.A formal announcement about the strike is likely to be made by the doctors’ association after a meeting on January 27. Doctors of Hindu Rao and other hospitals under the north corporation are yet to decide on whether to strike work, but they will write to the civic authorities urging them to make pending payments.Nurses and paramedics of Kasturba Hospital, Hindu Rao Hospital and Rajan Babu TB hospital are already on strike since January 7 along with employees of other departments of north corporation over non-payment of salaries.Dr Sunil Kumar, president of the Kasturba Hospital Resident Doctors’ Association, said salaries for the months of November, December and January are the pending and doctors are currently working without payment.“Our salaries are pending for three months and we are giving our services without payment. We also have our families to feed and non-payment of salaries has now become a norm in the north civic body. This has to end. We are waiting till January 26 (Tuesday) for our salaries to be paid. We are likely to go on an indefinite strike from February 1, if our salaries are not released. On January 27 (Wednesday) we will have a meeting to decide our strategy,” Kumar said.Another doctor of the hospital, who wished not to be named, said, “ We have come to know that our salaries are unlikely to be paid till March as the civic body is focusing on the release of salaries of employees of other departments, who are already on an indefinite strike. We have no choice left but to go on a strike. The authorities should find a permanent solution to this problem.”Responding to the doctors’ statements, north corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We are arranging funds to pay salaries of employees, which also include doctors. They (doctors) are responsible people, so they should maintain decorum and not go on strike as that is not the solution. We had paid them before we did other employees in October. They should also show us some cooperation.”According to civic officials, the north corporation employs around 1,000 senior doctors, 500 resident doctors, and 1,500 nursing officers across its five hospitals.The 450-bed Kasturba Hospital is a maternity and child specialty hospital located near the Jama Masjid while Hindu Rao Hospital is the municipality’s largest hospital with 980 beds.This is not the first time that doctors have threatened to go on a strike. In June, doctors of Kasturba Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital had threatened to tender mass resignations over non-payment of two months’ salary but they go ahead with the threat as the Supreme Court asked the civic body to pay pending salaries.Again, on October 5, resident doctors at Hindu Rao Hospital went on a strike after their salaries remained unpaid for four months. On October 14, doctors of Kasturba Hospital also went on a strike. These strikes were called off on October 29 after the corporation released two months’ salary and assured doctors that salaries will be paid regularly from then on.“But that promise was not kept by the civic body. Our salaries for three months are now pending. We have not yet decided on the strike but we are going to write to the mayor and commissioner of the north corporation about our ordeal,” Abhimanyu Sardana, president Resident Doctors’ Association Hindu Rao Hospital, said.Sardana said a meeting of the association will be convened towards the end of the month to decide the future course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/salaries-not-paid-doctors-of-delhi-s-kasturba-hospital-may-strike-work-from-feb-1-101611594856111.html
26-01-2021||Other||New DDA plan to give rights to unauthorised colony residents||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) plans to adopt a new strategy to expedite the process of issuing conveyance deeds, which will give ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, under the Centre’s PM-UDAY scheme, said Anurag Jain, vice-chairman of DDA.Since the launch of the process in December 2019, close to 377,636 property owners have registered with the DDA under the scheme of which 54,139 have submitted their applications along with necessary documents till January 22.Of these only 3,634 property owners have got their final documents.Jain said, “We are working on completely changing the strategy for the implementation of PM-UDAY. We plan to send our own team to unauthorised colonies so the initial process, including uploading documents and survey of all the properties, can be done simultaneously. Currently, our team surveys the area after we get applications from property owners.”In October 2019, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry had notified regulations to confer ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, which will enable the residents to transfer/sell their properties, avail of home loans and be eligible to demand basic amenities such as water and electricity.Jain said, “We will also deploy additional manpower to speed up the process. For the new process, we will have to update the software. The entire re-engineered process will be in place by March.”The DDA, which is the nodal agency for the implementation of Centre’s PM-Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi AwasAdhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY), plans to carry out the property survey at the time of filing of application by property owners. For this, it plans to do the survey colony-wise and deploy additional staff to speed up the process.Till January 22, DDA has issued 1,716 conveyance deeds and 1,918 authorisations slips, which are the final documents required for registry of property with the Delhi government. Authorisation slip is issued to properties in unauthorised colonies which have come up on government land.In Raja Vihar and Suraj Park in Rohini assembly constituency, many residents complain of lack of clarity and delay in the processing of their applications for property ownership. Residents in these two unauthorised colonies were the first to get conveyance deed or authorisations slips in January last year, just before the Delhi assembly elections.Nirmal Singh, a resident of Suraj Park, said he has been running from pillar to post since August last year to get the application processed. Singh’s family had registered with the DDA under PM-UDAY in February last year.“The GIS survey of our property was done in March. Due to the lockdown, we uploaded the documents in August. But since then, there is no clarity on the status of our application. I have made several visits to the DDA office in the area. There are some technical issues with my applications which they are not able to resolve. When I went to the DDA office in December, they told me that there is some problem with the server. We want the application to be processed at the earliest,” said Singh.Brij Mohan Somani, a resident of Raja Vihar who got the authorisation slip for his property last year, said, “There is a need to streamline the process. A lot of people living in this colony are not well-educated. We want DDA to expedite the process and fix a time duration for clearing each step of the process.”DDA officials say that the process got delayed a bit last year due to the coronavirus pandemic as field surveys couldn’t be done during the lockdown.Jain said that in the past few months, several measures have been taken to expedite the process.“We have increased the number of processing centres from two to 10 to speed up the process. There are 1,375 common service centres through which people can apply. We have also allowed the GIS agencies, which are doing the survey, to file applications,” said Jain.DDA officials said that close to 7,000 applications have been rejected as properties are either falling outside the boundary or are located in the O-zone or falling on master plan road etc. The DDA has issued deficiency notes to 13,000 property owners.Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner with DDA, said, “If DDA plans take up the process colony-wise, then it should do a pilot project in one of the big unauthorised colonies to see the response and streamline the process. But the most important thing DDA should focus on is to give a legal tag to the entire authorized colonies by regularising it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-comes-up-with-new-plan-to-expedite-process-of-issuing-deeds-to-residents-of-unauthorised-colonies-101611594855328.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Doorstep delivery of rations in Delhi by March this year: CM Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government’s ambitious doorstep delivery of ration service will be launched by March, and all of the residents of the city will get health cards by the end of this year, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday, during an address at a Republic Day event at the Delhi secretariat.Hailing the Capital’s medical infrastructure and staff, Kejriwal also said Delhi’s health care system “did not collapse” even as it bore the brunt of one of the worst Covid-19 outbreaks in the world.“On November 11, there were 8,500 Corona cases in a single day in Delhi, the highest in any city across the world. No city had witnessed these many cases in a day. And yet, Delhi’s health care system did not collapse. Even on that day, Delhi had 7,000 Covid-19 beds vacant in hospitals. In the first week of April in New York City had 6,300 cases and you all must have seen on social media how the entire health system of New York collapsed during the outbreak. The hospitals were fully equipped and patients were in queues outside hospitals,” he said.Kejriwal said the Capital’s health system was able to tackle the surge in cases due to the “reforms and investment” made by the Delhi government in recent years, he said.Due to the pandemic, the government, in a first, did not organise the annual Republic Day event at Chhatrasal Stadium. Even Independence Day celebrations last year were restricted to flag hoisting and a speech by the CM at the Delhi secretariat, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.Lauding the city administration’s move to introduce home isolation for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients, which he said took some load off the hospitals, Kejriwal said Delhi has so far treated 312,425 people under home isolation during the pandemic. In addition, 4,929 people received plasma therapy, first introduced across the country by the Delhi government at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, he said.By March, Kejriwal said, the Delhi government will roll out its flagship doorstep rations delivery programme, which he claimed would “revolutionise” the ration distribution system in the city.By the end of this year, the government will also issue health cards, under which all health records of a Delhi resident will be stored.“The system will start from all Delhi government hospitals and mohalla clinics first, and later be expanded to private facilities. Government and private hospitals will be connected to the Health Information Management System and residents will be able to get an online appointment to consult doctors without waiting in queues at hospitals,” Kejriwal said.The chief minister said despite drying up of tax revenue due to the pandemic, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government managed to pay salaries to its employees and continue its flagship schemes, including free power and electricity supply.In the last billing cycle, 3.8 million households got zero power bills, while 1.4 million domestic consumers received zero bills for water supply.“At a time when people lost their livelihoods, the Delhi government paid their employees and arranged for money from various sources and provided dry ration to 1 crore people every month. At least 10 lakh people were provided cooked food every day, the arrangements were made in schools. We deposited ₹5,000 each in the bank accounts of auto and taxi drivers during the lockdown. Around 1,56,000 auto and taxi drivers received this financial assistance, and no other state government did it. We deposited ₹10,000 each in bank accounts of around 44000 construction workers. We arranged for food and medicines for anyone in need,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doorstep-delivery-of-rations-in-delhi-by-march-this-year-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101611594796523.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police says it will ensure that farmers stick to rally route||Only 5,000 farmers on 5,000 tractors will be allowed into Delhi for the tractor rally scheduled for Tuesday, according to the terms and conditions mentioned in the no-objection certificate (NOC) issued by the police on Monday, but the police said practically all tractors joining the rally will be allowed to enter the Capital.Though the police also wanted the rally to end by 5pm on Tuesday — within five hours of its start at 12pm — officers said they are prepared to deal with a situation in which the rally spills over into the next day.After series of meetings between the farm leaders and the police over the past one week, the two sides have agreed upon three routes for the rally.The official limit on the number of tractors and participants, and the hours of operation, was in sharp contrast to the police’s announcement at a press conference on Sunday, when senior police officers had indicated there was no limit on the number of tractors and up to five farmers would be allowed on one tractor.The police had also said the rally would be expected to end by Tuesday itself if there were just about 30,000 tractors. Farmer leaders, however, have maintained the tractor count would be over 200,000 and the rally could go on for 48 hours.Dependra Pathak, special commissioner of Delhi Police’s intelligence unit, said as per the agreement with the farmers, only 5,000 tractors with just one person on each vehicle are permitted, but the “police will facilitate” the farmers. “We’ll ensure their safety, security and movement,” said Pathak.Another senior police officer, who didn’t want to be identified, said the police are still appealing to the farmers to maintain the mandated limit on the number of vehicles. “Our aim is to ensure that the tractors return to the border point by evening. But we won’t stop tractors beyond the 5,000 count,” said the officer.According to the same officer, the count of tractors on the city’s borders as of Monday evening had crossed 27,000. “At most, it will go up to 40,000. If it reaches the upper limit, the rally could spill into Wednesday, but we are prepared for it,” said the officer.Farmer leaders, meanwhile, said all tractors that join the rally would enter Delhi. “There is no limit on the number of tractors or the number of participants. The rally could go on for 48 hours, depending on how long the tractors take to return to the border” said Rajinder Singh, vice president of Kirti Kisan Union.As per the document, the farmers will have to arrange 2,500 volunteers and some traffic marshals to coordinate with the police on the ground.Farmers are required to bring their own drinking water, medical aid and firefighting equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-says-it-will-ensure-that-farmers-stick-to-rally-route-101611594795443.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Gleaming tractors add to buzz at borders||Gleaming tractors that have been serviced, washed and adorned with the tricolour and banners; farmers busy giving finishing touches to tableaux on agricultural themes; volunteers setting up mobile hospitals and another group registering the parade participants -- the farmer protest venues at Delhi’s borders were beehives of activity on Monday, the eve of the historic “tractor parade” to be held by farmers on Republic Day.Tuesday’s event coincides with the two-month anniversary of the farmers’ agitation which began on November 26, when thousands of farmers from neighbouring states reached Delhi’s borders looking to enter the Capital to protest against the three farm laws. When they were denied entry, they camped at the border points, the main camps being at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla.President of Krantikari Kisan Union Darshan Pal said farmers will also take out a “padyatra (pedestrian march)” to the Parliament on February 1, the first day of the budget session. “People who have come here from across the country to participate in the parade will stay back and take part in the padyatra,” he said, adding that the Republic Day “tractor parade” may continue up to 48 hours.Balwinder Singh, 64, a farmer from Bhullar village in Kapurthala district of Punjab, who has been camping at Singhu border, said, “This parade is to express our anguish over the farm laws. Tractors are instrumental in farming and we want to celebrate our Republic Day by displaying our tractors.”Farmers have taken special care to clean their tractors and put up flags and banners. Garvinder Singh, 35, a farmer from Tiwana village in Mohali said everyone in his village had wanted to join the parade. “I serviced my vehicle before coming here to ensure that I can participate in the parade,” he said.Komal Singh, a 20-year-old law student from Chandigarh, and her cousin rode a scooter to Delhi. “Normally, my mother would not have allowed me to ride to Delhi. But when she saw that entire caravans of people were marching towards Delhi, she let me go. There were hundreds of vehicles on the road from Chandigarh to Delhi and I felt like was among family. I have never felt so safe,” said Singh, adding that the journey took her around 10 hours due to the traffic on highways.Tuesday’s Republic Day celebrations by farmers will also feature a number of tableaux depicting several social issues, including privatisation of agriculture, farmer debts, widows and children of farmers who died by suicide, atrocities against Dalits, violence against women, and problems faced by migrants during the Covid-enforced lockdown last year.Harinder Bindu, president of the women’s wing of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), who is camped at Tikri border, said, “These tableaux show the real picture of the country -- where the poor and the marginalised are suffering. We want the people to know that our fight is not just for farmers but for everyone, including those widowed or orphaned because of farm debt suicides,” she said.Members of different student groups were also seen preparing for the parade. Navkiran Natt, of the All India Students’ Union (AISA), said, “We have prepared a tableau depicting how farmers are being exploited by the government and corporates.”To ensure the tractor parade remains peaceful, farmers have formed groups to look after security. Farmer leaders at UP Gate border said their route has been divided into nine zones and each zone will have 200 volunteers present who will be assisting the police during the rally.“For identification purposes, each volunteer will be wearing a yellow jacket and an identification card. Some of them will be riding motorcycles or driving cars along with emergency vehicles. These groups will carry walkie-talkies to coordinate with other volunteers,” said Dharmendra Malik, Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) spokesperson.On Monday, five help desks were set up at the Ghazipur venue for registration of tractors and drivers for the parade. The volunteers were checking driving licences and Aadhaar cards and recording details in a register before issuing them the green registration cards.“We are making a list of all tractors and drivers. We will only allow those tractors and drivers who will display the green registration card,” said Jitendra Singh alias Jitu, who is heading the volunteer groups.The BKU spokesperson said three security teams of 15 volunteers each will be searching all tractor trolleys and tents and also frisking individuals with hand-held metal detectors.“The checking has been going on for the past three days. We will not allow anyone to carry weapons. Since thousands of tractors will be in the rally, we have also arranged mechanics and cranes to repair or remove tractors that break down,” said Malik, adding that women will also be participating in the rally.Farmers said a langar committee will distribute packed food among protesters during the parade. “There will be 3,000 volunteers in uniform at protest sites on Tuesday. While half of them will manage the traffic, others will keep an eye out to prevent any untoward incident,” said Jagmohan Singh, a member of BKU (Punjab).Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of BKU (Rajewal), appealed to farmers to maintain peace and discipline during the parade. “The government will witness the biggest show of strength this Republic Day. We will maintain peace as we have been doing from Day One,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-from-across-the-country-prepare-for-historic-parade-on-rday-101611594735866.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||‘Freak accident’: Two workers die after falling off 3rd floor of factory||Two men working at a jeans factory in east Delhi’s Geeta Colony died after falling off the third floor of the factory building on Saturday afternoon, in what the police called a “freak accident” — the two men were on a break from work and “playfully jostling” when they fell.“Eyewitnesses said the two workers were playfully jostling about when they accidentally fell off the third floor of the factory,” said a senior police officer.While an FIR pertaining to causing death by negligence has been registered, the officer said prima facie, no third person was responsible for their deaths.The police identified the dead men as Shafiq Shaukat, 36, and Shakeel Ali, 46. Both lived in Jafrabad in north-east Delhi.“Around 2.15pm on Saturday, the men were loafing around the staircase of the building and jostling about when they reached a door that opened to the terrace. While the door appeared to be locked, it was actually not even latched. As the men playfully pushed each other, they both landed on the door together and it opened under their weight,” the officer said.They fell sideways to the ground. They were rushed to a hospital where both were declared dead on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-workers-fall-to-death-from-factory-building-in-east-delhi-101611594735326.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Daily vaccination turnout hits high in Capital, 91%+ get shots||Over 91% scheduled beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine were inoculated in one day for the first time in Delhi on Monday, as 41 hospitals in the Capital either completed their daily target or exceeded it.At Delhi’s 81 vaccination centres, 7,408 health care workers of the targeted 8,100 received a jab of either the Covaxin or Covishield vaccines.According to administration data, 41 hospitals, including private and government facilities, either vaccinated 100% of their targeted beneficiaries, or exceeded that number on Monday.Monday was the first time since the launch of the campaign on January 16 when six of Delhi’s 11 districts recorded turnouts over 90%, four recorded over 80%, while one district hit 71% of its target.Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini and Mata Chanan Devi hospital in west Delhi recorded the highest turnouts, with 140 health care workers receiving vaccine shots. Government hospitals like Rajiv Gandhi Super specialty hospital in Tahirpur, Lok Nayak Hospital, GB Pant, ILBS and Dr Hegdewar Arogya Sansthan turnouts of 100% or more.Officials said the 91.45% turnout, a jump of 6.3 percentage points compared to Saturday, was due to minor measures introduced by the administration over the course of the drive.These include out-of-turn vaccine shots for not only those beneficiaries who are allotted slots on future dates, but also those who missed their shots. Further, centres were informally allowed to exceed the cap of 100 shots per day on ensuring full compliance of Covid-19 norms, and allowing beneficiaries take their shots in any centre of their choice, instead of the vaccination point they were registered for.For the second straight day, Shahdara managed to inoculate 100% of its targeted beneficiaries for the day. The district vaccinated 604 (101%) people instead of 600, a trend first seen in northeast district on Saturday.Shahdara was on Monday followed by northeast district, which vaccinated 197 health care workers against the target of 200. North district vaccinated 285 (71%) of 400 beneficiaries – the lowest of all districts on Monday.In Delhi, Covid-19 vaccination happens four days a week - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.Cumulative vaccination data since January 16 shows that the Capital has so far inoculated 13.8% of the 240,000 health care workers identified and registered with the government for the phase of the programme.“Delhi has had six days of Covid-19 vaccination till now and after the first two to three days of low turnout, things have started looking up since Thursday. We have inoculated 33,170 (65%) healthcare workers so far in the Capital, out of the target of 50,678,” said a senior health official.Overall, southeast district has been closest to its total target so far, vaccinating 75% (3,773) of a total of 5,064 registered health care workers. North Delhi had the fewest vaccinations (1,294) of all districts, against its overall target of 2,465 till Monday.Only 14 AEFI (adverse effects following immunisation) cases were reported on Monday.So far, 156 adverse events have been reported in Delhi, most of which were categorised as “mild”, meaning that the beneficiary reported nausea, headache or mild rash at the injection site, and the person was allowed to leave the centre after a 30-minute observation period.Since the launch of the campaign, the south district has seen the highest number of AEFI cases (28), while northeast reported the lowest with just 4 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-91-of-registered-beneficiaries-get-covid-19-vaccine-shots-in-delhi-on-monday-the-highest-so-far-101611594676633.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Anand Vihar ISBT to stay shut||The interstate bus terminus (ISBT) at Anand Vihar will remain closed during the day on Tuesday in the wake of the tractor parade being planned by farmers protesting against the farm laws, transport officials said.The parade is scheduled between 12 noon and 5pm. “All buses destined for Anand Vihar ISBT will be diverted to ISBT Sarai Kale Khan,” said KK Dahiya, special commissioner (operations) of the transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/anand-vihar-isbt-to-remain-shut-on-tuesday-during-day-time-101611594675942.html
26-01-2021||Other||No end to Capital’s garbage problem as strike continues||A meeting between the protesting staff of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and the civic body’s mayor remained inconclusive on Monday, with the employees refusing to come back to work until their pending salaries are paid even as residents across north Delhi complained of roads littered with stinking garbage.“The mayor along with the commissioner had convened a meeting with agitating employees. They do not have any lasting solution to the crisis. They said that the civic body can pay only one to two months’ salary, which is not acceptable to us. We will continue our strike,” said AP Khan, convener, Confederation of MCD Employees Union which is on an indefinite strike since January 7.Khan added that the sanitation employees will also continue to strike and will not clear garbage from the streets. “Sanitation services will not be performed until dues are cleared. Only the civic authorities are responsible for this garbage mess,” Khan said.Pawan Tank, acting president of Nagar Nigam Shramik Sangh, which is also part of the Confederation, said that the north corporation authorities announced that salary for two months has been cleared for sanitation employees but it is yet to be paid.“We will not return to work until our demand for regularisation of sanitation workers is met and pending salaries of all employees are cleared. We will not lift garbage from streets and colonies,” Tank said.Residents complained that they are facing a health crisis as streets have not been cleaned for days. Raza Khan, a resident of Daryaganj, said the situation in old quarters of the city is worse than in any other part. “Garbage can be seen lying on streets in the colony. The street near Golcha Cinema now resembles like a dump yard as garbage has not been lifted for last 15 days from here. Foul smell emanating from the garbage is unbearable,” Khan said.Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation, appealed to sanitation employees to return to work and assured that their other demands will be considered. “In the meeting today, I have assured that at least one-month salary of all employees will be approved by January 28. I appeal them to return to work so that sanitation problem can be solved,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-end-to-sanitation-crisis-as-talks-between-north-mcd-staff-and-mayor-fail-101611594615852.html
26-01-2021||Other||98-min wait for Metro at Chawri Bazar||Metro commuters on Monday evening had to wait for nearly 98 minutes outside the Chawri Bazar due to the peak hour rush and security arrangements put in place for the Republic Day.DMRC tweeted, “Peak Hour Update Average waiting time at Chawri Bazar is 98 minutes. In case of any fluctuations in crowd, the waiting time will be informed accordingly.”At other stations such as Rajiv Chowk, Green Park, etc, the waiting time fluctuated between 20-40 minutes.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “Waiting time at some of the Metro stations has increased because of security measures ahead of Republic Day. In addition, Covid 19 prevention measures such as thermal scanning and temperature check are already being done at all stations.”He added, “We are intimating passengers about average waiting time at stations for their convenience through social media. This is purely a temporary phenomenon because of the enhanced security measures, and we seek the cooperation of the passengers so that both security measures as well as Covid protocols can be properly implemented.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/intensive-checks-lead-to-98-mins-waiting-at-chawri-bazar-metro-station-101611594615324.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Money paid to MCDs being diverted to councillors’ fund, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations (MCDs) in the national capital are diverting the money disbursed by the Delhi government to augment the councillor local area development (LAD) fund, instead of paying the pending salaries of employees.Addressing a press conference, senior AAP leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said Delhi is suffering from a “massive garbage issue” as sanitation workers are on strike over salary dues.“The areas under the BJP-ruled north MCD are the worst affected and the situation has remained bad for the past 15-20 days. Sanitation workers of the municipal bodies are on strike for the past several days because the municipalities have not paid them salaries for the past five to six months,” he said.Pathak said on January 14, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and urban development minister Satyender Jain had announced that the Delhi government will release ₹938 crore for payment of salaries of MCD employees.“But the BJP has not paid the salaries of their employees till now. Instead, they have increased the councillor LAD fund. The BJP has decided to provide ₹1 crore to each councillor,” he said.Presenting the SDMC’s budget on December 7, 2020, additional commissioner Ramesh Verma had proposed reducing the LAD fund from ₹1 crore to ₹50 lakh. But on January 19, standing committee chairperson of SDMC, Rajdutt Gahlot rejected the proposal.Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “The AAP is misguiding people by making baseless allegations. There is no proposal for increasing councillor’s fund to ₹1.5 crore. The civic body has not yet received any money as promised by the government in the name of salary fund. The only money we got is a fraction of third quarter dues which the government anyway has to give us,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/money-paid-to-mcds-being-diverted-to-councillors-fund-alleges-aap-101611594555381.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||J&K hospital, musicologist study if music helps treat mental disorders||Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences ( medical college and hospital, SKIMS-MC) and a musicologist from Jammu and Kashmir’s Institute of Mathematical Science are collaborating to learn whether mental disorders can be diagnosed and treated using sound and Indian classical music. The research will study the effect of acoustics, sound and music on mental disorders such as anxiety and depression. Principal investigator of the project, Shahzad Aasim, a musicologist, said they will be testing the neuro-acoustic mechanism. “Kashmir is a hotspot for mental disorders owing to conflict and other issues. The aim of this research is to accurately diagnose and treat illnesses such as anxiety, depression, autism and other mental disorder using specific and unspecific sound therapies,” he says. “So far, doctors have been diagnosing these disorders using symptoms or case histories. They then make assumptions based on a certain scaling,” said Aasim, who is also the research head at Jammu and Kashmir’s Institute of Mathematical Science (JK-IMS) in the higher education department. SKIMS head of the psychiatry professor Abdul Wahid said the research was yet to begin and they have just signed a memorandum of understanding with JKIMS. “We are yet to formulate a protocol. We are trying to learn the effect of acoustics on treatment of patients and see if we can use it to treat psychiatric disorders,” he said. “I have been working on this for 12 years,” says Aasim, who has written research papers on music, including the quantum mechanism of music in theory and practice and secret of music. The research will be carried on patients of SKIMS-MC and will be done after obtaining informed consent of the patients or their caretakers. The first phase will take six months. “We will be using resonance factor. Human organs like the heart and brain have their vibration frequencies. We will be introducing low frequency sound loops to patients to reach resonance points. Then we will be comparing it with normal people. It is like organ mapping using sound,” Aasim said. Aasim said that they will be using sound notations from Indian classical music based on the frequency spectrum. “We will also be quantifying mood swings,” he said. Dr Nizamuddin, assistant professor at the department of psychiatry, said the project aims to use music and sound therapy to assess symptoms of the patients. “There will be piloting and then research will start. It is a very innovative idea and the outcome is uncertain. Our side will be assessing whether symptom-wise there is improvement in the patient or not,” he said, adding that he was not sure if the therapy can help diagnose patients . Researchers have found that a large population in Kashmir suffers from mental disorders. Nearly 1.8 million or 45% of the total adult population in the Valley show symptoms of depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a research by Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) concluded in 2016. It said, on an average, an adult living in the Valley has witnessed or experienced 7.7 traumatic events during their lifetime. While 93% of people experienced conflict-related trauma, 94% experienced trauma due to natural disasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jkhospital-collaborates-with-musicologist-for-diagnosis-treatment-of-mental-disorders-101611576974706.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||WhatsApp treating Indians differently from Europe users: Centre to Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the Centre to put on record the explanation offered by WhatsApp to the notice and questionnaires sent by the government seeking clarification on its new privacy policy.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva adjourned the hearing in a plea challenging the updated privacy policy of WhatsApp to March 1, after the Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma sought time to place the response of the communication platform on the queries of the government on the new privacy policy.During the hearing, the ASG told the court that the Centre has taken strong note of the new WhatsApp policy which is meting out a “differential” treatment to Indian users. He said that notices and questionnaires have been sent to WhatsApp seeking their response on various aspects concerning the privacy of an individual.Also read | 5 women lawyers challenge physical hearings in Supreme CourtThe ASG also told the court that an opt-out option to not share data with Facebook has been given to European users of WhatsApp, but it has not been given to the Indian users, treating them with an “all or nothing approach”. He also said that a Joint Parliamentary committee is already discussing the Personal Data Collection Bill.“Privacy policy offered by WhatsApp to its European users specifically prohibits the use of any information shared with a Facebook company...this clause has not been offered to Indians and Indian citizens who form a substantial part of WhatsApp’s user base,” Sharma said.“This differential treatment is certainly a cause of concern for the government. The government is also concerned about the Indian users being subjected to these changes rather unilaterally by not providing them the ability to opt out,” he added.He said that the minister has gone on record to express the government’s concerns on the privacy issues as “WhatsApp prima facie seems to be treating the users with an all-or-nothing approach”.The court was hearing a plea by a lawyer Chaitanya Rohilla challenging the new privacy policy of WhatsApp contending that it violates the Right of Privacy of the citizens.Alleging that WhatsApp has put a “Damocles’ sword on its users” to accept its new privacy policy, the plea filed through advocate Manohar Lal has said that the updated policy virtually scrutinises the personal profile of a user.The plea has also said that the new norms also jeopardise national security by sharing, transmitting and storing the users’ data in some another country.Appearing for WhatsApp, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi told the court that government has written to them seeking clarification on the new privacy policy. He said that they would give their response to the government by Monday.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, also appearing for WhatsApp, told the court that this is between government and Facebook and so there is no locus of the petitioner. He also said that the court cannot intervene when there is a regulatory authority to look into the matter.Advocate Manohar Lal, for the petitioner, told the court that the policy is not in terms of the laws of the company. He said that the sharing of data is a serious matter of threat to the country’s security and democracy as the information is shared globally.During the hearing, Justice Sachdeva reiterated that WhatsApp is a private application and voluntary where the petitioner can uninstall it in case he has concerns. The court also noted that when the government is already looking into the matter, then no orders are called from the court.The matter will be now heard on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whatsapp-treatment-of-indian-users-a-matter-of-concern-centre-to-delhi-hc-101611557773093.html
