27-01-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices rise again; petrol in Mumbai now at ₹92.86 a litre||Fuel prices in the city soared for the second day in the city, on Wednesday. The price of one litre of petrol is now ₹92.86 and one litre of diesel is ₹ 83.30.On Tuesday, one litre of petrol cost ₹92.62, while one litre of diesel cost ₹83.03.Earlier, the highest petrol price was recorded in October 2018 with a litre costing ₹91.34 in the city, while the highest price of diesel was recorded on January 14, costing ₹81.60 for one litre.Citing difficulties in operations with the constant increase in fuel prices, transporters are now contemplating on protests. “The people of the country and road transport sectors are adversely impacted by surging fuel prices. The situation is fomenting the crisis in the road transport sector. We are waiting for the budget as we expect some relief from the government in terms of excise duty. There is acute pressure on us to make a call to strongly to protest against the insensitivity of the government towards the rising fuel cost and making their operations economically unviable.” Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).Citizens have also expressed their displeasure with the increase in fuel and have asked both the central and the state government to lower the fuel prices.“As local train services are not functional for all passengers, most of the people use two-wheelers and their vehicles for commuting. Fuel prices being on an all-time high in the city adds to the financial burden on most of us. The state and central governmentshould immediately take measures to bring the fuel prices under control. Value-added tax (VAT) should be decreased.” said Aishwarya Patil, a Mulund resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-rise-again-petrol-in-mumbai-now-at-92-86-a-litre-101611772139692.html
27-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 Vaccine, lower prices bring back optimism in realty: Survey||The future seems brighter for the real estate sector this year after it faced a battering in 2020 courtesy of the Covid-19 pandemic and resultant lockdown.The reason — introduction of the Covid-19 vaccine, reduction in realty prices, low-interest rates on home loans, improved economic activity as well as proactive steps taken by the government to help the sector.This is according to a survey by Knight Frank, a real estate consultancy firm published on Tuesday. The survey, titled “Real Estate Sentiment Index”, is based on responses from 170 builders and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs).“We are seeing a revival in economic activity and hiring taking place. Also, builders have lowered their prices and even interest rates on home loans have hit rock bottom. This will only result in more launches as well as sales in the coming months,” said Rajani Sinha, chief economist and national director-research, Knight Frank. Sinha said that steps taken by the Maharashtra government to reduce stamp duty played a pivotal role in pushing up sales.The real estate sector, which was facing a slowdown, suffered huge crises due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The realty sector came to a complete halt as new launches, sales and construction activity were unable to proceed due to financial issues and shortage of manual labour. However, the last months of 2020 saw improvement in new launches and sales, alongside the revival of construction activity.Commenting on the report, Niranjan Hiranandani, managing director, Hiranandani Group of Companies, called it a resurgence of the realty sector. “We are seeing a renewed interest in home buying, and a large number of transactions have been taking place. This has vastly improved the sentiments which will be sustainable throughout this year. We also expect a positive Union budget which will script a revolution in the real estate sector,” said Hiranandani.With a huge inventory piling up, builders have resorted to offering discounts as well as offers to consumers. Banks and NBFCs have also cut down interest rates significantly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-19-vaccine-lower-prices-bring-back-optimism-in-realty-survey-101611771960451.html
27-01-2021||Noida||Fearing police action, many leave UP Gate protest site after violence in Delhi||Ghaziabad: A day after the incidents of violence in Delhi, the UP Gate protest site was quiet on Wednesday as many of the protesters along with their tractor-trolleys left the site on Tuesday night. According to the local intelligence unit of the Ghaziabad police, many protesters left out of fear of any action by the police after the incidents in Delhi. It is alleged that many of the protesters in their tractors on Tuesday morning had broken the barricades at the UP Gate and entered Delhi where some of them allegedly attacked and even brandished swords at the policemen while others created ruckus at ITO before reaching the Red Fort. “Many of the protesters left in their tractors on Tuesday night fearing a police action. There are about 50% tents at UP Gate which are lying vacant since Tuesday and even the langars are not having much of visitors which otherwise were seen beelined for having food and snacks,” said an officer from the local intelligence wing. The estimated gathering at the UP Gate had swelled to about 15-20 thousand, but the site wore a deserted look on Wednesday with estimated 700-800 people present there. “Many have left due to fear of police action while some have gone back as they had only come to attend the tractor rally. The incident at the Red Fort on the Republic Day was a sorry picture. It was absolutely wrong and unpardonable. I am also planning to leave by Wednesday night,” said Satpal Singh, a protester who had come from Rampur district in UP along with his son. The langars setup by different organisations were also vacant while many camps were getting dismantled by the protesters. Even, below the UP Gate flyover where majority of occupants are from BKU, the area only had a few dozens of tractors/trolleys lined up while others made hasty retreat after incidents in Delhi. Even the UP Gate to Vaishali which was lined up with tractors on Monday and Tuesday was completely cleared of vehicles. The members of the UP Gate site committee, however, said that the gathering will grow in numbers in coming days and the protest will continue with the demand of repeal of three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. “Some people had gone home since they were staying here for long while some had only come to attend the tractor rally. Many of them are from Uttarakhand and have gone to attend the cremation of the 25-year-old man who died driving tractor in Delhi near ITO on Tuesday. People here are upset about his death. So, there will be more protesters at the site in coming days,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of UP Gate farmers’ committee and a farmer leader from Uttarakhand. “There was laxity by police at the route of the tractor rally and even the youth were excited, but the route was not conveyed to them properly. When we reached the Red Fort, we called our protesters from there and brought them back,” he added. The committee members on Wednesday also made announcements from the dais and directed that those who have no intention to carry on peaceful protest must leave the site immediately. “We also took a ‘sankalp’ that we will carry our protest peacefully and we will also clear out all rumours. It is a major challenge which has been posed before us. The people who put up the flag at the Red Fort were not our farmers. There seems to be a propaganda and planning against our agitation,” Bajwa added. Some of the protesters who were part of the tractor rally said at the UP Gate on Wednesday that they were not clear about the route and the roads/directions in Delhi. “We went up to the Red Fort in tractors and roads were blocked everywhere. Finally, we had to go to Khajuri Pushta and then went to the Baghpat road. Farmers had absolutely no clues about the roads in Delhi. The first clash was at Vinod Nagar after which tractors went haywire and followed any route available,” said Vishakha Rajput, Hamirpur’s district president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Many of the tractors which entered the Delhi Meerut Expressway entered the expressway lanes and found no exit point before Akshardham in Delhi. Many of them further went to Delhi. “We were not clear about the route for our tractor rally. Then, we were told to go to ITO where there was stone pelting. Then we moved forward and reached the Red Fort. We saw that people from Singhu Border had already reached there,” said Sanjeev Tomar, a protester from Khair in Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fearing-police-action-many-leave-up-gate-protest-site-after-violence-in-delhi-101611771959042.html
27-01-2021||Noida||Major jolt to farmers’ stir at UP Gate as prominent farmer leader withdraws from ongoing protest||Ghaziabad: A day after the violence in Delhi, the farmers’ agitation at the UP Gate got a major jolt on Wednesday when Sardar VM Singh, a prominent farmer leader who heads the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (RKMS), announced that he was moving out of the protest. Following the Singh’s announcement, the UP Gate protest site committee members quickly reacted by carrying out a march across the entire site to boost the morale of the farmers and urged them to continue their agitation. Singh said that he was upset with the role of Rakesh Tikait, a farmer leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). “Rakesh Tikait has attended several meetings with the government, but he did not raise the issues of UP farmers regarding the sugarcane rates and pending payments, among others. These issues were never raised before the government,” Singh said at a press briefing held at UP Gate on Wednesday. The farmers’ tractor rally on the Republic Day had turned violent in Delhi, in which several people, including police personnel, were injured. The Delhi police registered various FIRs against farmers’ leaders and also mentioned name of Sardar VM Singh. Singh also narrated the events which unfolded during meetings before the tractor rally. “A day before the rally, we discussed the route with the local administration. Later, it came to fore that Rakesh Tikait was planning some other route. At UP Gate, I myself went to the camp of Tikait and he agreed that all of us will move together at 11 am on the day of tractor rally. But when we gathered at 10am on January 26, we came to know that Tikait’s group broke the barriers and left,” Singh alleged. When asked if his decision to withdraw from the ongoing agitation was conveyed to the farmers’ core committee at Singhu Border, Singh replied, “I have no reason to convey the decision to anybody. They are carrying on their protest. We were giving them our unconditional support. But our demands were not kept before the government.” “I was with BKU’s Naresh Tikait and boarded different tractors at 11am on January 26 from UP Gate. Everything was going on smoothly. But in the evening we came to know about the incidents in Delhi and also that one protester had died. So, those who instigated people should be punished. I will leave the UP Gate site and have nothing to do with the protest led by Rakesh Tikait,” Singh said. Over the issue of the FIR naming him, he said that there were about 40-50 FIRs which have been lodged against him in his 20 years of agitational politics. BKU’s Rakesh Tikait was not available for his comments over the issues raised by Singh. However, Gaurav Tikait, BKU’s youth wing president and son of BKU president Naresh Tikait, denied all allegations against Rakesh Tikait. “It was the group led by VM Singh which broke the barriers at the UP Gate and the farmers spilled into Delhi. He is just trying to distance himself from the incidents that took place. We will term him as traitor as he is running away from the agitation and leaving the farmers midway,” Gaurav Tikait said. Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday had blamed the Delhi police for putting up barricades on the designated routes and also defended the farmers. On December 16 last year, the rift between factions of farmer groups was out in open at the UP Gate when Singh, along with another farmer leader Balraj Bhati, opted to create a new dais after allegedly being “expelled” by several farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait. However, a consensus was reached by intervention of several religious leaders and Singh later decided to dismantle the new dais. Singh’s decision did not go down well with the UP Gate farmers’ committee members and they, along with the farmers, led a major march across the UP Gate area on Wednesday evening and also addressed the gathering of protesters. “It is his decision, not ours. I do not wish to call names for people who abandon agitations midway. We will continue with our agitation and decision by Singh will have no impact as he was out from the agitation for long. He was expelled by the ‘Samyukt Kisan Morcha’ long back and the farmers at UP Gate still stand collective for their demands,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/major-jolt-to-farmers-stir-at-up-gate-as-prominent-farmer-leader-withdraws-from-ongoing-protest-101611771898896.html
27-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: MNS files complaint against Maharashtra energy min over inflated power bills||The Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) on Tuesday submitted a written complaint against state energy minister Nitin Raut for not fulfilling promises over providing concessions on ‘inflated bills” received by thousands of consumers during the lockdown period.Yashwant Killedar, MNS Mahim division assembly president, filed a complaint at the Shivaji Park police station. “Despite several protests and letters to the state, Raut announced that consumers will not be given any relief and have to pay the entire amount. We filed a complaint against Raut, energy secretary and BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) general manager.”Sandeep Deshpande, MNS leader from Mumbai said that the party has asked its workers across Maharashtra to file complaints at their respective police stations. MNS had earlier staged protests in the state over the inflated bills. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) has now also informed its offices to collect the full amount from consumers or cut their supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mns-files-complaint-against-maharashtra-energy-min-over-inflated-power-bills-101611771719580.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||DTCP forbids builders to carry out changes in building plans with buyers’ consent||Builders in Haryana would no longer be allowed to change their building plans without the prior consent of the existing home buyers. The department of town and country planning(DTCP) on Monday issued a directive, asking developers to issue advertisements in newspaper, seek possible objections of buyers, and address them to get their project plans changed. Officials said that the decision has been taken following complaints received from home buyers, alleging that plans were changed arbitrarily without informing them. Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner, said that developers will be required to invite objections from each of the existing buyers regarding the said amendment in the building/layout plan in at least three leading newspapers in the district. “All buyers must also be informed about the proposed changes through a registered postal letter. The objective is to ensure that buyers are not kept in the dark while changes are carried out in a project. The department had received a number of complaints in this matter,” he said. The directions issued by the department has further made it compulsory for the builder to upload the original building plan and the proposed revision on its website. The allottees in a project have been given 30 days to file objections with the senior town planner of the circle, who shall analyse the changes in detail. The objections and suggestions made by buyers would be considered on merit by the director of DTCP before a final decision is taken on the proposed revision of the plan, said officials.Mann added that DTCP will seek clarification and report from the developer, and until a decision is reached, the developer will not be allowed to advertise for further booking or sale of apartments. “Buyers complain many a times that the parking sites, parks, community centres, and suchlike are changed arbitrarily without informing them,” he said.Prashant Solomon, managing director, Chintels, and spokesperson, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), NCR, said that responsible developers are already following such practices to ensure that buyers are made aware of the proposed changes. “This direction is a positive step as it will bring in more transparency and ensure that buyers are fully informed about their projects,” he said. In a related development, the DTCP also issued directions that common areas and facilities in private licensed colonies shall be governed by Haryana Apartment Owners Act of 1983 and the H-Rera Act of 2016 shall not be applicable on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-forbids-builders-to-carry-out-changes-in-building-plans-with-buyers-consent-101611768718419.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||Lack of cremation facilities in newer sectors compounds our grief: Residents||Last month, when Sunil Srivastva, a resident of Sare Homes in Sector 91, lost his mother-in-law, he did not realise that apart from emotional distress, his family would also be facing a logistical nightmare in performing the last rites as it would have to be carried out at a cremation ground located 22 kilometres away, at Madanpuri near Rajiv Chowk.Srivastva, who moved to Gurugram from Varanasi, said that the relatives who had come from his native city and other parts of the country had to be taken to the distant Madanpuri crematorium in two instalments. He says that amid the grief, he would never forget arranging for vehicles, getting stuck in traffic jam at Kherki Daula toll and directing relatives to reach Rajiv Chowk.The problems faced by Srivastav is not unique as many families, who have recently shifted to developing sectors along the Dwarka Expressway and Southern Peripheral Road, have faced the trauma as they are denied access to smaller crematoriums attached to local villages and are forced to travel far to the main city for the final rituals. For this reason, residents of these areas and residents’ welfare associations representing the condominiums gave met the GMDA officials last Saturday, asking for at least three such facilities in sectors 77 to 95. “When someone dies in a family, it is not possible for everyone to arrange multiple vehicles to go to Gurugram for the final rites. The local villages like Mevka, Dhorka and others don’t give access to their facilities. We have become permanent residents of this area and need a share in such amenities, as going to Madanpuri or other such places in city is a distressing experience,” said Srivastva. Deepak Balwada, a resident of a newer sector, who lost a family member last year, said that going to a distant place for the final rites is an emotionally draining experience. “The government should create such a facility for area residents,” he said. The United Association of New Gurugram, an association of RWAs, said that 20,000 families have shifted to this area and the population is increasing rapidly. In such circumstances, they decided to submit a memorandum to GMDA to get this facility. Praveen Malik, president, Sare Homes RWA, and of the United Association, said that the GMDA has land in the newer sectors and could help the residents by setting up at least three crematoriums in sectors 77 to 95. “The population is expanding and presently, around 50,000 residents have started living in this area. When someone dies, they mostly are forced to go to Madanpuri for cremation. Death is a universal truth and every family has to face it and the GMDA must look into our genuine demand for crematoriums,” said Malik. The issue of cremation grounds for migrant residents from outside the state is not only an issue in developing sectors but even in areas along the Golf Course Road, where the lack of such a facility is a major cause for concern. The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) is now building a large cremation facility in Sector 52, but this is also being opposed by residents of Wazirabad, who allege that this crematorium is too close to the village settlement. Officials of the GMDA, meanwhile, said that they will look into the demands of the residents and consider it. “I have yet to receive any memorandum regarding this matter, but GMDA will certainly consider this demand for setting up such facilities,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer, GMDA. A social activist, Virender Singh, popularly known as Biru Sarpanch, when asked about the matter said that government should set up a large facility that uses gas and electricity. “The crematoriums attached with village settlements are small and can’t cater to large urban population. Sometimes, the villagers object due to traffic jams and pollution. The best way is to create a large modern facility along the Dwarka Expressway,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lack-of-cremation-facilities-in-newer-sectors-compounds-our-grief-residents-101611768717875.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||Duo assaulted by group of 12 while travelling in Sector 40||In a case of road rage, two persons were allegedly assaulted and threatened by a group of at least 12 persons in Sector 40, after they had asked members of the group to move two vehicles that were parked in the middle of the main carriageway. The incident took place on the night of January 25 when Manoj Kumar, a resident of Palam Vihar extension, had gone to drop his friend Pawan in Kanhai village. “Around 11.30pm on Monday, I was driving towards Kanhai village from Sector 45 along with my friend after dropping some guests. We spotted a Scorpio and i20 parked on the middle of the road and requested the drivers of the vehicles to remove the cars and give us way to cross the stretch. This led to an argument,” said Kumar, the complainant.Kumar said the drivers called their friends and soon, around 12 to 15 persons from adjoining areas assembled at the spot and attacked them with sticks and iron rods.The police said that they had also threatened to kill the victims if they visited the area again. After the attackers left the spot, Manoj and his friend went to a nearby private hospital for treatment, following which the hospital staff informed the police control room and a team from the Sector 40 station visited them and recorded their statements. The police said that both the victims were discharged after being given first aid. On the basis of Kumar’s complaint, a case was registered under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 40 police station, against unidentified persons. “The police are trying to identify the suspects,” said police spokesperson Subhash Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/duo-assaulted-by-group-of-12-while-travelling-in-sector-40-101611768662740.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||MCG to turn Sector 46 market into a polythene-free zone||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started work on converting Sector 46 market into a polythene-free zone. It is the second such market — after Sector 23 market — where the civic body has carried out such an initiative.Sector 46 market, located in close proximity to Bakhtawar Chowk, has a number of prominent eateries, hypermarkets, and shopping stores. As per MCG officials, at least 80 kilograms of polythene is used in the market every day.Dheeraj Kumar, MCG joint commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission, said that the conversion of markets into a polythene-free area is being carried out under the Swachh Survekshan 2021 initiative.“All shopkeepers have been informed about the side effects of polythene. Further, they have also been informed about the Haryana Non-Biodegradable Garbage Control Act. We are also appealing to customers who come to the market to bring cloth bags, jute bags or any type of compostable bags with them, and to refrain from using polythene,” said Kumar.Kuldeep Singh, MCG brand ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission, said that there are around 127 shops and 79 street carts in the market, whose owners have cumulatively ordered around 19,000 cloth bags from the MCG’s cloth bag bank.Depending on the size, a cloth bag from the MCG bank can cost anywhere between ₹3 and ₹20.MCG officials said that converting a market into a polythene-free area has three main stages:“In the first stage, we generate awareness among shopkeepers and customers. We visit each shop in a market area and sensitise shopkeepers about the harms of polythene and also erect boards in front of their shops informing customers about the same. Street plays are also performed by locals NGOs to generate awareness,” said Kumar.In the second stage, MCG undertakes formal discussions with the market association and prominent shopkeepers who show an inclination for the change. They are also recognised for their efforts with certificates and mementoes.“In the third stage, we initiate enforcement measures across the market and fine any shopkeeper or customer using polythene bags. The entire process for making a market polythene-free takes a minimum of 2-3 months as the habit of using polythene is deeply embedded in public consciousness,” said Kumar, adding that the Sector 46 market is currently in the second phase.Last month, MCG officials had started work on converting the Sector 23 market, located near Palam Vihar, into a polythene-free area. As per Kumar, enforcement measures will commence in the Sector 46 market from next month onwards.Kuldeep Singh said that after Sector 46 market, the civic body is looking to convert Sector 4 market and Vyapar Kendra market in Sushant Lok-1 into polythene-free areas.“We are extending full-fledged support towards MCG for this cause. Around 30% of the market has become polythene-free. Once MCG initiates enforcement measures, the rest of the market will also quickly adapt to this change,” said Vikram Yadav, president, Sector 46 market association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-turn-sector-46-market-into-a-polythene-free-zone-101611768661698.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||Rewari residents tell farmers to vacate, expressway likely to be reopened||A day after protesters carrying out a tractor rally clashed with the police in Delhi on Republic Day, villagers in Rewari asked the protesters in the area to vacate. Many residents said after the incident in Delhi, they are not willing to support the farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Sangwari Chowk in Rewari and Masani village near Dharuhera, and gave them an ultimatum to vacate the sites by Thursday noon. Capt (retd) Lala Ram, sarpanch of Masani village, said that they were supporting the farmers till Tuesday but have been hurt by the violence that unfolded on Republic Day. “The farmers from different states have been camping in our area for over a month now. They have spoiled our fields, broken water pipelines and damaged service lanes. Many local farmers have complained of their misconduct, but we ignored that and helped them with essential services and extended support by providing dry ration and dairy products. On Wednesday, we asked them to vacate the land and told them that our areas should be cleaned and cleared before noon, failing which we will throw their belongings and impound their vehicles,” he said. Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said they are vacating the two sites in Rewari on Thursday morning. “We have asked the protesters to wind up from Sangwari Chowk and Masani and to proceed to Shahjahanpur. More than 200 protesters called off the protest and left for their respective villages on Wednesday night. We will still protest till our counterparts are camping at Delhi borders. It will be a united decision to leave or to stay,” he said. Ram Kishan Mehlawat, a protester from Bawal, said, “The villagers have requested us and we respect their decision. We are not part of the hooligan groups that created ruckus and violence in Delhi, but we are also labelled in the same category. We are not left with any choice and so, we will join the farmers at Shahjahanpur and shift our base.”Farmers had been camping in Rewari after breaking through the barricades at Shahjahanpur on January 1. The Haryana Police had lathicharged the protesters and used water cannons to stop them, but more than 20 tractors and 100 farmers managed to pass through. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said, “They are returning to their first base camp now. We will not allow any other tractor and vehicle of these protesters to re-enter the Rewari area once they vacate the sites completely. They have occupied a large portion of main carriageway and had set up tents at two different locations, leading to traffic chaos on the National highway.” The police had been diverting commuters through Alwar and Sohna to move towards Jaipur. Kumar said the expressway will likely be opened for commuters on Thursday after almost a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rewari-residents-tell-farmers-to-vacate-expressway-likely-to-be-reopened-101611768660927.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||GMDA revises EDC payment schedule to help builders tide over post-Covid slump||With real estate industry being in a state of downturn ever since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) collection of external development charges (EDC) has taken a significant hit, show official records. In order to tide over the crisis, the authority has recently restructured its EDC payment schedule, allowing developers to pay their dues in installments and offering discounts to those who clear their outstanding dues in one go.As per the GMDA’s statement of income for the ongoing financial year, the authority has collected only ₹88.5 crore in EDC from developers as of December 2020. In comparison, EDC collection for the financial year ending in March 2020 stood at over ₹20 crore. EDC refers to the money that private developers pay to the government when developing new real estate projects. These funds are utilised by urban local bodies to develop public amenities for the project’s benefit, such as roads, water, power, sewerage and drainage. The quantum of EDC is decided by relevant local authorities, such as the GMDA or the department of town and country planning (DTCP), and then typically passed on to property buyers by the developer. The fall in EDC collection post Covid-19 is likely to compound the GMDA’s financial constraints, at a time when the estimated deficit in EDC in Gurugram runs into thousands of crores. While official figures are not in the public domain, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, speaking at a public event in July last year, estimated that nearly ₹12,000 crore in EDC dues are pending in both Gurugram and Faridabad. A senior official in the GMDA’s urban planning department, seeking anonymity, said, “More than half of this amount is yet to be collected from projects in the city. Builders claim they are unable to pay because inventory just isn’t moving. People aren’t investing in property right now.” The official also added that this will affect the development of future public amenities as well. “Take the Southern Peripheral Road revamp for example. A large part of the project is to be funded from earlier EDC receipts, which have not yet been received. So that area still suffers from bad roads and poor drainage. A lot of developing neighbourhoods, especially in sectors 58 to 115, wouldn’t have be facing constant issues with power water supply if EDC collection was done in a streamlined manner,” the official said.In response, the GMDA has now restructured its EDC payment schedule for projects requiring a change of land use (CLU) licences. The new system, officials said, will help builders tide over the current market slump, while allowing the GMDA to recover a larger portion of EDC dues up front. The GMDA had first restructured it’s EDC payment schedule in August 2019, during the tenure of its former CEO V Umashankar. At the time, from recovering just 10% of the EDC from developers before granting occupancy certificates (OC), the schedule was revised to collect 10% of dues at the time of issuing the change of land use (CLU) permits. Another 40% was collected at the time of approving the developer’s building plan, and 50% at the time of providing the project’s occupancy certificate. However, in its last meeting on December 8, 2020, the GMDA decided to revise this schedule in view of the “post-Covid” situation. Accordingly, the GMDA will now collect 20% of EDC at the time of granting CLU, while another 40% will be collected during the approval of building plans. Of this second tranche, developers will be required to pay only half the amount up front, while the remainder can be paid in equal installments over a period of one year. The third tranche of 40%, payable at the time of applying for OC, can also be paid in similar installments — half at the time of application, with two more equal installments to be paid over one year. This is at the condition of a bank guarantee submitted by the developer.The GMDA’s interest rates for each installment have been decided at 12% per annum, with an additional 3% “penal interest” to be levied on defaulters. In case developers choose to clear their outstanding dues in one go, they will be given an “incentive discount” of 10%. Builders who have already been granted CLU licences (vis-a-viz the previous payment schedule) will be required to clear 20% of their EDC dues in the next 30 days, and will be allowed to pay the remaining 80% in four equal installments over two years.Though he did not comment on the total quantum of EDC dues owed to the GMDA, CEO VS Kundu admitted to a significant shortfall in EDC receipts. “Out of the ₹1,000 crore expenditure to be funded out of EDC in the ongoing financial year, only ₹170 crore was received, of which ₹50 crore was given to the GMDA and ₹120 crore to the National Highways Authority of India. The budget for the next year is yet to be drawn up,” Kundu said. As per the last available data, obtained from the GMDA in 2019 via an RTI request, the total EDC amount yet to be collected by the GMDA stood at ₹7,549 crore in March 2019 — up from ₹3,247 crore in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-revises-edc-payment-schedule-to-help-builders-tide-over-post-covid-slump-101611768659608.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||Repetition of beneficiaries a problem, say Gurugram officials||To estimate the actual vaccination coverage in the district, the health department has sought to revise the beneficiary list, citing duplicity in data. The decision, however, has to be taken by the Central government, said a senior state health department official.“The duplicity issue has been raised with the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Based on their directive, a decision on revising beneficiary list will be taken,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department. “Until a decision is taken, the target is to continue covering the healthcare workers and utilise the existing vaccine supply. Throughout the state, the vaccine coverage has been more than 58%, which has to be increased further,” he said. The district health department, after holding multiple vaccination sessions in almost 21 private hospitals, found names repeating in more than one site.At the vaccination site, the list available with the vaccination officer contains the name of the registered beneficiary along with the identity card number, date of birth and phone number. “Ideally, the Co-WIN platform should not have duplicity issue when unique specific details are linked with every beneficiary,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.“It has come to our notice that in some cases, a single doctor has been registered with a couple of health facilities, which unnecessarily increases the count of vaccine beneficiaries,” he said. Yadav said, “Many health staff in private facilities have switched jobs or moved out of the city. Likewise, students in the final year of medical courses could have graduated and moved back to their home towns. These missing healthcare workers have to excluded to estimate the actual vaccination coverage.”Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “We will ask hospitals and medical college to share the list of employees and students who have left. A cumulative list of such beneficiaries can be prepared until further directives from the state health department are received.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/repetition-of-beneficiaries-a-problem-say-gurugram-officials-101611768658756.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||Daily vaccination targets, session sites reduced||After vaccinating almost 55% of the registered front-line healthcare workers since the Covid-19 vaccine launch on January 16, the district health department has planned to reduce the number of vaccination sites and the daily target.Officials cited multiple reasons, ranging from apprehension among the health staff to duplicity in data uploaded on Co-WIN platform, for the change in approach and reducing the daily target.At least 20,380 healthcare workers of the 37,000 registered staff have received the first dose of the vaccines till Wednesday. The health department had carried out vaccinations at 80 to 101 vaccination sites over the last week.On Wednesday, the number of sites was reduced to 21, with a target of inoculating only 1,050 healthcare workers, with as many as 895 taking the jabs. This included 66 beneficiaries of Covaxin, against the target of 100, and 829 of 950 who were allotted Covishield.“Vaccination is a voluntary exercise. People can be motivated to come forward, but they cannot be given a shot forcefully. Therefore, it can be only expected that an additional 10% healthcare workers might turn up in the next few days, and the overall coverage of healthcare workers can go up to 65% or slightly more,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.He said that total targets have been achieved at many of the sites, due to which they are no longer needed, and this would also prevent vaccine wastage. “In some hospitals, only a few people out of the targeted are left, for which multiple sites within the same facility are not required. Other issues, like duplicity in the data of vaccine beneficiaries, absence of staff in some hospitals, as they have switched over to other facilities or left the city before the vaccination started, also have to be counted. All this will also lead to a reduction in overall beneficiary numbers,” said Yadav.Vaccination at limited sites is likely to continue as scheduled until the department gets clarity on initiating inoculation of other prioritised groups like police personnel and urban local body officials.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “On Thursday, vaccination will be held at 23 private hospitals and in at least 10 government facilities. Likewise, on January 29 and 30, there will be only 24 vaccination sites.”He said that there will be no Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 31, February 2 and 3 as the health workers will be deployed for pulse polio drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-vaccination-targets-session-sites-reduced-101611768658029.html
27-01-2021||Gurugram||2,200 booked in Palwal for breaking barricades, trying to move to Delhi through Faridabad||The Palwal Police on Wednesday booked 2,200 people for allegedly trying to break through their barricades on Republic Day, in an attempt to reach Delhi, where the tractor rally had already turned violent. Faridabad district authorities have also imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, preventing assembly of five or more persons at one place. More than 30 farmers from Faridabad and Palwal who have been identified from video recordings were served notices to join the ongoing investigation, said police.Deepak Gahlawat, superintendent of police, Palwal, said that a route was designated for the protesters to carry out a tractor rally on Tuesday and the same had been conveyed to them. He said that they did not follow the given route and instead took the stretch connecting to Delhi, due to which the police resorted to lathicharge. “Groups of protesters drove their tractors dangerously and tried to break barricades to force their way into Delhi through a non-designated route at Palwal-Faridabad border on the Agra-Mathura-Delhi Highway, endangering the lives of police personnel on duty,” he said. “We had given them an option to use the 60-kilometre stretch of Kundli–Ghaziabad–Palwal Expressway and had directed them to use the route after taking a right turn from Faridabad’s Sector 58. However, they were adamant on using the other route, towards Delhi, for which permission could not be granted,” Gahlawat said. Sub-inspector Hanish Khan, investigating officer of Gadpuri police station in Palwal, where the case was registered, said that protesters on 350 to 400 tractors turned violent. They allegedly broke through barricades and containers, and blocked the national highway between 11.30am and noon, near Softa village in Gadpuri. “The protestors tried to enter Faridabad district and move towards Delhi, but were stopped by the police by using tear gas, water cannons and lathicharge. It took almost an hour to control the situation and we later held a meeting with the protesters, following which they calmed down and agreed to return to Palwal,” he said. The police registered a case against the protesters on Tuesday under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to murder), and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as Section 8 of the National Highways Act. A few police personnel and farmers were allegedly injured in the incident, while two senior police officers had a narrow escape. Faridabad and Palwal police have increased deployment at borders connecting to Delhi. The police are also scanning drone recordings, CCTV cameras, videography and pictures to identify the suspects and arrest themYashpal Yadav, Faridabad’s deputy commissioner, said that under Section 144 of the CrPC, gatherings of five or more than five people, carrying sticks, iron rods, axe, swords or any kind of firearms is prohibited. “We are taking precautionary measures after the incident on Tuesday due to the apprehension of tension, damage to public property and loss of life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2200-booked-in-palwal-for-breaking-barricades-trying-to-move-to-delhi-through-faridabad-101611768597832.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||851 vaccinated against Covid in Chandigarh tricity||As many as 427 health workers were inoculated against Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Wednesday, followed by 271 in Panchkula and 153 in Mohali, taking the tricity’s total to 851.Panchkula recorded achievement rate of 54%, as 500 people had been targeted at five centres during the day. So far, 2,828 people have got the vaccine in the district. “We have achieved a target of 60.8% to date,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer.Chandigarh, where 926 health workers were expected to turn up at 10 sites, achievement rate stood at 46%. It was poorest at the Manimajra hospital, where only eight out 100 got the jab. At the PGIMER, 231 of 376 beneficiaries turned up. Out of 4,895 targeted so far, 2,464 (50.3%) have been vaccinated. Continuing with the drive, the Mohali health department administered 153 jabs, taking the total to 3,375. Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, said: “The drive will pick pace in the coming week as now more and more people are coming forward. “No side effect has been reported by any of the beneficiaries, which has been a motivation for others to come up,” said additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain.77 test +ve, 1 diesThe tricity recorded 77 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday while a lone death was reported from Mohali.Chandigarh reported 40 cases, followed by 28 in Mohali and nine in Panchkula.The UT’s tally has climbed to 20,819, with 146 cases still active. While 20,339 patients have recovered, including 37 discharged in the past 24 hours, 334 have died.The death toll in Mohali district has climbed to 361, while the number of cases stands at 19,360. Of the 28 fresh cases, 23 surfaced in Mohali city alone. With 84 patients being discharged, the number of those cured has gone up to 18,387 and the number of active cases has dropped to 612.In Panchkula, 13,735 have tested positive so far, of whom 10,241 have been cured, 147 have died and 98 are still undergoing treatment. The district has not recorded any death for the past eight days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/851-vaccinated-against-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-101611768298530.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||My phone hasn’t stopped ringing, says Rajni Bector after winning Padma Shri||Ever since the news of her being honoured with the Padma Shri broke, Rajni Bector’s phone hasn’t stopped ringing. Being a recipient of the fourth highest civilian honour in the country, the 80-year-old founder of Cremica confesses it is a moment of glory for her family and residents of Ludhiana. “I have been flooded with congratulatory calls right since January 25 evening when the list of awardees was released by the government. My phone was buzzing till 1am the day before and yesterday was no different. Everyone is elated and is expressing their joy. It is a great honour,” she says, adding that her phone also got blocked for a moment due to the high number of calls pouring in together. Chairman of Mrs Bectors Food Specialities Limited, the octogenarian says the journey spanning four decades has been extremely fulfilling.Recently, the Initial Public Offering (IPO) of Mrs Bectors Food Specialties opened to a resounding success, garnering 198 subscriptions to its IPO on the third day of bidding, generating bids worth ₹40,000 crore and a market value of ₹540 crore.Starting out from her own tiny kitchen, Bector forayed into full-time business in 1978, with an investment of ₹20,000. “Everyone used to tell me the ice-creams I make are good and I should expand my work. I came from a service class background and had not thought about making my passion into a commercial venture earlier. I studied bakery at PAU, where my teachers were instrumental in inspiring me. After my sons grew up, they also joined me in the business one by one,” she says. Bector’s biscuits, breads, buns, spreads and sauces gained popularity and her hold over market grew. Today Mrs Bector’s Food Company is valued at ₹800 crore and is exporting sauces to 64 countries. The turning point came in the 1990s when McDonald’s was looking to establish base in the country. “We got to know they were struggling to find makers of quality buns. We met their company officials, all of whom were foreigners, and the deal was soon finalised,” she says. Bector now supplies buns and sauces to major fast-food brands in the country, including KFC, Pizza Hut, Cafe Coffee Day and the like with their manufacturing units spread across the country. Born in Karachi in 1940, Bector and her family later settled in Delhi. She was married into a Ludhiana-based business family, who were initially into fertiliser manufacturing business. When her three sons went to boarding school, Bector enrolled into a bakery course at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).Reminiscing her initial years in the city, Bector says the city has grown by leaps and bounds. “When I came to Ludhiana in 1957, there used to be just four cars in the entire city. My husband and I used to walk from the Damoria pull to the Fountain Chowk, where people used to sit and chat. Life was much simpler in the absence of internet and social media,” she says. Ask her the secret of success and she has only one word to say: “work”. “We never compromise on quality and keep innovating with the times. Quality is supreme and that is what I always tell all my sons and grandchildren as well,” she says, returning to yet another flurry of calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/my-phone-hasn-t-stopped-ringing-says-rajni-bector-after-winning-padma-shri-101611768178580.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu confirmed at third poultry farm in Dera Bassi||The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, on Wednesday confirmed avian influenza in samples sent from Evergreen Poultry Farm in Dera Bassi. It is third farm where bird flu has been confirmed in Mohali’s Dera Bassi subdivision and ninth in the region, which also comprises Barwala poultry belt in the neighbouring Panchkula district. The samples had tested posted at the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, last week, following which they had been forwarded to the Bhopal lab.“We got the report from Bhopal on Wednesday evening,” said VK Janjua, additional chief secretary, animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries, Punjab. “We have constituted 10 teams to cull 25,000 birds at Evergreen farm. The work will begin on Thursday.” The culling operations at the two other poultry farms in Dera Bassi’s Behra village were completed on Monday. In all, 55,483 birds were culled. “A total of 26,438 birds at Royal and 29,045 birds at Alpha poultry farm have been culled and buried. The exercise was undertaken as per the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009,” said Janjua. In Panchkula, too, 81,000 birds were culled at three farms during nine-day operations that ended more than a week back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bird-flu-confirmed-at-third-poultry-farm-in-dera-bassi-101611768118458.html
27-01-2021||Other||Mohali MC elections: AAP to have alliance with Kulwant group||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Azad group led by former mayor Kulwant Singh are set to enter into an alliance to fight the municipal elections scheduled on February 14.It is learnt that Azad group will be contesting on 29 seats while AAP will fight on 21 seats, though the formal announcement is expected on Friday. Azad group had already declared a list of 30 candidates.“We will have an alliance with AAP for MC elections. Talks are going on,” said Kulwant, who parted ways with Shiromani Akali Dal earlier this month.AAP’s district president Parminder Singh Goldy said the party wants 50-50 seat sharing and talks are going on with Azad group. “The official announcement will be on Friday,” he said. With the latest development, the MC elections are set to witness a four-cornered contest between SAD, Congress, BJP and AAP-Azad group alliance.Alleging the alliance was forged during a dinner meeting between AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann and Kulwant, who is also a realtor, Charanjeet Singh Brar, political adviser to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, said: “Mann has sold his party to corporates. Where are the party’s senior leaders now.” Taking a jibe at AAP and Azad group, Congress leader and cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said: “The issue is that both are not getting candidates for the elections, so they are entering an alliance.” Kulwant Singh on January 21 released a list of 30 candidates, with most of the Akali leaders and former councillors who resigned in his support getting the ticket from Azad group. Mohali’s civic body is elected for a period of five years, with the last term ending on April 26, 2020. In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad group and won 10 seats. With the support of Congress, he was elected the mayor. Later, in 2017, he joined SAD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-elections-aap-to-have-alliance-with-kulwant-group-101611767998336.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||Auto driver, 2 aides rob woman passenger at knifepoint in Chandigarh||An auto-rickshaw driver and two others have been booked for robbing a woman passenger at knifepoint near the Chandigarh-Mohali border on Wednesday.The woman, who used to work as a nurse and is currently unemployed, lives as a paying guest at Kumbra village in Mohali. She has hired the auto from Kumbra Chowk to come to Chandigarh for a job interview on Wednesday morning, said police.Besides the driver, there were two men sitting in the three-wheeler, she told police. As they reached near the Chandigarh Model Jail in Sector 51, both passengers pulled out a knife and snatched her handbag containing ₹500 and important documents. The incident took place around 9am.As the woman raised the alarm, a police control vehicle (PCR) patrolling near the Sector 50/51 roundabout heard her cries for help and gave the auto a chase.During the chase, the auto lost balance and overturned. The three men managed to flee into the jungle area in Sector 51. The woman was rescued by the PCR personnel, assistant sub-inspector Ravinder Kumar and head constable Manvinder Singh. During medical examination, no injury mark was found on her.Police have taken the auto in their possession and are making efforts to trace and arrest the accused. A case has been registered under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 49.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-driver-2-aides-rob-woman-passenger-at-knifepoint-in-chandigarh-101611767938408.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||CHB plans to cut property reserve prices by 10%||A 10% price cut is on the cards for Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) properties slated to be auctioned in February.CHB plans to auction residential and commercial properties, both leasehold and freehold, at 10% lower reserve prices than that in its last auction in December 2019.Confirming the development, Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer (CEO), CHB, said: “The reserve price has been decreased keeping in mind the current real estate market and as the response to the 2019 auction was not on expected lines.”Stating that the economic scenario hasn’t changed since the 2019 auction, Garg said the cut was suggested by the CHB committee on reserve price. “The final decision on the reduction will be taken by the UT adviser, who is also the CHB chairman,” he said.In all, there are 119 residential properties on offer, of which 11 are leasehold and 108 are freehold. These properties are mainly located in Sectors 38 West, 39, 51, 61, 63, and Manimajra. All the 150 commercial properties on offer are leasehold, and are mainly in Sectors 51 and 61 besides Manimajra and Maloya.All these are leftover properties, which either couldn’t get buyers in the previous auctions and schemes or have been resumed on account of non-payment of dues.“The condition of such properties, which have remained vacant for a long time, is deteriorating. CHB is losing revenue simultaneously, and has to also spend considerable sums of money on their maintenance,” said a CHB official, wishing to remain anonymous.Encroachment is also a concern, because of which CHB has formed a team dedicated to periodically checking all vacant properties, said the official.Move to attract buyersCHB’s last auction in December 2019 turned out to be a damp squib due to lack of buyer response to its 212 properties, the blame for which was pinned on high reserve prices.The offerings included 64 residential units, of which nine were on leasehold and 55 on freehold. Most of these were located in Sector 63.CHB also faced flak for the high property prices. The highest reserve price of ₹1.07 crore was fixed for a freehold three-bedroom apartment in Sector 63. In the leasehold segment, a high income group apartment in Sector 39 had a reserve price of ₹1.31 crore. The reserve price of an economically weaker section apartment in Sector 51 was ₹30 lakh, and that of a one-bedroom apartment in Sector 63 was ₹54.80 lakh. All the 48 commercial properties offered were on leasehold. Their price ranged from ₹50 lakh to ₹2 crore. “Leasehold properties generally don’t attract buyers. This year, too, CHB doesn’t expect a great response to these. Even in the UT estate office auction in 2019, no commercial property could be sold, while all residential properties (which were on freehold) were auctioned at much higher bids than reserve prices,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chbplans-to-cut-property-reserve-prices-by-10-101611767818350.html
27-01-2021||Pune||Tuition teacher molests 12-year old in Bhosari||A 32-year-old man has been booked for molesting a 12-year-old child who came to his house for tuition in Bhosari, Pimpri-Chinchwad, on Tuesday evening. The man has been identified as Amitkumar Shrimal Shah (32). A complaint in the matter was lodged by an aunt of the child. The man allegedly cornered the girl around 8:30pm and touched her inappropriately after which the girl started screaming, according to the complaint. However, the man then punched the girl in her back and threatened her with violent consequences if she revealed the incident to anyone, according to the child’s aunt. However, the child went home and told her 28-year-old aunt who reported the incident to the police. A case under Sections 354, 354(a), 323, 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 7, 8, 11, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at MIDC Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tuition-teacher-molests-12-year-old-in-bhosari-101611765717010.html
27-01-2021||Pune||Katraj-Swargate BRTS route ready for trial runs||Trial runs of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses on the Swargate to Katraj bus rapid transit corridor (BRT) route are ready to take place, as bus stations on the route are now ready for use. This week, trial runs will take place and immediately after, the service will start. For the last two months, this issue of starting this BRT route has been in the eye of a storm with Pune city’s mayor Murlidhar Mohol announcing that it would start on January 1, 2021. Due to a lack of necessary safety arrangements and infrastructure, PMPML could not start the service. Since then, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been completing all the work at bus stations along the route. “There are four to five points which we had asked for, in terms of passenger safety and without that, we couldn’t start our service. First, was to install automatic doors at the bus stations, then, to install CCTV cameras and have locked premises at each bus station. Also for passengers, when they come out of the bus station, pedestrian signals will be needed. These were the demands and most of the work is now complete,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director. “In next couple of days we are going to have trial runs on this route. Also, a joint inspection and checking of the BRT route will be done by PMPML and PMC officials before starting the service,” added Jagtap. PMPML had also approached the Pune traffic police to get help from traffic police to monitor vehicles coming into the BRTS corridor. So far, as the corridor was not operational, all vehicles used to use it. Earlier, before the Covid-19 pandemic, daily 2,800 trips used to happen only on this stretch between Swargate to Katraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katrajswargate-brts-route-ready-for-trial-runs-101611765056929.html
27-01-2021||Pune||Parents’ association “unsatisfied” after meeting with Gaikwad on fees’ issue||After discussing the issue of reduction in school fees with Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad, the parents’ association of Pune did not receive a satisfactory response. The parents’ association of Pune in a written application noted that during the pandemic, 16 states across India reduced the fees incurred by schools. “However, such a provision has not been made in Maharashtra. Due to the pandemic, many parents have lost their jobs, and many are getting pay cuts. In such a scenario, the schools are charging normal fees and harassing parents who are not able to pay full fees. Schools are harassing parents who paid one installment or two installments too. But the government is not helping parents in this matter,” said Jayshree Deshpande, president of the parents’ association of Pune. The Deputy Director of Education (DYDE) had issued a notification in which seven city-based schools were asked to submit an order report by January 15. However, two schools have received a stay by the high court. “The rest five reports are ready and will be given to parents in the next few days,” said the education department officials. The association has been lodging complaints against seven schools who allegedly were overcharging fees and denying online education to several students. Gaikwad assured that the department is looking into the matter. The audit reports have not yet been made public yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-association-unsatisfied-after-meeting-with-gaikwad-on-fees-issue-101611764217349.html
27-01-2021||Pune||After opposition to new airport site, Purandar MLA says farmers won’t be forced||Farmers from six villages in Purandar where the administration has identified a new site for the proposed airport have formed a coordination committee to oppose land acquisition, a move likely to delay the project further. The landowners from six villages in Purandar tehsil - Rise, Pise, Naigaon, Rajouri, Pandeshwar, Pimpri - held another meeting on Tuesday in which course to opposition for land acquisition to the proposed airport was discussed. The local legislator Sanjay Jagtap, who was present during the meeting, assured farmers that no land will be acquired unless landowners give their consent for the project. Jagtap had earlier led the protest of farmers from seven villages - Pargaon, Rajewadi, Munjewadi, Vanpuri, Kumbalvalan, Ekhatpur and Udachi Wadi – and forced the government to shift the site. “Nothing will be finalised without talking to people. Once the centre gives a nod to the new site, we will go to people and discuss it with them. If they approve, then the project will continue. If they say no it won’t,” said Jagtap during the meeting. The meeting took place in Naigaon village, where more than 2000 members were present from the affected villages. The farmers alleged that the land to be acquired for the latest site is fertile land, which the owners cannot shed. “We will have to be ready to fight now. We have seen what sort of fight and unity was shown by the villagers of Pargaon and its surroundings. We will have to conduct protests and if required take the matter to the high court. So, we are going to constitute an anti-airport action committee. With representatives from affected villages. Our next moves will be communicated through this channel,” said Kiran Salunkhe, resident of Pimpri village who was present in the meeting. The landowners also alleged they were not consulted before deciding the new site for the international airport and the perception that their land is not fertile is incorrect. “Our area used to be drought-prone before 20-22 years but we have converted it into an irrigated land through artificial ponds. So why should we give our fertile lands to airport?” said Santosh Kolte a resident of Rajori village, who owns 4-acre land on which he grows sugarcane. Amidst this opposition former minister in Maharashtra state government and former Shiv Sena minister Vijay Shivatare said by shifting site, the plan is to take airport terminal close to Baramati, a stronghold of NCP chief Sharad Pawar. “What was the need to shift the project site? Whom did they consult before doing that? At the old site, the opposition from the villagers had softened and they would have agreed after the land acquisition would have started. But this conspiracy of shifting the project site is being done to benefit Baramati. They want to build a terminal near Baramati. The project will be delayed because of this new proposal now,” said Shivatare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-opposition-to-new-airport-site-purandar-mla-says-farmers-won-t-be-forced-101611764217903.html
27-01-2021||Pune||Gaikwad: School for Class 4 and below will reopen after assessing safety of students||On a visit to schools in Pune and rural areas on Wednesday, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad declared that schools for classes four and below will be reopened after assessing the reopening of classes five to eight in terms of safety of students. “After assessing the gradual reopening of classes five to eight, we will make a decision about classes one to four, but our priority is the safety of students. We have laid out the standard operating procedures, which schools and teachers have to strictly follow,” said Gaikwad. The minister added that schools in Pune and Mumbai will be reopened after the respective permission of the local bodies. “The schools are required to follow all the standard operating procedures to maintain the safety of children and staff,” said Gaikwad. She further highlighted that a few students have faced transportation problems while commuting to schools. “We will take this up with respective ministers and try to make local transportation available for these students. Commuting to school should not be a hurdle in attending offline classes. We will take stock of the situation with the state transport minister,” said Gaikwad. Gaikwad was inspecting schools in Pune City to review the situation. She interacted with class 10 students. She added that the education department will be conducting a survey of school children. “The most important thing is to track students who are not coming to school. There will be a survey done for students, especially girls. In some schools, there are around 10 per cent students who have dropped. But in some areas, the number has increased. We are dedicated to tracking these students and getting them in the mainstream. The department has started a specific strategy into this matter,” said Gaikwad. The fee issue is a matter pending in Supreme Court, so Gaikwad denied commenting on it. Talking about the unfilled posts of teachers, Gaikwad said that important subjects have been identified and teachers for these posts which are around 6,000 will be filled very soon. She added that the department has made a list of 566 teachers who can counsel students for class 10 and Class 12. Box *On Wednesday, school for class 5 to class 8 reopened in Pune rural. *Schools on the PMC limits shall reopen from February 1 for classes 5 to 8 with 50 percent attendance. Schools are directed to reopen as per the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the state and central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gaikwad-school-for-class-4-and-below-will-reopen-after-assessing-safety-of-students-101611764216730.html
27-01-2021||Pune||Shiv Shrushti project lying idle after land allotment in 2018||Though the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) celebrated the Shiv Shrushti project after allotting land at Chandani chowk in February 2018, no land has been acquired yet and the project is lying idle. Shiv Shrushti was planned as a permanent exhibition on the life of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. The exhibition is to feature replicas of Maratha forts. Opposition parties have come down heavily on the BJP. Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar said, “We were opposed to shifting the Shiv Shrushti project from the garbage depot at Kothrud, but then the BJP office bearers promised to erect it at Chandni chowk. Fadnavis promised to erect a world class project. After shifting the project, all the BJP members wore the saffron turban at the general body meeting and celebrated it like a victory. Now no progress has been made.”Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member Deepak Mankar, said, “The ruling BJP cheated us. The ruling BJP has not conducted a single meeting to take a review of the project. After the announcement, they celebrated it like a big victory and tried to take credit. Now we request guardian Minister Ajit Pawar to sort out this issue.”Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “BJP should clear whether they want to do this project or not. Despite there being budgetary provision for the project, they are not following up on it.”Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “The then chief minister Devendra Fadvnavis played politics with the project. We said it is not possible to erect the Shiv Shrushti at Chandni chowk as no decision had been taken on the bio diversity park (BDP). Now, it is proved that we were right as no progress has been on land acquisition.”BJP committed to projectThe BJP’s Murlidhar Mohol, Pune mayor, said, “We are committed to erecting the Shiv Shrushti project at Chandni chowk. It will definitely come up at the same place, but due to the bio diversity park issue, little progress has been made. Last year we were busy with Covid-19, so we were not able to follow up. Opposition parties should avoid doing politics over this project.”Mohol added that Congress and NCP were ruling before the BJP in the municipal corporation. “Before allegations and politics, opposition parties must introspect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shiv-shrushti-project-lying-idle-after-land-allotment-in-2018-101611763616676.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Mercury inches upwards, slight relief from the biting cold in Delhi||A day after Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 2.1 degrees Celsius, the mercury rose slightly to a minimum of 5.4 degrees Celsius, bringing relief from the biting cold. The improved wind speed and ventilation also reduced the pollution level, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Wednesday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered to be the marker for the city, was 5.4 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees below the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 21.5 degrees Celsius, a notch below what is considered normal for this time of the year. At the Palam observatory, the minimum temperature was 6.6 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was recorded 19.4 degrees Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said in the next few days, too, the minimum temperature is likely to remain in the same range. “Cold-wave conditions will continue over Delhi till January 29. On Thursday, too, the minimum temperature is likely to be around 4 degrees Celsius. In the early morning hours, there is a possibility of moderate fog, which is expected to clear by 9 or 10am,” Srivastava said. IMD scientists said from January 29, with the impact of another western disturbance, Delhi and NCR are likely to experience some relief from the intense cold. The pollution levels also reduced on Wednesday owing to improved wind speed and ventilation. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Wednesday was 318, in the “very poor” zone. On Tuesday, the AQI was 330, also in the ”very poor” category. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), forecast shows that the surface winds on Wednesday were south-westerly and moderate, but the wind direction is forecasted to shift to north-westerly soon. The cold dry winds are expected to lower the temperature again over the next two days. “No significant change is ventilation index is forecasted for the next three days. AQI is likely to marginally improve to the lower end of ”very poor” category for the next three days,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-inches-upwards-slight-relief-from-the-biting-cold-in-delhi-101611763556666.html
27-01-2021||Other||Pune’s Maharashtra Education Society launches web radio||PUNE In a unique initiative city-based MES Sou Vimlabai Garware High School, Junior College, which is run by the Maharashtra Education Society (MES), has launched a web radio to make learning more interesting and fun for school students.The web radio “MES Subodhvani” was launched on Republic Day (January 26).“It is an android app and web-based radio, free to air and will be broadcast three days in a week on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 7am to 8am,” said Anandi Patil, chairperson, Vimlabai Garware High School, Junior College committee.“The programmes that have been planned are mostly infotainment and based on science and education, where educational concepts will be explained using interesting stories and simplified for students from Class 5 to 10,” said Patil.Asha Wadekar, history teacher at MES Sou Vimlabai Garware High School, Junior College, along with five other teachers will be responsible for creating content for the web radio.The idea was initiated before Covid-19 when one of their alumni Vilas Rabde, an electronic engineer and ham radio operator and radio enthusiast, thought of creating a web-based radio for school children.“Though the idea was initiated before, it gathered momentum during the pandemic where remote learning became the core of education. Hence a few of the alumni approached Maharashtra Educational Society who thought of it to be a good concept,” said Rabde.Maharashtra Education Society has hired a cloud space of 20 GB on an Australian server with an annual fee of ₹15,000. The past students have contributed and also collected funds through corporate social responsibility (CSR), whereupon the past students will be handling the web radio for a year until the teachers are trained and confident of running the radio.Vidnyan Bharati has also tied up with MES for contributing science-related content.“We have been conducting experimental programmes where science concepts are made easy for students, and we approached Maharashtra Educational Society to create content to make science education easy by bringing in scientists, talking about success stories and making experiments fun,” said Prof RV Kulkarni, president, Vidnyan Bharati.Pune city has two community radio stations The city has two community radios making waves, Radio FTII (Film and Television Institute of India) and Savitribai Phule Pune University-run (SPPU-run) “Vidyavani.”“There is a difference between a web-based radio and a community radio. The community radio is sanctioned and part of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, while a web radio can be hosted by anyone on an app,” said Anand Deshmukh, director, Vidyavani.“We have informative programmes for college students as well as we have tied up with Akansha NGO to produce a special programme called “Pathshala ki Ghanti Bajao” which is aimed at primary school students,” said Deshmukh.Vidyavani, which began on May 5, 2005, broadcasts over 13 hours of programmes from 7 am to 8 pm on frequency 107.4 FM.Radio FTII 90.4, was inaugurated on January 29, 2007, FTII was one of the very first applicants for setting up of a community radio station. Radio FTII’s programmes are contributed or made by the community itself.“We have many programmes planned for grass root level communities, where social activists regularly visit the Radio FTII and contribute to the content bank. Since its part of FTII, we encourage students and citizens to make a variety of programmes based on Film Education and Cinema,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, director FTII.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-maharashtra-education-society-launches-web-radio-101611763496755.html
27-01-2021||Other||Highest one-day turnout as 83% beneficiaries vaccinated in Pune city||PUNE Pune city recorded its highest percentage, 83%, of beneficiaries being vaccinated in one day, on Wednesday, which took the district’s average to 71% across 51 sites. A total of 3,667 beneficiaries were vaccinated, out of a targeted 5,200 beneficiaries in the district; while in the city, 1403 beneficiaries of the 1,700 targeted got inoculated, which is the highest for the city since the vaccination launch day on January 16The number of vaccination sites also went up from 44 on Monday, to 51 on Wednesday. Dr Ashish Bharati, chief of PMC’s health department, said, “This is the highest percentage recorded by the city since the launch. This was possible because of the daily follow- up which we have been doing through SMS and calls. We allot the beneficiary to the software manually too which was not allowed earlier and has been allowed now.” Earlier, the administration was completely dependent on the central government’s CoWin app, which was leading to the daily target being missed, but since the administration allowed walk-in vaccination of registered beneficiaries and manual checking, the numbers have gone up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/highest-one-day-turnout-as-83-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-pune-city-101611763437392.html
27-01-2021||Other||Float tender for Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project: Gadkari to PMC||PUNE Union minister Nitin Gadkari has instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Jalshakti Mantralaya to float the tender for Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project immediately.Gadkari said, “By end of February a fresh tender for the river rejuvenation project for Pune, which is also called as JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency-funded project) would be floated.”Gadkari called a meeting to discuss the river rejuvenation project for Pune, Nagpur and other irrigation projects in Delhi on Wednesday. Maharashtra’s irrigation minister Jayant Patil, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, MP Girish Bapat and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar were present at the meeting.Mohol said, “As the earlier tender cost was higher, the central government had given us permission to scrap it and now has instructed us to float a fresh tender. The tender process will get completed by February-end. Meanwhile, the Jalshakti Mantralaya will appoint the consultant.”One of the officials from the PMC, on condition of anonymity, said that the earlier project cost was at previous prices but now, the project cost might change due to inflation.BOXNitin Gadkari has instructed Pune Mayor Mohol to ensure the treated water under this river rejuvenation project be given to the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation. “As it is there is a law that industries should use treated water. PMC should promote it to get more revenue for the civic body,” Gadkari was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/float-tender-for-mula-mutha-river-rejuvenation-project-gadkari-to-pmc-101611763436683.html
27-01-2021||Other||323 new Covid cases, 4 deaths reported in Pune dist||PUNE The district reported 323 new cases and four deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, according to the state health department.As of January 27 the district has reported 3.86 lakh cases of which 3.65 lakh have recovered, 7,948 have been reported dead and 12,692 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 134 new cases taking the total cases to 197,790 and two deaths which took the death toll to 4475. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 77 new cases taking the total to 96,730 while two deaths were reported which took the death toll to 1,312. Pune rural reported 112 new cases which took the total cases to 92,023 while no deaths were reported. The death toll in rural Pune stands at 2,123.The state health department reported that 2, 556 patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.20 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.26%. Also, 2,171 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.15 lakh. Besides, 32 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,125. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.53%. Out of 1,43,67,094 laboratory samples 20,15,524 have been tested positive (14.03%) for Covid until January 27. Currently, 2,00,159 people are in home quarantine and 2,615 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/323-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-reported-in-pune-dist-101611763377437.html
27-01-2021||Other||Active Covid cases in Pune district increase over past week||PUNE The district recorded 1,177 new cases in the last four days (from January 23-27) which has led to a rise in active cases, according to the state health department.As of January 23, the district reported 11,515 active cases which went up to 12, 692 as of January 27.Active Covid-19 cases define the number of patients undergoing treatment at the hospital for the infection or are in home isolation.The district still tops in the state in the number of active cases, followed by Thane (7,561 cases) on the second spot and Mumbai (5,645 cases) on the third spot.As more news cases are being reported as compared to the number of those being discharged, the number of active cases in Pune city, Pune rural and Pimpri-Chinchwad is showing an upward trend, said officials.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “As commercial and social activities have resumed people are stepping out and so there are more chances of transmission of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid infection.”“During our last meeting with the deputy chief minister, I had raised this issue that even now we must continue with the surveillance as we did before including regressive contact tracing, isolation of the affected and people must continue to wear masks and practice social distancing,” he said.“We now see that people have completely let off the guard and continue to behave carelessly. Therefore it was anticipated that the cases would go up. We must remember the examples of other countries like Japan and Russia where the situation is still serious and learn from their situation,” he said.“There is also a stark difference in the numbers reported in the district report and the state report which also needs to be fixed,” he said.The district report recorded 4,931 active cases as of January 26 while the state report recorded 12,482 Covid-19 cases. While the district report recorded 9,021 deaths, the state report recorded 7,944 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-covid-cases-in-pune-district-increase-over-past-week-101611763376766.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 96 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, lowest in over 9 months||Delhi recorded 96 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin released by state government on Wednesday evening. This is the lowest daily Covid-19 caseload in over nine months.The disease also claimed nine lives in the said period which pushed the death toll 10,829, the health bulletin further said. As many as 212 patients were cured or discharged from hospitals.The positivity rate in Delhi stood at 0.32 per cent in the last 24 hours. The overall positivity rate is 6.04 per cent.The health department further said that 29,855 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours which took the total number of tests to 1,04,95,046. Delhi has 5,52,370 tests per million, the health department release further said.There are 1,501 active cases of the disease in Delhi, the health department said. Delhi has 1,639 containment zones, according to health department.Delhi is carrying out inoculation of its healthcare and frontline workers, as part of the nationwide programme which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16.The Delhi government ordered holding the vaccination drive on Wednesday as centres could not vaccinate people on Republic Day. The city usually holds Covid-19 vaccination drives on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.There were reports on Monday the Delhi is heading towards developing the herd immunity.Quoting a recently-concluded sero survey, news agency PTI reported that in one district, 50-60 per cent of the sampled population has developed antibodies to Covid-19.Delhi's population is over two crore, spread across 11 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-96-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-lowest-in-over-9-months-101611752915766.html
27-01-2021||Patna||RJD plans to contest assembly polls in West Bengal, Assam||A Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) delegation plans to hold talks with the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Congress, and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) as it seeks to contest seven to eight assembly seats in West Bengal and 12 in Assam, people aware of the matter said.The decision was taken after much deliberations. The RJD leadership was initially sceptical about the idea of contesting the polls due later this year. Many within the party felt the RJD should not put up candidates and rather support secular parties against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP rules Assam and emerged as the main challenger to ruling TMC in West Bengal after becoming the second-largest party in the state in the 2019 polls.“We want an alliance with TMC as our first choice. Our primary goal is to defeat the BJP...” said an RJD leader on condition of anonymity.Also read | Only Modi-led BJP can rid Assam of terrorism and intruders: Amit ShahThe delegation led by Abdul Bari Siddiqui and Shyam Rajak will meet West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee during their stay in Kolkata from January 30 to February 2.“ We will... talk about seat-sharing. We will also hold talks with RJD’s West Bengal unit and all aspiring candidates,” said Rajak. He said the state unit’s views would be the deciding factor for alliances with like-minded parties.RJD leaders said TMC could benefit from an alliance with their party as there are sizeable Bihari voters from different caste groups in West Bengal. “Both the TMC and the BJP seek votes of people from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. In this scenario, RJD’s alliance with secular parties could benefit the secular bloc,” said Siddiqui.The RJD has been contesting three to four seats in West Bengal. An RJD candidate was elected from the Bura Bazaar assembly segment in Kolkata in 2006. The RJD has identified seats in Asansol, Kolkata, and Kharagpur to contest in the 2021 elections.The people cited above said in case talks with TMC on seat arrangement do not materialise, the RJD would then approach the Left-Congress alliance.In Assam, the RJD delegation will meet representatives of AIUDF for a possible alliance. “We want to contest 10-12 seats in Assam. It will be a major foray. The party has contested polls in the state earlier but without success,” said another RJD leader.RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also plans to visit Kolkata based on the response the the delegation gets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjdto-contest-assembly-polls-in-west-bengal-assam-101611748115389.html
27-01-2021||Pune||Jail tourism initiative inaugurated by Maharashtra CM in Pune||The jail tourism initiative had been inaugurated by Uddhav Thackeray, chief minister of Maharashtra through video conferencing at Pune’s Yerawada Central Jail on Tuesday (January 26). Ajit Pawar, Deputy CM and guardian minister of Pune, was present at the prison premises on the occasion of the 72nd Republic Day.The launch of the event was done by 10 students from Genba Sopanrao Moze Vidyalay, chaperoned by three teachers, and were among the first few tourists inside the jail premises.“Now one doesn’t need to commit a crime in order to visit the jail. Instead of “jail bharo”, people can now indulge in “jail firo”. This book by Balasaheb Thackeray describes the then jails - a container with phenyl, aluminium cutlery, and a space to sleep. That cutlery served all kinds of purposes,” said Uddhav Thackeray, chief minister of Maharashtra while speaking through video conference.He also reminisced about the historical importance of the jail premises where the revolutionary Chapekar brothers were sent to the gallows for the murder of British official WC Rand and his security escort for their brutalities on citizens of Pune during the plague in Pune in 1890s. The same yard where the Chapekar brothers were hung for their crimes, was also the place where Ajmal Kasab, convicted in the 26/11 Mumbai terrorist attacks, was also hanged to death.“Nana Patole and Aditya Thackeray had spoken about expanding tourism in Maharashtra only days before this proposal was put forth. Home minister Anil Deshmukh came up with the unique idea and came to my house one day to put it across. ADG (Prisons) Sunil Ramanand told me about the places where various freedom fighters were imprisoned. 150 years is not a small time period. Even today it is a specimen of architecture. Balasaheb Thackeray had also been in this jail. He had written to Late Meena Tai. I happened to come across that letter recently,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy home minister, Maharashtra.Freedom fighters like Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Motilal Nehru, Sarojini Naidu, and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel had been imprisoned here during the freedom struggle of India.“We visited the Gandhi yard, Nehru yard, the fashi (hanging) yard, and witnessed history that we teach our children. It was an experience that brought those lessons to life,” said Nathu Jagdale, teacher at Moze school.Local legislator Sunil Tingre, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao; district collector Rajesh Deshmukh; ADGP (prison) Sunil Ramanand, and police commissioner Amitabh Gupta were also present during the inauguration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jail-tourism-initiative-inaugurated-by-maharashtra-cm-in-pune-101611746315362.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Plastic burning main cause behind reduced visibility in Delhi: IIT Madras study||Chloride-rich particles resulting from plastic burning may be primarily responsible for haze and fog formation in Northern India, including Delhi, during the winter months, according to an international study led by researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras.The study, published in the journal Nature Geoscience, may help develop better policies to improve the air quality and visibility in North India.Many studies in the past have identified particulate matter or aerosol particles with diameter less than 2.5 micrometre (PM2.5) as a major pollutant, responsible for haze and fog formation over Indo-Gangetic plain, including Delhi.However, the role of PM2.5 and detailed chemistry of haze and fog formation over national capital was poorly understood.The new study found that chloride-rich particles were the highest inorganic fraction in particulate matter, primarily responsible for haze and fog formation in the region."We realised that despite absolute PM2.5 mass burden over Delhi being much less than other polluted megacities around the world, including Beijing, the pollution and atmospheric chemistry of Delhi is much more complex to understand," said Sachin S Gunthe, Associate Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Madras, who led the study."This work put forward importance of measurements and modelling approaches to scientifically conclude that half of the water uptake and visibility reduction by aerosol particles around Delhi is caused by the hydrochloric acid (HCl) emissions, which is locally emitted in Delhi potentially due to plastic contained waste burning and other industrial processes," Gunthe said.The latest study greatly enhances our understanding about the precise role of PM2.5 in chemistry of fog formation, which will help policy makers to frame the better policies for improving the air quality and visibility over the national capital.The researchers noted that during winter season, most of the Indo Gangetic Plain invariably is engulfed in a dense fog and haze, particularly during the months of December and January.Over the national capital, dense fog negatively impacts the air and surface transport resulting in huge financial losses and jeopardise human lives, they said.The study explained that complex chemical reactions involving HCl, which is directly emitted in the atmosphere from plastic contained waste burning and few industrial processes, is primarily responsible for high PM2.5 chloride and subsequent haze and fog formation over Delhi during chilly winter nights.The team, including researchers from the Harvard University, US, and Manchester University in the UK, deployed state-of-the-art instruments to measure the chemical composition and other important properties of PM2.5, and the relative humidity and temperature in Delhi.Professor R Ravikrishna, from Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Madras, noted that with the results from first couple of days, it was very clear to us that Delhi is different."Generally for a polluted urban region like Delhi, one would expect sulfate to be highest inorganic fraction of particulate matter, however, we found chloride to be the highest inorganic fraction of particulate matter," Ravikrishna, who was also part of the study, said.The researchers explained that HCl from various sources combines with ammonia, which is emitted in great amounts over this region.The resulting ammonium chloride (NH4Cl) condenses to aerosol and exponentially increase the water uptake ability of aerosol particles resulting in the increase in size, eventually leading to dense fog formation, they said.In the absence of the excess chloride, the fog formation otherwise would be suppressed significantly, according to the researchers.The study emphasised that plastic burning emits toxic substances in the atmosphere impacting human health, and these emissions are for the first time linked to visibility and climate.Plastic-contained waste burning can emit highly toxic chemicals called 'dioxins', which can accumulate in food chain causing severe problems with reproduction and immune system, the researchers said. "Given that we find plastic burning as a potential cause of the reduced visibility, we hope these findings will help policy makers to efficiently enforce and implement policies that are already in place towards regulating open burning of plastic contained-waste and other potential chlorine sources," Gunthe added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plastic-burning-main-cause-behind-reduced-visibility-in-delhi-iit-madras-study-101611742033226.html
27-01-2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly rushed to hospital again with chest pain||Former Indian skipper and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) chief Sourav Ganguly was rushed to hospital again on Wednesday afternoon after he complained of chest pain and uneasiness. Ganguly wasn’t feeling well since Tuesday evening, a source close to the family said. When the feeling persisted on Wednesday, an electrocardiogram was done which showed some changes, said the source. A PTI report said Ganguly felt dizzy and had “slight discomfort” in the chest. The family then decided to take him to the Apollo Gleneagles Hospital in eastern Kolkata, said the source. The Kolkata Police created a green corridor to facilitate smooth passage for Ganguly. After reaching the hospital in a car, Ganguly, 48, walked inside. His wife, and brother Snehasish Ganguly were with him. Snehasish, 55, underwent angioplasty at the same hospital last week. Also Read | IPL auction likely on February 18: BCCI officialEarlier this month Ganguly underwent angioplasty at another hospital. On January 2, he had to be hospitalised after “chest discomfort, heaviness of the head and a spell of dizziness while performing physical exercises in the home gymnasium,” according to a release from Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital then. He had a stent inserted in the right coronary artery and discharged on January 7 with further treatment needed in “two-three weeks” on two more blockages.  Noted cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty had come down to Kolkata to examine him. Opinions were also sought from doctors in Mumbai, Chennai and New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sourav-ganguly-rushed-to-hospital-with-chest-pain-again-101611742175195.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||NGT directs Punjab to deposit ₹50 cr with CPCB immediately||The National Green Tribunal has dismissed review applications filed by the Punjab government against a 2018 order, requiring the state to pay environmental compensation of ₹50 crore for polluting the Sutlej and Beas rivers. Hearing the matter on January 22, the NGT directed Punjab that the ₹50 crore needs to be forthwith deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for eco-restoration of the Sutlej and Beas rivers. The Punjab government had filed two review petitions with the NGT on January 19 and said that the state has taken several measures, including in-situ remediation of the drains connected to the rivers. “The state is willing to spend ₹50 crore on landscaping Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana,” the application said. STATE HAS TO BE MODEL OF COMPLIANCE: TRIBUNAL The NGT said that Punjab’s appeal had already been dismissed by the Supreme Court and the tribunal’s directive was merged in the apex court’s order, so no review was permitted. “Even after the dismissal of the state’s appeal a year ago, the order of 2018 has not been complied with for which we do not find any justification. Taking future steps is not a ground for not paying compensation for the damage already caused,” the NGT order said. The tribunal said that the state has to be model of compliance of binding orders but “it is acting at its sweet will with no respect for the rule of law”. The NGT directed the amount needs to be forthwith deposited with the CPCB, as already directed for being spent on restoration in terms of a plan, approved by the CPCB. “The draft plan may be prepared by Punjab for consideration by the CPCB chairman. It should primarily cover eco-restoration of the rivers,” the NGT order concluded. FINED IN 2018 FOR INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE IN RIVERS On November 14, 2018, the NGT fined the Punjab government ₹50 crore for polluting the Sutlej and Beas due to uncontrolled industrial discharge. It directed that the amount deposited with the CPCB would be used for the restoration of the environment and relief to victims with the liberty to recover the amount from erring industries, local bodies, individuals and lax officers. The NGT had clubbed cases of river pollution in Punjab in 2018, one based on a 2014 petition from Rajasthan-based activists Shabnam Godara and Sobha Singh of Hanumangarh district in Rajasthan, which claimed that polluted water from the Sutlej and Beas, entering the state through the Indira Gandhi Canal, was affecting eight districts there. The Indira Gandhi Canal the longest canal of India. It starts from the Harike barrage, a few kilometres below the confluence of the Sutlej and Beas in Punjab and terminates in irrigation facilities in the Thar Desert in northwest Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-directs-punjab-to-deposit-50-cr-with-cpcb-immediately-101611741515043.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Tractor rally chaos: FIRs filed under attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy||A day after protesting farmers clashed with police and indulged in violence across the city, Delhi Police have filed at least 25 FIRs in cases related to it. While a majority of the cases are registered under sections of rioting, causing hurt by dangerous weapons, obstructing police from doing their duty, police have also filed some cases under heinous sections of attempt to murder and attempt to culpable homicide in clashes reported from the Red Fort, ITO and Ghazipur. In one FIR, police are also probing protesters for destroying CCTV cameras on the road.Delhi Police officers, who did not wish to be named, said the FIRs have the names of many farmer leaders who have been caught on tape instigating people to break barricades and force their way into the national Capital on Tuesday. Police said that some of the FIRs registered in connection with the violence at Red Fort and ITO would be transferred to the Crime Branch -- a specialised unit in the Delhi police.“We have enough evidence in the form of videos which shows unruly protesters grouping together to throw police personnel off the ramparts of the Red Fort. We have a strong legal case of attempt to murder. We will identify those people and take suitable action,” said a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named.In the Red Fort violence case, police have also added sections of criminal conspiracy. This means that police have, prima facie, found that the violence during the rally was not spontaneous but was designed and planned as a conspiracy by the accused persons.Also read | Violence at farmers’ tractor rally: What went wrong in the police plan?A second police officer said that they have also registered FIRs under sections of destruction of evidence. In connection with the vandalism at ITO in central Delhi, police investigation has revealed that some unruly farmers destroyed CCTV cameras installed on the road. Police have registered the FIR under section 201 of the Indian Penal Code.At least 86 police personnel and ten farmers were injured when the tractor rally -- supposed to be peaceful and only in places pre-decided by the police and farmers in their meeting-- resulted in violence and hundreds of farmers laid siege of the Red Fort in the national Capital. Police have claimed that the protesters violated all conditions on the basis of which they were given permission to hold the tractor rally on Republic Day.Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella collective of over 40 farmer groups, had on Tuesday night, following the violence, said that the protest was hijacked by people not connected with them. They also dissociated themselves from the protesters who had attacked the police and indulged in violence during the day.The second police officer cited above said that the many leaders, including those from the SKM, would be probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tractor-rally-chaos-firs-filed-for-attempt-to-murder-destroying-evidence-101611739955413.html
27-01-2021||Mumbai||At 15.3 degrees, Mumbai records lowest temperature of the season||Mumbai woke up to its coldest winter morning on Wednesday as temperatures dropped to 15.3 degree Celsius, the lowest so far this winter season.The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 15.3 degree Celsius, which was 2 degree below normal. Earlier, on January 16, a minimum temperature of 16.6 degree C was recorded at Santacruz. Before that, the lowest minimum temperature of the ongoing winter season was 16 degree Celsius on December 22 last year.Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 18 degree Celsius, which was 1 degree below the normal temperature.The drop in temperatures was in line with the forecast by IMD. “The IMD had forecast that minimum temperatures in and around Mumbai would drop owing to cold winds from the north. This trend is likely to continue for the next two-three days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD.Meanwhile, air quality deteriorated on Wednesday after improving slightly at the beginning of this week. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator-- of 306 (very poor), was recorded on Wednesday morning. Over the past weekend, air quality had plummeted to the very poor category with AQI measuring 320 on Saturday and 310 on Sunday but improved to 283 (poor) on Monday.The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.The deteriorated air quality is likely because of the cold conditions as pollutants in the air could not be dispersed, said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-15-3-degrees-mumbai-records-lowest-temperature-of-the-season-101611737874048.html
27-01-2021||Jaipur||Petrol costs ₹101.80 per litre in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar||With a hike of 38 paise and 26 paise on Wednesday and Tuesday respectively, the price of petrol in Sri Ganganagar of Rajathan has reached ₹98.40 per litre and premium petrol has reached ₹101.80 per litre. In capital Jaipur, the petrol price has increased to reach ₹93.86 per litre and diesel price to ₹85.94 per litre.The price of petrol is ₹93 upwards across the state, while the rate of diesel is more than ₹85 per litre.Prices of petrol and diesel across the country are market-determined and attract uniform central excise duty, but their prices differ from state to state because of the wide variations in the local levies or value-added tax (VAT).According to an official notification released by the Rajasthan government in May last year, the VAT on diesel prices is 28% whereas VAT on petrol was in access of 38 %.In the neighbouring states, VAT ranges from 20 to 33% on petrol and 16 to 23% on diesel. Due to this, petrol in Rajasthan is costlier by 8 to 10 rupees and diesel by 4 to 11 rupees than other states.In Punjab, the VAT on petrol is 25% and on Diesel it is 15.94%; in Haryana 25% and 16.40%; Gujarat- 20.20 and 20.20% and in UP, it stood at 26.80 and 17.48% for petrol and diesel respectively.A truck driver from Jaipur said that because of the high prices, they avoid fuelling their trucks in the state.“The reason is that if a truck fills 500 liters of diesel, then it saves between 400 and 500 rupees. For example, on Wednesday, diesel is ₹90.11 in Sri Ganganagar, but in neighboring Punjab, it is cheaper by ₹11.22 per litre. Similarly, petrol in Dungarpur is ₹95.93, while in neighboring Gujarat, it is cheaper by ₹11.85 per litre,” the truck driver said.Also Read: India’s economy to shrink by 8% in FY’21, says IMFRajasthan Petroleum Dealers Association (RPDA) President Sunit Bagai said that the body has already given a memorandum to the state government protesting against the highest VAT in the country on automobile fuels.“Last year, VAT was hiked to increase the revenue. Even if the government reduces VAT by more than 5%, its revenue will not decrease,” he said.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had held the Centre responsible for the hike in petrol prices in state. “Blaming state government for hike in fuel prices is completely rubbish. When price of crude petroleum had reached 140 dollars per barrel in the international market, the retail prices of petrol in the UPA government were between ₹60 and ₹65 per litres. Now, price of crude petroleum is 40 dollars for a barrel, then why are petrol prices being continuously increased,” he had said while talking to the media on the Republic Day at the secretariat in Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/petrol-costs-rs-101-80-per-litre-in-rajasthan-s-sri-ganganagar-101611736005707.html
27-01-2021||Mumbai||MPCB issues closure notice to chemical unit in Palghar over pollution concerns||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has issued a closure notice to a chemical unit in Palghar for allegedly violating various pollution prevention norms.The notice, dated January 25 and issued by the MPCB's regional office at Thane, has asked Seya Industries Limited, located at Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Tarapur, to close down all manufacturing activities within 72 hours.It has listed several lapses by the unit, including coal fuel consumption more than the consented limits, usage of furnace oil as fuel which is banned as per a Supreme Court order, and non-disposal of any hazardous waste to the Common Hazardous Waste treatment, Storage & Disposal Facility (CHWTSDF) from April to October last year.Besides, the unit allowed substandard quality effluent into the MIDC chamber through storm water drain, it said.As per the MPCB, all units of the Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) were found to be corroded and its operation and maintenance was poor.The MPCB in its closure notice directed authorities concerned to disconnect the unit's power and water supply.If the company fails to comply with these directions, further suitable action will be initiated at per environmental laws, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mpcb-issues-closure-notice-to-chemical-unit-in-palghar-over-pollution-concerns-101611735234831.html
27-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal para-teachers attempt to barge into assembly to meet CM Mamata Bannerjee||Dozens of protesting para teachers, all of them women, tried to barge inside the West Bengal Legislative Assembly in Kolkata on Wednesday morning ahead of the two-day special assembly session.Police had a tough time placating and controlling the protestors, who climbed the huge iron gates of the assembly and tried to enter the compound. They demanded to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee and sat on the road, blocking gate 6 of the assembly, usually used by the MLAs.“We have been demanding (this) over the past four years. We only got assurances. The chief minister is meeting every organization and their demands. But our demand of equal pay and pension, among others, has not been met so far. We urge the CM to meet the demands ahead of the assembly polls,” said one of the para-teachers.A senior police officer said that they had no prior information about the attempted invasion and hence there were hardly any women police deployed near the gate. Later, female police constables were deployed to disperse the protestors.Senior police officers rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control. Lady police constables could be seen dragging the protesting para teachers towards the police van. The face-off continued till reports last came in.Also Read: Eye on polls, TMC forms separate cells for SC, ST and OBCs“We just wanted to meet Didi (Mamata Banerjee) to place our demands. The government has been going to every doorstep with its campaign Duare Sarkar (government at doorsteps) ahead of the elections. Today we have come to Didi’s door with our problems,” said Gita Biswas, a para teacher from Nadia district, adding that they have more than 20 demands.Earlier on January 11, the protestors had tried to march towards Nabanna, the state secretariat, leading to a scuffle with the police. A divisional commissioner of police was injured on that day.A two-day special assembly session is scheduled to start on Wednesday. A resolution against the three contentious farm laws, passed by the centre, is likely to be introduced in the special session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-para-teachers-attempt-to-barge-into-assembly-tomeet-cm-mamata-bannerjee-101611734009936.html
27-01-2021||Kolkata||Para teachers in West Bengal demonstrate outside assembly demanding pay parity||Women members of an organisation of para teachers on Wednesday staged a demonstration outside the West Bengal legislative assembly, demanding parity of their salaries with that of regular teachers in schools, police said.A two-day assembly session is scheduled to begin on January 27.Over 50 members of 'Sikshak Oikyo Mukto Manch' demonstrated outside the assembly where the prohibitory orders were clamped, a senior officer said."We want equal pay for equal work with regular teachers and retirement benefits. We want to meet Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. This is a fight for our self- respect," Gita Biswas, one of the agitating teachers, told reporters.A team of women police personnel reached the assembly and removed them from there, the officer said."Over 50 para teachers have been removed from there. One fell sick during the operation. We will find out how they managed to climb a gate of the assembly. Police personnel were posted on the premises."We will find out whether there was any lapse in security," the officer said.A team of Rapid Action Force of the city police has been deployed there, he said.The state education department had increased the salary of para teachers at primary level from ₹5,954 to ₹10,000 a month.The monthly salary of para teachers at the higher secondary level was raised from ₹8,500 to ₹13,000.Asked about the incident, state minister Subrata Mukherjee said, "The assembly doesn't belong to any particular party. There are places to hold such agitations to air their grievances. In a parliamentary democracy, one can always demonstrate but not on the assembly premises."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/para-teachers-in-west-bengal-demonstrate-outside-assembly-demanding-pay-parity-101611733255496.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers at Ghazipur protest site say road closure led to Tuesday’s chaos||A day after violence erupted during the farmers’ tractor parade and left one person dead and scores injured, farm leaders at the Ghazipur protest site maintained it was a “conspiracy” to defame their agitation against the three farm laws. Farmer leaders blamed the government, Opposition parties, and the police alleging that they sent hooligans impersonating farmers.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the chaos started because the administration barricaded the approved route going towards the Ghazipur roundabout.“Farmers were mostly from outside Delhi and they were not well aware of the roads in Delhi, especially NH-24, NH-9, and the Delhi-Meerut expressway, which has multiple carriageways and are very confusing. As the police had barricaded the road on which they had asked us to take our tractor rally, it confused some of the farmers and they entered the carriageways going towards Sarai Kale Khan. Other farmers followed them and that is how the confusion started,” said Tikait.Also read | Tourism minister Prahlad Patel visits Red Fort, condemns action of farmersOn Wednesday, the number of farmers at the protest site was much lesser than what it was over the last three-four days. The farmer leaders continued explaining to the media the entire sequence of events leading to the breaking of barricades and clashes with the security personnel.A condolence gathering for the dead farmer was also organised at the protest site.The national Capital descended into chaos as thousands of farmers protesting against the three laws passed in September to reform the agriculture sector on Tuesday stormed into the monument after breaking barricades and driving tractors through roadblocks.The protesting farmers were to take a tractor rally through three designated routes in Delhi on day 62 of their protest against the laws. One of the farmer groups from the Ghazipur protest site deviated from the agreed-upon route and reached ITO, where they ran riot. Another group from Singhu border stormed the Red Fort, where one of the protesters climbed the first available flag post and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs.A violent clash with policemen trying to disperse them followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-at-ghazipur-protest-site-say-road-closure-led-to-tuesday-s-chaos-101611732694482.html
27-01-2021||Dehradun||Leopard found dead in Uttarakhand’s Nainital, second death in two weeks||A carcass of a five-year-old leopard was found in Nainital district, said forest officials. The leopard was found dead in Chaura Ghat area near Haldwani in Terai East forest division on Tuesday evening, said officials. RP Joshi, forest range officer of Goula where the leopard was found dead, said, “Forest staff spotted a carcass of a leopard during patrolling on Tuesday evening. The team sent its body for a post-mortem examination. The leopard did not have any injury marks on its body and its feet and nails were also intact.” Also Read: 40-year-old woman killed by leopard in Uttarakhand’s PithoragarhHe also said that the actual cause of death will be known after the post-mortem examination but prima facie it looks like the leopard died due to a fight with another animal. However, viscera samples of the leopard have been sent for testing to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Bareilly. This is not the first incident of a leopard death in the state this year. On January 14, a two-year-old male leopard was found dead in Mussoorie forest division. The leopard had died after falling into a gorge. One shoulder bone of the animal was dislocated, according to the post-mortem examination report. In the last week of December, two leopard carcasses were recovered from the forest areas of Kumaon region within two days. The carcass of a 12-year-old female leopard was found in Bageshwar district on December 31 and a four-year-old female leopard found dead in Ramnagar in Nainital district on December 30. On December 11, a four-year-old leopard was found dead in Ramnagar. On December 1, the carcass of three-year-old leopard cub that was killed in a road accident was found on the Ramnagar-Manglar road in Nainital. Before this on October 17, a one-year-old leopard cub was found dead in Pithoragarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/leopard-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital-second-death-in-two-weeks-101611731914278.html
27-01-2021||Patna||Nitish cabinet expansion: Bhupendra Yadav’s Patna visit raises hopes||Amid continuing speculation over the delay in expansion of Nitish Kumar cabinet in Bihar, BJP Bihar in charge Bhupendra Yadav’s presence in Patna has once again raised hopes that it may happen soon along with the finalisation of nominations to the Bihar Legislative Council.Though there is no confusion over the number of ministries each National Democratic Alliance (NDA) constituent will get, the cabinet expansion is likely to onboard some new faces to maintain the social equation; and they will require to be inducted in the Upper House, said leaders aware of the matter.The NDA nominations to Bihar Legislative Council’s 12 seats, vacant since May 2020, were earlier stuck due to the lack of agreement on seat-distribution among the three allies– the BJP, JD-U and the LJP. Now, the new government has got four constituents and the equations have changed.According to a JD-U leader, since the council vacancies were created long before the 2020 Assembly elections, it should be filled on the basis of the numerical strength in the last assembly; otherwise, it should be divided equally.A senior BJP leader, however, said that the matter would be amicably resolved soon, as it was in the interest of all. “May be, by the month-end, cabinet expansion will happen. The council nominations will also take place soon,” said a senior leader.“Everything will happen at an appropriate time. There is no confusion,” said Bihar BJP president, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal.Bihar deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad Singh was in Delhi last week, but he said he was there due to some personal matters. “Regarding the cabinet expansion and council nominations, senior leaders are looking into it. There is no issue,” he added.Also Read: Bihar's "cycle girl" interacts with PM ModiBJP has already shown its intention to give space to the new team. BJP national spokesman and former union minister Shahnawaz Hussain’s maiden entry into the council has also sparked off speculations about his induction in the Nitish cabinet. A few other new names are also doing the rounds.In JD-U, Ashok Choudhary, who holds the portfolio of several ministries, is not a member of any House. Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief and animal husbandry minister Mukesh Sahni has got to the Council on the BJP seat from Benipatti by replacing Vinod Narayan Jha, who won the assembly elections held last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-cabinet-expansion-bhupendra-yadav-s-patna-visit-raises-hopes-101611731110385.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police Commissioner holds security review meeting after violence||A meeting of the Delhi Commissioner of Police with senior police officers is currently underway to review the security situation in the aftermath of Tuesday's violence that broke out amid farmers' tractor rally, informed Delhi Police on Wednesday.Additional DCP Central's operator was attacked with a sword at ITO on Tuesday during the violence, it added.The Delhi Police further informed on Wednesday that more than 300 police personnel have been injured after being attacked by agitating farmers on January 26.The Delhi Police is scheduled to hold a press briefing today over the incidents of violence in the national capital on Republic Day.As per sources, a special investigation team of the Delhi Police Crime Branch is likely to investigate the entire incident.According to the Delhi Police, with another FIR being registered at the IP Police Station in connection with the violence at ITO in the national capital, the total number of FIRs rose to 22 on Wednesday.Traffic and metro services continue to remain affected post farmers' tractor rally violence.Delhi Traffic Police on Wednesday issued an advisory after traffic was affected in several parts of the national capital.Security was also heightened near the Red Fort where a group of protestors entered the fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts yesterday.Farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism across several parts of the national capital during their Kisan tractor rally organised to protest against the Centre's three new farm laws on Tuesday. Several public and private properties being damaged in acts of vandalism by the rioting mob.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-commissioner-holds-security-review-meeting-after-violence-101611730322325.html
27-01-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray to release book on Karnataka-Maharashtra border dispute||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will release a book explaining his government’s stand on the border dispute with Karnataka on Wednesday as the ruling Shiv Sena appears to be reviving its decades-old agenda of merging Marathi-speaking areas in the neighbouring state with Maharashtra.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat and opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis will attend the book release function.Maharashtra government’s officer on special duty Deepak Pawar has edited the Marathi book titled Maharashtra Karnataka Simawad: Sangharsh Ani Sankalp (Maharashtra-Karnataka Border Dispute: Struggle and Resolve).Also Read: Mumbai locals: Why Maharashtra govt is taking time to resume trains for allA meeting of a high-power committee reconstituted to take state’s legal battle on the border issue forward will follow the book release.Maharastra’s ruling Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress alliance has been keen to take up the issue. Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar in November said Shiv Sena founder late Balasaheb Thackeray struggled his entire life for the state’s overall development and to unite Maharashtra by merging Belgaum, Karwar and Nipani with the state. “Let us be determined to fulfil this dream.”Thackeray spoke about the issue on January 17 at an event organised by Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, which has been fighting for the inclusion of Marathi-speaking areas in Maharashtra. “Including Karnataka-occupied Marathi speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who were martyred in the boundary dispute. We are united and committed towards it,” Thackeray tweeted from his official handle.An NCP leader said Bal Thackeray and other senior leaders were jailed in 1969 over the border dispute and the agitation by Shiv Sena over it shut Mumbai for over a week. “Though many believe it is an unresolvable issue, the parties see political gain in keeping the issue sentimentally alive. For the ruling parties in Maharashtra, the issue is convenient to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party, which rules Karnataka and to revive Marathi pride ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-release-book-on-karnataka-maharashtra-border-dispute-101611729994295.html
27-01-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav accuses BJP of turning resentment of farmers into anger||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday held the BJP-led central government responsible for turning farmers' "resentment into anger" and demanded immediate withdrawal of new agri laws.His remarks come after clashes broke out at multiple places during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Tuesday.Tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort."The way the BJP government has continuously neglected, humiliated and accused the farmers, it played a decisive role in turning the resentment of the farmers into anger. Only the BJP is responsible for the present situation," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi.He said the government should immediately withdraw the farm laws considering it as its moral responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-accuses-bjp-of-turning-resentment-of-farmers-into-anger-101611729587730.html
27-01-2021||Other||Blood disorder likely cause of Odisha death days after Covid-19 jab: Officials||A 27-year-old guard at a hospital in Odisha’s Nuapara district died on Tuesday three days after he was administered the Covid-19 vaccine, his family said even as authorities maintained he was suffering from a blood disorder and could have succumbed to that.Nanikaram Keunt, the guard, complained of ill health on Monday while he on duty. He was referred to a medical college hospital in Sambalpur the same day, where his condition deteriorated.“Nanikaram said that he was not feeling well after receiving the vaccine. Though we asked him to take a rest, he ignored us and went to duty. ...he fell unconscious and was admitted to the hospital. He was not suffering from any disease before the vaccination,” said Keunt’s brother, Rohit Kumar Keunt.Also Read: Odisha CM requests judges, leaders to join Mo School campaignNuapada’s chief medical officer, Kaliprasad Behera, insisted Keunt’s death was not linked to vaccination. “When he was admitted to...[the Sambalpur hospital], the provisional diagnosis was bleeding disorder with severe anaemia and intracerebral haemorrhage. The platelet count was high, and the white blood cell count was less. We suspected the patient was suffering from leukaemia. He died of intracerebral haemorrhage.” Behera added the exact cause of his death will be known after they get his post-mortem report.Additional chief secretary (health) PK Mohapatra added the guard most likely died of cancer.At least five people in the state have taken ill after their Covid-19 vaccination. But all of them are doing well now.The state has vaccinated 1,77,090 healthcare workers until Monday. The rest 17,30,00 of the total 35,00,00 workers will be given the Covid-19 vaccine shots from January 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blood-disorder-likely-cause-of-odisha-death-days-after-covid-19-jab-officials-101611729215429.html
27-01-2021||Bangalore||After four years, ex-AIADMK leader Sasikala freed from jail||VK Sasikala, the expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (AIADMK) member, on Wednesday completed her prison sentence after 1,442 days behind bars.However, the 66-year-old is likely to stay in the hospital until she is declared free of Covid-19, according to her advocate. “All the release formalities are done and she will remain in the hospital for the next five days,” Dr CR Jayanthi, the director-cum-dean of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute said.“She will remain in the same hospital as per her decision. She will not be travelling back to Tamil Nadu today,” Sasikala’s advocate N Raja Senthoor Pandian said.Her advocates and supporters were gathered inside and around Victoria Hospital since 7am, waiting to catch a glimpse of Sasikala who still commands a sizeable following.Sasikala, a close aide of late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, was convicted by the Supreme Court in a 21-year old disproportionate assets (DA) case along with four others and handed a four-year prison sentence.The SC judgement also barred her from holding any public office or contesting elections for a period of 10 years. Jayalalithaa was also named in the DA case and was forced to step down from chief minister’s post in September 2014 after a special court delivered the guilty verdict.Sasikala, Ilvarasi and VN Sudhakaran were also found guilty and they all surrendered before the authorities on February 15, 2017.Sasikala has been lodged in a hospital ward since January 20 after she first complained of breathlessness that was later diagnosed as Covid-19.Sasikala’s release comes months before assembly elections in Tamil Nadu which is likely to see a bitter battle between the ruling AIADMK and its rival Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/after-four-years-ex-aiadmk-leader-sasikala-freed-from-jail-101611728674890.html
27-01-2021||Mumbai||1 dead, 2 injured as track-relaying machine breaks between Ambernath- Badlapur||A contractual labourer with railway died and two others suffered injuries when the gantry of the Track Relaying Train (TRT) Machine derailed and fell on the workers conducting maintenance work of the track between Ambarnath and Badlapur, around 50 kilometers from Mumbai, in the wee hours on Wednesday.The down train services between Ambarnath and Badlapur were suspended following the incident while mail trains were diverted via Panvel-Karjat route.The Train services were restored on the Ambarnath-Badlapur section at 09.40 am and the first train for Badlapur left Kalyan at 09.59 am.“The trains are in operation from CSMT to Ambarnath and Badlapur and Karjat. We have diverted the mail train from the Panvel- Karjat route. The restoration work is in progress and we will update on social media once the TRT is removed,” said Central Railway’s chief public relations officer, Shivaji Sutar.“The maintenance work was carried out today between 2.00 am and 5.00 am, with the help of the TRT machine, when the gantry (horizontal part of the machine) broke and fell on the lower portion of the track machine,” He added that one worker got trapped in the machine resulting in a fatal injury.“The labourer, who was working near the machine, got trapped between the upper and lower portion of the machine. Two others suffered injuries and were taken to Kalyan Railway hospital and are stable. By the time we removed the gantry, the trapped labourer had succumbed,” Sutar added.Sutar said the work to remove the TRT machine from the site is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-dead-2-injured-as-track-relaying-machine-breaks-between-ambernath-badlapur-101611727535140.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||Tractor rally violence: Sunny Deol distances himself from Deep Sidhu||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Parliament member Sunny Deol has again distanced himself from Deep Sidhu, a Punjabi film actor-turned-activist who allegedly led a mob of protesting farmers that stormed the Red Fort and hoisted a flag on Tuesday.In a tweet, Deol said he was saddened to see what has happened at the Red Fort and added: “Through a tweet, on December 6 [2020], I have already made it clear that I or my family has no link with Deep Sidhu.”Deol last month said the “issue was between the government and the farming community and that some people were exploiting the situation”. Deol referred to Sidhu saying “he was with me during my campaign but is now being driven by his own agenda. I have nothing to do with his activities.”Deol’s fresh comments came as a photo purportedly showing Sidhu with him and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was posted on social media.Also read | Chaos in Delhi as protesting farmers stormed Red Fort: Here’s what happenedA video from Sidhu’s Facebook account went viral on Tuesday in which he could purportedly be seen along with his supporters at the Red Fort. Many of them held the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs. A man could be seen climbing the monument with the flag in his hand.Sidhu justified the flag hoisting saying when genuine rights and issues are not solved, anger is bound to flare up in any protest. He said they went to the Red Fort to “symbolically register” their protest, and to exercise their “democratic rights”.The National Investigation Agency last month issued a summon to Sidhu to appear before it in a case registered against Sikhs for Justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tractor-rally-sunny-deol-distances-himself-from-deep-sidhu-101611727534139.html
27-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC booth leader beaten to death in poll-bound Bengal||A booth-level leader of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) was beaten to death allegedly by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in East Burdwan district of poll-bound Bengal on Tuesday. While the TMC alleged that BJP workers were behind the crime, the opposition has refuted the charges claiming that it was the result of TMC’s infighting. The victim has been identified as Sanjit Ghosh, a booth leader at Nigan in Mangalkot of East Burdwan, around 130km north of Kolkata. Also Read: Eye on polls, TMC forms separate cells for SC, ST and OBCs“BJP workers have killed him. Before he died, he told me that he was ambushed near a canal. The accused were hiding on the bank of a canal. He was attacked with lathis and bamboo sticks,” said Ashalata Ghosh, the victim’s wife. Sagar Ghosh, the victim’s father lodged a complaint on Wednesday naming a few local BJP leaders. Police refused to divulge any details but said that five persons have been detained for interrogation. “He was an anti-social person and had criminal antecedents. BJP is in no way associated with this. It was a result of the TMC’s factional fights. They are just trying to frame BJP leaders,” said Krishna Ghosh, a local leader of BJP. “Two to three day ago a BJP leader had addressed a rally in the locality and had given some inciting speeches. If BJP wants to play this dangerous game, then I want to tell them that I can be even more dangerous,” said Anubrata Mondol, TMC leader. There was palpable tension in the village and a large contingent of police was deployed after the incident to maintain law and order. “My son was murdered so that the BJP can make inroads here. He was popular in the village. The accused are all on the run now,” said the victim’s father. Meanwhile clashes were triggered between the TMC and BJP at Bhagapanpur in East Midnapore district and bombs were hurled after BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s rally took place on Tuesday. While TMC said BJP supporters hurled bombs, BJP said it was the TMC workers who attacked them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-booth-leader-beaten-to-death-in-poll-bound-bengal-101611725973751.html
27-01-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh: Man arrested for raping, blackmailing minor in Ballia||A 22-year-old man has been arrested in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl on January 11 and forcing himself on her again the following day by threatening to share the video of the previous assault.The man’s father has been arrested as well after the girl’s family alleged that he knew about the sexual assaults and allegedly intended to convert her too.Also read | 3 men gang-rape 25-year-old woman, then show up at home to threaten familyThe son has been booked under Indian Penal Section’s pertaining to rape, trespass, under Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act and the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion Ordinance. The father has been booked under the anti-conversion ordinance.Police superintendent Sanjay Kumar confirmed the two accused were arrested from Ballia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-raping-blackmailing-girl-in-up-s-ballia-101611725853585.html
27-01-2021||Kolkata||In a first, Kolkata gets boat library||The West Bengal Transport Corporation in collaboration with a heritage book store here has launched a children's library on a boat, the first of its kind initiative, an official said.The idea behind the boat library is that one can read books while appreciating the beauty of Kolkata, cruising on the Hooghly river, he said.Children will be able to choose from a selection of 500 titles in English and Bengali on the Young Readers' Boat Library."The boat library would take people on a three-hour- long trip," the official said.The trip will start at Millenium Park, and the boat will travel to Belur Math jetty and return, he said.There will be three trips on all weekdays, he said on Tuesday.The boat has a free wifi facility as well.A ride on the boat would cost ₹100 for adults and ₹50 for children.The library will host activities such as storytelling, dramatised readings, poetry sessions, book launches, music and more, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/in-a-first-kolkata-gets-boat-library-101611725250453.html
27-01-2021||Mumbai||95% of Mumbai suburban trains to resume service from Friday||Central and Western Railways’ local train operation in Mumbai will return to nearly full service with up to 95% of its pre-Covid-19 outbreak schedule resuming from Friday, confirmed officials.A total of 2,781 train services will be operated by the Central and Western Railway beginning Friday. The decision comes two days after the meeting to consider resumption of local train services for all commuters was held on Monday under Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership.Local train services in the metropolis are currently available for the essential services staff, the specially-abled and cancer patients. Women passengers and lawyers are also allowed to commute during a stipulated time period.Both the zonal railways announced on Tuesday late night, the decision to operate additional local train services.From Friday, the Central Railway will operate 1685 local train services daily as opposed to 1580 train services running currently and the Western Railway will operate 1300 local train services as opposed to 1201 train services, running currently.Earlier, Western Railway had announced the resumption of all local train services from Friday. However, the decision was rescinded later.Before the coronavirus induced lockdown was imposed, resulting in suspension of routine railway services in March last year, the Central Railway operated 1774 train services and the Western Railway operated 1367 train services.“Additional 204 local train services will be added on the Central and Western Railway from January 29. Passengers as permitted by the ministry of railways and the government of Maharashtra are only allowed to travel by the suburban trains,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway.Passenger associations have stated that the late night move by the railways has created confusion among the general public. “The meeting with the chief minister is a positive sign that the train services will resume for all soon. However, railways internal communications leak on social media and haphazard decisions have created confusion among passengers. Many think that train services will resume for all on January 29. This can lead to overcrowding,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Also Read: NCP chief Sharad Pawar slams Maha governor, Centre at farmers’ rally in MumbaiMeanwhile, the divisional railway manager GVL Satyakumar tweeted on Wednesday morning, appealing to the public not to rush to the railway stations.“APPEAL: Passengers as permitted by the Ministry of Railways and government of Maharashtra are only allowed to travel by the suburban trains. Others are requested not to rush to the Rly stations. Please adhere (to) all norms, SOPs related to COVID19 during boarding, travel & at destination,” tweeted divisional railway manager, Western Railway.Local train services resumed for employees of essential services on July 15, 2020. Train services were suspended in the city on March 23, 2020.With more than 7 million people travelling daily in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the suburban train services are the biggest public transport system in the financial capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/95-of-mumbai-suburban-trains-to-resume-service-from-friday-101611723797895.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ tractor rally violence: 22 FIRs filed by Delhi Police so far||The Delhi Police have so far registered at least 22 cases in connection with the violent clashes that took place between the police and the farmers during the tractor rally in Delhi on Tuesday, people aware of the matter said. No arrests have been made yet and efforts to identify the suspects were being made, they added.Delhi Police spokesman Anil Mittal said the cases have been registered at police stations across the Capital under Indian Penal Code sections including those pertaining to rioting and damage to public property.More first information reports were likely to be registered as the probe is underway. “Efforts to identify those involved in provoking the violence are being made,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. Also Read: Day after farmers’ tractor rally entered Delhi, traffic on few routes restrictedThe national capital descended into chaos as thousands of farmers protesting against the three laws passed in September to reform the agriculture sector on Tuesday stormed into Delhi’s Red Fort complex after breaking barricades and driving tractors through roadblocks.The protesting farmers were to take the rally through three designated routes in Delhi on day 62 of their protest against the laws. One of the farmer groups from Ghazipur protest site deviated from the agreed-upon route, reached ITO, and ran riot. Another group from Singhu border stormed the Red Fort, where one of the protesters climbed the first available flag post and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs.A violent clash with policemen trying to disperse them followed. The protesters on tractors rammed through buses and barricades. Men with swords on horses tried to run down policemen as police rushed containers, buses, and barriers to block key roads in central Delhi.A protesting farmer died after his tractor overturned at ITO. A video showed the tractor ramming into a police barricade.The police fired tear gas shells and resorted to baton charges at several points where clashes broke out. The Delhi Police said 83 personnel were injured after being attacked by agitating farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-tractor-rally-violence-22-firs-filed-by-delhi-police-so-far-101611723814124.html
27-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 8 members of a family killed in road accident in Tonk||Eight members of a family from Madhya Pradesh’s Jirapur were on Wednesday killed and four others injured when a speeding truck hit the vehicle they were returning from Rajasthan’s Khatu Shyam Temple. “The occupants got trapped in their car. While some people died on the spot, the injured were rushed to a local hospital and later referred to Jaipur,” said a police officer.A second police officer said the accident happened at 7.30 am shortly after the family resumed their journey after breakfast in Kota’s Pakka Bandha.A man on a bike, his sister, and two nephews, aged seven and five, riding pillion were killed in a separate accident along Rajasthan’s Gopalgarh-Pahari route. “...a speeding car hit the bike near Barkheda. The accident was so extreme that the car overturned and fell into a field, while the bike was badly damaged and three persons died on the spot,” a third police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-8-of-mp-family-killed-in-road-accident-in-tonk-101611723573723.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Parliament: Govind Ballabh Pant’s relocated statue to be unveiled in Delhi today||Freedom fighter and late former Union home minister Govind Ballabh Pant’s nine-foot-tall statue relocated from the Parliament complex will be unveiled on Wednesday at a roundabout facing the Gurudwara Rakab Ganj on New Delhi’s Pandit Pant Marg, officials familiar with the matter said.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri will preside over the garlanding ceremony of the Bharat Ratna awardee’s statue. The freedom fighter’s daughter-in-law, Ila Pant, a former Lok Sabha MP, will be the chief guest at the ceremony.“We had spoken to the family of Govind Ballabh Pant and will be placing his statue on a road named after him in his honour with the blessings of the family,” a housing and urban affairs ministry official said.The statue was the first to be moved out as construction for the new Parliament complex began on January 15.Mahatma Gandhi’s iconic 16-feet bronze statue in the complex was last week shifted prematurely from its place facing the main gate to a space overlooking gate number 3. It is eventually planned to be installed just outside the current Parliament building, where Govind Ballabh Pant statue stood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govind-ballabh-pant-s-relocated-statue-to-be-unveiled-in-delhi-today-101611722854315.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi to conduct Covid vaccination drive today to make up for R-Day||Delhi will conduct an out-of-schedule vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, as centres could not vaccinate people on Republic Day. The city usually holds Covid-19 vaccination drives on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.This is as per the central government’s directive to ensure that routine immunisation services—which are conducted mostly on Wednesday and Friday at Delhi hospitals and dispensaries—are not disturbed.“The vaccination drive will happen today [Wednesday] as the centres were closed for Republic Day yesterday [Tuesday],” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department. Also Read: Smaller crowd, masks mark Republic Day celebrationsOn Monday, the city had vaccinated 7,408 beneficiaries of the 8,100 targeted, crossing the 90% mark for the first time since the nationwide roll-out of the vaccination drive on January 16.Data showed that a total of 41 hospitals—a mix of private and government facilities—either clocked 100% turnout or exceeded their target of 100 jabs on Monday. Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini and Mata Chanan Devi hospital in west Delhi recorded the highest turnout of 140 each. Government hospitals such as Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in Tahirpur, Lok Nayak Hospital, GB Pant, ILBS and Dr Hegdewar Arogya Sansthan, all reported a 100% turnout or more.With the number of people turning up for vaccination at each site increasing, the government is likely to take a decision on increasing the number of session sites within the 81 hospitals currently running the vaccination drive or holding the drives in other hospitals as well.Big hospitals such as Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospitals have planned for three or four session sites as they have over 8,000 employees across the hospitals and the medical college.“The data of vaccination rates will be looked at in the state-level meeting and a decision will be taken to open more session sites or sites at more hospitals wherever the coverage is more than 90%. This will speed up the vaccination drive,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.Delhi has an estimated 300,000 healthcare workers and staff at hospitals and dispensaries who are first in line to receive the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-conduct-covid-vaccination-drive-today-to-make-up-for-rday-101611721353315.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers' protest: Ghazipur mandis, NH-9, NH-24 closed, says Delhi traffic police||The Delhi traffic police on Wednesday issued traffic alert in view of the violent protest by farmers during the tractor rally that stormed Delhi and nearby areas. The police said that Ghazipur flower and fruits mandi and national highway 9 and national highway 24 have been closed and asked the commuters who want to go to Ghaziabad from Delhhi to use Karkari mor, Shahdara and DND.Traffic Alertगाज़ीपुर फूल मण्डी/फल मण्डी, NH-9 व NH-24 को बंद कर दिया है, जिसे दिल्ली से गाजियाबाद जाना है वह कड़कड़ी मोड़, शाहदरा व DND का प्रयोग करें lMeanwhile, heavy security has been deployed near the Red Fort where a group of protestors climbed to the ramparts of the fort and unfurled flags yesterday.This comes as farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in violence across several parts of the national capital during their Kisan tractor rally organised to protest against the Centre's three new farm laws.83 police personnel were injured, with several public and private properties being damaged in this act of vandalism by the rioting mob, said the Delhi Police in a release.As per Delhi Police, 22 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence during farmers' tractor rally yesterday.Yesterday, the DMRC had closed the entry and exit gates of all stations of the Grey Line, as clashes between the farmers and Delhi Police intensified during protests against the Centre's three new farm laws.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-ghazipur-markets-nh-9-closed-says-delhi-traffic-police-101611717601056.html
27-01-2021||Lucknow||3 UP scribes booked for ‘public mischief’ over a government event involving kids||Uttar Pradesh police has registered an FIR against three journalists after they shared videos of inadequately-dressed school children doing yoga and other exercises in biting cold conditions, at a government function in Kanpur Dehat, on social media, said officials.The case was registered by Tulsiram Pandey, station house officer (SHO), Akbarpur police station and Sunil Dutt, basic shiksha adhikari (BSA), under Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC late Tuesday evening.The function in question was held to mark the UP foundation day and was attended by state minister for technology, Ajit Pal Singh, several MLAs and government officials, including DM Kanpur Dehat Dinesh Chandra.Some videos of children braving the chilly conditions, dressed in cotton shirts and knickers, went viral after they were allegedly put up on social media by the three journalists.Also Read: 2 Chinese nationals arrested in Uttar Pradesh for alleged money launderingDutt said the children wore woollens after the drill and the videos were shared with malafide intention. He added that the journalists also hurt the sentiments of the teachers and yoga teachers, who were insulted in the process.The district magistrate (DM) of Kanpur Dehat and the BSA were not available for comments. One of the journalists, Amit Singh, said making the children do yoga in inadequate clothing in harsh winter conditions could not be justified and authorities could have been more careful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/3-up-scribes-booked-for-public-mischief-over-a-government-event-involving-kids-101611716195322.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality very poor, likely to improve marginally today||The air quality on Wednesday remained in the “very poor” category with the average hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 316.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Tuesday was 330, in the “very poor” zone. This was a slight slip from Monday’s AQI of 323, which was also in the “very poor” category. Also Read: Here’s how air pollution is linked to increased risk of irreversible vision lossThe Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said that there is a possibility of improvement from Wednesday. “A marginal increase in ventilation index is forecasted, AQI is likely to marginally improve, but stay within the ‘very poor’ category on January 27. The AQI is likely to stay in the ‘very poor’ category on January 28 and January 29,” the Safar forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-very-poor-likely-to-improve-marginally-today-101611716492999.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro resumes operation on all lines, entry, exit from Lal Quila station closed||After a violent turn of events during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday resumed services on all lines but kept the entry and exit gates of Lal Quila metro station (Red Fort) closed. It also kept the entry gates of Jama Masjid closed.Security UpdateEntry gates of Lal Quila metro station are closed. Exit is permitted at this station.All other stations are open. Normal services on all lines.Security UpdateEntry/exit gates of Lal Quila metro station are closed. Entry gates of Jama Masjid metro station are closed.Average waiting time at Saket station is 35 minutes. In case of any fluctuations in crowd, the waiting time will be informed accordingly, the DMRC said.Metro services had been shut all across central, north and west Delhi yesterday after the farmers’ protest in the national capital turned violent.The DMRC announced yesterday that the entry and exit gates of several metro stations in the city have been closed in light of the farmers’ tractor rally that turned violent on Republic Day.In a series of tweets, DMRC said that entry and exit gates of metro stations at Delhi Gate, Indraprastha, ITO, Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha, Jama Masjid, Dilshad Garden, Jhilmil, Mansarovar Park and Civil Lines are all closed on January 26. It also said that the entry and exit gates of all metro stations on the green line have been shut.The farmers' Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi took a violent turn after clashes broke out between protestors and police personnel at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar which later spread to other locations.The farmers who claimed to launch a peaceful protest on Tuesday resorted to violence. In an attempt to control the situation, the Delhi Police used tear gas to disperse the farmers gathered at the location. The farmers proceeded to destroy barricades and vandalized property in their path, violating the pre-designated route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-resumes-operation-on-all-lines-entry-exit-from-lal-quila-station-closed-101611715658288.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Many Delhi routes restricted day after farmers’ tractor rally violence||A day after several roads in the national capital were blocked for general vehicular movement when protesting farmers digressed from the tractor rally’s original routes and drove into the city, Delhi Traffic Police on Wednesday continued to keep certain routes restricted for traffic.Delhi Traffic Police officials said that on Wednesday morning, the roads around Ghazipur fruit and flower market, National Highway-24 and National Highway-9, and two lanes on either side of the route between Kalindi Kunj and Noida were closed for traffic. The route from Minto Road to Connaught Place was also closed off on Wednesday morning and later reopened.Traffic continued to remain affected at ITO on Wednesday due to a protest called by retired Delhi Police personnel against the violence which broke out during the farmers’ tractor parade in the city. The protesters are demanding proper action against the people who were involved in the violence.Traffic Alertगाज़ीपुर फूल मण्डी/फल मण्डी, NH-9 व NH-24 को बंद कर दिया है, जिसे दिल्ली से गाजियाबाद जाना है वह कड़कड़ी मोड़, शाहदरा व DND का प्रयोग करें lDelhi Traffic Police on Wednesday issued an advisory on Twitter.“Ghazipur Mandi, NH-9 and NH-24 have been closed for traffic movement. People commuting from Delhi to Ghaziabad are advised to take Shahdara, Karkari Mor and DND,” Delhi Traffic Police said.Metro services also remain affected.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced on Wednesday that entry and exit to Lal Quila Metro station and entry at Jama Masjid Metro station have been closed.Traffic Alertकालिंदी कुञ्ज से नॉएडा आने व जाने वाले मार्ग पर 2-2 लेन बंद हैं जिस कारण ट्रैफिक हैवी है lCOVID PRECAUTIONS :WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE.Meanwhile, heavy security has been deployed near the Red Fort.Farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism across several parts of the national capital during their tractor rally organised to protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws.Eighty-three police personnel were injured, with several public and private properties being damaged in acts of vandalism by the rioting mob, said the Delhi Police in a release.As per Delhi Police sources, at least 22 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence during farmers’ tractor rally yesterday.Also Read: Anti-social elements infiltrated peaceful protest: Farm union condemns violenceFarmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.On Tuesday, traffic officials said that roads around Meerut Expressway, Akshardham, Pragati Maidan, Vikas Marg, ITO, Mandi House, India Gate, Mukarba Chowk, Outer Ring Road, Delhi-Noida Link Road, Ghazipur border, Singhu border, and Chilla border had to be closed off for general traffic as the farmers’ tractor rally got out of control.“Traffic is very heavy on GTK road, Outer Ring Road, Badli road, KN Katju Marg, Madhuban Chowk, Kanjhawala road, Palla road, Narela and DSIIDC Narela roads. Please avoid these roads,” traffic police’s official handle tweeted on Tuesday.In another tweet, they said, “Traffic is very heavy on Wazirabad road, ISBT road, GT road, Pushta road, Vikas marg, NH-24, Road no. 57, Noida link road. Please avoid these roads.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-day-after-farmers-tractor-rally-entered-delhi-normal-traffic-resumes-101611716013422.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||One protester dies at ITO, 86 police personnel hurt||One farmer died and 10 farmers and 86 police personnel were injured in violence during the tractor parade taken out by the farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws in the Capital.Twenty-one persons — 11 police personnel and 10 protesters — were brought to Lok Nayak hospital near Delhi Gate. “Five of the police personnel had bruises, cuts, and minor blunt injuries. They were given first aid at the hospital’s emergency department and discharged. Five others are undergoing diagnostic tests such as CT scan and X-ray to check for internal injuries and are under observation at the emergency department,” said a senior doctor at the hospital.One of the police personnel who has a head injury is “critical” and is admitted to the intensive care unit. “He suffered injuries to his hand as well. However, he does not need any life support and has been admitted to the ICU, just to ensure better observation,” the doctor said.All 10 protesters are currently under observation at the hospital. “Most of them had minor injuries like some bleeding, swelling, or blunt injury. However, we need a complete battery of tests to ensure that there is nothing wrong before discharging them,” said the doctor.A 25-year-old protester from Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh died when the tractor he was driving overturned at DDU Marg, near ITO. While protesters said that the man’s tractor overturned because police had fired at the vehicle, police said that not a single shot was fired at any protest site on Tuesday.At Ram Manohar Lohia hospital near Gol Market, 20 persons were brought in — 14 police personnel, two bystanders, and four media persons. “Fortunately, none of them have any serious injuries. Most had suffered some cuts and lacerations. Their wounds were dressed and sutured. They were prescribed medicines and discharged. Only a couple of people remain admitted at the hospital,” a senior doctor said.Among those who remain under observation at the hospital is a police officer with a fracture and a bystander with a thumb injury that needs a minor surgery.Seven persons were brought in at Mangolpuri’s Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital. Fifty eight persons injured in the tractor rally were also admitted to Sushruta Trauma Centre at Civil Lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-protester-dies-at-ito-86-police-personnel-hurt-101611704836973.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: Rampage at Red Fort’s ramparts||From dancing to loud music outside the monument, to storming it and attacking the policemen who attempted to evict them, scenes at the Red Fort changed dramatically within 150 minutes of farmers converging at one of the capital city’s most iconic monuments on Tuesday afternoon.In those 150 minutes, hundreds of farmers climbed the ramparts of Red Fort and hoisted several religious flags (the Nishan Sahib of Sikhs), vandalised almost anything they could lay their hands on, fought a pitched battle with the police, throwing some of them into trenches, and seeking to ram tractors into others.“The farmers were happy to reach Red Fort after camping at one place for two months. The drama you witnessed is nothing in comparison to the large number of farmers who have converged here. These are minor skirmishes,” said Ajay Pal Singh Brar, a farmer leader from Mohali who was among the crowd gathered at Red Fort, seeking to downplay the incident.Police had a different view. At least 22 police personnel have been identified to have been injured at the Red Fort clashes alone. The police haven’t been able to pin point the location in the cases of each of the 85 police personnel officially identified as injured in the clashes. But a senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified said that the count of personnel injured at Red Fort is only climbing by the hour. “It could run into several dozens,” said the officerOf course, the farmers were not supposed to be at Red Fort at all. The monument did not fall along the pre-decided routes the three rallies were to take. However, the buzz among farmers when they set off on Tuesday morning from Singhu was that they would try and reach the monument.The rally from Singhu Border arrived at Red Fort at 1.30pm, around the same time that some tractors from the Ghazipur rally also reached there. While most tractors stayed on the main road near the monument, others rolled over the trench separating the monument from the two parks right outside it.Initially, the farmers danced to loud music blaring from their tractors. Other clicked selfies in front of Red Fort, watched over by the police.But soon, some farmers walked over to the entrance gate of Red Fort in a bid to enter the monument. While a few simply scaled the iron gates, others tied ropes around the gate to open it.In a matter of minutes, hundreds stormed the monument. Some climbed a dome and hoisted the Nishan Sahib. Another did the same with a flag post that did not have a flag. Some of the protestors were also carrying national flags.The police swung into action around then. One policeman tried to climb the pole to bring down the flags, but he couldn’t make it to the top and was booed by the farmers as he slipped.But the worst was yet to come.The police decided to evict the protestors from the monument. But they faced resistance from the farmers. A pitched battle ensued. Some policemen were thrown into a trench, beaten and bloody.Then, some farmers chose to drive their tractors into the fighting policemen, injuring several. Others scrambled to escape. Around 20 policemen even jumped into a trench to save themselves.The protesters were not done, though. They repeatedly rammed a police vehicle which had already been overturned. Others went about trashing other police vehicles, the windows of offices on the premises of Red Fort.Shortly after, more armers began entering the Red Fort complex, along with horse-mounted Nihang Sikhs.It was only around 4pm.Around that time, a larger group of policemen decked in anti-riot gear returned , and had better luck in clearing the complex of farmers. They had to use a bit of force, but most of the farmers by then seemed to be ready to be persuaded. The police were assisted by some farmers who helped clear the monument of protestors.“At Lal Quila, the farmers broke the gates and entered the wells of Red Fort. A section of the crowd also managed to climb atop the ramparts of the Red Fort where they hoisted their organization’s flag. With great efforts, the Delhi Police managed to remove the crowd from the rampart and the vicinity,” said an official statement released by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-rampage-at-red-fort-s-ramparts-101611703770585.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Security to stay tight, no plans to shut down borders, Delhi metro today||Entry into several parts of New Delhi and Central Delhi areas will be limited on Wednesday with police deciding to maintain tight security across the Capital and monitor for any more gathering of farmers with tractors, according to officials who said they were holding talks to ensure protesters retreat to sites at the borders.A senior police official, who asked not to be named, said vigil will also be tightened at the city’s borders, although there are no plans to close them or the sensitive areas in the Capital as of now.Following the violence at Central Delhi’s ITO, East Delhi and several other parts, Delhi’s borders in East Delhi as well as the DND was briefly blocked.“Depending on the situation on Wednesday, we will take a call. The protesters are retreating to the borders. If miscreants try to gather at any vital installation on Wednesday, we will take the call accordingly,” the officer said.The official added that police personnel and reinforcements from paramilitary units will continue to patrol the city, especially places in the New Delhi district. On Tuesday, 150 companies of paramilitary forces — about 20,000 personnel — was brought in from outside to secure the national Capital.Following directions from the Delhi Police, the DMRC on Tuesday closed its Green Line (Inderlok to Mundka) as tension escalated on Tikri border and later shut operations on its Grey Line (Dwarka to Najafgarh). While the services on Grey line, which was closed for commuters around 3.20pm, resumed after two hours, DMRC decided to keep all the stations closed on the Green Line for the entire day.DMRC officials said that as of Tuesday night, they have no plans to shut any metro station on Wednesday.Officials said that they shut operations or gates after police’s instructions whenever there is an apprehension of law and order problems at the metro lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/security-to-stay-tight-no-plans-to-shut-down-borders-delhi-metro-today-101611703477334.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Violence at farmers' tractor rally: What went wrong in the police plan?||The tractor rally by farmers protesting three farm laws passed in September was to start at 11am on Tuesday. The tractors were to move along a pre-decided route near the three border points where the farmers have been protesting – Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri — spread across the north, eastern, and the western part of the Delhi and return to the border.None of that happened.Instead, on Tuesday, hundreds of farmers laid siege to Red Fort; others clashed with police in ITO and other parts of the city; and the administration had to take the unprecedented step of suspending mobile Internet services in at least four parts of the National Capital Region.By the end of the day, by the time, the farmers started returning to the border, 86 policemen and at least 10 farmers were injured, and one farmer was dead -- after the tractor he was driving overturned when he crashed into a barricade.So, what went wrong?“Nobody followed the terms of the agreement. They (the farmers) took advantage of their large numbers and stormed into the city. At Ghazipur, they started driving before the agreed-upon time and broke barricades while it was decided in the meeting that police would escort them. At Singhu, the protesters started a little before 11 and were peaceful initially. They had to turn back at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, about 15km from Singhu but refused and insisted on marching. Later they took over both carriageways,” said a senior police officer.Police officers estimate that the city was overrun by around 200,000-250,000 protesters. The police were outnumbered. They were ready with 150 companies of paramilitary forces — about 20,000 personnel – and around 30,000 from their own force.“At Ghazipur, the protesters just refused to listen and started clashing with the police right from the first hour. By 10.30am, when protesters removed police barricades and pelted stones, we had to fire tear gas shells,” a second police officer said .The second officer said that most farmers refused to listen to their leaders. “Within the farmers’ group, we were in touch with 10-12 leaders at each border. They said they could not control their people and expressed helplessness. Even among the protesters, there were multiple groups. At ITO, some of wanted to go to India Gate, some others wanted to go to Red Fort.”Senior Bharatiya Kisan Union(BKU) leader Naresh Tikait said that some young farmers among the protesters had got excited and started the march on the opposite carriageway. “They are youngsters and got carried away. But many farmers including the leaders stayed here and followed the route decided.”Dharmender Malik , spokesperson of BKU, however said that they had already asked police to allow them to march to Akshardham but it was rejected. “Many anti social elements and others from political parties also entered our rally. They were the ones who were violent,” he said.The officer added after groups split and chose to go in different directions, an alert was also sent to all police stations to increase security outside the residences of President, Prime Minister, home minister and L-G. The officer said around 2,000 farmer volunteers who had signed up to help police ensure the protest passed peacefully did not respond to calls for assistance.The Delhi police on Tuesday released a statement that farmers did not adhere to the terms on which they were allowed to hold the rally. “They vandalized property and attacked police personnel. At many places, some protesters used their tractors to run over the police. We used minimum force. Not a single shot was fired by police. We still appeal to the protesters to maintain peace and return to where they were protesting,” a Delhi police spokesperson said.Senior officer, Alok Kumar, joint commissioner of Delhi police told a news agency that police would take action against those who assaulted police personnel and damaged property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/violence-at-farmers-tractor-rally-what-went-wrong-in-the-police-plan-101611703308541.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP, Congress train guns at each other for protest violence||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has been supporting the agitation against the farm laws, condemned the violence during the tractor parade on Tuesday, saying it has “weakened” the protests.Thousands of protesters who had been camping on Delhi’s borders with Hayana and Uttar Pradesh, stormed into the city, riding tractors, breaking through barriers and clashing with the police.Even as the AAP blamed the Centre for “allowing” Delhi’s law and order situation to deteriorate from “bad to worse”, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the AAP and the Congress of allegedly sending members of their Punjab cadre to join the rally.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal did not comment on the matter on Tuesday.The AAP in a statement said, “We strongly condemn the violence seen in today [Tuesday]’s protest. It is regrettable that the Central government allowed the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. The movement has been peaceful for the last two months.”“Farmer leaders have said those who indulged in violence today were not part of the movement and were external elements. Whoever they were, the violence has certainly weakened the movement which was going on peacefully and in a disciplined manner,” the AAP said.Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta said the “kisan Andolan” is no longer under the control of the farmer’s bodies.“In fact, all along, the farmers protests have been supplemented by elements from the Congress and the AAP cadres from Punjab,” he said.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary also condemned the violence and said that the BJP-led government at the centre was “instigating the farmers”. “On Republic Day, farmers were lathi charged and tear gas shells were lobbed at them. The BJP government wanted the farmers to be forced to resort to violence, so that they could be portrayed as unruly,” alleged Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-congress-train-guns-at-each-other-for-protest-violence-101611703019768.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Police, farmers fought pitched battle at Nangloi||Nangloi chowk in west Delhi turned into a site of violent clashes between the Delhi police and a group of farmers from Tikri border participating in the tractor parade organised as part of an ongoing agitation against three farm laws passed by the Centre in September 2020.At around 11.45am, the police resorted to lathi charge and fired tear gas after a group of protesters broke barricades to move towards Peeragarhi flyover even though that was not part of the route decided between farmers’ groups and the police earlier in the week.As per the agreement reached on January 24, protestors from Tikri border were required to turn off at Nangloi towards Najafgarh and ride down Baprola village towards the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal Expressway. However, a section of farmers insisted on riding towards Red Fort.The agitators tied the barricades to their tractors using ropes and began to move them. Many removed stones set up as blocks with their bare hands to make way for tractors. The protesters vandalised a temporary police post and smashed a police van parked under the flyover.Several DTC buses that had been set up as barricades were also smashed.“When farmers protesting at different borders also reached the Red Fort why is the police not allowing us to take out the march towards it?” said Sukhbeer Singh, a protester from Haryana’s Bhiwani , who managed to cross the barricades and reach Madipur Metro station. By 2pm, the entry and exit to all the Metro stations on the Green Line were closed.Sporadic clashes continued between till late in the evening, even as the vast majority of the protestors continued their parade without incidence, many of them even returning to their camping site at Tikri Kalan. The tear gas shelling continued intermittently for four hours.“Despite repeated requests, farmers did not listen to the police and vandalised the barricades and public property to move ahead on a route that was against our agreement . The police had to resort to tear gas shelling and lathi charge only after farmers turned violent. They also pelted stones and bricks on police officials,” police official deployed at the site said. A little after 4pm, the police intensified the tear gas shelling.Protesters in turn alleged that it was the police action that forced them to break the barricades. “The farmers have been sitting at the borders and no one is listening to our demands. Today, when the police resorted to lathi charge and fired tear gas at them, they turned violent,” said Balbir Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Sangrur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-farmers-fought-pitched-battle-at-nangloi-101611701392192.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers voice disappointment, anger in Punjab and Haryana||Anger and disappointment coursed through the hinterlands of Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday as farmers criticised the violence unleashed by their counterparts in the Capital, saying the clashes tarnished the peaceful image of the two-month-old protests and hurt the stir aimed at the repeal of three farm laws.Even farmers, who were earlier excited about the tractor rally and spent the day glued to their phones and television sets, said the violence on the streets of Delhi and outside the Red Fort weakened the movement.Harminder Singh, a 45-year- old farmer of Jalaldiwal village in Ludhiana, said the clashes will have far-reaching repercussions for the agitation that was hailed for the peaceful manner in which it was held.“These youngsters may be rejoicing after entering Red Fort but they have actually failed this agitation…It has dented the image of farmer protest,” said the man who owns 12 acres of land.Satnam Singh, a 43-year-old farmer of Bhoian village in Amritsar, said the tractor march should have been carried out as planned and that the violent scenes will damage the agitation backed by hundreds of thousands of farmers. “... There is no room for any kind of violence. Peace and unity are the most powerful weapons to win any battle,” said the farmer.These feelings were echoed by cultivators in Haryana.Balbir Singh, an elderly farmer from Kurukshetra, said ensuring peace was the responsibility of union leaders.”The government was testing their patience and they have failed badly,” he added.Ratan Mann , state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Mann) condemned the incident. “Such people cannot be farmers and the government should investigate to find out forces behind this shameful act.”Some people said they initially wanted to join the rally but desisted after seeing scenes of violence play out on the roads. “We decided to return from Delhi soon after we came to know that some farmer leaders were planning to reach the Red Fort,” said Sandeep Kumar, a farmer from Gharaunda in Haryana’s Karnal district.Particularly harsh criticism was directed at the decision by some farmers to storm the Red Fort, where a protestor climbed an empty flag post and hoisted the Nishhan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, next to the Tricolour.Gurmeet Dhaliwal of Bathinda said the incident at the Red Fort was highly unfortunate and Malak Singh, a Karnal-based farmer, said nothing could replace the Indian national flag.Following the violence in Delhi, authorities in Punjab and Haryana sounded a high alert and said anyone taking law into one’s hands will be dealt with strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-voice-disappointment-anger-in-punjab-and-haryana-101611700580395.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks Google’s advice on removal of offensive posts||The Delhi High Court has sought the assistance of Google to examine the possibility of making any offensive content on the Internet as “unsearchable”. Noting that doing so can prove to be of the best methodologies to implement court orders, Justice Anup J Bhambhani sought the search engine’s response on the feasibility of the suggestion.The court was hearing a plea by a law student from Bengaluru who alleged that her photographs were mischievously and illegally lifted from social media websites such as Facebook and Instagram and uploaded on pornographic websites, along with derogatory captions.Google, through its counsel, had submitted that since no relief was claimed or made-out against it, it should not be made a party in the matter. At the same time, it expressed willingness to assist the court on the larger issues.Google did not respond to queries from HT on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-google-s-advice-on-removal-of-offensive-posts-101611700148206.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: Tractors as weapons in the fiercest of face-offs||25-year-old farmer died on Tuesday and several farmers and policemen were injured following violent clashes between hundreds of protesting farmers and police in central Delhi’s ITO area during the tractor parade taken out by farm groups protesting three farm laws. The incident took place after a tractor overturned after being driven at high speed into a barricade near Andhra Education Society at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg crushing Navreet Singh, a farmer from Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh.While protesters alleged that the deceased lost control of the tractor after a tear gas shell hit him, police said the incident happened when the driver hit the barricade.DCP (central) Jasmeet Singh said in the CCTV footages and videos of the incident it is apparent that the tractor toppled after hitting a barrier which led to the death of a man.A senior officer said police are in process of registering a case to probe the death. “In this case either inquest proceedings will be done or a case of accident will be registered,” the officer said requesting anonymity.The scenes of farmers charging at police with their tractors were caught on camera.Mintu Bajwa, a friend of the deceased, claimed Singh was disoriented after being hit by a tear gas shell.The first standoff in central Delhi began around noon when the tractor parade from Ghazipur border took a left turn from Vikas Minar and reached ITO. Protesters damaged police buses and barricades set up to restrict their movement. Farmers blocked both Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg leading to Red Fort and Indraprastha Marg leading to Vikas Marg .They were not supposed to be at ITO according to an agreement hammered out between farm union leaders and the police.ITO was a war zone for a few hours, with police trying, in vain, to disperse the farmers using tear gas. At around 1pm, a baton charge seemed to give the police the upper hand till the protestors ran amok with their tractors. Road dividers were also dismantled and used as weapons.The sudden attack by farmers took the police by surprise and they retreated.By 1.30pm, protesters managed to break through the barricades and drove towards Red Fort through Delhi Gate-Daryaganj route to land at the monument, where farmers from Singhu had already arrived.Bindar Singh, 25, a farmer from Punjab’s Patiala was among those injured at ITO. Pointing towards an injury near his right eye, he said, “It happened when police lobbed tear gas shells at us while we were marching towards Red Fort. They said we changed routes. But when all citizens can go to the historical monument, why are we the only ones being stopped?”Till Tuesday evening, hundreds of farmers were still camped at the ITO intersection. Around 5.30pm, Bajwa and others approached the police and asked for an ambulance so that they could remove Singh’s body -- this was immediately arranged.By 6.15pm, most protestors had dispersed though some still lingered, and the police took charge. Movement of vehicles was soon restored on the arterial Vikas Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-tractors-as-weapons-in-the-fiercest-of-faceoffs-101611695601193.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: As most went off track, some groups stuck to agreed plan||While large groups of farmers deviated from the routes for which they had permission to carry out their protest, several farmer groups — under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) — carried out the tractor parade on permissible routes and later in the evening, called off the tractor parade and sent out an appeal to farmers to return to the protest sites to continue with their peaceful agitation.SKM, an umbrella collective of over 40 farmer groups, called off the tractor parade on Tuesday evening. “Samyukt Kisan Morcha has called off the Kisan Republic Day Parade with immediate effect, and has appealed to all participants to immediately return to their protest sites,” the group said in a statement adding that the protest will continue peacefully.Baldev Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said they marched on the agreed upon route because they wanted the protests to remain peaceful. “Hundreds of farmers were marching with us on the decided route because we wanted to keep our word and let the protests remain peaceful. We learnt only after some time that protesters had taken other routes. We were walking and tried our best to ensure there was no violence but there were some miscreants who did not listen,” he said.“We thank farmers for the unprecedented participation in today’s Farmers Republic Day Parade. We also condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts,” they said in a statement in the evening.“Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Anti-social elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength and any violation will hurt the movement,” it read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-as-most-went-off-track-some-groups-stuck-to-agreed-plan-101611695088602.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: Within hours, cheers, celebration at Tikri gave way to chaos||The farmers were supposed to leave at 12 noon in their tractors from Tikri border, turn off at Nangloi towards Najafgarh and proceed further to the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal expressway, finally returning to the site where they have been camping for more than two months. Instead, they left at 8.30 am and within three hours, many of them had broken police barricades to travel on another route. By evening, many tractors had broken away from the convoy to proceed towards Red Fort, where other farmers had also congregated.In the Tikri tractor parade, the atmosphere was convivial: gleaming tractors adorned with tricolour flags blared Punjabi and Haryanvi songs, as thousands of farmers — most of them men — waved at the residents who had gathered on rooftops and balconies to watch what promised to be a spectacle unlike anything else.Even though it was meant to be a tractor parade, many rode bikes, drove jeeps, and walked along, holding the Indian flag as well as those of farmers organisations. Residents of many neighbourhoods showered flower petals over them. Many distributed packets of water along the way; large vessels bearing rice and dal awaited the hungry protesters. At Mundka, a group of local residents organised a dance set to the beat of dhols for their entertainment. Posters with the message, “We support farmers” were spotted at different locations.When the farmers reached Nangloi at 11 am, the cheer and celebration turned into clashes within 45 minutes, as some farmer groups breached their route agreement and tried to move on roads they did not have permission for. The protestors removed the police barricades — including the concrete ones — and made their way towards Peeragarhi at around 11.50am. The police responded by using tear gas to disperse the crowd, and some even used their cane sticks on protestors. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation closed down stations that lay along this route, and later shut down the entire Green Line that ends at Tikri Kalan.By 5pm, several tractors had made their way towards Red Fort, even as a majority of them had turned back towards their Tikri campsite. “We had requested the police to peacefully allow us to take out the march till the Red Fort. They denied and started firing tear gas shells. Farmers got provoked and removed the barricades,” said Amandeep Singh, a farmer from Rohtak.Among the protesters was 70-year-old Roshini Kaur who rode on a tractor driven by her daughter-in-law Harpreet Kaur (28). A resident of Haryana’s Jind district, Kaur said that she has been staying at the Tikri border for the last one month. “We are poor farmers and we will lose everything if we won’t fight against these three farm laws now. We are already indebted. We are not left with much to lose now,” she said.Farm union leaders at Tikri border maintained that those who indulged in violence and vandalism were not part of any union or organisation. “Majority of the protesters took the approved route and peacefully took out the parade. We reached back at our protest site by 7.15 pm. Those who created ruckus were not the members of any farm organisation,” said Baldev Singh, district president of BKU (Dkunda) in Bhatinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-within-hours-cheers-celebration-at-tikri-gave-way-to-chaos-101611694335835.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: March to ITO began at Ghazipur||In Ghazipur, the friction started to build up around 8.30am when the farmers decided to start the march, defying an agreement with the police that they would do so only after 11am to avoid any possible disruption of the Republic Day parade in the morning.By 9.30am, a group of farmers started the march; they also used trolleys attached to the tractors, despite agreeing not to use them in their previous discussions with the police.Each tractor seated around four; each trolley, around 10. They were decorated with Indian flags and sported loudspeakers blaring songs.Around 9.40am, the groups broke the first set of police barricades set up near the Ghazipur border and started marching towards the city.Between then and 12 noon, farmer groups and police officials clashed at multiple points that include the toll tax collection centre in the Delhi-Meerut expressway, near Akshardham temple, at Sarai Kale Khan, below the ITO flyover, and later at the ITO intersection from where large number of protesters headed towards the Red Fort in North Delhi.The Delhi Police in a statement said that they had made necessary arrangement and deployment of security personnel for the tractor rally as per the agreement they had with the farmers.“Delhi Police personnel showed resistance till the end but the protesting farmers breached the agreement and began their tractor rally much before the scheduled time. Since farmers resorted to violence and vandalism, the police had to take necessary steps to maintain the law and order. The agitation led to damage of public property and many police personnel were also injured. The protesters were asked to stop violence, maintain peace and return,” the police said.A separate group of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand marched towards the Ghazipur roundabout, by taking a stretch of NH 24, headed towards Apsara border, covered Loni and parts of Ghaziabad and then headed back to Ghazipur, largely without incident.The farmers were carrying supplies, utensils, and also chains, hooks and ropes to dismantle barricades.The number of people or vehicles which started from Ghazipur is yet to be ascertained by the policeThe police had to resort to a baton charge and fired tear gas at multiple points. The farmers broke down not only barricades but also attacked police vehicles and public buses.One farmer died and 10 others were injured while 86 police personnel were hurt in the clashes and violence reported from various locations.As farmer groups from Ghazipur marched towards the heart of the city, throwing traffic out of gear in large parts of east Delhi, south-east Delhi, and central Delhi. Many motorists fled on foot leaving their vehicles behind in order to avoid conflict with the marching groups.The last minute change of plans — initially regarding timings of the protest march and later regarding the routes to be taken — also exposed differences between protesting farmers and leaders of farm groups who had hammered out an agreement with Delhi police on the timing and routes.Bharatiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait sought to play down the issue: “It looks like some protesters got carried away. On our part, we are doing our beat to ensure that protesters adhere to the terms and conditions of the police.”However, several participants in the march said they had never agreed to the conditions of the police. “We never agreed to the conditions given by the police. What’s the point of the march if we cannot take it to Ring Road and go into the city?” said Manjeet Singh, a farmer from UP.Several police officials and farmers were injured in East Delhi’s Ghazipur area on Tuesday after farm groups participating in a tractor march to protest three farm laws, broke barricades, clashed with police, and deviated from an agreed-upon route for the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-march-to-ito-began-at-ghazipur-101611693829415.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: Violence started at Singhu, one barrier at a time||When the tractor rally left the Singhu Border around 7.30 am on Tuesday, the farmers were breaking the terms of their understanding with the police, that the march wouldn’t begin until 12 noon.Over the next three hours, they stuck to the route they had agreed on with the police, although each tractor was packed with more people than was allowed. But once one tractor dared to remove a heavy concrete barricade, others followed suit. All terms and conditions were forgotten in a display of brute force through the 30 km route to Red Fort instead of the 63 km one they were supposed to take . They used their tractors, cranes, even bare hands to deal with barricades. When the tear gas bothered them, they simply snatched tear gas guns from policemen.Singhu Border has been the most prominent protest site for the farmers at Delhi’s border for the last two months. It has received the most media attention and according to farm union leaders also seen the largest gathering of farmers. According to the farmers’ agreement with the police, they were to take a right turn towards Shahbad Dairy from the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, almost 13km from Singhu Border on the GT Karnal Road.The farmers marched out from Singhu around 7.30 am. Tractors stayed in a single queue on one carriageway, but both the sides of the road were occupied by thousands of farmers marching on foot. “There are just so many farmers that tractors have fallen short,” said Satnam Singh, a farmer from Tarn Taran driving one of the tractors.Police vehicles followed the tractors even as farmer volunteers ensured that tractors breaking the queue were disciplined. Tractors barely ever crossed a speed of 15 km/hr.But when they arrived at the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar from where they were to get off the GT Karnal Road and take a right turn as agreed, the farmers kept marching.Police had set multiple levels of barricades at this point and put up signboards showing directions to the planned route.When farmers said they wanted to march onto the Outer Ring Road, the police made announcements on loudspeakers to persuade them otherwise. “Dilli Police, dil ki police, dil se vinati karti hai ki... (The Delhi Police, the police of hearts, requests with all our heart to...),” an announcement said.AK Singla, additional commissioner of traffic police even walked to the farmers who were sitting on the road in large groups, but it didn’t yield results.But by this time, farmers in one tractor had tied chains to a heavy concrete barricade and pulled it away. The police fired a tear gas shell but it had little impact. Another farmer commandeered a large crane from somewhere and used it to rapidly remove more barricades.The farmers who had come prepared with heavy chains and ropes had no problem taking control of police vehicles, including water cannons.The police fired more tear gas shells. The farmers responded with stones. A Nihang Sikh riding a horse pulled out his sword and waved it at some policemen. Some farmers snatched the tear gas guns from the policemen.Others chose to smash police vehicles and a fleet of buses parked along the route.By 11.10 am, the farmers had breached all the barricades and set out towards the Ring Road.Over the next two hours, they faced some more barricades hurdles near the Burari ground and in Majnu ka Tilla , but they made short work of these.By 1.30pm, they arrived at Red Fort, their destination all along.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-violence-started-at-singhu-one-barrier-at-a-time-101611692151812.html
27-01-2021||Budget||‘Centre should simplify taxes, support MSMEs’: FICO Prez||Gurmeet Singh Kular’s family managed to keep their cycle parts manufacturing business running for 65 years, through decades of slow growth, pre-liberalisation problems, vagaries in government policies and a global economic downturn. But the 48-year-old Ludhiana resident says 2020 was the worst year for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) like his unit, and that the ripple effect of the Covid-19 pandemic will be felt for many years to come.At Kular International, workers manufacture bicycle rims and mudguards in a factory located in Phase 8 of Focal Point, the city’s industrial sector. His troubles began shortly after the nationwide lockdown in March last year, when demand plunged and labourers started to flee. “In pre- Covid times, I worked with a full strength of 240 workers on any given day. As many as 140 of these left and still not returned. I am managing work with only 100 workers,” he said.Restrictions on transport, and pile up of trucks at interstate borders – despite repeated interventions by the Centre – further hampered his business. “In Punjab, the market is 7 percent while 93 percent of the consumption is in rest of the country. With shortage of raw material, we are still not able to fully meet the demand,” he added.In August, Kular contracted Covid. “I was fortunate to have come out of it and thankfully did not have many side effects,” he said.Then, in September, protests against three farm laws broke out across Punjab. Agitating farmers blocked roads and railway tracks, and goods trains did not run for around two months. “I could not honour export commitments. I lost the trust of my clients. There were shipments that remained stuck at dry ports for days altogether. This never happened before; the times we saw in 2020 were unprecedented.”At Kular International now, the usual hustle and bustle is missing as many workers have still not returned. Ask him if business has picked and he says both yes and no. “The market has grown but for MSMEs viability is not there, especially with prices of steel rising 40 to 50 percent since August. This sudden spike has made it impossible to meet confirmed orders and exports are in serious danger. The future looks grim.”India has 63.4 million MSMEs that accounts for 45% of manufacturing output, 40% of exports and employs about 120 million people. The central government earmarked ₹7,572.20 crores for MSMEs in the 2020-21 budget. In May, the government announced a slew of measures, including collateral-free loans worth ₹3 lakh crore for the sector. But Kular says that’s not enough. “There is a never-ending struggle and last year got worse with both the state and central government not taking any concrete steps for smooth revival,” he said.In the budget, Kular said the Credit Link Cash Subsidy Scheme, under which industrialists got a capital subsidy of ₹15 lakh for purchasing new machinery, needs to be restarted. He also wanted a technology upgrading fund for the sector and hoped that income tax rates on MSMEs will be reduced.“Rationalisation of steel prices is a must…. MSMEs are on the verge of closure. The government is requested that unless the availability of steel is sufficient, export should be banned.” He added that diesel and other petroleum products should be brought under the Good and Services Tax regime at the earliest, so that the industry can benefit from input tax credit on petroleum products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/budget/centre-should-simplify-taxes-support-msmes-fico-prez-101611690046677.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||DMRC closes multiple metro stations in Delhi after violence at farmers’ tractor rally||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday ordered closure of several metro stations in the city, as clashes between the farmers and Delhi Police intensified during protests against the Centre's three new farm laws. The clashes were reported from several areas of the national capital as farmers, who took out a tractor rally, tried to enter central Delhi.Multiple closures were announced by DMRC through its social media handles as a security measure.Entry and exit gates of all stations of Line-9 or grey line connecting Dwarka to Najafgarh has been declared closed. Following it, DMRC had also announced that entry and exit gates of Jama Masjid metro station, Dilshad Garden, Jhilmil and Mansarovar park have been closed too, as a security measure.Also read: Mobile internet suspended for 12 hours at 5 protest sites in DelhiOn the green line, Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan, Ghevra, Mundka Industrial Area, Mundka, Rajdhani Park, Nangloi Railway Station, Nangloi stations, were closed. However, exit was still permitted. The exit gate of Lal Quila (Red Fort) metro station was also closed.Earlier in the day, protesting farmers deviated from the routes approved for the tractor rally, breaking through police barricades and defying tear gas. Thousands of tractors were seen on the roads in and around central Delhi as protesters marched towards ITO and Minto Road.The metro stations at Indraprastha and ITO were closed due to security reasons.Traffic has also been affected in the city following the protests. Despite earlier arrangements made, Delhi Traffic Police advised the public to “avoid NH 44, GTK road, outer ring road, Signature bridge, GT road, ISBT ring road, Vikas marg, ITO, NH 24, Nizammudin Khatta, Noida link road, Peeragarhi & Outer Delhi, East & West Delhi border areas due to ongoing farmer protests.”Initially, the protesting farmer unions have announced that the tractor rally would be taken along three routes starting from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. However, some groups of farmers deviated from the proposed route and entered the Delhi city along with their tractors. In the clashes that ensued, police had resorted to lathi charge and tear gas shelling at many areas including Nangloi area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-closes-several-metro-stations-in-delhi-farmers-tractor-rally-turns-violent-101611660273741.html
27-01-2021||Pune||Here’s how sex and gender are different things||A 15-year-old girl from Satara district of Maharashtra approached a doctor in Pune because she hadn’t started her period yet. Tests revealed that the girl has a condition called Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS), that affects only four in 100,000 people.In AIS, androgen, a hormone found in greater quantities in males, is suppressed and the secondary sex characteristics may or may not resemble that of a male’s.In the case of the young girl, she was unable to menstruate because she does not have ovaries.A team of doctors from the hospital is now helping the young girl to continue to live her life in her chosen gender. The condition disallows her from becoming pregnant, though she may still have children through other procedures like surrogacy or adoption if she so chooses.Dr Manish Machave, gynaecologist and endoscopic surgeon from Ruby Hall Clinic, who diagnosed and treated her said that the girl had her gonads (testes) removed through laparoscopy and also had a breast augmentation surgery. She will receive hormone injections that will help sustain her through the rest of her teenage years and early adulthood.“She had gonads (testes) positioned in the abdomen and another in the inguinal canal and because of the position of gonads, she had a risk of developing a form of cancer called gonadoblastoma. Hence, we first performed laparoscopic gonadectomy and removed testes from both the sides, around three months ago. Once she turns 18-year-old, we will perform laparoscopic vaginoplasty,” Machave said.Dr Anupama Mane, breast surgeon from Ruby Hall Clinic, who performed the girl’s breast augmentation surgery said, “She was brought up as a girl and hence she wanted to remain so. We performed breast augmentation surgery for her. Hormonal injections will be required for things like hair growth to stop. We are assisting her to complete her transition as a female. The medical treatment to give her feminine characteristics will go on for years.”Activists say that AIS is often used as a means to stigmatise intersex people by bringing their bodies under intense scrutiny, and which the medical fraternity then attempts to correct through surgery. Activists argue that intersex persons like the 15-year-old girl are subjected to a misplaced understanding of what bodies of men and women should look like.However, as gender and sexuality rights activists point out, all bodies are different and neither gender nor sexuality is derived from a person’s biological sex. As the case of this teenager shows, gender does not lie in the body but in the mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/15yrold-female-finds-she-is-a-male-undergoes-medical-treatment-in-pune-to-remain-woman-101611587234662.html
