28-01-2021||Delhi||Farmer leaders to be charged for sedition; UAPA invoked by police||Delhi police on Thursday said they were probing a “larger conspiracy and criminal design” behind the violent tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day and that this would be done under stringent sections of sedition and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. This is in addition to investigations into the violence itself.In a statement on Thursday evening, Delhi police said their preliminary assessment suggests “there was a pre-conceived and well-coordinated plan” to break the terms of the agreement reached between police and farmer unions on the basis of which the latter were allowed to go ahead with the rally.Police said the protesters planned to “create an international embarrassment for the government on Republic Day.” The case is being investigated by the special cell, the police’s anti-terror unit. On January 14 , the cell filed a case against unknown persons for trying to fuel tension in the farmers protest at three border points in the national Capital. The case was registered on the basis of intelligence inputs that some terror organisations were trying to foment trouble. Prominent farm group leaders will be investigated in this case, and also for their role in the larger conspiracy the police said.Police will probe prominent leaders of the protest and their communication with other organisers since the farm laws were passed in September. Police will also check the source of funds for the protests. Police have already identified at least 300 handles from Pakistan, that were trying to mobilise protesters at the borders with the hashtag -- Support Khalistan. Investigating officials on Thursday collected videos of the alleged provocative speeches by farmer leaders at the protest sites.Meanwhile, starting their investigation into the incidents of violence on Republic Day, other units of Delhi police on Thursday issued notices to at least 20 leaders of farm groups or unions, asking them for names of those within their groups who had indulged in violence on Tuesday. These notices were also pasted at the protest sites. Separately, police also issued look-out circulars against 44 leaders to ensure that they do not flee the country during the investigation. Those against whom such notices have been issued include Satnam Singh Pannu, Buta Singh Burjgil, Darshan Pal Singh, and Rakesh Tikait. Until Thursday night, police had arrested 52 persons for the incidents of violence.Tikait has denied allegations that he provoked the protesters. HT contacted the other leaders but they did not respond despite repeated calls and text messages.A senior Delhi Police officer who did not wish to be named said that of the 33 FIRs related to the violence during the tractor rally, 9 cases have been transferred to the crime branch – a specialized investigation unit that does not engage itself in routine law and order duties.The 9 FIRs include the ones registered in connection with the violence at Red Fort and ITO. The criminal case registered --- for the acts of violence within the Red Fort complex, hoisting of farm union and religious flags and attacks on police personnel --- is the one in which actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana will be investigated . Police said these two were among those allegedly leading the protesters at Red Fort who desecrated Red Fort.Police teams have started collecting dump data of cell phones that were in Red Fort area when violence was at its peak. “We will identify the individuals involved in the violence there. We will analyse their call records. We also have footage from multiple CCTV cameras,” a second officer, who did not wish to be named said.The officer added that until Tuesday morning the WhatsApp groups of the farmers were active and had discussed the siege of Red Fort on their groups. “Some protesters on horses and swords had led the violence at Red Fort. This was a well-planned move to ensure that they were not stopped by police. We have many of them on tape swinging their swords at the police,” the second officer added.The police officer mentioned above said, “So far this case has sections of rioting, attempt to murder, attempt to (commit) culpable homicide and criminal conspiracy. It was not a spontaneous move to storm the Red Fort on Republic Day. It was a conspiracy and a planned one. The special cell is separately investigating the role of farmer leaders and people such as Deep Sidhu. He will be probed by both units — one for violence at Red Fort and second of the larger conspiracy to start violence and embarrass the government.”Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Wednesday named four farmer leader SS Pannu, Darshan Pal, Buta Singh Burjgil and Rakesh Tikait - for either giving provocative statements or veering from the prescribed routes for the rally, leading to the violence. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers sustained injuries during the clashes. One farmer died in the protests after his tractor overturned after ramming into a police barricade at ITOTikait a member of the Samyukth Kisan Morcha — a union of at least 40 farmer unions — denied allegations that they indulged in violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmer-leaders-to-be-charged-for-sedition-uapa-invoked-by-police-101611856547513.html
28-01-2021||Other||Three arrested in attempt to murder case||PUNE: Three men have been arrested for the attempted murder of a man who tried to stop them from vandalising 30 vehicles in the Market Yard area on Wednesday night. The injured man, who has sustained cuts on his neck, has been identified as Mustafa Shaikh. The arrested men were identified as Kiran Vinod Thorat (25); and Sagar Anil Lokhande (22), both residents of Ambedkarnagar in Market Yard; and Sachin Parshuram Mane (22), a resident of Maharshinagar, Swargate, according to the police. The police are on the lookout for six-seven other people in the case. The men arrived in the market area of Ambedkarnagar in Market Yard and started vandalising vehicles for unknown reasons, according to the complaint in the matter, lodged by Kaleem Shaikh (42), a resident of the area and an owner of a road-side eatery. He told the police that the men entered his kiosk and stole ₹1,600 while some others started vandalising vehicles. The police suspect vandalism of at least 30 vehicles, including two-wheelers, rickshaws, and cars. One of the vandals then put a knife to the injured man’s neck and cut him, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 395, 397, 307 (attempted murder), 427, rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7(1) of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-arrested-in-attempt-to-murder-case-101611856452385.html
28-01-2021||Other||Three held in Pune for kidnapping 18-year-old||PUNE Three people, including a plastering contractor, were arrested by the Pune police crime branch on Thursday, for kidnapping an 18-year-old office boy who worked for a local builder. The teen was kidnapped over unpaid work bills worth ₹14 lakh, police said. The arrested men have been identified as Akash Sugriv Ghodeswar (29), and Rahul Balu Ghorpade (22), both residents of Lakshminagar in Yerawada. The contractor Jaysingh Rathod is a resident of Gadital, Hadapsar, according to officials of the crime branch. The kidnapped man was identified as Dheeraj Rajshekhar Hiremath (18), a resident of Wadgaon Dhayari, while the complainant was identified as Saikumar Shivmurti Javalkotti (51), a resident of Sinhagad road, according to the police. “Jaysingh Rathod, who is a contractor, had done work for the builder. The builder owed him ₹14 lakh. Rathod tried to utilise some middlemen, but when it did not work out, he hatched this plan and kidnapped the office boy. The anti-extortion cell team tracked and arrested them,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. Hiremath was kidnapped from the Warje-based office of the builder on Wednesday afternoon. Post his kidnapping, the captors started using multiple phone numbers to contact the builder and demanded ₹two lakh in exchange for Hiremath’s return. However, the teenager escaped from confinement after the kidnappers started drinking alcohol, according to officials of the crime branch. “They had plans of kidnapping other people around the builder to coax the entire amount from him. Two people are still on the run in the case,” said an official close to the investigation. The arrest was made by anti-extortion team led by senior police inspector Balaji Pandhre and police sub- inspector (PSI) Vijay Zanjaad. PSI SA Gaikwad is investigating the matter further. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 385 (extortion) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Warje Malwadi police station against at least five people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-in-pune-for-kidnapping-18yearold-101611856451830.html
28-01-2021||Gurugram||986 doses of vaccines wasted so far in Gurugram||At least 986 doses of the two Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, have been wasted in the vaccination drives held till now in the district, according to the district health department data, with officials citing hesitancy among front-line healthcare workers as the main reason.As per the data, of the 18,633 of the 19,340 doses of Covishield provided to various vaccination sites since January 16 have been used, with the remaining 707 doses being wasted. A single vial of Covishield contains 10 doses, which has led to wastage of at least 71 vials, said officials.A vial has to be consumed within four hours of being opened, after which it is considered to be wasted.Similarly, for Covaxin, 921 of the 1,200 doses were used, with at least 279 doses, equivalent to almost 14 vials, being wasted. Unlike Covishield, a vial of Covaxin consists of 20 doses, which, according to the district immunisation officer, has led to increased wastage.“Going by the acceptable vaccine wastage level set by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, vaccine wastage is being calculated on the basis of wastage multiplication factor (WMF),” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.He said, “Based on a series of calculations, WMF has to be 1.1 as per the set standard. In the case of Covishield, WMF stands at 1, while for Covaxin it is almost 1.3.”Officials said that the wastage could increase if the turnout continues to remain low at vaccination sites, especially at smaller sites. Opening a multi-dose vial at these sites can balloon the vaccine wastage, they said.On Thursday, of the 1,600 healthcare workers listed for vaccination, around 970 turned up to take the shot. The health department is expecting a decrease in daily coverage after inoculating more than 55% of the registered front-line healthcare staff, as they had allowed walk-ins as well as workers to take the shot at their nearest centre.Of the 37,000 registered staff, almost 21,000 have come forward to take the jab, highlighting the existing apprehension regarding the Covid vaccines.“Currently, the vaccine wastage is under control in the district. It varies greatly from vaccination sites to the type of vaccine. Currently, the vaccination coverage has been limited since more than 55% of healthcare workers have taken the jab. There are chances footfall will remain low due to reluctance and duplicity in names. In such a situation, vials will remain unutilised in session sites of small sizes, which will ultimately lead to vaccine wastage,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.A week before the vaccination, the Union ministry of health and family welfare, in its guidelines, stated that at least 10% of the Covid-19 vaccines procured by the Centre may be wasted in different phases of vaccine management. Assuming a wastage of 10%, the guidelines stated that acceptable wastage, in WMF terms, is 1.1, exceeding which may be a cause for concern.According to Yadav, vaccine wastage can be minimised once the state health department on Friday allows the inoculation of other front-line workers from Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), revenue department and police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/986-doses-of-vaccines-wasted-so-far-in-gurugram-101611855375875.html
28-01-2021||Gurugram||NHAI hopeful of completing Sirhaul U-turn underpass by March, work on shifting toll gates to start||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Thursday said that the work on shifting the three toll collection lanes from Sirhaul toll plaza will commence from Monday and it will be completed within 10 days. NHAI officials said that with the removal of this obstacle, the authority will be able to complete the underpass at Sirhaul plaza by March 15. The NHAI had got the nod for shifting of three toll gates from South Delhi Municipal Corporation at the start of the month, but the work was delayed due to the security measures taken by the police for Republic Day, said officials. Gaurav Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, said that 90% of the work on the underpass project is completed and from Monday, they will start work on shifting the lanes. “We have already sent a letter to the traffic police regarding carving out traffic diversions so that the work can be carried out. The shifting work can be completed in 10 days and our plan is to open the underpass for traffic from March 15,” said Mittal. There are nine toll gates operational at the border, of which gates numbered 4, 5 and 6 will be shifted further towards Delhi and operated from there, said NHAI officials. They added that the traffic diversions at the toll gate have been designed in such a manner that there would be no congestion. The gates need to be shifted as the work on these would be affected when the authority starts building box-type structure for the underpass, officials said. The underpass at Sirhaul toll plaza will help motorists from Gurugram avoid taking a long detour — till Rajokri in New Delhi to take a U-turn — to reach the Ambience Mall.The flyover at Shankar Chowk, which is part of this project, has already been completed and is operational. The entire project is being constructed by the NHAI at a cost of ₹63 crore and the objective is to reduce congestion between Sirhaul, Shankar Chowk and Iffco Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. The NHAI has already got approvals for its estimate of ₹46 lakh for shifting the toll gates. The delay in this work had hampered the completion of the underpass project by almost one year, said officials, but they are hopeful to complete it by March. The work on building the underpass and the Shankar Chowk flyover had commenced in March 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-hopeful-of-completing-sirhaul-u-turn-underpass-by-march-work-on-shifting-toll-gates-to-start-101611855375178.html
28-01-2021||Gurugram||Feedback sought on plans to resume classroom sessions for classes 6-8||The department of school education has directed district education officers across the state to gather feedback about the current situation of schools with regard to Covid-19, amid plans to resume classroom sessions for students of classes 6 to 8. As per a directive shared with district education officers on Wednesday, the government is contemplating to reopen schools for students of classes 6-8 in February. It further said that the department had issued standard operating procedures (SOPs), directions and allocated budget with regard to the physical reopening of schools from time to time, and an assessment of the same is being done. Last week, state education minister Kanwar Pal had said that the government is planning to reopen schools for classes 6 to 8 from the first week of February, in view of the decline in Covid-19 cases. Deputy district education officer Saroj Dahiya said that the department is looking at the possibility of reopening schools for students in classes 6 to 8 from February 1 and feedback is being sought for the same. “Schools will open for classes 6 to 8 from February 1. A meeting was conducted on Thursday to discuss the modalities,” said Dahiya. Schools across the country were closed in March last year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Voluntary visits to schools for doubt-clearing sessions were allowed from September, followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. In mid-November, the Haryana government decided to shut schools till November 30, over concerns of a spike in Covid-19 cases among students. Government and private schools reopened on December 14 for students of classes 10 and 12 and on December 21 for classes 9 and 11. An online form has been circulated among schools for sharing feedback. “We have been asked to share feedback through an online form. We are expecting schools to reopen soon and will have to take measures to ensure physical distancing,” said Sudesh Raghav, the principal of a government school.Shyam Raghav, the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that the department had sought feedback about various Covid-19 related requirements on the school campus. “We have been asked to share data about thermal scanners, sanitisers and other such facilities that are necessary,” said Raghav.Private schools said that they are yet to receive any written directive pertaining to reopening of schools. Aparna Erry, principal of the DAV Public School in Sector 14, said that the school had started calling students in classes 9 to 12 and would wait for the government to issue guidelines for classes 6 to 8. “We are yet to receive any form seeking feedback in this regard. As always, we will seek feedback from parents before calling students to school. For now, online classes are continuing,” said Erry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/feedback-sought-on-plans-to-resume-classroom-sessions-for-classes-68-101611855374460.html
28-01-2021||Gurugram||Mercury dips slightly but city may escape cold wave||The city experienced a perceptible nip in the air on Thursday, due a slight dip in the minimum and maximum temperatures. However, officials said that the city may escape the cold wave conditions, which is currently being recorded in other parts of Delhi-NCR.Gurugram recorded a minimum temperature of 6.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday, down from 6.6 degrees Celsius the previous day. The maximum temperature stood at 18.6 degrees Celsius, which was lower than the 20.3 degrees Celsius recorded a day prior.The city remained relatively warmer than neighbouring Delhi, where cold day conditions, which occur when the minimum temperature dips below 4 degrees Celsius, were observed in some parts. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Safdarjung observatory, for instance, recorded a minimum temperature of 3.8 degrees Celsius on Thursday and a maximum of 19.4 degrees Celsius.As per IMD’s forecast for the next week, cold wave conditions will continue to be felt in isolated pockets across Delhi-NCR until January 31, with moderate to dense fog during early morning hours as a result. “We have issued an orange alert for cold wave over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan until January 30. This includes Delhi and Chandigarh. Friday onward, we will downgrade it to a yellow alert if the temperature does not fall sharply across the region,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi.Gurugram, however, may escape the cold wave, with official forecast for the city predicting a minimum temperature of not less than 5 degrees Celsius till January 30. The minimum temperature is expected to start rising from January 31 and settle around 8 degrees Celsius by February 3. The maximum temperature, meanwhile, is expected to remain at 19 degrees Celsius until January 31 and will rise to 23 degrees Celsius by February 3.This forecast is in contrast with that of Delhi’s, where cold wave conditions (with minimum temperature as low as 3 degrees Celsius) are expected in some areas. “Dry, cold winds have been sweeping across north India and their chilling effect will be felt for at least another three to four days. It’s hard to say which parts will be affected, but the cold wave will happen in small pockets and not uniformly across north India,” said Srivastava.Air quality in the city remained in the very poor category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin, with an index value of 334 on Thursday. “This may be due to the fall in the temperature as well as slower wind speeds during the day. There won’t be much of a change in the situation until February, when warmer conditions will help with faster dispersal of pollutants,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality will remain largely very poor for the subsequent five days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mercury-dips-slightly-but-city-may-escape-cold-wave-101611855373915.html
28-01-2021||Gurugram||Covid vaccinations on hold for three days for polio immunisations||The Covid-19 vaccination drive will be put on hold from January 31 till February 2 because of a pulse polio drive, health department officials said. There will be no vaccination in public or private set-ups as the entire government healthcare staff will be deployed for the polio vaccination drive, at booths across the city as well as for home visits.In a district-level task force meeting on vaccination held on Thursday with the additional deputy commissioner, Prashant Panwar, the health department along with other departments were directed to achieve a target of inoculating over 359,648 children below the age of five years in three days.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “At least 1,266 polio booths will be set up across the city on January 31 to administer bivalent oral polio virus vaccine. Thereafter, on February 1 and 2, home visits will be conducted to attain the maximum coverage. In wake of the polio drive, the Covid-19 vaccination has been put on hold for three days.”In the polio drive held in 2020, the health department had to restrict its coverage due to the high volume of Covid-19 cases in the district. The health staff had to be deployed for contact tracing and home visits of isolated patients. As Covid-19 cases have sharply fallen, the department has planned to deploy all its employees for the polio drive.“More than 5,000 health workers will be part of the inoculation drive. At least 112 mobile teams and 29 transit teams have been formed. About 240 supervisors have also been designated duties to handle booths,” said Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer.As directed by Panwar, teams will focus on areas near construction sites for the inoculation. In a statement issued by the administration, Panwar has asked for the preparation of a micro plan, taking assistance of other departments concerned, including labour, women and child development, education and district development as well as the panchayat office, to cover children in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-vaccinations-on-hold-for-three-days-for-polio-immunisations-101611855373384.html
28-01-2021||Gurugram||56-year-old farmer dies due to health issues on way from interstate border protest site||A 56-year-old farmer from Maharashtra who had been protesting at Shahjahanpur near Jaisinghpur Khera on the Haryana-Rajasthan border died due to cold on Wednesday evening while she was returning to her home town, protest leaders said. However, health officials could not confirm the same.A statement issued by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha identified the deceased as Sitabai Tadvi, a resident of Ambabari village in Nandurbar district of Maharashtra. Tadvi died near Jaipur while she was on her way back. Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that Tadvi left the protest site to return to her village on Wednesday. “She was ill due to the cold weather and had a fever. She died on her way to Jaipur while she was being taken to her village in Maharashtra. We were told that she could not tolerate the cold,” said Madhav. He said that Tadvi had also participated in the tractor march on Republic Day and contributed to the protest movement in various capacities.Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. During the course of the agitation, many farmers have died at various protest sites on account of cold weather conditions. According to the statement issued by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, Tadvi had been involved in farm agitations over the past 25 years. “She was at the forefront of various campaigns. Be it her involvement in the fight against farmer debt or the demand for MSP guarantee. She was fighting against the three laws and managing the protest site at Shahjahanpur since January 16 till January 27,” said the statement. Madhav said that Tadvi came from a tribal family and her contributions to various farmer agitations, including the movement against the three laws, would be remembered. He said that protesting farmers had observed two-minute silence to recognise on Thursday to remember her contributions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/56yearold-farmer-dies-due-to-health-issues-on-way-from-interstate-border-protest-site-101611855372871.html
28-01-2021||Other||Commute from Jaipur to Delhi gets easier as protesters thin out||Commuters travelling from Jaipur to Delhi on the national highway will now have to take only a three-kilometre detour, instead of 140 kilometres, as the numbers of farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur have thinned following the violence that erupted in Delhi on January 26.Farmers protesting at Rewari and Dharuhera also cleared the sites, with many returning to their home towns, while a few moved to their base camp in Shahjahanpur near Haryana-Rajasthan border on Thursday.Earlier, commuters were forced to take a detour from Behror to Narnaul-Behror-Alwar Road and after reaching Narnaul, they had to take a right to head straight to Rewari and then get back on the NH-48 near Dharuhera. The police said that now, commuters can head straight to Shahjahanpur and take a left before the flyover. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent, Bawal, said, “Commuters can take left before the flyover towards Jaisinghpur Khera, via Mohanpur, which connects to the NH-48. Another route is through Khandora village, which is also a three-kilometre detour. All the blockades have been removed and commuters can drive straight towards Delhi, except at Shahjhanapur, where farmers are camping.” The police said that many farmers, who were camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Sangwari Chowk in Rewari and Masani village near Dharuhera, besides Shahjahanpur, returned to their villages on Thursday. On December 14, 2020, over 500 farmers from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana and members of trade unions had blocked the Delhi-Jaipur highway at the Shahjahanpur interstate border in Rajasthan, as the police did not let them enter Haryana. Prashant Dhillon, a resident of Delhi, who returned from Jaipur on Thursday, said that the alternative routes were difficult to drive on as the routes passed through remote villages that were not suited for heavy traffic. “The policemen at the outskirts of Jaipur informed us that the route is clear and we can go straight on NH-48. It saved at least one and a half hours. The protesters should be allowed to occupy vacant spaces instead of service lanes of the expressway, which results in congestion and confusion among the commuters,” he said. Another commuter, Dilkhush Juneja, an art businessman travelling from Kotputli to Manesar, said they have suffered huge losses due to the protest. “We had to pay extra to send consignments through the transporters and our clients had stopped visiting us due to the long route and congestion on the stretch,” he said.The police said they have deployed personnel along the routes to inform commuters about the current situation. Eateries located on the expressway, close to protest sites, also resumed operations on Thursday, with many claiming they suffered huge losses due to the blockades.Naresh Yadav, who runs an eatery near the Shahjahanpur petrol pump, said, “The farmers had set up their own kitchen and were on their own. No one even bought a cup of tea from us. The main source of income was through commuters, who were not allowed to use the stretch, leading to a financial crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/commute-from-jaipur-to-delhi-gets-easier-as-protesters-thin-out-101611855372226.html
28-01-2021||Gurugram||DTCP razes five colonies in Farrukhnagar||Acting on a complaint of illegal colony construction in Farrukhnagar, the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Thursday carried out demolition of five colonies in three villages of Farrukhnagar. DTCP officials said that warehouses, residential houses and other structures were being constructed without requisite permissions. Officials said that in the last 15 days, they have resolved around 40 such complaints filed with the CM Window. The enforcement team of the DTCP started razing the structures around 11am, deploying three earthmoving machines. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that they demolished two under-construction warehouses, five under-construction houses and 50 plinths over 20 acres in Dhanawas, Patli and Hajipur. “Boundary walls and road network developed on this land was also demolished and the locals were told that construction without permission would not be tolerated. A large police team from Gurugram police supported us in this action,” said Bhath. The department, meanwhile, said that apart from demolition drives, they are laying a special emphasis on resolving complaints filed at the CM Window. “We have resolved around 40 complaints pertaining to encroachments, illegal constructions, colony construction, excess construction and building plan violations lodged by city residents. These are being handled area wise,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, Gurugram. Sharma said that a number of illegal guest houses have also been sealed upon complaints from residents. “We are also taking action against owners who violate building plans,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-razes-five-colonies-in-farrukhnagar-101611855371684.html
28-01-2021||Other||Protesters’ strength dwindles as most return home||Farmers from different states camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Sangwari Chowk in Rewari and Masani village near Dharuhera returned to their base camp at Shahjahanpur on Thursday, a day after local villagers asked them to vacate the sites following the violence in Delhi.However, a majority of the farmers who have been protesting at Shahjahanpur also left for their villages, said police. Of the 1,000 protesters, hardly 100 remained at the camp at the Haryana-Rajasthan border on Thursday.Sitting on the main carriageway, farmer leaders were addressing the gathering, stating that they would not be moving from this site. They also mentioned that more farmers have been called to join them from villages across Rajasthan and Haryana.A group of farmers was seen reciting poems, sharing jokes and sharing their life experiences to keep the remaining protesters engaged, before the lunchtime.Kamaljeet Singh, a farmer from Ganganagar in Rajasthan, said that they would not vacate the site and ensure that more farmers join them by Sunday. “Rajasthan villagers are supporting us and came to meet us on Thursday morning. They have extended their support and have assured us that they will take care of our food and dry ration and will send freshly cooked food, if required,” he said.Rewari police said that they have reduced the police deployment at the Rajasthan-Haryana border from 1,500 personnel to 600, including eight companies of paramilitary forces.Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said, “We reduced deployment of forces at night after the majority of farmers left the Shahjahanpur border. During the day, we have deployed nearly 600 personnel from police and paramilitary forces and at night, only 150 personnel from all forces.”He, however, added that it is likely that the remaining farmers would vacate the site soon.Kumar said the villagers had met the protesters on Thursday and wanted to meet their leaders, who have been missing from the sites and have not returned to base camps after January 26 tractor parade, when they had gone till Manesar.Two leaders, who were not at the site, confirmed that they had returned to their villages to discuss the plans after the rally in Delhi turned violent and clashes broke out between the police and protesters.Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said they are embarrassed by the Delhi incident and have returned to their village to plan another strategy, as villagers pulled their support and asked them to vacate the sites. “There is lot of pressure on us and after Delhi violence, we are planning to do a silent and hunger protest. We have not run from the sites, but will return after two days after discussing with our counterparts. Many farmers have denied to support us,” he said.Since December 14 of 2020, protesters had occupied both sides of the carriageways and had set up tents on the service lanes, blocking the National Highway-48.On Wednesday, panchayats of 20 villages in Rewari had held a meeting and decided to give an ultimatum to the farmers protesting at Masani since January 1, asking them to vacate by Thursday or be forcefully thrown out by residents.Capt (retd) Lala Ram, sarpanch of Masani village, said that residents of Rajasthan villages have approached them for their support and soon, they would ask the protesters to vacate the Shahjahanpur border as well. “The protesters have vacated the area in Masani but they did not even clean the area before leaving. We have called people from other areas and sweepers to clean the stretch so that commuters can stop at the eateries. They have damaged our crops and fields by using the area for open defecation,” he said.Ram said a team went to check if any tents or belongings remained, but there was none and that they have vacated without even thanking them for their support.The police said that the farmers from Maharashtra and Gujarat have returned to their states and protesters camping at the site are from Rajasthan and Haryana only. The violence that prevailed in other parts of the National Capital Region during the tractor parade on Republic Day resulted in villagers giving an ultimatum to protesters to vacate the camp sites.Nehra said that a hunger strike is being planned to put pressure on the government. “We are discussing with our counterparts and the final decision will be taken on Friday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protesters-strength-dwindles-as-most-return-home-101611855311654.html
28-01-2021||Other||Minor among 4 held for theft of jewellery worth ₹55.5 L||PUNE A minor boy was among four people arrested from Karnataka by Pune police in a case of theft of jewellery worth ₹55.5 lakh on New Year’s eve.The arrested people have been identified as Shankar Lakshman Achari alias Shetty (35), Yadgir Lakshman Achari, and Mary Vyankatesh Naidu, according to the police.The police are now looking for three others including a woman and a man who planned the theft.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Karan Pradeep Mali (35), a resident of Dehugaon who is a trader of gold and silver jewellery.A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Faraskhana police station.The accused are all residents of Bhadrawati area of Shimoga in Karnataka, said policeThe gang members used minors to throw oil on cars, garbage or dirt or itch-inducing powder on victim’s bodies before robbing them, according to the police.“Their main modus was to distract victims with the help of children. We interrogated them about their involvement in multiple other cases and while some cases are registered, we are looking at records of others,” said Priyanka Narnaware, deputy commissioner of police, zone-1, Pune police.“There has been no recovery of the stolen valuables from the arrested people. However, they have confessed to having been involved in another robbery of ₹7 lakh registered in Kothrud police station,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-among-4-held-for-theft-of-jewellery-worth-rs-55-5-l-101611852851552.html
28-01-2021||Other||Man stabbed to death in Loni Kalbhor, three accused on the run||PUNE A man was allegedly stabbed to death at an eatery in Wadki village, Loni Kalbhor, on Wednesday, over a long-standing property dispute.The deceased has been identified as Tushar Khandu Chavan and the complaint in the matter was lodged by Shubham Bapu Pawar (21), a resident of Wadki village, Loni Kalbhor who owns the eatery where the murder was committed.The three accused are on the run, according to police.“The deceased and the accused have been involved in a family land dispute for some time now. Last year, the deceased was booked for the attempted murder of one of the accused. We are tracing the three men who have been identified by the complainant,” said senior police inspector Suraj Bundgar, Loni Kalbhor police station who is investigating the case.Chavan had come to the eatery to meet Pawar. While one person held Pawar at knife point and threatened to kill him if he moved, the three others attacked him with iron rods and sharp weapons in his stomach and on his head, according to the complainant.The men had arrived on two motorcycles, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Loni Kalbhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-stabbed-to-death-in-loni-kalbhor-three-accused-on-the-run-101611852852318.html
28-01-2021||Other||Anna Hazare to go on indefinite fast from tomorrow||PUNE Despite attempts by senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to convince Anna Hazare of not going ahead with his indefinite fast, the crusader is firm on going ahead with the fast from Saturday. Hazare, on Thursday, reiterated his intent to go ahead with an indefinite fast at his hometown Ralegan Siddhi in Ahmednagar district, to press demands for implementation of the Swaminathan commission recommendations regarding agriculture pricing, statutory status and autonomy for the central agriculture price commission. Earlier in the day, BJP leader Girish Mahajan held talks with Hazare at Ralegan Siddhi. Last week, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis also met Hazare though the activist remained unfazed. In a press statement on Thursday, Hazare said, “I will sit for the fast at Ralegan’s Yadavbaba temple. Those who want to extend support to agitation can do it from their respective locations. In view of the Covid pandemic, I urge everyone not to crowd at Ralegan Siddhi.” While the release is silent on the new farm laws, the crusader had earlier said the new farm laws do not conform to “democratic values” and people’s participation is necessary in the drafting of legislations. Hazare has also urged supporters to protest at their respective locations. The 83-year-old activist, however, also criticised violence in Delhi on Republic Day saying, he has held multiple agitations in the past 40 years with all of them being peaceful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anna-hazare-to-go-on-indefinite-fast-from-tomorrow-101611852792544.html
28-01-2021||Other||576 new Covid cases, 4 deaths reported in Pune district||PUNE Pune district, on Thursday, reported a total of 576 new Covid-19 cases with four deaths in the last 24 hours. A total of 15 deaths were reported in the district on Thursday. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 1,98,037 Covid cases and 4,486 deaths, till Thursday. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 96,838 cases so far and a total of 1,315 Covid-related deaths. Pune rural has reported 92,244 total cases so far, and 2,124 deaths. In Pune district, there are a total of 3,87,119 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 3,66,142 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 7,963 deaths in the district. At present, there are 13,014 active cases in Pune district. As per the state Health department, 3, 181 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra, taking the total to 19,23,187 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.28%. Across Maharashtra, 2,889 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 50 Covid-19 deaths were reported. The Case fatality rate in the state is 2.52%. Currently 1,97,941 people are in home quarantine and 2,804 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/576-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-reported-in-pune-district-101611852791462.html
28-01-2021||Other||As garbage piles up on roadside at Chakan phase 3, German companies approach MIDC officials||PUNE As heaps of garbage dumped on the roadside has become a constant problem for people commuting to multi-national companies at Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) in Chakan phase 3.German companies like Volkswagen, Mercedes-Benz and IntorQ India Pvt Ltd have raised questions about cleanliness in the area and approached MIDC officials to look into the issue.“The moment you take a turn on to the road to Kharabwadi, MIDC, in Chakan phase 3, you are greeted with a stench and accumulated garbage along the right-hand side of the road. Our company moved into this new phase in February 2020 and have been in touch with the MIDC officials since then to help remove the garbage,” said Simona Jadronova, vice-director, IntorQ India Pvt Ltd.“We also approached officials to undertake an initiative to pick up the garbage and take it to the dumping station, but we were told that we need permissions and that there is already a collector for the same,” she added.Juergen Morhard, Germany’s Consul General to India, said, “The companies approached me with their concern and in a recent meeting with the MIDC officials, requested them to resolve the matter. I am confident that they will resolve the matter soon.”Atul Dhore, executive engineer, MIDC Chakan phase 3, said, “We have received complaints from the Germany companies and the consul general pointed out the garbage woes in the area.”“Our workers clean the roads daily, but the residents and hotel owners in the area throw garbage during the night time. We cannot monitor the area during the night time due to shortage of staff and it is difficult to track the culprits. We have written to the Mhalunge police station for help,” he said.“We also intend to write to the gram panchayat of Kharabwadi as they also must maintain the cleanliness of the area,” he added.Dhore added that MIDC is also in the process to float tenders for a non-hazardous solid waste plant, which will help sort out the issue of garbage menace..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-garbage-piles-up-on-roadside-at-chakan-phase-3-german-companies-approach-midc-officials-101611852731517.html
28-01-2021||Other||Residents oppose underground tunnel connecting Panchavati to Kothrud, Gokhalenagar||PUNE To save the Vetal tekdi (hill) residents in the area have started an online petition opposing the construction of an underground tunnel that will connect Kothrud, Gokhalenagar and Panchavati.The online petition has collected as many as 1.4 lakh signatures as of Thursday (January 28).Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has received all required permissions to conduct a survey and feasibility study of an underground tunnel, but residents point out that a large section of the Bhamburda forest will be affected due to the proposed project.“Many rare and endangered species of trees on the hills and surrounding area will be destroyed due to the project,” said Pradeep Ghumre, a resident of Panchavati, Pashan.“The 30-metre road widening at the entrance and exit of the tunnel will also have an impact on the water bodies at Vetal–Chaturshrungi hills. Proposed tunnels will rupture them and plug the recharge area that is contributing the water to the aquifer,” he said.“It will cause felling of thousands of trees and destruction of natural aquifers in the hills which sustain the trees,” said, Usha Rangarajan, a resident of Panchavati.The Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti has also opposed the project which they feel will do irreversible damage and is unnecessary.“The proposed project is against the objectives of the National Urban Transport Policy 2014, the Maharashtra State Urban Transport Policy 2017 and the comprehensive mobility plan of PMC which is also part of Pune’s development plan. Under the policy guidelines, it is incumbent on the government to focus on providing public transport and dissuading the use of private vehicles,” said Sushma Date, member of Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti.“The metro work is already underway in the city. The idea of the metro is to shift people from private modes of transport to the public mode. For a decade PMC fought all odds to bring success to the metro project and the routes that are approved and under construction will ease the traffic problems of the Law College road and Karve road once the metro begins. Therefore the tunnel and the irreversible damage that it will do to hills is unnecessary at this juncture,” she said.Indrabhan Randive, executive engineer, project department of PMC, said, “We already had discussions earlier with residents before we got the NOC. incase they have more to say, then we will hear their side too.”This tunnel, approved in principle by the Maharashtra State government in Pune’s development plan 2007-2027, will go through the Vetal hills complex to connect three sections of Pune - Kothrud, Gokhalenagar and Panchavati. At the Panchavati and Gokhalenagar exits, construction will require excavation of a large section of reserved forest while at the Kothrud exit, deemed forest section will be affected.In letters dated December 17, 2018, and September 9, 2020, the DCF, Bhamburda has permitted PMC to survey the forest area through the use of total station machine only. The NOC dated September 9, 2020, explicitly prohibits the use of drone cameras and bore machinery and has stringent conditions to not harm any branches/trees and undergrowth - in effect, to respect the forest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-oppose-underground-tunnel-connecting-panchavati-to-kothrud-gokhalenagar-101611852671435.html
28-01-2021||Other||Mohali MC Elections: AAP ties up with Kulwant group||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday decided to contest the Mohali municipal elections under the banner of Azad group, led by former mayor Kulwant Singh. Initially, AAP had declared to contest on all 50 seats, saying it will not allow a cakewalk for other parties. But having tied up with the Azad group, AAP candidates will now be contesting from 15 seats, while the remaining candidates will be fielded by the group. A list of 12 candidates from both sides was released on Thursday.Earlier on January 21, Kulwant’s group had declared 30 of the 35 candidates, with most of the leaders and former councillors, who resigned from the Shiromani Akali Dal in his support, getting a ticket. Kulwant said AAP candidates will not be contesting on their party symbol, but under the banner of Azad group. “We have decided to contest on a common symbol. Our candidates will be contesting from 15 wards,” said AAP’s district president Parminder Singh Goldy.With the latest development, the MC elections on February 14 are set to witness a four-cornered contest between SAD, Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party and AAP-Azad group alliance. Mohali’s civic body is elected for a period of five years, with the last term ending on April 26, 2020. In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad group and won 10 seats. With the support of Congress, he was elected the mayor. Later, in 2017, he joined SAD. But, was expelled on January 16 for “anti-party activities” after he decided to contest the 2020 civic polls independently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-elections-aap-ties-up-with-kulwant-group-101611849611188.html
28-01-2021||Pune||Ramtekdi garbage plant fire: PMC pegs damage at ₹1.40 crore||Pune: The preliminary report of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) related to the fire incident at the 75 metric tonne garbage collection and processing plant at Ramtedki estimates loss of ₹1.40 crore. The damage assessment of equipment has been pegged at ₹1 crore and ₹40 lakh has been calculated for supporting facilities infrastructure damaged in the blaze. A major fire broke out at the PMC garbage collection and processing plant located at Ramtekdi industrial area on January 23.The report states that garbage processing has been shifted to the mobile facility in Disha garbage processing unit, a separate facility in Ramtekdi in Hadapsar. PMC has ordered insurance cover for the project and directed the project contractor to restart the plant within 21 days.Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “Preliminary reports suggest that the fire took place due to technical failure. The police are investigating the incident and CCTV camera footage is being examined. The repairs are on and the plant will function to full strength within a month.” The report mentions that residents and shopkeepers were also questioned before the report was submitted to the commissioner’s office.According to PMC, the plant was set up four years ago and had the capacity of processing garbage at the rate of 25 tonnes per day. Later, it was increased to 75 tonnes per day. It used the refuse derived fuel (RDF) technology to process garbage. The green technology recycles mixed solid waste into valuable products (refuse derived fuel).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ramtekdi-garbage-plant-fire-pmc-pegs-damage-at-rs-1-40-crore-101611847991033.html
28-01-2021||Pune||SPPU announces PG courses semester schedule||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has declared schedule for first and second semester of first year admissions for post graduate courses. The admission process was delayed because of the Covid situation. While the admissions of post graduate courses are complete, process for graduate courses is still on. “The admission process was delayed this year because of the virus pandemic. Except final year students, others were given admission to next year. Professional courses admissions are going on. The first semester of post graduate courses will start from January 28 to May 22 and the second semester will be from June 15 to October 1, 2021,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. “The admissions for engineering, pharmacy, management, architecture, hotel management and other professional courses are on. Once the admissions are completed, then semester schedule will be declared. As the state government has not yet given permission to start offline colleges, lectures will be conducted online,” Karmalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-announces-pg-courses-semester-schedule-101611847150958.html
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol prices breach ₹83 per litre in UT for the first time||Petrol prices crossed ₹83 for the first time in the city, settling at ₹83.09 per litre on Thursday. Diesel was also the costliest ever at ₹76.23 per litre. The prices also hit an all-time high in Mohali with petrol selling at ₹88.37 per litre and diesel at ₹79.09 per litre. In Panchkula, the rates were ₹84.22 and ₹76.89, respectively.In the 28 days since January 1, the petrol rates in Chandigarh have risen by ₹2.75, while diesel prices have gone up by 85 paise.In the last jump in prices, on January 19, petrol in Chandigarh was selling at ₹82.04 and diesel at ₹75.13. Before this, on January 8, petrol was priced at ₹81.08 and diesel at ₹74.14. When the month began, petrol was available for ₹80.34 and diesel for ₹75.38.With international crude oil prices expected to rise further, petrol pump dealers said another hike in prices was expected in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-prices-breach-83-per-litre-in-ut-for-the-first-time-101611846970908.html
28-01-2021||Pune||Jumbo Covid centres to be dismantled; health infra shifted to government hospitals||Pune: Four months into operations, the state administration has decided to remove health equipment from the two Jumbo Covid facilities in Pune district – the College of Engineering Pune and the Annasaheb Magar stadium at Bhosari. The jumbo centres will eventually be dismantled next month as the contract for the facility ends on February 6. The divisional commissioner has asked for a committee comprising officials from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, along with Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) to ensure proper distribution of health infrastructure, such as beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders from the two giant facilities, which are already closed since mid-January. As per the orders, the committee, comprising health officials from PMC, PCMC, the district health department and Sassoon, along with PMRDA officials, will be formed to decide how to distribute the health equipment and beds currently lying unused at the Jumbo centres. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “The committee is being formed to decide how the medical equipment and other health infrastructure elsewhere.” The equipment is most likely to be used in Sassoon and other civic, as well as government-run hospitals. The CoEP facility, which had 800 beds, was made operational during last week of August though it never operated at capacity. The Annasaheb Magar facility with an 800-bed capacity came in September although it could not be utilised fully due to few patients. As the Covid tally also came down drastically by December, the administration decided to shut down both facilities this month. The government spent ₹100 crore on each facility. According to Agrawal, the contract for COEP Jumbo facility is coming to an end on February 6. Officials said it is unlikely to be extended further. Covid care facilityTwo jumbo Covid centres erected in the city one at PMC and the other in PCMCBoth Covid centres have a capacity of 800 beds each.Each centre has 200 ICU beds and with ventilator, and 600 oxygen bedsMaharashtra government, PMRDA, PMC and PCMC together set up the jumbo centresAfter the death of journalist Pandurang Raikar, the jumbo facilities came in for a lot of criticism||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jumbo-covid-centres-to-be-dismantled-health-infra-shifted-to-government-hospitals-101611844510771.html
28-01-2021||Pune||Three Pune schools have overcharged fees: DyDE||Pune: The audit reports of three of the six private schools in Pune reveal an overcharge in fees as per the norms of Regulation of Admission and Fees Act, 2015. The reports were made public by the Deputy Director of Education (DyDE) on Thursday.Aryan World school (Bhilarewadi), Millennium school (Karvenagar), Clive Memorial school (Bibwewadi), Mansukhbhai Kothari National school (Kondhwa), Walnut school (Phursungi) and Elpro International school (Pimpri-Chinchwad) submitted the report to DyDE. According to the DyDE department, four schools submitted fee hike data for only two academic years. Schools were asked to give details of fee incurred since 2014-2015 academic year. Education department officials said that schools were asked to submit reports since the last audit.Audumbar Ukirde, deputy director of education, said, “Some schools have given us incomplete data. We have given them 10 days to resend their complete financial audit from the academic year 2014-2015. We are submitting the data to higher authorities.”“In all the cases, this is schools’ first audit report. Hence, they should have ideally submitted the fee incurred for all academic years so far,” said officials, adding that only Aryan World school included fee incurred since the academic year 2017-2018 till 2020-2021.As per the fee regulation act (FRA), increase in fees should not be more than 15 per cent and allowed only after two academic years. The report shows Aryan World school, Millennium school and Clive Memorial school have overcharged fee from parents. Mansukhbhai Kothari National school did not reveal the documents for audit report. The department found that Walnut school and Elpro International has not increased fee in the last two academic years. However, both the schools have submitted details of only 2019-2020 and 2020-2021.Jayshree Deshpande, president, Parents Association of Pune, said that it is a small victory on the issue of overcharging of fees.“However, schools have still not submitted the fee incurred and expenditure for the last seven years. We will keep on fighting to get those details too,” said Deshpande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-pune-schools-have-overcharged-fees-dyde-101611844030743.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports less than 200 new Covid-19 cases for sixth straight day, recovery rate reaches 98%||Delhi reported 199 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally in the city to 6,34,524, according to the health bulletin from the state government on Thursday. With this, Delhi has reported less than 200 daily new infections for the sixth consecutive day in January 2021. Also, six new fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the overall toll in Delhi to 10,835 deaths, according to the bulletin.A total of 119 patients recovered in the said period. The overall recoveries in Delhi currently stands at 6,22,114 and the recovery rate reached 98.04 per cent, according to health bulletin. The active cases in Delhi currently stand at 1,575 patients, which is slightly higher than the 1,501 patients reported on Wednesday.Also read: Delhi top cop's thank you letter to staff on R-Day chaosThe Delhi government has conducted 1,05,53,039 Covid-19 tests totally of which 57,993 were conducted on Thursday. Cumulative positivity rate, considering the total tests done and the total infections, is currently 6.01 per cent, as per official data. The government also reported that 31,247 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat Covid-19 tests and 26,746 Rapid Antigen tests were conducted on Thursday. Also tests per million count stands at 5,55,423 tests.With a death toll of 10,835 patients, Delhi’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) currently stands at 1.71 per cent. Seven states, including Delhi, account for 75.61 per cent of new Covid-19 deaths in India, the health ministry said on Thursday.The bulletin also noted that currently, there are 1363 containment zones in Delhi and 645 patients are under home isolation.Earlier on Thursday, the ministry of health and family welfare had said that 39,764 beneficiaries have been administered with Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi.India on Thursday reported 11,666 new Covid-19 cases and 123 new fatalities. The health ministry noted that India’s active caseload dropped to less than 1.75 lakh cases and 31 states and Union territories have less than 5,000 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-less-than-200-new-covid-19-cases-for-sixth-straight-day-101611841631424.html
28-01-2021||Pune||National Junior Athletics Championships: Sans regular practice, 15 Pune sportspersons enter state team||Pune: Hopping between different grounds and tracks for practice as many were either turned into Covid care centres or closed as part of the virus prevention measures, 15 Pune athletes braved the odds to earn a spot in the Maharashtra team for the National Junior Athletics Championships to be held at Guwahati (Assam) during February 6-10. The players were picked after the conclusion of selection meet at Sant Dnyaneshwar sports complex, Indrayaninagar, Bhosari. With Baburao Sanas grounds turned into a Covid care centre, athletes used to practice at Taljai hills, Waghjai and even Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex, Balewadi. Later, Maharashtriya Mandal, Gultekdi allowed athletes from various clubs in Pune to train at their grounds. “Training schedule was not easy for Pune athletes as grounds were not available. We used to daily choose the venue for practice at night and inform athletes about it,” said Arvind Chavan, coach of Pune Athletics Club whose three athletes – Rajula Bhosale (u14; 60m), Abhar Datta (u18; high jump) and Akash Jadhav (u18 triple jump) have been selected for the nationals. Sudhakar Memane, coach of city’s sprint queen Avantika Narale, took a group of athletes by train to Dervan, Ratnagiri to help them practice on synthetic track available at the venue. “We conducted a few camps at Dervan between August and October as training on synthetic track was important. Avantika is practicing well and we hope for good performance in the upcoming nationals,” said Memane. Avantika seems satisfied with the training routine at different grounds. “Practicing on a mud track and later a synthetic track helped me to gain momentum in my running. I am targeting 11. 7 seconds finish in 100 metre,” said Avantika who’s best is 11.97 seconds. Athletics Federation of India has introduced a 60m running event for juniors till under-16 age group, instead of standard 100m. Rujula Bhonsle ran the distance in 7.78 seconds to get selected for the nationals. “One has to run top speed during the entire stretch of 60metres. It is a good event which will help me to shape up in a better way for 100 metre,” said Rujula. For Shital Bhagat, switching from cross country running to 800 metre two years back did not made much difference before the lockdown hit her practice regimen. “Not running everyday makes a difference. The long gap of no practice affected my timing,” said Shital, whose personal best is 2.21 seconds. Siddhesh Choudhari dreams to achieve the record of Kevin Young, the United States athlete, a 1992 Barcelona Olympic gold medallist with timings of 46.78 seconds in 400 metre hurdles. He follows the videos of his idol. “My personal best is 54.88 seconds and I have started taking part in the event two years back. I need to practice more to reach the highest level,” said Siddhesh, who trains under Jaikumar Tembhare. Abhar Datta entered the high jump event on fitness level as he could not practice since grounds were unavailable. He was picked for the nationals with the distance of 1.90 metre. “Since my body was fit for the event it helped me deliver a good performance. Turning out for the tournament without practice was a challenge,” said Abhar. List of Pune athletes Under-14: Rajula Bhosale (60m) Under-16: Bhakti Bederkar (long Jump); Ishwari Dhangekar (javelin throw); Bhakti Gawade (discus throw) Under-18: Avantika Narale (100m); Shital Bhagat (800m); Aryan Jagdish Kadam (200 m); Siddhesh Choudhari (400m hurdles); Akash Jadhav (triple jump); Sachin Bhora (10000m RW) Under-20: Aryan Francis (100m); Abhar Datta (high jump); Manoj Rawat (high jump); Akash Gherwal (shot put); Kanishka Dhole, (discuss throw). Schedule Event: National Junior Athletics Championship Venue: Guwahati, Assam Dates: February 6-10||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/national-junior-athletics-championships-sans-regular-practice-15-pune-sportspersons-enter-state-team-101611837010112.html
28-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Nine-year-old bludgeoned to death||A 20-year-old man allegedly bludgeoned his nine-year-old cousin to death with a cricket bat in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district on Tuesday, said a police officer. “We have arrested the 20-year-old for committing the alleged crime,” said Madan Lal, the officer in charge of the local police station.The boy was rushed to a hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries. “The boy sustained severe injuries and when his parents came to rescue him, the accused fled,” said Lal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-nine-year-old-bludgeoned-to-death-101611833650468.html
28-01-2021||Pune||Pune man impersonating MP Amol Kolhe asks builder for money; arrested||A man has been arrested by the Pune police crime branch on Wednesday, for impersonating Amol Kolhe, the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) member of parliament from Shirur. The accused is believed to have been trying to take money from a Pune-based realtor under the guise of helping people during the lockdown. Kolhe had informed the Pune police about an individual posing as him and asking for money from a Wanowrie-based real estate company’s employee. The arrested man has been identified as Vishal Arun Shendge (32), a resident of Tilekar nagar in Kondhwa. A co-accused, who is yet to be arrested, has been identified as Suresh Bandu Kamble (32), a resident of PMC Colony, Gunj peth, Pune. “Some time back the city police had received an application from Amol Kolhe that some person personated him and demanded assistance from a reputed builder. It was being investigated by the anti-extortion cell of the crime branch. In this matter, anti-extortion team has detained one person namely Vishal Shendge, who impersonated MP Kolhe,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Crime, Pune. A case under Sections 170 (personating a public servant), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Wanowrie against the two men. “He called up the owner of Gera Constructions and posed as the MP and asked for money. He told the builder that the money will be used to help poor people during lockdown. Gera builder’s office staff was asked to cross-check with people in MP Kolhe’s office. After they learned that the call was from an impersonator, the MP’s office lodged a complaint,” said DCP Singh. Shendge has been booked in seven criminal cases in the past. Three of the seven cases registered against him are after he impersonated Chandrakant Patil, BJP’’s Maharashtra chief. Two of the three cases are regsitered at Kothrud, while one is registered at Alankar police station. While Kamble arranged for a SIM card with which Shendge called the realtor. The police are now investigating if any of the people that Shendge tried to cheat by impersonating politicians had paid him any money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-impersonating-mp-amol-kolhe-asks-builder-for-money-arrested-101611833410778.html
28-01-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Mini-publics within the Republic||The date we gave ourselves the Constitution, is an occasion to celebrate our democracy, acknowledge its challenges, and consider how we might evolve further as a Republic. The word itself refers to the ‘common good’ rather than for ‘private profit’, when referring to the realm of public decision-making. One promising development for improving democratic public decision-making is deliberative ‘mini-publics’ – temporary forums of ordinary people that help develop potential solutions on topics of concern. Deliberative mini-publics are taking place around the world for climate action, developing municipal budgets, constitutional reform processes, and even in India. They could be convened in Pune and other cities too. People can get a chance to go beyond complaints, and become problem solvers contributing to policies and programmes for the ‘common good’. ‘Mini-publics’ can operate between the ‘public’, that is the entire body of citizens, and the government, of elected corporators and officials taking final decisions. Multiple mini-publics may be convened in different localities or at city scale, on local civic and sustainability issues. The task for mini-publics is to consider information about the issue, weigh options, identify and prioritise actions. Elected and municipal officials, NGOs and other experts may provide technical knowledge, good practice examples, inform about on-going municipal initiatives and public budget availability. Universities and trusted civic groups could help facilitate the deliberation process as a neutral third party. Such innovations for participatory planning are also recommended in government of India’s Urban and Regional Development Plan Formulation and Implementation (URDPFI) guidelines. Such approaches get people from different walks of life involved, bringing their varied knowledge and experience. With good facilitation, we can develop a shared and rich understanding about issues. Developing solutions together can also increase trust between stakeholders and help evolve partnerships for civic issues. Villages are doing better than cities with gramsabhas already constituted for citizens’ deliberations. Shri Mohan Hirabai Hiralal shared his experiences from Mendha-Lekha village, Gadchiroli district that is practicing such deliberative democracy for years. He said that people already have the right to decide on issues that concern their lives, resources etc; this is on the first page of our Constitution. He suggests the decision-making forum should be different from the deliberation forum; the decision-making forum should occur after the issue is thoroughly explored and options for action developed. A provision for Area Sabhas of residents exists in Maharahtra’s municipal law and awaits implementation. Another difficulty in cities is of assembling large groups. The electoral ward, the smallest unit of governance, is several thousand people. Mini-publics could help in the meantime as these can include more than residents and also address city-scale issues. Unlike the Area Sabha conceived of as a permanent institution of residents in the area, a mini-public can be an inclusive small group of about 50 people, randomly selected by lottery, for a few weeks or months. The deliberations of an operating mini-public could be communicated to the city at large though the media. A suitable ‘Civic Tech’ app, a term for software for e-governance and connecting people to government, could help in communication between the forum and the public. Mini-public deliberations must apply three principles: 1. Inclusive – of different views and people from different walks of life; 2. Deliberative – participants engage in respectful open dialogue on the range of views and information to develop recommendations and 3, Influence – formal governance processes must seriously consider and incorporate mini-public outputs in city plans and budgets. Would mini-publics succeed? We can’t be sure they will, but there are reasons for optimism: first, a focused, well-intentioned process of a deliberation on a civic issue, bringing together expert knowledge and the everyday wisdom of ordinary citizens is likely to yield some good outcomes. Second, ordinary citizens are not worried about being re-elected, so the solutions they develop may be more guided by longer-term sustainability than short-term populist options. How about convening mini-publics around Pune’s air quality, transport issues, river restoration, or climate resilience? They may help deepen and enrich our democracy. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-mini-publics-within-the-republic-101611832929833.html
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Political ambition fuels Charuni’s rise as Haryana farmer leader||Gurnam Singh Charuni, 60, the face of the farmers’ agitation in Haryana and chief of the state’s Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), nurses political ambitions that has fuelled his rise during the stir. A commission agent-cum-agriculturist, Gurnam Singh belongs to Charuni Jattan village in Shahbad tehsil of Kurukshetra district. He unsuccessfully contested the 2019 assembly elections from Ladwa as an independent candidate. He finished a poor eighth and forfeited his security deposit, getting less than 1% of the 1.37 lakh votes polled. Charuni’s wife, Balwinder Kaur, also unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Kurukshetra constituency on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. His primary area of influence is the paddy bowl of Haryana, comprising the northern districts of Ambala, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Karnal. Charuni was nowhere in the forefront till the time firebrand Haryana BKU president Ghasi Ram Nain was leading the union. However, he gradually filled the void after Nain became too old and later passed away in 2017. Charuni shot into prominence during the 2010 Ganna Andolan when he led the farmers protests against the then Congress regime to press for an increase in state advised price (SAP) of sugarcane. He has been leading agitations against private sugar mills in Haryana who failed to pay the cane dues of the farmers. “Charuni was a little-known farm leader around 10 years ago. Ambitious and outspoken, he has been over the years able to position himself as the emerging voice of the farmers rights and issues,’’ said a Congress leader from Jind who has seen his ascendancy closely. According to his poll affidavit, Charuni has spent considerable time in jail having been convicted and sentenced by the court in three cases — for attempt to murder in 1979, voluntarily causing grievous hurt in 1982 and for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant in 2002. His sentences were reduced by the Punjab and Haryana high court in the 1979 and 1982 convictions. The BKU leader nurses political ambitions and has been on the lookout for an opportunity to jump onto the political bandwagon, his tryst with the AAP, which fielded his wife for the Lok Sabha elections, stands testimony to the fact. During the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, the BKU leader has made headlines every now and then –the BKU activists showing black flags and blocking the cavalcade of chief minister ML Khattar at Ambala and the recent episode of disrupting Khattar’s programme to hold a kisan mahapanchayat in Kamila village in his own assembly constituency, Karnal. The ruling BJP though has tried to negotiate with him on the issue of farm laws, holding a series of parleys with him at the political and officer’s level. However, he has been unyielding, adamant that the laws be repealed. BJP leaders say Khattar also probably made a tactical mistake by blaming him after the Kaimla kisan mahapanchayat disruption episode, an accusation which Charuni gleefully lapped up. “It became chief minister versus Charuni and the latter enjoyed the leverage he got out of it,’’ said a BJP functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-ambition-fuels-charuni-s-rise-as-haryana-farmer-leader-101611832870671.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Additional police forces deployed at protest sites, farmers fear eviction||Agitating farmers on Thursday accused the government of trying to intimidate them and feared force could be used to evict them amid heavy police deployment at Singhu and Ghazipur farmer protest sites.Additional personnel from the Uttar Pradesh police and Rapid Action Force wearing anti-riot gear and carrying sticks, firearms, and tear gas have been deployed at Ghazipur since Wednesday night. Farmers said the power supply was disconnected around 8 pm on Wednesday while the water tankers for them, too, were stopped on Thursday morning.Also Read: Republic Day violence: FIRs, blame-game, infighting mar farmers’ protestThe farmers said the sudden stoppage of the power supply triggered panic at the Ghazipur protest venue, and they spent a sleepless night guarding their tractors, trollies, and tents. They added they had to switch on the headlights of their tractors and lit bonfires to keep themselves warm as nobody was able to sleep inside the tents or trollies throughout the night.“The administration is trying to intimidate us by disconnecting power and water supply at the Ghazipur protest venue. Many representatives of police and intelligence wing are here. If they have anything to tell us, if they want to evict us from here, they should come and talk to us. If the government wants to talk to us, we are ready for it. The solution can only be through dialogues and not by bullets and sticks. We will not leave the protest venue even if the police administration use force on us,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait while addressing the gathering of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/additional-police-forces-deployed-at-protest-sites-farmers-fear-eviction-101611832330413.html
28-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress slams CM’s markaz reference for Covid threat to Mahakumbh||Opposition Congress has termed Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s remark that Haridwar should not become Wuhan or Markaz as irresponsible and claimed it was meant to deflect attention from unpreparedness for Mahakumbh.Rawat on Wednesday had said he doesn’t want any such risk taken which makes Haridwar—the venue for Mahakumbh -- Wuhan or Markaz. He said it should not happen as India has done record-breaking work on the containment of Covid-19 pandemic. Markaz means centre or focal point.Rawat said this to reporters in Dehradun before leaving for a tour of Almora district.“Even in the past, there had been an epidemic during the Kumbh, in which thousands of people had died. So no such thing should happen which makes it risky,” he had said.Congress termed the CM's statement as “very irresponsible” and deliberate targeting of a particular community.Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, "By Markaz, Rawat meant Tablighi jamaat. Now, what has Tablighi jamaat got to do with the Kumbh pilgrimage. Earlier also they were targeted, but as everyone knows we have had many waves of the epidemic, which are not due to one reason or a community. Taking the name of Markaz like this sends a very wrong signal”Dhasmana added that CM's statement was very “irresponsible” and aimed at deflecting attention from the failures of the government."The government has failed to complete the preparations for the mega-congregation which will result in fewer devotees attending it. Hence, it is now preparing to cite Covid-19 as an excuse to cover up their ill-preparedness for the Mahakumbh. So far, over 1600 people have died in the state due to Covid," he said.On January 22, the Central government released standard operating procedure (SOP) on organising Mahakumbh. According to the SOP, negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report will be mandatory along with registration for all pilgrims, who wish to attend the fair, scheduled from February 27.The guidelines further state that all devotees who are desirous of attending the Kumbh Mela shall register with the government of Uttarakhand and obtain a compulsory medical certificate from the nearest community health centre/ district hospital/medical college in the state.Also Read: Government will not take any risk that will turn Haridwar into WuhanThe SOP further stressed on following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour of wearing face masks and strict adherence to six-feet social-distancing norm. The state government has been asked to keep a provision of distributing free masks and establishing contactless hand washing and sanitising stations.Around 10 lakh people are expected to attend the Mahakumbh on a regular day and about 50 lakh on auspicious days.There are six auspicious days: Magh Purnima (27th February 2021), Mahashivratri (11th March 2021), Somvati Amavasya (12th April 2021), Baisakhi (14th April 2021), Ram Navmi (21st April 2021), and Chaitra Purnima (27th April 2021). These days are expected to witness a large surge of crowds congregating at Har Ki Pauri Ghat, Haridwar, to take the holy bath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-congress-slams-cm-s-markaz-reference-for-covid-threat-to-mahakumbh-101611830966992.html
28-01-2021||Pune||Taste of life: A food magazine that went beyond the ‘starter’, into the main course||In January 1947, two enterprising restaurateurs, Nanasaheb Sarpotdar and Kakasaheb Tambe, met in Pune to discuss the future of the restaurant industry in Maharashtra. Sarpotdar owned a restaurant and a flourishing catering business in Pune, while Tambe ran a couple of eateries in Mumbai and was known all over India for manufacturing innovative “swadeshi” drinks, like Vitogen and Gandhi-peya.The food industry in India was then at a nascent stage. More people were moving to cities and living spaces were soon going to get smaller. Sarpotdar and Tambe knew that soon restaurants would play an important role in the business, social, intellectual and artistic life in the thriving society. A healthy, thriving restaurant industry was not only critically important to the fabric of society through obvious stakeholders – the owners, employees and guests – but to an entire network of groups who might not have traditionally thought of themselves as stakeholders – the farmers, retailers and housewives. Eating out was looked down upon and restaurateurs were the new outcasts. The duo wanted this to change.The outcome was “Aahaarmala”, the first mouthpiece of the food industry in Maharashtra and probably India, the first issue of which was published from Pune in April, 1947. Sarpotdar wrote in the editorial – “This magazine would not limit itself to recipes and preach to its readers what, how and where to eat. We understand that beyond the basic purpose of restaurants to provide food and drink, in Western countries they have always fulfilled a human need for connections and shaped social relations. Our aim is to gain respect for restaurants and the workforce associated with it, and to make the common public aware of the challenges faced by the industry. We also want to talk about the food production in India, agriculture, retail and hospitality industry, household management and health. We want our readers to understand that the food industry will be an integral part of the development of this nation, and hence, initiatives like ‘Aahaarmala’ are in the interest of our beloved nation”.Unfortunately, Sarpotdar passed away a month later. Born in 1896, he had run away from his home as a child and joined a theatre company. In 1927, he established Aryan Film Company and went on to produce and direct 24 silent, and six talkie, movies. Lalita Pawar, Hirabai Barodekar, Chandrakant, Shahu Modak, Ratnamala acted in movies he directed. He gave it all up to start the “Poona Refreshment House” and “Poona Guest House” on Lakshmi road in 1935.Tambe took over the magazine and rechristened it “Aaahar” in June 1947. Anand Antarkar was the editor. The absolute genius of Tambe and Antarkar lies in the fact that almost seven decades later, issues of “Aahaar” are still immensely enjoyable. While the articles are informative, analytical, expressive and even persuasive, they often try to address human experiences directly. It must have been challenging for Tambe to find an inclusive way to cover all aspects of food production and sale in the magazine.“Aahaar” regularly featured articles by stalwarts like Prabodhankar Thakarey, RD Karve, Durga Bhagwat, NS Phadke and VA Buva. It had interviews of eminent restaurateurs like Bandopant Joshi, Velankar, Veerkar and Pathare. These and several other restaurateurs wrote about their experiences in countries like Japan and the USA.“Aahaar” taught its readers to use “modern” equipment like a pressure cooker, electric grinder and ovens. It told them how to arrange the kitchen and keep fruits and vegetables fresh. Several articles taught new restaurateurs how to cook, talk to guests, maintain cleanliness and make sense of the complex laws. There were translations from “Royal Institute of International Affairs” and “Financial News” which dealt with agriculture, land reforms and market economy.It did not stop at printing recipes for “new” dishes like samosa and masala dosa. All the while it existed, “Aahaar” regularly kept urging women to become a part of the food industry. There were several articles which provided blueprints to women for starting an eatery.The most spectacular aspect of “Aahaar” was its empathy for the restaurant-staff and workers. Many of them were young children and men who would work long hours without food. They had absolutely no support in cities like Mumbai and Pune. “Aahaar” publicised their plight. It urged the owners to treat them with dignity and pay them well.Mahatma Gandhi was a regular reader of “Aahaar”. Tambe would send him translated articles. They shared a warm bond and this reflected in the articles printed in “Aahaar”. Tambe was inspired to start a restaurant after reading a booklet written by Gandhi promoting “clean” eating. Gandhi later praised his efforts to popularise buttermilk as a drink in Maharashtra.“Aahaar” ceased to exist in 1954. It is a testimony to the dazzling pragmatism of Sarpotdar and Tambe. That they desired that restaurants be woven into city planning, neighborhood development, and real estate in 1947, talks volumes about their foresight. They wished to see their country prosper and created “Aahaar” to further their cause.It took only a few decades for restaurants, from being considered anti-religion and anti-national, to be an important part of the national economy. Sarpotdar, Tambe and “Aahaar” definitely deserve credit for being an important part of this journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-a-food-magazine-that-went-beyond-the-starter-into-the-main-course-101611831310567.html
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Javadekar trying to shift Red Fort blame on Congress: Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday hit out at Union minister Prakash Javadekar over his “disgraceful and desperate” attempt to shift the blame for the Red Fort violence on the Congress. In a statement, Amarinder alleged that the Red Fort violence was evidently instigated by supporters and members of the BJP in collusion with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress was nowhere in the picture. “Workers and supporters of BJP and AAP, and not the Congress, have been caught on camera waving the Nishan Sahib at Red Fort,” he claimed in response to Javadekar’s unfounded allegations against the Congress, and his own government in Punjab. Not a single Congress leader or member was seen at Red Fort indulging in any kind of lawlessness, Amarinder said, adding that even farmers were not responsible for the January 26 trouble, which was, in fact, the doing of anti-social elements who infiltrated the tractor rally. Conduct fair probe, don’t harass farmers: CM “The Centre should also get a free and fair probe conducted into the possible role of any political party, or even a third country as is being alleged by BJP leaders, to ensure that the guilty are punished and the genuine farmers are not unnecessarily maligned or harassed,” he said. Lashing out at the Union Minister for accusing Rahul Gandhi of inciting the violence, Amarinder said, “Did the Congress leader ask anyone to climb Red Fort? He did not. It was BJP and AAP men who did that”. Rahul had promptly condemned the violence and clarified that violence was no solution to the crisis, he said. “These allegations are nothing but a cover-up attempt by the BJP leader for his own party’s role in the violence, and for their utter failure to manage the situation, which they had created in the first place with the unilateral implementation of the black farm laws,” he said. On the Union Minister’s statement that the Punjab government failed to stop farmers from joining the tractor rally, the CM said: “How could I stop peaceful farmers from going to their own national capital to exercise their democratic right of protest?” He said permission for the tractor march was given by Delhi Police and there was no reason for Punjab to prevent farmers from joining the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/javadekar-trying-to-shift-red-fort-blame-on-congress-amarinder-101611830770916.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi government says at least 3 to 5 years needed to upgrade sewage treatment plants to reduce frothing in Yamuna river||The upgradation of sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to "substantially" reduce foaming in the Yamuna will take three to five years, the city government has said.The presence of phosphates and surfactants in untreated sewage from Delhi, Haryana and UP is a major reason behind frothing in the river."The upgradation of all STPs in UP, Haryana and Delhi to treat the wastewater as per the latest standards, which will substantially reduce the problem of foaming (in the Yamuna), will take about three to five years depending upon the availability of funds etc," the government said in an affidavit submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT).It said the delay in tree cutting permission, Covid-19 lockdown, financial hardships and migration of labour slowed down the construction and upgradation of four major sewage treatment plants (STPs) – Kondli, Rithala, Okhla and Coronation Pillar -- in Delhi.The Coronation Pillar STP is to be completed by March 31, while the deadline for Kondli, Rithala and Okhla STPs is December 2022, as per the contract agreement."The STPs at Rithala, Kondli, Coronation Pillar and Okhla with a total capacity of 279 million gallons a day are under rehabilitation/upgradation and likely to be completed by June 2023," the Delhi government said in the affidavit."In case of Rithala and Okhla, the files for tree cutting permissions, complete in all respects, are pending final approval in the Environment and Forest Department since September 23, 2020 and September 29, 2020, respectively," it said.The construction of Coronation Pillar STP slowed down mainly due to the delay in handing over the site, appointment of project management consultant, construction ban imposed by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, Covid-19 lockdown and migration of labour etc, it said.An action plan has already been prepared for the upgradation of the remaining 16 STPs in Delhi, and submitted to NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee.The work will be completed in three to four years subject to availability of land and funds which are beyond the jurisdiction of the DJB, the affidavit read.The government said the "cash flow problem resulted from the exigencies of Covid-19 crisis and were totally un-anticipated and unprecedented."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/need-at-least-3-to-5-years-to-upgrade-sewage-treatment-plants-delhi-government-101611828748878.html
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder writes to PM to include Punjabi in J&K Official Languages Act||Citing Punjab’s historical links with Jammu and Kashmir since Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s time, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention for the inclusion of Punjabi in the official list of languages of the UT. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Amarinder urged him to advise the Union ministry of home affairs to reconsider and review the official list and include Punjabi also as one of the official languages of J&K. Voicing the resentment of the Punjabi community over the exclusion of Punjabi from the list of official languages, he pointed out that J&K was a part of Punjab during the era of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, with Punjabi one of the vernacular languages of the region. When Jammu and Kashmir came into existence as an independent state, Punjabi was a widely spoken language in the state and is now the mother tongue of Punjabis in the Jammu region, besides being spoken by the Punjabi community living in the Kashmir Valley, he wrote. The CM said that under the Jammu and Kashmir Languages Bill, 2020, which was passed by both Houses of Parliament with a voice vote in September 2020, Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi were included in the list of official languages in the UT, in addition to the existing Urdu and English. Unfortunately, Punjabi was not included in the list of languages which are not just official languages now of the UT but will also be taught in schools as compulsory subjects, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-writes-to-pm-to-include-punjabi-in-j-k-official-languages-act-101611825849725.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||K'taka Deputy CM should understand history: Sanjay Raut on Mumbai remarks||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday criticised Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi over his remarks that Mumbai should be made part of his state.Raut said that Savadi should understand the history, and claimed that the Kannada-speaking people residing in Maharashtra want the Marathi-dominated areas in their home state to be included in Maharashtra.Savadi had on Wednesday said that until Mumbai was made part of Karnataka, the central government should declare it as a union territory.Talking to reporters, Raut said there was no need to give importance to the remarks made by Savadi."People can talk, it doesn't affect us. Savadi should understand the history. The boundary dispute with Karnataka is to protect Marathi language and culture," the Shiv Sena MP said."Savadi should come to Mumbai and Maharashtra and ask the Kannada-speaking people, who will tell him that Belgaum and other Marathi-dominated areas in his state should be merged with Maharashtra," Raut claimed.The Maharashtra government provides grant to Kannada schools, libraries and cultural organisations in the state, he said."Does this happen in Belgaum?" he asked.He said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will implement the state's development agenda only.Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belagavi, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending the majority of population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. On its part, as an assertion that Belagavi is an integral part of the state, Karnataka has built the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha, modeled on the Vidhana Soudha, the state secretariat in Bengaluru, where the legislature session is held once a yearMaharashtra chief minister had on Wednesday said areas dominated by Marathi-speaking people on the state's border with Karnataka should be declared as a Union Territory till the Supreme Court gives final verdict on the issue.Meanwhile, when asked about the violence in Delhi on the Republic Day during the farmers' tractor rally, Raut said the police should investigate if those who entered the Red Fort were cultivators."The government wants to crush the farmers' agitation and split them. Those affiliated to the BJP entered the Red fort and created chaos," he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ktaka-deputy-cm-should-understand-history-sanjay-raut-on-mumbai-remarks-101611822244571.html
28-01-2021||Patna||Bihar teachers’ appointment probe: Onus now on teachers to prove bona fides||With Bihar’s vigilance investigation bureau’s (VIB) inability to finish the probe in suspicious teachers’ appointments due to the education department’s failure to provide over one-lakh missing folders, the state government has now shifted the onus of document verification on teachers.The Patna high court, which ordered the vigilance probe in 2015 into appointments made on the basis of forged documents, will hear the matter again in the first week of February. During the hearing earlier this month, the court had expressed its displeasure over the unending probe. It had also threatened action.Following this, director primary education Ranjit Kumar Singh wrote to all the district education officers (DEOs) and district programme officers (DPOs - establishment) about an alternative mechanism for verification of documents of teachers’ appointment made between 2006 and 2015, necessitated due to non-cooperation by many recruiting agencies under the panchayati raj system.The alternative mechanism puts the onus of verification of documents on the teachers, that too, 10-15 years after they joined service. The teachers have to upload the certificates for minimum eligibility required for their recruitment, along with their mark sheets attached with the application and the recruitment letter on a web portal designed for the purpose.The uploading will be done by the office of the DEO within a specific timeframe. The appointments of teachers, whose documents are not uploaded on the portal, will be deemed irregular.“Prime facie, their appointment will be considered illegal and irregular and suitable action will be taken. The teachers will be served show cause notice and their service will be terminated and the process initiated for recovery of salary drawn by them as per the provisions in the public demand recovery act,” said the letter from the director.However, it is silent on how teaching and evaluation by such teachers over the years would be compensated for and what if the teachers, suspected to have been appointed on forged documents, now furnish original documents.Vigilance officials had earlier said that in the absence of a merit list made at the time of recruitment, it would be tough to find out who benefited from forged documents.However, in the fresh recruitment of around 94,000 teachers, cleared by the chief minister following huge protests by aspirants, the department has decided to tread cautiously. “All the documents will be verified before issuing appointment letters. For the new exercise also, all documents will have to be uploaded on the portal,” said Singh.Last month too, the director had written to all DEOs and DPOs – (establishment) to coordinate with the vigilance officials and hand over the desired documents, as the folders of 110,410 teachers were yet to be submitted. But things still did not move in the desired manner.Also Read: Bihar home department makes 1st move to remove dead wood from government officesA total of 3.52 lakh teachers, including 2082 librarians were appointed in Bihar, between 2006 and 2015. Of them 3.11 lakh were elementary teachers, including 1.04 lakh Shiksha Mitras appointed for ₹1500/month honorarium and later elevated to the rank of Panchayat teachers. Maximum cases of forgery are suspected to be in the ranks of elementary teachers.The HC bench of the then chief justice L Narasimha Reddy and justice Sudhir Singh, while ordering a vigilance probe, had observed: "The extent to which the candidates with fake certificates have been appointed as teachers in the past decade is a matter of deep concern. The state government has soft-pedalled the issue for the past one decade…We direct the director general, vigilance, to immediately swing into action and verify the genuineness of certificates of the teachers who have been appointed since 2006.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-teachers-appointment-probe-onus-now-on-teachers-to-prove-bona-fides-101611822342849.html
28-01-2021||Bangalore||JD(S) to back BJP’s anti-cattle slaughter bill in Karnataka||Basavaraj Horatti, the senior Janata Dal (Secular), or JD(S), leader who is likely to be elected as the chairman of the Upper House of the state legislature on Thursday said that he would support all bills by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka, formalising the alliance between the two parties. “If there are important bills, they will be passed,” Horatti said on Thursday. His statement comes a day after the BJP and JD(S) indicated joining hands to oust the Congress out of power in the legislative council. “BJP and JD(S) together have a majority so there is no question of defeating the bills,” he said, adding that he will support the anti-cattle slaughter bill “100%”. Also Read: CM Yediyurappa braces for stormy Karnataka assembly sessionPrabhu B Chauhan, Karnataka’s minister for animal husbandry, said that the government is aiming to get this bill passed in the state during this session. The government managed to pass the anti-cattle slaughter bill in the Lower House but it is yet to be taken up in the Upper House. The BS Yediyurappa-led state government has already promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance that widens the existing provisions for punishment on killing of cattle and offers protection to those “acting in good faith” to save them. The Congress said that the JD(S) is a party of convenience and their decision to support the bill will deal a heavy blow to the state’s farming community. “We oppose this blanket ban on cattle slaughter as it will be a big blow to the farmers who look at it as an alternative mode of income,” Rizwan Arshad, the legislator from Shivajinagar in Bengaluru, said. He added that JD(S), which calls itself a party with “farmer focus”, will be exposed before their core support base.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/jds-to-back-bjp-s-anti-cattle-slaughter-bill-in-karnataka-101611822009716.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||At 15.2°C, Mumbai records lowest temperature of the year||Mumbai woke up to a chill in the air as the temperature dropped further owing to northern winds blowing into the state. At 15.2 degrees Celsius, Mumbai experienced the year’s coldest morning on Thursday, 0.1 degree below Wednesday’s temperature. The Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 15.2 degrees Celsius, which was 2.3 degrees below normal. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature at Santacruz was 15.3 degrees Celsius. Before that, the lowest minimum temperature of the season was 15 degrees Celsius on December 29 last year. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 17.6 degrees Celsius, which was 1.9 degrees below normal. Also Read: Mumbai Metro: Fadnavis, Congress leaders engage in war of words over ‘delay’The drop in temperature was in line with the forecast by IMD. “Minimum temperatures in and around Mumbai were expected to drop owing to cold winds from the north,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD.Meanwhile air quality improved marginally on Thursday with an overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator—of 293 (poor). Over the past weekend, air quality had plummeted to the “very poor” category with AQI measuring 320 on Saturday and 310 on Sunday but improved to 283 (poor) on Monday. It had deteriorated to 305 (very poor) on Wednesday. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. The poor air quality is because of dust storms coming in from the deserts as well as the cold conditions which trap pollutants in the air, said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-15-2-c-mumbai-records-lowest-temperature-of-the-year-101611820029270.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||DMRC opens Lal Quila, Jama Masjid Metro station gates||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) opened the entry and exit gates of the Lal Quila and Jama Masjid Metro stations on Thursday. They have confirmed that all stations had been opened and normal services had been resumed on all lines.After the violent turn of events at the farmers' tractor parade on Republic day, the corporation had closed the entry and exit gates of several Metro stations."Entry/exit gates of Lal Quila & Jama Masjid metro stations are open. All stations are open. Normal services on all lines," the DMRC said as per news agency ANI.What was supposed to be a peaceful demonstration of dissent against the Centre's three farm bills turned violent on Republic Day when a group of protestors rammed through police barricades with their tractors, injuring at least 394 police personnel, and made their way to the Red Fort. They hoisted religious flags from the Fort's ramparts but did not take down the national flag while doing so.The Delhi Police have registered at least 25 cases with 19 arrested and 50 detained in connection with the violence on Republic Day. Farm leaders like Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, social activist Medha Patkar and Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait (BKU-Tikait) leader Rakesh Tikait were named in one of the FIRs.The FIRs mentioned that they had “a pre-planned objective of not following the mutually agreed route and timing of their rally” and “disrupting the Republic Day parade”.Farm unions have called off their march to Parliament as a result of the violence that ensued on TuesdayThe Republic Day tractor parade was planned as a peaceful demonstration against the Centre's three farm laws against which farmers have been protesting around the national capital for several weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-opens-lal-quila-jama-masjid-metro-station-gates-101611816423279.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 1st rake for Metro-2A arrives; CM to unveil it on Friday||The first Metro rake (train) for line 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) reached Mumbai on Thursday morning. The rake will be unveiled in the city by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday at the Charkop depot, officials said. The first indigenously manufactured rake in the country, the train was dispatched from the Bharat Earth Movers Limited manufacturing unit on January 24. Also read | Mumbai Metro-5 corridor to be complete by December 2024: MMRDAAccording to officials, the trial runs for Metro-2A and 7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) will begin in March and operations are expected to start from May. Mumbai has only one Metro line -- an 11.5km Metro-1 connecting the suburbs of Andheri, Ghatkopar and Versova. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority has prepared a road map for establishing 337 kms of Metro lines in the metropolitan region by 2026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-1st-rake-for-metro-2a-arrives-cm-to-unveil-it-on-friday-101611818349133.html
28-01-2021||Bhopal||MP high court rejects stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui’s bail application||Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court on Thursday rejected bail application of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui and co-accused Nalin Yadav. They were arrested on January 1 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments and violating Covid-19 protocol during a New Year event during a show in Indore.Faruqui was arrested on January 1 on the complaint of Hindu Rakshak Sangathan convener Eklavya Singh Gaud, who is also a son of BJP MLA Malini Singh Gaud, in Indore just before he was about to start his performance at a local restaurant.He has been in jail since January 2 along with the four other co-accused. The court heard his bail application on January 25 and reserved the order on merit.Rejecting the bail application, a single-bench of judge Rohit Arya observed that “In the light of statements of the complainant and the witnesses referred above, the seized articles via video footage of the show and the seizures memo detailed above, at this stage, it is difficult to countenance to the submission of the learned counsel for the applicant as complacency of the applicant cannot be ruled out, besides vulnerability of his acts in public domain. It is no case of no evidence. More so, the investigation is in progress. The possibility of collection of more incriminating material and complacency of other persons cannot also be ruled out. Further, it has come on record that similar nature offence has been registered against the applicant at a police station in Prayagraj, UP.”Also read | Why Munawar Faruqui matters | HT Editorial“That apart, there is also specific assertion by the learned counsel for the complainant that the applicant along with other co-accused persons allegedly made filthy jokes in social media deliberately against Hindu Gods, Lord Shri Ram and Goddess Seeta, hurting religious sentiments of Hindus for the past 18 months, despite protest on various social media platforms. There is nothing contrary on record,” the order reads.“Be that as it may, this court refrains from commenting upon contentions of the parties touching on merits but regard being had to material seized and the statements of witnesses and that the investigation is in progress, no case is made out for grant of bail. Both the cases stand dismissed,” said the order.Faruqui’s advocate Anshuman Shrivastava said, “We believe in our law and judiciary and will decide the future course of action accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-high-court-rejects-stand-up-comedian-of-munawar-faruqui-s-bail-application-101611817509251.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||R-Day violence unfortunate, but farm laws still an issue: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the January 26 violence in Delhi was “unfortunate”, even as he maintained that the incident does not put an end to the concerns regarding the three contentious farm laws against which farmers across several states have been protesting. On Republic Day, farmer groups had clashed with police in several part of the city including the ITO intersection and the iconic Red Fort.“Farmers are distressed. Every party has cheated farmers for years. Now, it has become a question of existence for farmers after the government passed the three contentious farm laws… What happened on January 26 was unfortunate. Those who are actually guilty should be punished. I emphasise the word ‘actually’… But that incident does not put an end to the protest. The concerns still exist and we should all support farmers in a peaceful way. We cannot be a happy nation with unhappy farmers,” said Kejriwal, addressing party members at the AAP national council meet in Delhi’s Kapashera.Also Read: AAP to contest elections in 6 states, says Arvind KejriwalOn Tuesday (January 26), the party had condemned the violence. On Wednesday, the AAP and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused each other for the violence. Both parties alleged that supporters of the other were involved in provoking farmers and instigating violence.The violence left hundreds injured, including at least 394 police officials. It has so far led to 25 cases and the FIRs mention several farm union leaders. The violence took place after farmer groups organised a tractor rally – to coincide with Republic Day celebrations – on Tuesday, as part of a larger ongoing protest against the three contentious farm laws. The clashes happened when the groups deviated from the designated routes and marched towards central points such as India Gate and Red Fort.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The AAP had voted against the three laws in both Houses of the Parliament when they were passed in September.The AAP has also been helping the farmers who have gathered at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and several other border points in Delhi with basic amenities ranging from tents and food to free WiFi internet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-violence-unfortunate-but-farm-laws-still-an-issue-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101611816609141.html
28-01-2021||Patna||No respite for Bihar from cold conditions till weekend: Weather department||Bihar residents are unlikely to get respite from fog and cold condition this weekend owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions, as per the meteorological department.Maximum temperature in the state witnessed an average fall of 6°C to 8°C as foggy morning followed by partial sunshine in noon continued for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, making the residents weary.Meteorologists at Patna MeT centre confirmed that cold day condition was reported in Gaya, Supaul and Darbhanga during the past 24 hours while dense fog prevailed at Patna, Gaya, Forbesganj and Supual.As per the daily weather bulletin, Patna and Gaya recorded a maximum temperature of 16.1°C and 16.8°C respectively, eight notches below the season’s normal for both cities while Purnea and Bhagalpur districts recorded a fall of temperature by six notches.Dehri remained the coldest district in the state with the lowest minimum temperature of 5.5°C, while Gaya recorded 6.6°C, Purnea 8.6, Bhagalpur 8.8°C and Darbhanga 9.5°C.According to the weather forecast, moderate to dense fog is likely to prevail till January 31.“Due to foggy morning and light intensity of sunlight, maximum temperature dipped by eight degrees in the state. As per today’s weather numerical model, a cyclonic circulation has formed over south Assam & neighbourhood extending up to 2.1 km above mean sea level, while a fresh western disturbance is likely to affect western Himalayan region from February 1 onwards. Under the influence, cold condition is likely in south Bihar and no significant rise in day temperature is likely in coming two to three days,” according to the forecast by the weather department.Meanwhile, Patna registered poor air quality with an index value of 227 while Gaya and Muzaffarpur recorded moderate air quality with an index value of 128 and 190 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-respite-for-bihar-from-cold-conditions-till-weekend-weather-department-101611816010489.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||On farmers' tractor rally violence, Arvind Kejriwal says ‘incident doesn’t end protest'||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that those guilty of causing violence in the national capital during farmers’ Republic Day tractor parade must be punished and said that the incident was unfortunate. However, he said that incident does not put an end to the protest against the agricultural laws enacted by the Centre in September last year and urged for support to the farmers in a peaceful manner."What happened on January 26 was unfortunate. Those who are actually guilty should be punished. But that incident does not put an end to the protest. The concerns still exist and we should all support farmers in this in peaceful way. We cannot be a happy nation with unhappy farmers," Kejriwal said at the Aam Aadmi party’s national council meeting in Delhi.Follow latest updates on farm stir hereThe chief minister’s remarks come as massive clashes between the protesters and police broke out on Tuesday as the former breached the agreement to follow pre-decided routes for the rally and entered central Delhi despite the cops warning them against it.The farmers also kicked off their rally almost an hour before the scheduled time of 12noon and broke police barricades on being stopped. The farmers also stormed the Red Fort and unfurled a religious flag 'Nishan Sahib' on the monument causing a major stir. A video of them chasing the cops in the ITO area of the Capital also went viral.Also Read| Tractor rally violence: Centre provoked farmers, says Shiv Sena's SaamanaThe police fired multiple rounds of tear gas at the protesting farmers. A protester died and several policemen were injured during the clashes. Many farmers leaders and unions disassociated themselves from the tractor rally after it took a violent turn. The protesting farmers’ unruly behaviour during the rally has drawn flak following which one faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union has withdrawn from the two-month long agitation.Also Read: Jan 26 violence a conspiracy, says SAD; demands international inquiryFollowing the chaos on January 26, the farmers have called off their march to Parliament on February 1, however, they’ve said that their protest against the legislation cleared by the Centre during monsoon session of Parliament will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-farmers-tractor-rally-violence-arvind-kejriwal-says-incident-doesn-t-end-protest-101611814859164.html
28-01-2021||Bangalore||CM Yediyurappa braces for stormy Karnataka assembly session||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa is likely to be in for a stormy session of the state legislature that begins on Thursday as opposition parties gear to corner the government over the farm, industrial and labour laws, illegal mining, regulations on cow slaughter and performance of the administration.The session follows the unrest within Yediyurappa’s Cabinet. Several leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have publicly expressed their displeasure for either being overlooked for Cabinet berths or allocated undesirable portfolios. Yediyurappa, 77, had to reshuffle portfolios four times in five days to calm tempers.“There are issues of corruption, infighting that is affecting governance, Covid-19 response and farm laws...,” said an opposition Congress leader. “We are going to protest during the governor’s address itself.”Also Read: SC stays arrest of Yediyurappa in 2012 forgery caseThe session will start with governor Vajubhai Vala’s address to the assembly.The Supreme Court on Wednesday admitted a petition filed by Yediyurappa and minister Murugesh Nirani against a Karnataka high court order allowing restoration of a criminal case against them in the alleged illegal land de-notification matter.The Congress is also likely to protest the decision against holding the session in Belagavi, about 500 km from Bengaluru. The winter session of the Karnataka legislature is held mostly in Belagavi to focus on issues from the northern parts of the state. This is also part of Karnataka’s strategy to thwart any attempts by neighbouring Maharashtra to claim the district.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackerey on Wednesday raked up the border row. He said the disputed regions should be declared Union territories until the issue is resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cm-yediyurappa-braces-for-stormy-karnataka-assembly-session-101611815109578.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Tractor rally violence: Centre provoked farmers, says Shiv Sena's Saamana||Shiv Sena on Thursday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government, with an aim to discredit farmers’ peaceful protest against the three new farm laws, provoked them to commit violence. In an editorial in Saamana, Sena said that nobody supports the violence that erupted in the national Capital on Republic Day but the farmers alone can’t be blamed for it.Farmers participating in the January 26 tractor rally broke the police barricades and entered Delhi, going right up to Red Fort.“For the last 60 days, the farmers’ movement has been going on in a peaceful manner seeking repeal of three agricultural laws that are opposed to the interests of the country’s farmers. Despite this, there was no split in the movement. Despite being called Khalistani, the farmers remained calm,” the editorial said.It added , it was the “desire of the government to discredit the movement by provoking the farmers to commit violence. If it had fulfilled its desire on January 26, then it has brought the country disrepute. It is easy to say that farmers took law in their hands.”“The crowd which gathered at the Red Fort was led by a young man named Deep Sidhu. It has been revealed that Sidhu belongs to the camp of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah. He is also an aide of BJP’s Punjab MP, Sunny Deol. Farmer leaders like Rajesh Tikait say that Sidhu had been talking about revolt and separatism for the past two months while addressing the crowds,” the editorial said.Also read | Cops register 25 cases after violence on Republic DayThe Sena mouthpiece added that the tricolour at Red Fort was untouched, unlike what the “BJP-backed media” was saying. “BJP-backed media started shouting that agitating farmers insulted the tricolour. But no one put a hand on the tricolour. A religious flag was hoisted on the second dome of the Red Fort, no one is ready to show this truth,” it said.It added that those who attacked the police should be apprehended and prosecuted. The government should deal strictly with those taking on the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tractor-rally-violence-centre-provoked-farmers-says-sena-101611814389253.html
28-01-2021||Patna||Bihar home department makes 1st move to remove dead wood from government offices||In keeping with Nitish Kumar government’s announcement in July last year to compulsorily retire inefficient government employees over 50 years of age, the state home ministry, headed by the chief minister, has taken the lead and set up high-level committees to implement the order in its own jurisdiction.The first committee to be headed by the additional chief secretary of the home department will deal with Group-A employees. The committee also comprises secretary, special secretary and the home department’s chief vigilance official.The second committee, to be headed by secretary of the home department, will identify the dead wood from amongst the Group B, C and D employees. It will also comprise joint secretary-cum-chief vigilance official and the additional secretary.The meetings of the committee will be called every year in June and December to deliberate on the proposals to retire identified officials in the light of the notification issued last year by the general administrative department (GAD). All the offices and directorates under the home department have also been asked to set up such committees at their level.Last year, GAD had asked the departments to hold a yearly screening committee meeting to review performance of officials and employees above 50 years of age, to find those unfit to discharge their duties or to remain in service.The notification stated that the decision on compulsory retirement would also take into consideration the work done by the employees in the past years. However, it had generated a lot of political heat ahead of elections, with the Opposition making it a big issue. It remains to be seen how other departments act on the notification issued last year.Taking a serious note of poor results in matric and intermediate exams in 2017, the government had announced to compulsorily retire non-performing headmasters, teachers and education department officials above the age of 50 years. However, it was not implemented on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-home-department-makes-1st-move-to-remove-dead-wood-from-government-offices-101611813203907.html
28-01-2021||Other||Why Kerala is reporting nearly half of India’s Covid-19 cases||Up to 44% of Covid-19 cases in India have of late been reported from Kerala, which was once cited as the role model for management of the disease. Kerala health ministry statistics show that the state’s Covid-19 positivity rate is five times the national average.Most states are reporting Covid cases as low as the May-June levels. But in Kerala, intensive care unit (ICU) beds in several hospitals are almost full. According to the ministry, there are 3,050 ICU beds -- 1,200 in government hospitals and 1,850 in the private sector --- and of them about 90% are occupied.“As of now, the situation is under control but if the situation aggravates the health ministry will have to find other alternatives like makeshift hospitals for Covid patients,” said health expert Dr SS Lal.Also Read: 70% of India’s Covid-19 cases from Maharashtra, Kerala: Harsh VardhanHealth experts blamed the over-confidence of the state government and its over-dependence on antigen tests, considered to be less accurate, than the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests believed to be the gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis, for the rising number of cases and high positivity rate. Worse, they say, the state is still flaunting old records to paint a rosy picture.“The state failed to go after the virus, but it went after records of the pandemic. The situation is serious. We have been warning the government about it for quite some time,” said Lal, a US-returned public health expert, adding the state was paying the price for ignoring early warnings.Statistics show that the situation has turned serious in the last three months. Covid-19 cases started to rise after a brief lull in October (called the second wave). The average test positivity rate (TPR) rose to 13% and on October 13 it went up to 18.16%. In November, the TPR came down to 8% and in December it went up to 9%, shows the ministry data.In the second half of January, the cases started rising again with the TPR increasing to 12.48% on January 25 from 10.88 in mid-January.As the positivity rate rose, the number of active Covid cases also increased. Average active cases in the last three months were between 65,000 and 70,000, statistics show. On Wednesday, the active caseload was 71,607.According to the Union health ministry, out of the 20 worst-affected Covid districts, 12 are in Kerala now.Ernakulam and Kozhikode top the state in Covid-19 cases. The Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s Kerala chapter has asked the state government to take stringent measures in Ernakualm including a lockdown to check the spread. The state government appears to be reluctant because it could impact upcoming assembly polls, which are three months away and has rejected the demand.“The state is treading dangerously and some districts like Ernakulam need strict measures including a lockdown,” said IMA Kerala president PT Zacarias. “Situation is really fluid. Some people behave as if with the arrival of vaccine, everything is normal now,” said S Mini, a nurse at Ernakulam district hospital.The only silver lining is the low mortality rate. “We need a genetic study to find out whether in Kerala a less lethal strain has developed which is not causing many deaths but the infection is spreading faster,” said public health expert and epidemiologist Dr B Raman Kutty.Experts, however, alleged fudging and under-reporting of cases and deaths. “Total deaths are 3,643 as on Tuesday. Since December first week I collected data from government and private hospitals and health volunteers and posted a difference every day on social media. According to my estimate, Covid-19 deaths will be at least thrice the official tally,” said Dr NM Arun, an internal medicine expert who has studied Covid-19 deaths extensively.A government doctor at Thiruvananthapuram medical college, who did not want to be named, admitted that there was a huge disparity in official tally and the ground situation. Even the names of a legislator and a youth leader, who died of post-Covid-19 complications, did not figure on the official mortality list. Health ministry officials said they were Covid-19 negative during their last days.“We have a standard protocol, and we enumerate deaths based on this. We agree some deaths failed to figure in the official list,” said a health official, debunking claims of data fudging.Lal said dependence on unreliable and cheap antigen tests despite repeated directives from the Union health ministry was the reason for this rise in cases.A close look at the Covid dashboard shows that out of 9,289,304 tests conducted till Monday, antigen tests accounted for 66%. In neighbouring Tamil Nadu, all 15.2 million crore tests were RT-PCR tests. In Karnataka, 70% of close to 18 million tests were RT-PCR tests.Health experts say antigen tests are only 50% sensitive while RT-PCR 90%.“It seems home quarantine of those who came from outside did not work and the virus started spreading in the community. The state surveillance machinery either failed to detect this or ignored it. There were tell-tale signs of community spread and the state should have taken those warning signs seriously,” said G Pramod Kumar, a former senior advisor to the United National Development Programme.State health minister KK Shailaja said it was wrong to blame the government alone for the surge in cases. “We admit cases are on the rise. Our intervention delayed the peak and we kept strict tabs on the mortality rate,” she said, adding the year-end festive season and local body elections were responsible for the rise.“We can’t remain in lockdown ever; life has to go on. We have streamlined our measures again. We have strengthened our surveillance and contact raising. We hope the surge will be contained by next month,” she said.But experts said going by the present infection rate, it will take two-three more months to subside.As cases pile up, a worried state government has launched a fresh programme, Back to Basics, to tide over the crisis. The Union health ministry has asked the state government to scale up tests before it gets out of control. Since almost all sectors have opened up, it will be difficult for the government to impose another lockdown now.What worries health experts is that this particular wave of infections is showing no downward trend in the state with a high population density (859 people per sqkm) and a large number of elderly (at least 15% of the population are above 60 years of age). A study conducted by CADI (Coronary Artery Disease among Indian Asians) has shown that Kerala’s diabetes prevalence is 20% against the national average of 8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-kerala-is-reporting-nearly-half-of-india-s-covid-19-cases-101611813368890.html
28-01-2021||Patna||Congress in charge for Bihar meets party workers during padyatra to revive party||All India Congress Committee (AICC) in charge of Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, held meetings with party leaders and workers in Vaishali and Muzaffarpur on Wednesday to seek feedback on refurbishing the party's image in the state.Das is on a 12-day padyatra to read the pulse of party workers and the people’s mood before framing a revival strategy for the Congress in Bihar. Talking to media persons, Das made it clear that he wanted to see the Congress regain its past glory in the state and not be an also ran contestant.The latest programme also assumes considerable significance since Das had hinted that the state party unit would be revamped and important party leaders with mass support would be given prime positions in the organisation. About a dozen AICC delegates from Telangana, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have also been roped in to collect feedback on prominent faces of the party before the reshuffle.Beginning his drive on Tuesday, Das led a padyatra-cum-tractor march of party workers and farmers sympathising with the Congress in Bikram sub-division of Patna. Local legislator Siddharth had organised the programme to support farmers’ agitation against the farm laws and the tractor rally in the national capital on the Republic Day.Also Read: Bihar BJP spokesperson shot at in Munger; 1 arrestedDas and senior party leaders including Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha will go to Champaran on Thursday to oversee the preparation for Padyatra to mark the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on January 30. The padyatra will start from Murli Bhairwa and end at Bhitiharwa. The party leaders will also meet the family members of freedom fighters, who supported Mahatma Gandhi during the Champaran Satyagraha.Soon after his arrival from Delhi on January 25, Das held close door meeting with senior party leaders like former Congress legislature party leader and stalwart Sadanand Singh, former governor Nikhil Kumar, MLC and AICC media panellist Prem Chandra Mishra, former MLC Ajay Kumar and working presidents such as Shyam Sundar Singh Dheeraj and discussed the state of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/congress-in-charge-for-bihar-meets-party-workers-during-padyatra-to-revive-party-101611811621944.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi police registers case against banned outfit Sikhs for Justice under UAPA||Delhi Police has registered a case against the banned organisation Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) under relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and other sections of IPC for provoking people for Referendum-2020, demanding a separate Sikh state.According to Delhi Police, the case has been registered by the Special Cell in the third week of January 2021.The secessionist outfit SFJ, formed in 2007, is a US-based group seeking a separate homeland for Sikhs - a "Khalistan" in Punjab.Earlier in December 2020, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed a charge sheet against 10 accused, including designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, at a special NIA court in Mohali in connection with a case related to violence by SFJ.The case pertains to a series of acts of violence, including arson in Punjab during 2017-18, carrying out propaganda activities, both online and on-ground, in support of the SFJ and Referendum-2020.According to the NIA, the charge sheet was filed against Pargat Singh, Sukhraj Singh, Bikramjit Singh, Manjeet Singh, Jatinder Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Harpreet Singh, Kuldeep Singh and Harmeet Singh, apart from Pannun.The charge sheet was filed under several sections of the IPC and UAPA on charges related to criminal conspiracy and sedition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-registers-case-against-banned-outfit-sikhs-for-justice-under-uapa-101611809908765.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Mild earthquake of 2.8 magnitude hits Delhi||An earthquake measuring 2.8 on the Richter scale occurred today at 9.17am with its epicentre in west Delhi at latitude 28.66N and longitude 77.13E with depth of 15km.“It was a minor earthquake, so tremors were not felt everywhere. We are investigating the fault lines around west Delhi,” said JL Gautam, head, (operations) at National Centre for Seismology (NCS).NCS is carrying out a geophysical survey, analysis and interpretation of satellite imageries and geological field investigations for accurate assessment of seismic hazard in Delhi. The National Capital Region of Delhi experienced four earthquakes during April – August 2020. The epicentre of those events was in three different areas—north-east Delhi border, about 15km south-east of Rohtak (Haryana) and about 17km east of Faridabad (Haryana).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mild-earthquake-of-2-8-magnitude-hits-delhi-101611810608502.html
28-01-2021||Lucknow||UP to cover 4.80 lakh health workers in 3rd and 4th round of Covid vaccination||The Uttar Pradesh government plans to cover 4.80 lakh healthcare workers in the third and fourth rounds of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, to be carried out across the state on January 28 and 29 respectively.The state health and family welfare department stated that 2.60 lakh healthcare workers will be vaccinated during 2,303 sessions between 9 am to 5 pm on January 28; whereas, 2.20 lakh healthcare workers will be given the vaccine doses in 2,100 vaccine sessions organised in the 75 districts on January 29 during the same hours.CM Yogi Adityanath has asked for the completion of healthcare workers’ vaccination on schedule, said additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal.The state government has decided to cover vaccination for all healthcare workers in the state on four days-- January 28 and 29, February 4 and 5. The vaccination of the frontline workers will commence from February 11.During Covid vaccination drive held on January 16, the health department could vaccinate only 22,643 healthcare workers against the target of 31,700. Again on January 22, 1.01 lakh health workers were given vaccine jabs against the target of 1.50 lakh. The health workers who missed the dose in the earlier two rounds can avail the jab in the coming rounds.Before the launch of the first round of vaccination on January 16, Uttar Pradesh had received a consignment of 1,055,500 Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin doses.Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the health department has completed preparations for completing the vaccination of the healthcare workers in four rounds. We have adequate vaccines in the cold chains across the state; the vaccinators are trained; the vaccination centers are equipped; the data of the health workers has been updated on the CoWin portal, he said.Also Read: Priyanka Gandhi reconnects with Amethi, plans public meeting next monthAdditional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said, in the last 24 hours 173 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, while 333 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery.At present, there are 6,368 active Covid-19 cases in the state, including 1,706 patients, who are in home isolation. Four deaths have been reported in the last twenty four hours, taking the death toll to 8,636. Two deaths have been reported from Lucknow, while one death each has been reported from Prayagraj and Rampur, Sehgal said.He said, 1.03 lakh samples were tested on Tuesday taking the total test tally to 2.74 crore. The health workers have surveyed 15.24 crore people across the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-cover-4-80-lakh-health-workers-in-3rd-and-4th-round-of-covid-vaccination-101611810039140.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Cold wave in Delhi, minimum drops to 3.8 degrees Celsius||A cold wave gripped the national capital on Thursday as the minimum temperature dropped to 3.8 degrees Celsius due to cold, dry westerly winds barreling through the plains, the India Meteorological Department said.In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less.A cold wave had swept the city on Tuesday, too, with the minimum temperature dropping to 2.1 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal.An IMD official said cold wave conditions are likely on Friday as well. The minimum temperature is predicted to settle around four degrees Celsius. Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month.On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cold-wave-in-delhi-minimum-drops-to-3-8-degrees-celsius-101611810054034.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi doctor takes Covid-19 vaccine shot, angry wife says ‘why couldn’t you take me along’||A video of a senior Delhi doctor, who received the Covid-19 shot earlier this week, having a conversation with his wife on phone has been doing the rounds on social media and has left tweeples in splits.While Padma Shri Dr KK Aggarwal was doing a live video session, he can be heard on a call with his wife who was irked because the cardiologist took the vaccine dose and did not take her along. “Why didn’t you take me with you? This is not done… Don’t lie to me,” she is heard saying.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The doctor explained to his wife that she’ll get vaccinated on Monday and that he had only gone to check when they’ll get vaccinated but got to know that he could get it done then itself. "Main pata karne gaya tha aap logon ka, vo keh rahe the 'khaali hai, lagwa lo', toh maine lagwa li (I just went to check. They said you can get it done. So I got it)," he said.Aggarwal repeatedly told her that he was live so he would call her in a bit but his unimpressed wife responded, “"Main abhi live aa ke tumhari aisi ki taisi karti hoon (I'll come live right now and see you)."Dr KK Aggarwal(a very prominent doctor often seen on TV)went to get☝ vaccination with his secretary but without his wife😄😄Remember to take your wife along for vaccination... and if not, dont go LIVE before reaching home 😜 pic.twitter.com/XrbHQzRTo3As the clipping has gone viral, the senior physician issued a statement on Facebook saying, “I am aware of a video of myself that is doing rounds and I am glad I provide people with a moment of levity in these tough times, after all laughter is the best medicine. While you have enjoyed a laugh at my expense, at something which was nothing but my wife's concern towards my health and safety."He also urged everyone to take the vaccine they get a chance. “I am happy to learn that this episode educated millions in the importance of the vaccine, something that has been my mission as a doctor. I truly believe and I am sure all of you will agree that not taking the vaccine is a bigger laughing matter,” he wrote in the statement.#GetVaccinated #COVID19In the first phase of India’s vaccination drive, nearly 30 million health and frontline workers are expected to be immunised against the coronavirus disease while in the second phase those above 50 years of age, and those below 50 years of age with comorbidities or with a high risk of infection will be administered the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-doctor-takes-covid-19-vaccine-shot-angry-wife-says-why-couldn-t-you-take-me-along-101611808415708.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: State govt prosecutor hiding relevant info, cops tell SC||Delhi Police on Wednesday alleged before the Supreme Court that a city government prosecutor had been deliberately hiding relevant information from the department about the February 2020 Delhi riots cases, resulting in the grant of bail to an accused. Even as the top court sought to steer clear of controversy, a new chapter unfolded in the Delhi Police versus Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government saga before a bench led by justice Ashok Bhushan when the police claimed that one of the accused in the riots cases got out on bail because the prosecutor withheld the information about the case before the high court. Also Read: 700 victims of Delhi riots file claims for damagesAdditional solicitor general (ASG) Vikramjeet Banerjee, appearing for the police, complained that the city government’s additional public prosecutor was well aware that the Central government had appointed special counsel to deal with the Delhi riots cases, but the former chose not to communicate this to the investigating agency when bail petition of the accused, one Iliyas, came up for hearing. Challenging the bail order of August 25, 2020, the ASG added: “It is a completely strange situation where the additional public prosecutor does not communicate it to the police officials attached with the high court and instead he makes a wrong statement that he had informed a deputy commissioner of police about it.” He added: “My lords are well aware about the situations in Delhi. Here, the special prosecutor is not even informed and the high court also gives bail to the accused without issuing a notice to the special prosecutor.” The petition, filed by the Delhi Police, had alleged that the city government’s prosecutor “withheld” the information from the investigating agency, appeared in the matter without authorisation and made statements which led to a propitious order for the accused in question. According to the Delhi Police, this was not an isolated incident and the same prosecutor had been acting in this manner in other cases too wherein he had not intimated either the special prosecutor or the police officials present in the high court. Banerjee also submitted that the two police officers have filed their personal affidavits to state that they were not informed about the bail hearing of Iliyas, who has been booked under charges of attempted murder, rioting and arson in a first information report lodged at Dayal Pur police station. The ASG also called the high court order “strange” as it failed to take into account the charge sheet filed against the accused and the presence of several pieces incriminating evidence against him. The bench, however, told Banerjee that the correct course of action for the Delhi Police would be to persuade the high court to review its order and seek a cancellation there. “We have a limited scope here. We cannot entertain your petition here. You should persuade the high court to review its order. It shall also be open for you to seek cancellation of the bail,” the bench, which also included justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, told the ASG. The order then recorded: “We do not find any ground to entertain this special leave petition. The special leave petition is dismissed. We, however, observe that it shall be open for the prosecution to make an application for cancellation of bail, if appropriate grounds are made out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-state-govt-prosecutor-hiding-relevant-info-cops-tell-sc-101611809288821.html
28-01-2021||Lucknow||Bird Flu: Over 7,100 birds culled in UP’s biggest-ever operation since 2013||Mass culling of poultry birds was carried out in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday even as half a dozen other wild birds tested positive for the disease in the Deoria district.In what was being said to be the third and the biggest culling operation in UP since 2013, a total of 7,177 birds were killed after some of them tested positive for avian influenza. Of these, 7,122 were poultry birds, 49 were ducks and six were pigeons.“We had to cull more than 7,100 birds, mostly poultry, within one km radius from the epicentre, as per the government’s guidelines, after some birds were found infected in Lakhimpur Kheri on January 26,” said RP Singh, director, animal husbandry (animal diseases).“As per the guidelines, once infection is confirmed in birds at an epicentre, all birds within 1 km radius from that place are killed to arrest the spread of the disease,” he explained.In this case Mohammadi town was found to be the epicentre of the bird flu.Twelve vehicles equipped with audio systems made continuous announcements about the operation and appealed to locals for cooperation, said district chief veterinary officer TK Tiwari, who along with sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Shwati Shukla, led the entire operation.“We convinced people in a way that we did not face any resistance from them. On the contrary, people started offering their bird to us for culling,” he said.Explaining the process of culling, Saket Yadav, a doctor, said, the birds were first sedated with a medicine and then decapitated, after which the dead birds were put into special poly bags and buried deep into the ground with layers of lime and salt, as per the guidelines.Barring 177 poultry birds, which were domestic, all other poultry birds culled in the state’s biggest bird flu culling operation were from poultry farms.Prior to this, culling of poultry birds was done on a very small scale in Sherpur area in Pilibhit district and wild birds were culled in Kanpur zoo earlier this month. The first operation to cull poultry birds due to avian influenza was said to have been launched in 2013.Also Read: Bird flu confirmed at third poultry farm in Dera BassiA few days ago, traces of avian influenza were also found in some wild birds in Deoria district, creating a scare. “We sent samples of some sick wild birds for testing. Half a dozen crows and one heron were found to be infected with bird flu,” said RP Singh.He said random samples of birds from various districts were being sent regularly to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly.“But the positivity rate in UP is still very low,” he added.The state government had banned import of all live birds from other states through a notification on January 20. But it rolled back the ban after a week following the Central government’s advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bird-flu-over-7-100-birds-culled-in-up-s-biggest-ever-operation-since-2013-101611808340138.html
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Deep Sidhu surfaces on Facebook, objects to being called traitor||Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who was chased away from Singhu border after the Red Fort violence on Republic Day, surfaced with a Facebook Live at 2am on Thursday to say that he’s “very much near the Delhi border” and objected to farmer leaders calling him a gaddar (traitor) for derailing the two-month-long agitation against the Centre’s farm laws.“I’m not a gaddar. I didn’t lead people to the Red Fort. This was the decision of the public who had come all the way from Punjab to protest. Nobody was leading them,” said the 36-year-old, going live on Facebook.Also read: Republic Day violence: FIRs, blame-game, infighting mar farmers’ protestHe said farmer union leaders who had called him a traitor should be ashamed as they are doing the government’s bidding. “The farmer union leaders should have supported the people unfurling the farmer’s and Khalsa flag at Red Fort because it was done only and only to mark our protest in this fight. The Tricolour was not demeaned, and there was no violence till I was there. Their support for what the public did at the Red Fort would have pressurised the government to repeal the black (farm) laws,” Sidhu said. “They should have conveyed to the government that if the farmers can reach Red Fort, they can do anything in protest,” he said.FARMER LEADERS INSTIGATED PEOPLE: SIDHU The actor said the farmer leaders had called the public to Delhi by giving instigating speeches from stages. “They even said they will hit Delhi to open the eyes and ears of the Centre,” he said.“The mood of the people was to reach inside Delhi, and they did it. The so-called peaceful marches by the farmer leaders had few participants on tractors. However, lakhs of people were inside Delhi,” the actor said.He said he reached Red Fort when thousands of people were already there.Sidhu, who was reportedly chased away by farm union activists at Singhu border after the violence at Red Fort, said he was “very much near Singhu border and those who chased him are loyalists of the farmer leaders”.TAKES ON FARMER LEADERS FOR CALLING HIM RSS AGENT “Farmer union leaders had been claiming that Sidhu has no support and now they say I instigated and led people to enter Delhi. If I was so unpopular how I could lead so many people?”The actor also took on the farmer leaders for calling him an agent of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). “If those who reached Red Fort were RSS men, who were they who called the public to Delhi and followed the routes dictated by the Centre?” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deep-sidhu-surfaces-on-fb-objects-to-being-called-traitor-101611808388727.html
28-01-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi reconnects with Amethi, plans public meeting next month||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra held a virtual convention on Wednesday to reconnect with residents of Amethi, once a Gandhi family bastion, which was lost to the BJP in 2019 Lok Sabha elections.This was the first time in recent months that Priyanka Gandhi addressed a ‘Nyay Panchayat’ convention, held in the Jamon block of Amethi, with the purpose to rebuild and strengthen the party organisation at the grassroots level.Despite her brother and senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi losing the Amethi seat to Union minister Smriti Irani in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Priyanka Gandhi has remained connected with party workers and the residents in the constituency. She even visited Amethi after the 2019 loss.“Yes, Priyankaji addressed the people of Dakhinwara Nyay Panchayat of Amethi on Wednesday. She has been in touch with the people and been monitoring the activities of party men by forming groups on social media platforms. This is her first Nyay Panchayat-level meeting at this scale after the lockdown was lifted, Congress MLC (member of legislative council) Deepak Singh said.Priyanka said the Congress party’s first priority was to rebuild and strengthen the party organization in the constituency. “We don’t have a political but a family relationship with Amethi,” Priyanka is stated to have said while addressing the convention, according to a party press release issued in Lucknow.Deepak Singh said Priyanka has agreed to address more public conventions in Amethi. “We hope she will begin addressing public meetings in Amethi next month. The people of Amethi have realised that the BJP only told them lies about bringing development to Amethi. Instead of bringing about development in Amethi, the BJP government has taken away the projects that the Congress had brought to Amethi,” said Singh.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi interacts with girl students at Wandoor in KeralaSpeaking about the three farm laws, Priyanka said they were not only against the interests of the farmers but also against the national interest. She alleged that the BJP government at the Centre had enacted the farm laws to benefit select industrialists.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu also addressed a convention of party men at Paschim Gaon Nyay Panchayat in Harchandpur area of Rae Bareli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-reconnects-with-amethi-plans-public-meeting-next-month-101611806073197.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Blanket of fog shrouds Delhi, IMD predicts minimum temperature of 4°C||Delhi on Thursday morning was engulfed in fog with less than 500 metres of visibility as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted a minimum temperature of 4 degree Celsius and a maximum temperature of 21 degree Celsius for the day. The IMD had earlier stated that ‘cold’ to severe ‘cold wave’ is likely to exist over Delhi and neighbouring states such as Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan for the next three to four days.The national capital had recorded a minimum temperature of 5.4 degree Celsius on Wednesday, three notches below the normal. On Sunday, the maximum temperature had dropped to 15 degree Celsius, six notches below the normal and was the lowest in January so far.“Dry northwesterly winds over plains of North India & adjoining parts of central India are likely to prevail during next 3-4 days. Under its influence: Dense to Very Dense Fog in isolated/some pockets very likely over Uttarakhand, Punjab, the weather department had earlier tweeted.The IMD declares a cold wave in the plains if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degree Celsius. A severe cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature is 2 degree Celsius or less. An IMD official told news agency PTI on Wednesday that icy winds barrelling through the plains were likely to bring the mercury down again.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality on Wednesday remained under the ‘very poor’ category. The air quality index (AQI) stood at 339, according to the update provided by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). The research system highlighted that the air quality had depleted due to moderate local wind speed with low stubble burning along with other few reasons. “The AQI is likely to stay in the very poor category for January 28-29,” it added.An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101- 200 is moderate, 201- 300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is considered severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/blanket-of-fog-shrouds-delhi-imd-predicts-minimum-temperature-of-4c-101611805569259.html
28-01-2021||Other||Tripura: Teachers clash with police; 90 left injured||Authorities extended imposition of Criminal Procedure Code’s Section 144 to bar the assembly of over four people to Tripura’s West district on Wednesday after around 90 people were injured in a clash between terminated schoolteachers and police in front of chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s residence.Over 8,000 teachers have been protesting against their termination for almost two months. “All have been discharged after preliminary treatment. We have issued the prohibitory order for 24 hours from today [Wednesday] morning...[as] they might create chaos..., “ said district magistrate Shailendra Kumar Yadav.Police have booked Bijoy Krishna Saha, a sacked teacher, for an alleged provocative speech.Also read | Tripura’s Satyaram Reang gets Padma Shri awardThe clash was triggered after police forced the teachers to vacate their protest site, detained 165 of them, and prompted the rest to gather in front of Deb’s residence. Police tried to disperse the protesters using water cannon, tear gas before resorting to lathi charge.“This is an act of barbarism... we condemn it. ...41 teachers have been injured. Many teachers including women suffocated due to tear gas and...still the police beat them, “ said Dalia Das, a leader of the teachers.A faulty recruitment process prompted the state government to terminate 10,323 teachers following a 2014 high court order. The Supreme Court upheld the order three years later. Over 8,000 teachers of them were reappointed on an ad hoc basis. Their tenure expired on March 31. Deb in September assured them of help within two months. The teachers began a sit-in on December 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-teachers-clash-with-police-90-left-injured-101611803768071.html
28-01-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Adityanath says plans afoot to make Ayodhya major tourist centre||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state government has prepared a plan for the expansion and development of Ayodhya as a major tourist centre in the country. The construction of Ram Temple has started at Ayodhya, he said.The chief minister was speaking at a programme, Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan, organised in the Tilak hall of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur on Wednesday to raise funds for the construction of the Ram Temple.Also Read: Ayodhya Dhannipur mosque complex layout ready for submissionYogi said the Gorakhnath temple has a long association with the Ram Temple movement. Former mahants of the temple, Mahant Digvijay Nath and Mahant Avaidyanath, played active roles in the movement. Mahant Avaidyanath was chairman of Ram Janambhoomi Sangarsh Samiti, and under his leadership the temple movement turned into a mass movement, he said.He called upon the people to donate with generosity for the construction of the Ram Temple. A spokesperson of the Goraknath Temple Trust said it donated ₹50 lakh for the construction of the temple whereas ₹51 lakh was donated by Gorakhnath temple in Devipatan.Over 40 traders and businessmen of the city also donated funds for the construction of the temple. They handed over donation cheques to the general secretary of Shri Ram Janambhhomi Teerth Kshetra and vice-president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad Champat Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-adityanath-says-plans-afoot-to-make-ayodhya-major-tourist-centre-101611802987855.html
28-01-2021||Lucknow||Fissures in BKU Bhanu over withdrawal from farmers protest, leaders defy call S||Several leaders of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Bhanu faction, have decided to continue supporting the farmers’ protest against the three Central farm laws despite the withdrawal call given by the group in the wake of the violence unleashed in the national capital during the tractors’ rally on the Republic Day.These dissenting leaders have called for an emergency meeting to decide their future course of action after the chief of the group, Thakur Bhanu Pratap, announced the suspension of the protests on Wednesday.Chaudhary Diwakar Singh, the national vice president of the organization, is leading the group of dissenters.Diwakar said he was shocked by the decision to suspend the movement taken by the organisation’s chief and has therefore convened an emergency meeting of the organization's office -bearers in the area on Thursday."This is the time when the farmers’ movement needs our support. Conspiracy against the movement shows we are on the verge of success, therefore we can't leave the protests now," he said.Chaudhary Diwakar has a good following among the farmers in Amroha and neighbouring districts and has been co-ordinating the movement against the farm laws in the region.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Traffic resumes at Delhi’s Chilla border, others remain shutDiwakar was the state general secretary of BKU (Tikait) faction before he joined BKU (Bhanu) as its national vice president in October 2014. A civil engineer by profession, Diwakar was one of the leaders who carried out 109-days-long Satyagraha at Rajabpur area of Baghpat to support the seizure of Meerut Commissionerate in 1988.He, however, denied he was aiming to form his own outfit."Thakur Bhanu Pratap has given his whole life for farmers and we can't doubt his loyalty, but we don't agree with his decision to withdraw from the movement at this point," he said.Diwakar said he had conveyed his decision to the leaders of the group that he was against the withdrawal of support to the farmers’ protests.The organisation's state president, Yogesh Pratap Singh, who is son of Thakur Bhanu Pratap, said he would continue to support the movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fissures-in-bku-bhanu-over-withdrawal-from-farmers-protest-leaders-defy-call-s-101611802563375.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic resumes at Delhi’s Chilla border, others remain shut||A day after Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Bhanu faction called off its 58-day protest against three central farm laws at the Chilla border connecting Delhi and Noida, traffic on the arterial road, disrupted since early December, was restored. The Noida to Delhi carriageway had been closed since the protesters began their demonstration there. The Delhi to Noida carriageway was open.However, several other borders of the national Capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for vehicular movement due to the ongoing stir.Also Read: ‘Not here to get people martyred’: Farmer body RKMS leader withdraws from stirFor those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised commuters to take routes passing through DND, Karkari Mod, and Shahadra to travel to Ghaziabad. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, remain closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. It has been suggested to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.The other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches can be used for travelling between the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-resumes-at-delhi-s-chilla-border-others-remain-shut-101611801788308.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers' tractor rally violence: Entry gates of Delhi’s Lal Quila, Jama Masjid metro stations closed, says DMRC||The entry gates of Lal Quila and Jama Masjid metro stations on the violet line are closed, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Thursday. While commuters are allowed to exit the Jama Masjid metro station, the exit gates remain closed at Lal Quila.“Security Update Entry/exit gates of Lal Quila metro station are closed. Normal service is available on all other stations,” DMRC wrote on Twitter. “Security Update Entry gates of Jama Masjid metro station are closed,” it said in another tweet.The restrictions come after the farmers’ Republic Day parade in the national capital took a violent turn prompting DMRC to close the entry and exits of several metro stations on Tuesday.Security across several places in the city has been heightened, especially at the Red Fort and farmers’ protest sites following violence at the tractor rally on Tuesday. Additional paramilitary forces have also been deployed, according to PTI.The Delhi Police have registered over 25 cases and as many as 19 people were arrested and about 50 detained in connection with the violence, officials said. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, social activist Medha Patkar and Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait (BKU-Tikait) leader Rakesh Tikait were named in one of the FIRs. According to the FIR, they had “a pre-planned objective of not following the mutually agreed route and timing of their rally” and “disrupting the Republic Day parade”.After the chaos at the tractor rally, farm unions have called off their February 1 march to Parliament but they said they will continue with their agitation against the three agricultural laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Wednesday apologised for the violence that erupted in the national capital, however, they claimed there was a “deep-rooted conspiracy” to thwart the protest.Meanwhile, the Centre has said it will keep its communication channels with farm unions open and its offer to put the three legislation in abeyance for 18 months will stay. “It was the final offer from the government and it has not been withdrawn. The violence will be dealt with as per the law but talks with farmers can always continue,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-tractor-rally-violence-entry-gates-of-delhi-s-lal-quila-jama-masjid-metro-stations-closed-says-dmrc-101611798592913.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at godown in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi, no casualties reported||A fire broke out at a dyeing company cum godown in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi early Thursday. No injury or casualty has been reported so far.The blaze in the two storey Kapil Rayon located at Kongaon, Kalyan-Bhiwandi road, in the city’s Sarivali MIDC area, started around 2:35am, fire officials said.At first, only one fire tender of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) and one jumbo water tanker of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) were rushed to the spot. As the blaze continued to spread, more fire tenders from nearby cities reached the spot.The fire fighting operation is still underway.The company that had a stock of raw and finished cloth and yarn has completely engulfed in the blaze, according to fire officials."The cause of the fire is not known yet. Since the godown has stock of clothes the blaze kept spreading and engulfed the entire two floors. No injury was reported in the incident," said a firemen of BNCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-godown-in-maharashtra-s-bhiwandi-101611796761081.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Confusion led to chaos at Ghazipur, says farmer leader||hFarmers protesting at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border on Wednesday expressed grief over the farmer who died in Tuesday’s clashes while their leaders maintained the violence was a conspiracy to defame their agitation against the new agriculture laws.Many of the tents set up on the roads at the border were vacant, most of the tractors and other vehicles were missing, as several farmers packed their bags and left the protest site on Tuesday night itself, following the violence.Some farmers said people panicked and left after rumours spread about possible raids and arrests by police for Tuesday’s violence. A three-hour condolence gathering for the dead farmer was also organised at the main stage at the expressway from where farmer leaders address participants every day.Apart from the government, the leaders blamed the Opposition parties and the police, alleging that they sent hooligans impersonating as farmers to disrupt the protest through violence.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the chaos started because the police barricaded the approved route going towards the Ghazipur roundabout.“Farmers were mostly from outside Delhi and they were not well aware of the roads in Delhi, especially NH-24, NH-9, and the Delhi-Meerut expressway, which has multiple carriageways and are very confusing. As the police had barricaded the road on which they had asked us to take our tractor rally, it confused some of the farmers and they entered the carriageways going towards Sarai Kale Khan. Other farmers followed them and that is how the confusion started,” said Tikait, adding that nearly 400 tractors were damaged and many farmers were injured in the violence.Without naming the person who hoisted a religious flag or the political party he was associated with, Tikait said the flag hoisting was part of a “larger conspiracy” to defame Punjab. “Everyone knows who that person was and which political party he belonged to. There are videos and photos of him with leaders of that party. I will not be taking anybody’s name,” said Tikait.Sunil Choudhary, a farmer from Noida, said he was present near the MCD toll booth on the NH-24 service lane when some farmers began the tractor rally around 9.30am, much before the scheduled time. He said the entire confusion started when four men who were dressed like leaders asked the farmers to move their tractors on the NH-24 and the expressway by saying that police had given them a new route.“As the farmers were getting impatient, they broke the barricades with their tractors and went on to the restricted roads. Others followed. I believe that the four men were agents of the government who were sent to disrupt our rally. They all disappeared after the creating the chaos,” said Choudhary.DCP (east) Deepak Yadav refuted the allegations and said, “We had given them the route but they did not follow it. If the scheduled road was barricaded, why they only broke the barricades of the restricted routes?”The Capital descended into chaos as thousands of farmers protesting against the three laws passed in September stormed the Red Fort after breaking barricades and driving tractors through roadblocks.While the farmer leaders continued explaining to the media the entire sequence of events, many of them looked apologetic while others were angry as they felt some anti-social elements were behind the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/confusion-led-to-chaos-at-ghazipur-says-farmer-leader-101611795800230.html
28-01-2021||Bangalore||SC stays arrest of Yediyurappa in 2012 forgery case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted protection from arrest to Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa in connection with a 2012 cheating and forgery case.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, also stayed the arrest of former state industries minister Murugesh Nirani, who was a co-accused in the matter.The two had moved the top court against a January 5 order of the Karnataka high court by which criminal proceedings against the two were revived.The case involved charges of criminal conspiracy and forgery of documents purported to have been issued by complainant Alam Pasha in 2012, during Yediyurappa’s first term as chief minister. Besides Yediyurappa and Nirani, former principal secretary V P Baligar and former managing director of Karnataka Udyog Mitra Shivaswamy K are the other accused in the case.Pasha, in his complaint, had accused the two of criminal conspiracy and using forged documents to withdraw a grant of 26 acres for a ₹600 crore housing project in Devanahalli near Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/sc-stays-arrest-of-yediyurappa-in-2012-forgery-case-101611795560454.html
28-01-2021||Noida||Air quality 'very poor' in Ghaziabad, Noida, Gurgaon||The air quality was recorded in the 'very poor' category in Ghaziabad, Noida and Gurgaon while it was 'poor' in Greater Noida and Faridabad on Wednesday, according to data issued by a government agency.Levels of PM2.5 and PM10 also remained high in the air of the five cities neighbouring Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm was 357 in Ghaziabad, 342 in Noida, 300 in Greater Noida, 300 in Faridabad and 317 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Tuesday, it was 395 in Ghaziabad, 370 in Noida, 366 in Greater Noida, 372 in Faridabad and 314 in Gurgaon.According to the CPCB, an AQI in the 'poor' category can lead to breathing discomfort for most people on prolonged exposure while a 'very poor' AQI may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all air quality monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations and Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app. PTI KIS DIV DIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-very-poor-in-ghaziabad-noida-gurgaon-101611795193841.html
28-01-2021||Bhopal||Parents of 24-yr-old among 11 booked under anti-conversion law||The parents of a 24-year-old Hindu woman and nine others have been booked under the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020, for allegedly forcing her to convert to Christianity in a ceremony held in Indore on Tuesday night, the police said.The FIR was registered on a complaint by the woman, Shalini Kaushal, at the Bhanwarkuan police station against her parents Rakesh Kaushal and Rani Kaushal under Section 3 and 5 of the MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance, said HN Mishra, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Indore. Nine others were named in the FIR.Police have arrested the parents and seven others. The accused were produced before a court on Wednesday and were sent to judicial custody, said a police officer.According to the FIR, “Shalini said that her parents Rakesh and Rani lied to her and took her to a church Satprakashan Sanchar Kendra, Indrapuri, Indore to attend a programme of Christian missionary. In the programme, the accused were saying that God will help you...Some women beat me up. They were forcing people to adopt Christianity. I am Hindu by religion but my parents and others were forcing me to convert. Like me, there were two more people, who were being forced for conversion.”DIG HN Mishra said, “We are checking the background of accused and also the involvement of the centre’s office-bearers. We are also investigating to know whether it was a mass conversion programme or not as most of the participants were Hindu.”The Centre’s director, Father Babu Joseph, said: “There is a convention centre in the Church premises, but I don’t know about any programme. People are free to organize any programme without taking any permission, but we don’t promote conversion. I will look into the matter.”Bajrang Dal workers entered in the hall in large number and created a scene. Bajrang Dal, Indore leader Tannu Sharma said, “We came to know that more than 150 people from across the state had been brought to Indore for conversion. We reached there and stopped the accused from doing so. Many people told us that they were being forced to convert.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/parents-of-24-yr-old-among-11-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-101611794813335.html
28-01-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru Airport to reduce operations during Aero India show||To ensure the smooth conduct of the Aero India Show from February 3 to 5, the Kempegowda International Airport here will partially close commercial flight operations as it would be the standby as the diversionary airport for flying display. The airport on Wednesday said it was working with airlines and the Indian Air Force to ensure minimal disruption to the existing schedule during the reduced operating hours. "In order to ensure safety and pave the way for the success of the event, BLR Airport will partially close commercial flight operations and also standby as the diversionary airport for flying display during the days of practice and the main show," the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), which manages the airport, said in a statement. To avoid passenger inconvenience, the respective airlines will share timely communication on the change in airport operations and the revised flight timings during the Aero India show, a prestigious event recognised globally. The BIAL said that ancillary support such as airport taxis and bus services will be aligned to accommodate the anticipated increase in passenger traffic. The biennial Aero India show provides a platform for aerospace companies to showcase their products and services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-airport-to-reduce-operations-during-aero-india-show-101611794145859.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A South Extension survivor||The wall is partitioned into light and shade. The lit portion is splattered with moving shadows of tree leaves. A tiny wooden temple is clamped on one corner of the wall, containing the idols of Ganesh and Lakshmi.This wall and the counter running along it constitute a tea stall in South Extension II, just behind the Metro station exit. It’s called... well, Tea Stall. “This was started 40 years ago by my dadi (grandmother), Basanti,” owner Pammi informs, while slicing a sprig of ginger, in a gruff tone as if he can’t waste his time on idle chat. He wordlessly transfers the ginger pieces into a little mortar and pestle, crushes them into a paste, and tosses the gooey mess into a pan of boiling chai. The pan is thoroughly chipped, its sooty surface evocative of those forgotten Delhi ruins, whose stones acquire an ethereal cover of patina after centuries of exposure to changing seasons.The establishment is noteworthy because it comes with a kind of lounge—with benches plonked across the footpath. This sunny afternoon two friends are sitting on one of the sun-soaked benches, chatting over chai and mathri (noodles and omelette are also served). A third person is perched on another bench. Wearing an executive-style pant-shirt-and-tie, he is tapping on his laptop.The stall’s counter is as absorbing as a museum display. A lower shelf is crammed with tea kettles of various sizes. Another shelf is filled with thermos flasks. “I also supply the chai to various shops, and it remains hot in the thermos,” he explains.The tea shack is also special because it has survived the drastic changes South Extension has undergone over the recent years. A great number of landmarks in the area that one took for granted have become history—the Ebony showroom, the Planet M music shop, a Mills & Boon kiosk, and the Kitkat dhaba that served most excellent rajma chawal for an obscenely cheap price.Now, another round of chai is ready and Pammi starts to pour it into a thermos.For best experience, hit the stall in the afternoon, take over the bench, give repeat orders of ginger chai and spend hours reading a book, or reading the fashionable people walking past the expensive showrooms. And yes, look out for a first floor glass-fronted empty space across the street. It was a chic coffee shop until last year, and is history.The shop opens daily, including Sunday, from 6am to 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-south-extension-survivor-101611794062290.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Vaccination turnout dips to 80.8% after 91% got Covid jabs on Monday||Delhi saw a dip in the vaccination rate on Wednesday with 6,545 of 8,100 targeted beneficiaries receiving the shot, reflecting a turnout of 80.8%. This is a drop of almost 10 percentage points from the 91% turnout the city saw on Monday.An out-of-schedule vaccination drive was conducted on Wednesday in Delhi to make up for Republic Day holiday.However, with the turnout seeing an increase since the 53.3% recorded during the nationwide roll-out on January 16, more vaccination sites are likely to be opened from Thursday. At least two of the 81 hospitals conducting the Covid-19 immunisation drive confirmed that additional sites will start at their facilities on Thursday.“Now that more people have started coming in, to quickly vaccinate as many people as we can, another site will start functioning at the hospital from tomorrow,” said a senior doctor from Lady Hardinge Medical College. The hospital vaccinated 74 people on Wednesday, down from 110 on Monday.Guru Teg Bahadur hospital in Dilshad Garden will also call in 200 beneficiaries for vaccination on Thursday. “We started a second vaccination counter Wednesday itself, post-lunch, and were able to achieve the target of 110. From tomorrow (Thursday), both counters will be open and 200 people will be called in for vaccination,” said a senior doctor at the hospital, not wishing to be named.With 110%, north-east district saw the highest turnout among the 11 revenue districts on Wednesday. New Delhi saw the lowest with just 60.8% of the targeted people turning up for vaccination, as per the government data.So far, 39,715 health-care workers have been inoculated against a targeted 58,778.The government is planning on adding 25 more sites soon, according to a senior official from Delhi’s health department. “However, not all might start functioning from Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-turnout-dips-to-80-8-after-91-got-covid-jabs-on-monday-101611791595829.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Nationwide public meets, fast on Jan 30: Protesters||Nationwide public meetings and a fast will be organised at all protest points on January 30 to mark the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, leaders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said at a press conference on Wednesday evening, a day after violence was reported at a tractor parade taken out by the farmers on Republic Day.“Our movement will continue. On February 1, we will organise a day-long fast. The public’s sympathy that we lost will be regained,” said Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan and an organizer of the protests.On Monday, the SKM, an umbrella body of at least 30 farmer bodies, had announced they would carry out a tractor rally to Parliament on February 1 as well, days after their rally to Delhi on Republic Day. But farmers called off this rally on Wednesday.Overall, the movement against three farm laws will continue, farmer leaders said. “The farmers should not feel demotivated. We will have more programmes in the near future,” said Rakesh Tikait, another farmer leader.At the press conference, the leaders also questioned why the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (Punjab) was allowed to set up a fresh stage on the police side of the barricades.“We were all on one side of the barricades. Then, 13 days after we arrived, the KMSC was given a special enclosure on the police side to set up their stage,” said Yogendra Yadav.The SKM leaders blamed the KMSC and actor Deep Sidhu of leading the violence. “Since November 26, there was not a single incident of violence. But the KMSC was allotted a space ahead of us. There was no blockade for them and they sabotaged our movement,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).Savinder Singh Chautala, senior vice president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), said that his organisation led the rally on Tuesday as the SKM had backed off a day before the rally. “Our plan was to go to Outer Ring Road (rather than on the planned route), but it was to be done by convincing the police and not by force. We sat before the barricades to request the police, but the SKM farmers arrived at the scene to break through the barricades,” said Chautala.At the Singhu Border on Wednesday, leaders of both camps delivered speeches against each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nationwide-public-meets-fast-on-jan-30-protesters-101611791392598.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Property worth crores destroyed, still gauging damage, say officials||At least eight closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras placed at the ITO intersection, nearly 200 metres of railing on road dividers, two traffic signals and handrails of bus stops in the busy intersection have been destroyed as farmer protestors broke ranks at the different tractor rallies held near the city’s borders on Tuesday.And that’s just one intersection.Civic and police officials, who are still taking stock of the extent of the damage caused by the protestors who deviated from their pre-planned routes and entered the city on tractors, estimated on Wednesday that public property worth crores of rupees had been destroyed.This does not include over 40 Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses, crash barriers in at least 12 bus stands and several potted plants and portions of road dividers.Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a senior PWD official said that steel and iron railings of nearly 200 metres were damaged at ITO, 100 metres of cement railings were pulled down at the Netaji Subhash Marg near Red Fort, and the iron railing on the central verge was broken on Vikas Marg. Tractors rammed into public property on the Ring Road and on the Noida Link Road. At Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, ITO and Vikas Marg, plants and flower pots were also severely damaged. Similarly, the plants on the central on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, Noida-Link Road, and the Ring Roadwere also destroyed by tractors and other vehicles.“The cameras at ITO and Delhi Gate were installed as part of the Delhi traffic police’s intelligent traffic management system (ITMS) plan between 2010 and 2016. The protestors broken the glass of some signals and damaged the poles of some others. A proper assessment in the coming days will bring out a clearer picture,” said a senior official of the Delhi traffic police.Police said while the process of identifying the culprits has begun, those identified for the damages will be booked under relevant sections for the destruction of public property.Some of main stretches where such a drive was started include DDU Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, on Ring Road between Bhairon Marg T-point and Chandgi Ram Akhara, Minto Road, IP Extension flyover, road in front of ISBT Kashmere Gate and Tis Hazari Court, Vikas Marg and Noida Link Road —most of which were targeted by the protesters on January 26.“Grills near the ITO skywalk were removed; plants were uprooted at many stretches. All these were developed as part of beautification projects. It will take us at least one month to repair broken grills, central verges and dividers on these stretches. However, we can grow the greenery but it will take time. It’s not just about the loss of money but also about waste of time, efforts and resources. Whenever such incidents take place, they push us many months back in terms of development,” the PWD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/property-worth-crores-destroyed-still-gauging-damage-say-officials-101611790899231.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||AAP spars with BJP over violent twist to farm rally||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the violence that unfolded on Tuesday in several parts of Delhi, including the ITO intersection and Red Fort, alleging that it “infiltrated” farmer groups to derail what was meant to be a peaceful march on the occasion of Republic Day.The party’s spokesperson, Raghav Chadha, also accused Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu of instigating violence, and alleged that he was close to the BJP — and shared several photographs of Sidhu with multiple BJP leaders as evidence of their nexus. Sidhu was seen leading the mob that hoisted the Nishan Sahib flag at Red Fort.The BJP, while dismissing these allegations at a separate press briefing by the party’s Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta, in turn accused the AAP government in Delhi of supporting the farmer groups with WiFi connections which were used by “miscreants” to spread misinformation through social media.Both parties also ended up identifying a man named Amrik Singh, who purportedly shared photos and videos on social media and claimed to have taken part in the violence at Red Fort.Gupta alleged that Singh was close to the AAP, sharing his photographs with leaders such as Tilak Nagar MLA Jarnail Singh and the party’s Lok Sabha MP from Punjab Bhagwant Mann. Chadha hit back not long after, accusing Singh of being a BJP supporter and shared his photos with BJP MPs like Parvesh Verma and Hans Raj Hans.There was no clarity on where either sets of photos were clicked, and HT could not check their veracity.“Supporters and agents of the BJP infiltrated the tractor rally and turned it violent. The BJP has plans to malign the image of farmer groups who have been protesting against three contentious farm laws. It is also BJP’s attempt to divert attention from the controversy surrounding the anti-farmer laws,” Chadha alleged.“The BJP-led central government is now using the police against leaders of the ongoing peaceful protest. And, people who actually instigated yesterday’s violence are yet to be arrested. Deep Sidhu is one of them and is an agent of the BJP,” said Chadha who is also the AAP’s joint in-charge of Punjab unit.BJP leader Gupta, meanwhile said the AAP leaders and supporters have a “direct hand” in the Republic Day violence, especially what unfolded at Red Fort. “The AAP government openly collaborated with the violent groups by providing them with free WiFi internet at Singhu border which was used for spreading misinformation by miscreants,” he said.“This is a well-planned conspiracy of AAP to wipe out the constitutional arrangements in Delhi. It should be thoroughly probed by agencies,” he added.Deep Sidhu’s phone number was switched off when Hindustan Times tried to reach him for a response on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-spars-with-bjp-over-violent-twist-to-farm-rally-101611790316360.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Two cops with head injuries still in ICU||At least two police personnel who had suffered head injuries in Tuesday’s violence continue to be in the intensive care unit of two hospitals. One farmer had died and at least seventeen protesters had been injured in the incident. According to the Delhi Police, 394 police officers suffered various injuries in Tuesday’s rally.One of the police personnel admitted to Lok Nayak hospital’s ICU continues to be in “critical” condition. “He is conscious and talking, however, he is in a critical condition and needs intensive monitoring. We will continue to do CT scan and other diagnostic tests to monitor his condition. He had also sustained a fracture,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, which had received over 20 persons from the incident in its emergency department.Another police personnel with fractured hand is also admitted in the hospital. Two protesters – one has a facial laceration and another with a blunt injury – continue to be in the hospital wards as on Wednesday evening.Another police personnel is recuperating in the ICU of Sushruta trauma centre. “He had a head injury and is currently stable. We are monitoring his condition and he needs an MRI to rule out any other injuries. He will be moved to Lok Nayak or GB Pant hospital for the same,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.Another cop who has a fractured leg is in need of a surgery. “The cop will undergo a planned orthopaedic surgery to fix the fractured bone. It will be done after 48 hours,” the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-cops-with-head-injuries-still-in-icu-101611789562142.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Barricades gone at ITO but police deployment continues at the busy junction||The police on Wednesday removed concrete jersey barriers, iron barricades and DTC buses, placed at ITO — one of Delhi’s busiest traffic junctions — where a protester died and several policemen and farmers were injured in clashes on Tuesday, even as heavy deployment of security personnel continued at the junction.As thousands of farmers stormed into Delhi on Tuesday while conducting the “tractor march” that resulted in clashes between the police and the protesters, at least 22 security personnel, including one paramilitary official, were injured at ITO, which witnessed a riot-like situation. One protesting farmer died at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg close to the ITO junction. Police said the CCTV footage showed that he rammed his speeding tractor into a police barricade, as a result of which the vehicle toppled, killing him on the spot.However, till Wednesday evening, no arrests were made in connection with the violence at ITO.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said the security arrangements were stepped up on Wednesday. “Deployment of security forces was already high because of the Republic Day. We have strategically fortified the district in such a way that no protester will be allowed to make its way through the central district. In case protesters gather again, the arrangements are in place to not allow them to head towards New Delhi district,” Singh said.The DCP said so far only one FIR has been registered in central district at the IP Estate police station for rioting, damage to public property and other relevant sections. “Five of our police vehicles, eight buses of Delhi Transport Corporation and several barricades were damaged by the protesting groups at ITO. Further damages are still being assessed,” Singh said.Officials said smooth traffic flow at the junction was restored by Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/barricades-gone-at-ito-but-police-deployment-continues-at-the-busy-junction-101611789266405.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Cops register 25 cases after violence on Republic Day||The Delhi Police have registered over 25 cases, including those of rioting and criminal conspiracy, in connection with the violence that erupted during a tractor rally by farmers in the Capital on Republic Day, officials said on Wednesday. The officials added that 19 people were arrested and about 50 detained.One of the FIRs — filed on Tuesday — mentions Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, social activist Medha Patkar and Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait (BKU-Tikait) leader Rakesh Tikait among 37 leaders of the protest who had “a pre-planned objective of not following the mutually agreed route and timing of their rally” and “disrupting the Republic Day parade”.To be sure, these 37 people were not named as accused in the case registered at Samaipur Badli police station on a complaint by inspector Anil Kumar. They were identified as those being involved in multiple rounds of talks with the government and the police, and also those who issued threats to break barricades.Trouble began on Tuesday after a section of protesters deviated from the routes agreed upon with the Delhi Police and began their tractor rally before scheduled time.“I have yet not received any intimation from the police regarding the FIR. This (FIR) is nothing new for us who have been part of many movements in the country in the past decades. Whenever their (the government) violence gets exposed, they hold non-violent people accountable for it. I believe that state-planted persons instigated the violence, while all the leaders of this farmers’ agitation have always remained peaceful and followed every conditions of the agreement we had with the police,” said Patkar, adding that she was with Yadav at the Shahjahanpur border during the violence that broke out in Delhi.Yadav said he could not comment on the development since he had not seen the FIR. Speaking to news agency PTI on Tuesday, Yadav said he was “ashamed of the way things proceeded” and took responsibility for it. He said “violence impacts any kind of protest in a wrong way, and that he “appealed continuously” so that farmers did not deviate from the routes agreed upon.Dharmendra Malik, a spokesperson for BKU-Tikait alleged that the government was “misusing” its powers by registering FIRs against farmers and farm leaders. “But we are not scared of the cases and our agitation against the three farm laws will continue peacefully,” he said.The FIR that mentioned their names also said “the protesters were riding on tractors, trollies, and even horses”, and that most of them were “carrying sticks, iron rods, and some of them were also carrying swords”. It added that the protesters “started rioting, causing injuries with swords and lathis and running the tractors over the police officials with the intent to kill”. It also mentioned that the protesters “robbed a pistol with 10 rounds and two gas guns” from police personnel.Another FIR mentioned Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana.The 25-plus cases were registered between Tuesday and Wednesday at police stations across at least nine police districts, where violence erupted during the tractor rally.At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured as the Capital plunged into chaos and clashes broke out at the Red Fort, ITO and Ghazipur, among other places. A 25-year-old farmer died when his tractor overturned after crashing a police barricade near ITO.A majority of the cases were registered for rioting, causing hurt by dangerous weapons, and obstructing police from doing their duty, among other sections. Police also filed some of the cases under sections pertaining to criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder, and attempt to culpable homicide.In an FIR registered in connection with the ITO violence, police were probing protesters for allegedly destroying CCTVs on the road. A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to investigate all the cases.In an FIR registered at the IP Estate police station for the ITO clashes, officials mentioned how nearly 10,000 protesters on tractors reached the key intersection, broke barricades using their tractors, and dismantled the central verge railing. It also mentioned the firing of tear gas shells by police, and a tractor driver “driving rashly and dangerously with intent to kill police personnel”. He died after his vehicle toppled outside the Andhra Education Society school. Police identified him as Navreet Singh from Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh.Addressing a press conference in the city, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said farmer unions did not follow conditions set for the rally that was supposed to be held from 12pm to 5pm.“Police had many options but remained calm. We dealt with the situation in a proper way that is why no one was killed due to police action during the tractor rally violence,” the commissioner told reporters.“We are using the facial recognition system and taking the help of CCTV and video footage to identify the accused. Strict action will be taken against those identified. No culprit will be spared,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-register-25-cases-after-violence-on-republic-day-101611789005846.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||No one will be spared: Top cop||Delhi Police on Wednesday said “no one will be spared” for the violence during the tractor march organised by farm unions, accused them of “betrayal” by not sticking to the pre-decided routes, and said the force was taking a “serious view” of the hoisting of flags by protesters on the ramparts of Red Fort.Briefing the media at the Police headquarters, Delhi’s police commissioner SN Shrivastava said at least 25 cases have been registered, and multiple farm leaders would have to join the investigation. Among the leaders he named at the briefing were SS Pannu, Darshan Pal, Buta Singh Burjgil and Rakesh Tikait — for either giving provocative statements or actively veering from the prescribed routes.Shrivastava said that the police, on January 25, had an inkling that some “aggressive and militant people” taking control of the stage and giving provocative speeches at the protest sites. “…We understood their intent but still maintained restraint. We placed barricades but they started removing barricades right from the morning... The farmer leaders did not behave responsibly and stick to the terms and conditions on which they were given permission to hold the rally.”At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers sustained injuries during the clashes. One farmer died in the protests after his tractor overturned after ramming a police barricade at ITO.The police commissioner said sleuths were looking at videos of the violenceto identify the unruly protesters.Shrivastava said the police had first urged the farmers not to carry out the rally on Republic Day; they refused. He said that it was then suggested that they restrict the rally to the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway on the periphery of Delhi; they refused this as well. Finally, he said, three routes were decided on the conditions that the farm leaders would be present at the head of the respective groups to ensure order, and that no firearms, swords or deadly weapons would be carried. These conditions, he said, were all violated.Detailing the role of the farmer leaders, who flouted the conditions of the rally, he said, “The protesters at Singhu started the rally early at around 7.30 am. They were to take a right turn near Mukarba chowk but did not. Their leader Satnam Singh Pannu made provocative speeches after which farmers broke barricades. Another leader, Darshan Pal Singh, also reached there and sat down. His group also refused to go back…In Tikri, farmer leader Buta Singh Burjgil had started early(before noon) and accompanied protesters from Tikri border up to Nangloi T-point but instead of taking a right turn and returning, they removed barricades,” he said.Shrivastava said that in Ghazipur, Rakesh Tikait along with other farmer-leaders got protesters right up to Akshardham — a route not approved in the meeting — and indulged in violence.Pannu, Singh, and Burjgil were not available for comment despite several phone calls and text messages. Tikait, a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said, “Farmers shouldn’t be flustered by the multiple FIRs registered by the police. They are not a problem. If there is a movement, there will be FIRs.”A police officer, requesting anonymity, said on Wednesday night, a notice was sent to Darshan Pal, asking him to give names of those who indulged in violence among the protesters and explain why action shouldn’t be taken against him.On questions if it was a police intelligence failure, Shrivastava said: “If we did not have intelligence, we would not have identified the 300 Twitter handles, that was fanning tension and mobilising people. Let me say that despite all the provocation, police maintained extreme restraint. We had all options but we choose restraint. We did this else there would have been loss of lives. Not a single bullet was fired by police anywhere.”In response to a question on the role of Punjab actor, Deep Sidhu, whose has been accused of leading the violent mob at Red Fort, Shrivastava said that police would probe the role of everyone and question them as per the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-one-will-be-spared-top-cop-101611788771673.html
28-01-2021||Budget||‘Hope govt fulfils dream of a respectable salary’: Sumitra Devi||Sumitra Devi has been an anganwadi worker in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj city for about three decades. In this time, the 50-year-old woman became somewhat of a multi-tasker. She kept records of dry ration for distribution to children and would-be mothers , counselled them on the importance of and ways to maintain personal hygiene and a balanced diet, managed distribution of food, and ensured that women and children in her area got adequate nutrition and primary health services.Covid-19 added more duties to her already full roster. She learnt how to check people’s temperature and symptoms, raised awareness about the virus and hygiene practices, distributed masks to migrant workers, and informed authorities about people with Covid-like symptoms.And, late last year, she even learnt to administer vaccination as part of the government’s plan to use anganwadi workers to inoculate the rural population.But for Devi, there was little material improvement in her life. “Only the colour of my uniform changed in these years,” she said.It was sky blue when the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) was in power between 2007 and 2012, then became green when the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party assumed office in 2012 and changed to pink after the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party swept to power in the 2017 elections.“My dream of getting respect and wages like a regular employee remained unfulfilled,” she added.A mother of five, Devi gets a fixed salary of ₹4,500 per month. Additionally, she gets ₹250 a month as performance-linked incentive if her supervisor and officials are impressed with her work. “This comes to ₹150 per day, less than even the wages of an unskilled worker,” she said.The pandemic upended her personal and professional life. “Suddenly, I had to learn about Covid-19 and ways to protect from it so that I could guide dozens of women and around 50 kids registered at my centre. Ration and food distribution became a challenge as we were instructed not to call women and kids to the centre,” she said.Instead, she went to their homes to counsel and distribute food packets.”My retired husband helped me manage the home and even in distribution work,” she added.Devi’s work also included implementing missions such as Anaemia Mukt Bharat, administering iron and folic acid supplements and vitamin-A supplements.Several states such as Odisha and Delhi provide additional money to anganwadi workers, taking the monthly allowance to up to ₹10,000 per month. The Centre provided ₹20,532 crore for Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), under which anganwadi centers come, for the financial year 2020-21, 3.5% percent more than the allocation in the previous financial year. Uttar Pradesh has roughly 375,000 anganwadi workers and helpers who work in 188,149 centres.For the Union budget, she wants the finance ministry to recognise the work done by anganwadi workers during Covid-19 to bolster the country’s health infrastructure, and provide them with regular salaries. She also seeks an increase in allocation for ICDS so that the infrastructure of anganwadi centers can improve.“I hope the new budget finally fulfils my dream of a respectable salary of ₹18,000 to ₹20,000 per month, acknowledging the importance of the work we do in ensuring health and well-being of would-be mothers and new born kids,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/budget/hope-govt-fulfils-dream-of-a-respectable-salary-sumitra-devi-101611787967987.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||At Singhu protest site, a battle of two factions||Fresh barricades and restrictions by the police, heightened security arrangement by farmers, a determination to continue their agitation at the border, an all-pervading sense of distrust between two key factions, and grief over two horses killed allegedly during the tractor rally, marked the protest site at the Singhu border on Wednesday — a day after the farmers’ tractor rally unleashed widespread violence and vandalism in several parts of Delhi.Tuesday’s violence was the topic of discussion among most farmers at the venue, and the only subject of speeches delivered by their leaders from stages set up at the site.The larger Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the smaller Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (Punjab), two factions of farmers protesting here from separate stages, blamed each other for being involved in the violence. But their anger had two common targets — actor Deep Sidhu and activist Lakha Sidhana, whom both sides accused — one of leading the farmers to Red Fort, and the second for misleading the protesters.The SKM blamed both Sidhu and the KMSC for the violence. “The government joined hands with them to sabotage our movement...Sidhu insulted the national flag and hurt the sentiments of ours and the entire country,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).“Deep Sidhu led away many farmers from the Outer Ring Road to the Red Fort. He felicitated the man who hoisted the flag from Red Fort. He was the cause of all the trouble,” said Savinder Singh Chautala, senior vice president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC).Singhu is the most prominent location of the farmers protest sites. The rally took off from here before other sites; the first violence was initiated by farmers from here; and it was mostly protesters from the Singhu rally who stormed Red Fort.On Wednesday, most farmers said that while they regretted the violent turn of events, it would not deter them from continuing their agitation. “None of us who has been camping here for long is leaving. The only ones who went back are those who had joined us exclusively for the tractor rally. In fact, we have asked more farmers from our villages to join us,” said Chautala.Several farmers who were agitating at Singhu for two months had planned to return home for a few days after the rally, a plan that has now been postponed, said Dharmendar Singh, a volunteer and an SKM member. “We would be labelled as traitors and cowards if we returned without victory,” he said.ANGER AGAINST SIDHU AND SIDHANAOn Wednesday, Sidhu and Sidhana were the primary targets of the farmers’ ire.“Deep Sidhu Murdabad, Lakha Sidhana Murdabad,” rang chants from the SKM stage. Some groups took out marches shouting slogans in which they called Sidhu a “traitor”.The farmers accused the two of taking control of the SKM stage on Monday evening, and instigating farmers to march onto the Outer Ring Road rather than the pre-decided route. “From the stage, Sidhu asked the crowd what they wanted. The crowd said they wanted to go to Ring Road. He then instigated them to go right ahead,” alleged Dharmendar Singh, who claimed to have witnessed it.There was also a video purportedly showing Sidhu fleeing from the Singhu site on Wednesday. While several farmers claimed to have witnessed the scene, HT could not immediately authenticate the veracity of the visuals.Sidhu’s phone number was switched off when HT tried to reach him for response. Sidhana, told news agency PTI that he was not involved in the incidents at the Red Fort.But some of the farmers who actually stormed Red Fort said that their only aim was to hoist flags on the monument.“For two months we have been sitting here peacefully, but we were frustrated. We were determined to enter Delhi. But we did not begin the violence. When police began caning us, we fought back,” said Mandeep Singh, a farmer from JammuSECURITY INCREASED AMID DISTRUSTFarmers said they have increased the security to prevent any mischief mongers from taking to the stage. “Earlier we had two layers of security. Now, there are three,” said Dharmendar Singh.Volunteers on the SKM side took care to keep away KMSC-affiliated farmers away from their protest site. “We won’t allow without proper verification anyone who are not directly associated with us,” said Singh.At a press conference organised by SKM, Swaraj India founder Yogendra Yadav questioned why KMSC was allotted a separate space and stage by the police beyond the barricades, and blamed them for being hand in glove with the violators.The police, too, set up fresh barricades at the site and barricaded the entrance to the Singhu village, which was used by motorists to enter Haryana.“The violence has changed the situation. The trust factor is lost,” said a police officer about the change in police’s attitude.While farmers spoke about many of them being injured in the violence, they also grieved the deaths of two horses who were killed, allegedly on Tuesday. “One horse was killed by tear gas at the first point of conflict. The other horse which belonged to me was killed by police’s gunshot inside Red Fort,” said Daman Singh, a Nihang Sikh, while loading his dead horse on a tractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-singhu-protest-site-a-battle-of-two-factions-101611782254385.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||A wall of security around Red Fort as dust of violence settles||Additional troops were called in and more barricades were put up near the Red Fort, a Unesco World Heritage site, on Wednesday, a day after protesters barged into the monument, damaging property and hoisting the Nishan Sahib flag on the ramparts of the fort, officials aware of the development said.Union tourism and culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel visited the fort on Wednesday along with the director general of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) — the agency responsible for the upkeep of the monument. “Visited the Red Fort this morning with the culture secretary and director general, ASI, and directed them to submit a report and get an FIR registered under the relevant sections,” Patel tweeted in Hindi.In an order issued on Wednesday, the ASI said the fort will stay closed till January 31 for the public and general visitors.On Tuesday, several groups among thousands of farmers who were camping at Delhi’s border demanding withdrawal of three new farm laws, arrived at the Red Fort without warning and in violation of the terms of their tractor rally, and clashed with police.Officials said the protesters inflicted extensive damage at the monument -- at least three finials placed atop the rampart domes went missing, the ticket counter was vandalised and window panes were shattered, toilets were broken, air conditioners were damaged, entrance to the fort was defaced, the stone boards were uprooted, staff rooms were vandalised, railings and stairs were defaced, a police van was smashed and toppled and CCTV cameras installed within the fort were crushed.The farmers stayed at the monument till late evening before returning to the respective protest sites on the city’s peripheries.Early Wednesday morning, the police blocked the entries to the fort with police buses and fresh barricades and additional paramilitary forces which included personnel from the Central Reserve Police (CRP), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Delhi Police were deployed at the monument. Police have also stationed water cannons within the fort’s premises, officials aware of the development said.Senior Delhi Police officers also inspected the fort to review the security status. A senior ASI official, who asked not to be named because he is not authorised to speak to the media, said since the ticket counters and other areas have been completely damaged, the reopening of the monument will take time. The Red Fort is secured by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF).Security personnel who were present inside the fort at the time of clashes said at least 1,000-1,500 protesters were present inside the fort on Tuesday. The first group of farmers arrived at the main of the Red Fort around 1pm and broke it open using axes and other metal tools that they were carrying, the officers said, requesting anonymity.They said, as the doors were forced open, hundreds others barged in, outnumbering the security personnel present inside the monument, and climbed atop the fort hoisting their flags on the ramparts.A senior CISF officer, who wished not to be named, said the first group of men entered the fort between 1pm and 1.15 pm. “Usually there are 40-50 armed CISF personnel are deployed inside the fort. On Tuesday, because the security had been intensified due to the Republic Day, 100 personnel were present there. Our men were outnumbered by the protesters,” the officer said.At least three CISF personnel were injured trying to stop the mob from trespassing the highly secured monument.CISF’s deputy inspector general (operations) Anil Pandey said 40 additional personnel were deployed at the fort on Wednesday. “Our 31 companies are attached with the Delhi Police for law and order support duties for more than past one month due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation and because of the Republic Day. These companies were deployed at various locations in national capital by the Delhi Police including the Red Fort,” Pandey said.The DIG said a unit of 280 CISF personnel remains deployed at Red Fort throughout the year. “At a given time, 40-50 men are deployed inside the fort at various duty posts in one shift,” he said.(With inputs fro Deeksha Bhardwaj)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-wall-of-security-around-red-fort-as-dust-of-violence-settles-101611779272827.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Conspiracy to kill slain Matka king’s widow: Arrested accused turns approver||Rambeer Naresh Kumar Sharma alias Pandit who has been arrested by the Mumbai Police’s crime branch in connection with the alleged conspiracy to eliminate Jaya Bhagat, widow of slain Matka king Suresh Bhagat, and her sister Asha Bhatt, has turned an approver in the case. A police officer said his statement was recorded under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) before a metropolitan magistrate on Monday.Pandit, a native of Madhya Pradesh, had got a contract through his associate Basheer Suleman Begani alias Mamu to kill both the sisters. Begani, who was roped in by Bhagat’s brother-in-law Vinod, is wanted in the case and is believed to be in Manchester City in England. The crime branch have issued a look-out circular (LOC) for his arrest.“LOC has been issued against Begani. So, whenever he visits any airport, ports and road borders in India, immigration authorities will alert us about his presence,” said inspector Nandkumar Gopale of unit 9 of crime branch.The unit has arrested five of the alleged perpetrators before the gang could kill Bhagat and her sister in December last year. The arrested accused are Mohammed Anwar Sabbir Darji, 31; Mohammad Javed Islamuddin Ansari, 41; Maqsood Maqbool Qureshi, 35; Rambeer Naresh Kumar Sharma alias Pandit, 39; and Vinod Bhagat.Vinod is the brother of slain Matka king Suresh Bhagat who was killed in a road accident on Alibag-Pen road in 2008. Later it was found that the road accident was a pre-planned murder orchestrated by his wife Jaya and son Hitesh.As per the crime branch’s probe, the family members were fighting to get hold on the Matka business. Besides, Vinod also wanted to take revenge of his brother’s murder. He had allegedly given ₹60 lakh contract to his friend Begani, who had then purportedly contacted Sharma and paid ₹14 lakh in advance to arrange shooters and eliminate Jaya and her sister, said police officers. Sharma had in turn engaged Darji, Ansari, and Qureshi to execute the plan. The trio accordingly came to Mumbai in October 2020 and conducted recce and discreetly recorded videos and clicked photographs of Jaya and her sister. The trio then left for their hometown in October.Qureshi, the shooter, was allegedly set to kill the sisters at the wedding of Asha’s son on December 10 last year, added Gopale. Darji and Ansari came to Mumbai on December 6 while Qureshi was supposed to come before December 10. However, as Qureshi could not come in time, the gang had to postpone the plan, said crime branch officials. Meanwhile, police got a tip-off about the conspiracy and arrested Darji on December 18 and recovered two pistols and six live cartridges from him. Police also found he had pictures of Jaya and Asha in his mobile phone. Ansari had initially managed to flee from Mumbai but after interrogation of Darji, both Ansari and Qureshi were arrested on December 21 from Bijnor.During interrogation, Vinod’s name cropped up following which he was arrested on December 21. Another team in Bijnor arrested Sharma who in turn named Begani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/conspiracy-to-kill-slain-matka-king-s-widow-arrested-accused-turns-approver-101611777244661.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Mixed response as schools in Maharashtra reopen for Class 5 to 8||Schools in various parts of Maharashtra reopened for Class 5 to 8 with a mixed response on Wednesday. While some schools saw a good turnout of students, in some others, parents were still not willing to send their children to school due to Covid-19 pandemic and related risks. “While parents do want schools to reopen, there is a lot of fear among them while signing the undertaking forms as mandated by the state education department. On the first day, we only had 10-15 students in every class consisting 40-50 students,” said Balasaheb Chavan, teacher at KL Ponda High School in Dahanu, Palghar. As schools for Class 5 to 8 reopened after a gap of 10 months, the students spent the first day getting accustomed to the safety protocols. “We had given masks and sanitisers to all students and had asked them to wear their masks at all times. Since the children came out of their homes for a long period for the first time, they were struggling to keep the mask on due to discomfort. We helped them in all ways possible and are hoping that they get accustomed soon,” said Somnath Walke, a teacher from a zilla parishad school in Pargaon, Beed. The school saw nearly 80% of the children attend the school on Day 1. According to the standard operating procedures laid down by the education department, 50% students are asked to attend school on a rotational basis.At Karad Municipal School in Satara, all the 500 enrolled children attended the school on the first day. “The school has divided each division into two groups of 25 each,” said Arjun Koli, principal of the school. Children were greeted with a rose to mark the first day of reopening.The state education department is yet to share data on the total number of schools which reopened on Wednesday. There are over 106,000 schools with Class 5 to 8 in the state with nearly 8,000,000 students enrolled as per the data of the Unified District Information System for Education (U-DISE), 2019. Barring Mumbai, schools in most parts of the state reopened on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the state education department opened helplines for free counselling of Class 10 and 12 students on Wednesday. Students can go to maa.ac.in and access a list of 426 counsellors who will be available to solve their doubts and hear their concerns.Parents to stage protest on Jan 30Parents of students from several private schools across Maharashtra have planned to protest against the state government on January 30 over their demands which are pending from the past several months. The demands include action against schools for increasing fees or harassing children for non-payment of fees.State representatives of the Indiawide Parents’ Association, a pan-India body of parents, have planned a demonstration outside education minister Varsha Gaikwad’s office. “Parents are really angry as none of their demands are met. While schools have hiked fees in the middle of a pandemic, the education department has not acted against them. Many schools are harassing children whose parents are unable to pay,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the association. The association recently wrote to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) against the state government’s failure to act against private schools. Parents said that despite complaints, the department has not audited a single school during these months. “We do not know what the entire machinery is up to. Parents are in a really vulnerable state and this government is facilitating private schools by not acting against them,” said the parent of a student of a Kandivli-based school.A government resolution (GR) released on May 8 stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mixed-response-as-schools-in-maharashtra-reopen-for-class-5-to-8-101611777243144.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai colleges gear up for reopening, await clarity from govt||Even as schools in the state have already started welcoming students back on campus for physical classes, colleges are still waiting for hear from the state government on the matter. With the ministry for higher and technical education as well as state universities still mum on this matter, several city colleges have come up with their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed to ensure regular sanitisation as well as social distancing norms are maintained in order to avoid any untoward circumstances. “We have decided to first bring in students who need practical sessions, both in junior as well as degree colleges. Instead of calling students three times a week, we might end up calling one batch only once a week only for practical lecture purposes and ensure they attend class for one full day instead of calling them three times a week,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of KC College, Churchgate. She added that all students will be made aware of social distancing norms in advance and that the college will insist on use of masks and sanitisers. “We will also encourage students to bring lunch from home because our canteen will remain shut to avoid large gatherings. Students will also be informed to maintain social distancing even outside classrooms,” she said. Earlier this month, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant had said that the future course of action for higher education institutes will be shared soon, and colleges were touted to reopen by January 28. However, there is no word from the government on this matter yet and for the time being, social distancing, compulsion on masks and cleanliness around the campus will be the priority for most colleges.At Matunga’s GN Khalsa College, the authorities are hoping that the flexibility of inviting students to college should be left to the head of the institute. “Depending on the total strength of the college, the principal and management should have the authority to decide how many students should be invited to college on a daily basis. This will help ensure that only those students who need to be in college for practical lectures are invited while the rest continue online classes,” said Kiran Mangaonkar, principal. A total of 5,500 students currently study in the degree college of the institute. Some colleges also plan to continue online classes along with physical classes, even after reopening of colleges. “Since some of our students are still attending classes from their hometowns, we will continue classes online for them. Also, students cannot be forced to attend physical lectures against their will, so such students too will be given the choice of attending online classes,” said Bagla and added that the same benefit will also be extended towards senior staff members keeping their safety in mind. While most institutes already have a sanitisation programme in place, some are worried about the expenses that will be incurred by institutes once students start attending regular lectures. “We have 4,000 students plus staff to cater to, and even if only 50% of them are on campus, sanitising each and every class and ensuring sanitisers for all students and staff will be a huge cost. The government should look into offering some financial aid to colleges, especially those with large number of students,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-colleges-gear-up-for-reopening-await-clarity-from-govt-101611777063229.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||NIA supports plan to shift P Varavara Rao to Mumbai’s Sir JJ Hospital||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday supported a proposal by the state government to shift 82-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, to the prison ward of Sir JJ Hospital and opposed the petition filed by Rao’s wife P Hemlatha seeking bail for him on medical grounds. In her petition, Hemlatha had pointed out that a previous Nanavati Hospital report said that Rao was fit to be discharged and could take care of himself.Rao’s counsel submitted that shifting Rao to Sir JJ Hospital could result in a relapse, and hence the option was to either send him to Taloja jail or his house in Hyderabad. The court sought a fresh report from Nanavati Hospital and will hear the state’s arguments opposing the petition on Thursday. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition, was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh for NIA, that there was no doubt that Rao had recovered and was fit to be discharged from Nanavati Hospital, and the same had been confirmed by the counsels of Rao who had expressed their satisfaction at his improved medical condition. Singh added that in light of the apprehensions of Rao’s family that he would have a relapse if shifted to Taloja jail, NIA agreed with the state’s proposal to shift Rao to the prison ward of Sir JJ Hospital. When asked by the court whether Rao had dementia, Singh referred to the January 12 report of Nanavati Hospital and previous medical reports and said that none of the reports mentioned it. In response to the court query on the condition of brain atrophy, which was mentioned in one of Rao’s medical reports, senior counsel Anand Grover said that research reports available online suggested that it could lead to dementia. Singh, however, opposed the submission and said that it was just a presumption and could not be relied upon. He then referred to the last medical report and said that the 20 medicines which Rao was being administered daily were age-related and could be given to Rao even in the prison ward of Sir JJ Hospital. Grover then submitted that hospitals were a hotbed of infections, and if Rao was shifted to Sir JJ Hospital, there was every chance of his health getting affected adversely. He submitted that the only option was to send Rao to Taloja jail or back home. He added that Rao had complained of chest pain after the last medical report was submitted by Nanavati Hospital. After hearing about the chest pain, the bench sought a fresh report from Nanavati Hospital and posted hearing for Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/niasupports-plan-to-shift-p-varavara-rao-to-mumbai-s-sir-jj-hospital-101611777002877.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Violence at tractor rally: Actor Deep Sidhu, gangster Lakhan Sidhana named in FIR||Actor Deep Sidhu and gangster Lakhan Sidhana have been named by the Delhi Police in an FIR for the violent clashes during the tractor parade in Delhi on January 26.A video of Sidhu directing the mob at Red Fort has been circulating on social media. He released video on Tuesday night saying he was involved in the flag-hoisting, but meant no disrespect. He also said that he alone could not have instigated thousands of protesters.Farmers’ union representatives and opposition parties have condemned the act of hoisting religious flags by a mob on the Red Fort during the occasion of Republic Day. Farmers’ union representatives also chose to distance themselves from actor Deep Sidhu and his participation in Tuesday afternoon’s violence.Hannan Mollah, farmer leader from the All India Kisan Sabha and a member of Samyukt Kisan Morcha said that Sidhu’s acts indicate that there were elements who wanted to sabotage the protest. Actor Deep Sidhu campaigned for BJP candidate Sunny Deol when fought from the Gurdaspur constituency in Punjab. The actor-turned-politician too has distanced himself from Sidhu's actions at the Red Fort during the tractor rally. The BJP lawmaker tweeted on Tuesday that he was saddened by the scenes of violence during the tractor rally and also pointed out that in an earlier tweet on December 6 he had clarified that he and his family members do not have any connection with Deep Sidhu.He said, “Through a tweet, on December 6 [2020], I have already made it clear that I or my family has no link with Deep Sidhu.” Deol had earlier in December said that Sidhu campaigned for him in 2019 but ‘is now being driven by his own agenda.’A tractor rally organised by farmers’ unions representatives protesting against the newly passed farm laws turned violent which left nearly 400 police personnel injured as protesters deviated from the course, clashed with police personnel and stormed iconic Red Fort and hoisted religious flags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/violence-at-tractor-rally-actor-deep-sidhu-gangster-sidhana-named-in-fir-101611776117044.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Mission Vidarbha: Uddhav Thackeray looks to increase Sena’s base||In a bid to expand the Shiv Sena’s footprint in Vidarbha, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has turned his focus on development of the region in eastern Maharashtra, where, traditionally, his party has been weak. In the past two months, Thackeray has made four visits to districts in Vidarbha to take stock of various government events and even to inaugurate some. Thackeray, during the inauguration of a zoological park in Nagpur on Tuesday, said that “Vidarbha’s blood runs through [his] veins”. Since December, Thackeray visited Amravati district to oversee the progress on the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi project. On January 4, he virtually inaugurated the legislative secretariat office in Nagpur. On January 8, Thackeray visited Nagpur, Bhandara and Chandrapur districts in the region to see the Gosikhurd irrigation project and a highway crossing project in Ghodsari, Chandrapur district. “My grandmother was from Paratwadi [in Amravati district]. No one should try to teach us love for Vidarbha. We have a blood relation with Vidarbha,” Thackeray said, adding he will do whatever is needed for Nagpur. In an apparent jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the CM said: “Some people are spreading misinformation about us [Shiv Sena], and this [campaign] will end now. Projects like Surajgad [in Gadchiroli] can change the face of the entire Vidarbha. I want to pave the way for the development of Vidarbha.” Vidarbha region has 62 Assembly seats and 10 Lok Sabha constituencies. Traditionally, a large chunk of the Assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies from the region went to the BJP, in the alliance between the Sena and BJP, leading to stunted growth of the Sena in Vidarbha. Both the BJP as well as the Congress have strong presence in the region, while the Shiv Sena and the NCP have not managed to make inroads beyond a few pockets. Post the realignment of political alliances in the state, the Sena is looking to fortify its presence in the region that could help increase its numbers in the elections. “It is not that we do not have our organisation, workers and leaders in Vidarbha. But we never could convert it in electoral terms. Now that Uddhav ji is the chief minister, we can personally steer the development in the region that has been neglected by successive governments,” the senior functionary said, requesting anonymity. The BJP’s hold on the region is weakening over the period now. In 2014, the BJP won 44 seats in the region, which decreased to 29 in the 2019 elections. The Shiv Sena, which had won four seats against the BJP in 2014, managed to retain them in the 2019 elections that was contested in an alliance. Prahar Janashakti Party of Bacchu Kadu, which won two seats – Achalpur and Melghat in Amravati district – has increased the strength of the Sena in the region. A senior leader from Vidarbha said that with the BJP losing grip in the region, it would benefit the Shiv Sena and not just the Congress. The BJP lost its citadel in Nagpur to the Congress in MLC graduates’ election held in December 2020. Subsequently, the Sena performed better than expected in Vidarbha’s Nagpur district in the recently held gram panchayat election. The party claims to have won at least 10 gram panchayats in the rural areas of the Nagpur district. “When Uddhav ji spoke about developing Vidarbha, he spoke as the chief minister of Maharashtra, not as Shiv Sena president. With him being the CM and the weakening of the BJP, this would be the right time to build the party to gain electorally here. The Shiv Sena can be the alternative that people want,” the leader from Vidarbha said, requesting anonymity. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said the Sena can win mass base in the region by giving more industries, jobs and alleviating farmers’ distress in the region. He added that principally, the Sena has always been against carving out Vidarbha. “Since the beginning, the Sena’s electoral footprint was Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, and later Marathwada. At that time, the Congress had a sizeable influence in Vidarbha. The BJP entered late but still managed to gain a foothold. Now, if the Sena wants to gain mass base, it will have to give more economic packages to Vidarbha, create agro-industries, develop tourism and resolve farmers’ issues. Vidarbha, like Marathwada, records farmers’ suicides each year. If Uddhav Thackeray government can touch these points, it will dilute the feeling of discrimination that the people of the region have and they can gain electorally,” Jondhale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mission-vidarbha-uddhav-thackeray-looks-to-increase-sena-s-base-101611776883175.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police bust fake currency racket, 4 held with ₹35.54 lakh in counterfeit notes||Unit 7 of the Mumbai crime branch on Tuesday arrested four persons and allegedly seized from their possession counterfeit currency notes worth ₹35.54 lakh. Police raided the residence of one of the accused in Wada, Palghar and seized a computer, printer and other equipment used by the gang to print the fake notes.The arrested accused have been identified as Mahendra Khandaskar, 50, Abdullah Khan, 24, Farookh Pasha Chaudhary, 33, and Amin Usman Shaikh, 41. Khandaskar is a driver by profession, while Khan supplies fish to shops. Chaudhary runs a shop and Shaikh worked at said shop. All the accused are residents of Wada. Police received a tip-off that two persons were coming to Vikroli with fake currency notes. A team of unit 7 police personnel laid a trap on Tuesday and nabbed Khandaskar and Khan. “During the search, police found counterfeit currency worth ₹2.80 lakh from their possession,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch.Both the accused were taken to the unit office in Ghatkopar, and during interrogation, they revealed that they had printed fake notes at Khandaskar’s house. A police team raided the house and found ₹32.54 lakh in fake currency of the denominations of ₹2,000, ₹500, ₹200 and ₹100.Shaikh and Chaudhary were arrested from the same area, and police seized ₹20,000 in fake currency from their possession.The mastermind of the gang is still at large. He had convinced Khandaskar to start manufacturing fake notes and helped him print the fake currency, said Manish Shridhankar, police inspector, unit 7. Khandaskar then involved his friend Khan and two others to circulate the fake notes in the market for 10% of the profit. The accused revealed that they were operating for the past two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-bust-fake-currency-racket-4-held-with-35-54-lakh-in-counterfeit-notes-101611776823145.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body spent only 48% of allocated budget on development work||Even as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) gets ready to present its 2021-22 budget in February, it has only spent 48% of the budget allocated previous year for development works, including roads, bridges, storm water drainage, gardens, etc. Of the ₹33,441.02-crore overall budget for 2020-21, ₹11,764 crore was allocated for capital expenditure, but the BMC spent ₹5,744 crore until December 31, 2020. The number is still closer to ₹5,600 crore (45%) of the capital expenditure in 2019-20, as of December 2019. On the other hand, the revenue income of the BMC in 2020-2021 dipped – ₹11,616 crore against the target of ₹28,448 crore, which means 40% of the target, as of December 2020 – owing to poor collection of property tax, water supply tax and income from real estate premiums coming down owing to lockdown. In 2019-2020, as of December 2019, the BMC’s revenue income stood at ₹14,828 crore against the target of ₹24,983 crore, which was 59% of the total target. The BMC had in February 2020 presented a ₹33,441-crore budget for 2020-21, exceeding the 2019-20 budget of ₹30,692 crore. In any given fiscal, the civic body uses 60-70% of the capital expenditure budgetary allocation. The capital expenditure is around 30-40% of the total budget expenditure planned for several crucial departments such as roads and traffic, bridges, garden, health, hydraulics, development plan, storm water drains, solid waste management etc. Till December 2020, the BMC has spent around 63% of the amount allocated for road, traffic and bridges department, 79% of the funds allocated for the coastal road project, 34% for water supply department, 33% of health budget, excluding Covid-19 related expenditure. For Covid-19, the BMC spent around ₹1,800 crore from the contingency fund and will restructure the budget for the ongoing fiscal. In case of the storm water drainage department, the BMC spent 44% of the total allocation, solid waste management department spent 21%, sewage disposal 28%, information technology 31% and fire brigade and disaster management department 15%. The civic body has seen major fall in collection of property tax, water bills and premiums from the real estate sector owing to lockdown. In terms of income from different sources, BMC managed to collect ₹734 crore in property tax in the ongoing fiscal as of December 2020, compared to ₹1,810 crore as of December 2019 in the 2019-2020 fiscal. The income from real estate premiums fell to ₹708 crore as of December 2020, compared to ₹2,067 crore as of December 2019. The BMC also witnessed a substantial fall in income from water tax and income via investments or interests. The BMC has around ₹76,000 crore in fixed deposits, as of November 2020, and the ratio of fixed deposits has been going down. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Our capital expenditure is as good as last year, and all work has taken off post-monsoon. Though we had lockdown, there are several expenditures that we have to make, and even during lockdown, certain works were ongoing. If we exclude the ₹1,800 crore we spent on Covid-19, our expenditure for other departments and projects has not suffered at all.” Velrasu added, “However, for some departments, the expenditure is less, for example, hospital buildings and Mumbai Fire Brigade. It is because of the nature of these departments. We are taking every step to improve the finances of the BMC through revenue income, revenue expenditure and capital expenditure. We are also looking to raise money for projects by issuing municipal bonds. The plan is at a primary stage, and we are working on the details.” Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in the BMC, said, “The BMC’s revenue has been falling constantly, its income from property tax and premiums from builders has also gone down. On the other hand, the BMC has spent over ₹1,600 crore on Covid-19. I have written to the BMC regarding coming out with a white paper on the BMC’s financial condition. The administration has to clarify how they plan to keep the finances of the BMC in a good position.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-spent-only-48-of-allocated-budget-on-development-work-101611776643799.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Declare disputed border areas of Karnataka as UT, says Maharashtra CM||While raking up the Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute row, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday demanded that the Centre declare the disputed border areas in Karnataka as Union Territory (UT) till the Supreme Court’s verdict on the dispute is announced. The CM said that it was a “now or never” battle for Maharashtra and that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was committed to resolve it by inclusion of the disputed areas in the state.Since the formation of Maharashtra, the two neighbouring states have been in a dispute over Belgaum and other areas where Marathi speaking people reside in large numbers. Maharashtra has staked claim on these areas and the issue pending with the Apex court. While Maharashtra and the Marathi-speaking people in the disputed border areas have been peacefully fighting the battle, the Karnataka government has been suppressing their voice with arrogance, Thackeray said on Wednesday while speaking at Sahyadri guest house after release of a Marathi book — Maharashtra Karnataka Simawad : Sangharsh Ani Sankalp (Maharashtra-Karnataka Border Dispute : Struggle and Resolve). Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, state ministers Chhagan Bhujbal, Eknath Shinde, leader of Opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar shared the dais. Former CM Devendra Fadnavis did not attend the function. “When the issue is pending in the Apex court, the Karnataka government changed the name of Belgaum, set up their second capital there, and held legislative sessions. The Marathi-speaking mayor was booked under sedition charges for taking pro-Marathi stand. This is nothing but the oppression of Marathi-speaking citizens in the border areas. This leads to the contempt of court. There is a need to declare the disputed areas as Union Territory to restrain the Karnataka government from unilateral action,” Thackeray said. The CM said that the oppression continues irrespective of which political party rules Karnataka.Karnataka water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Wednesday said that Thackeray was raking up the issue to deflect attention from the poor performance of his government. He said that people in Karnataka have not discriminated against anyone and that no importance should be given to the CM’s statements. “The CM has failed in all aspects and he is using this border issue to emotionally sway people to deflect their attention. No importance should be given to this,” Jarkiholi, who is also the district in-charge minister of Belgaum, said. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said the petition pending in the Apex court was the last resort for Maharashtra to bring the disputed areas of Belgaum, Karwar and Nipani in Maharashtra. He said that a certain section of political leadership in Karnataka has created a picture that Maharashtra was adamant over its stand despite Mahajan Commission’s report against it. Pawar said the misconceptions needed to be weeded out to make the ground favourable for the battle. Meanwhile, Darekar said it was a battle being fought for the Marathi-speaking people and should be looked up beyond politics.Later in the day, Thackeray chaired a meeting of state government’s high-power committee constituted to take state’s legal battle on the issue forward. Thackeray directed the committee to ensure that the legal battle was expedited. “We will lead an all-party delegation to the Centre on the issue to ensure inclusion of Belgaum, Karwar, Nipani in Maharashtra at the earliest. The Centre should act neutrally as it is a dispute between two states. Marathi-speaking people from the disputed areas, too, should do away with their differences and fight the battle unitedly,” he said.Advocate Shivaji Jadhav, who represents Maharashtra government in the case and attended the meeting, said that besides appointing senior counsel, the state has decided to make a representation to the Centre with request to fairly represent them in the Apex court. “It has been experienced that the Centre is sympathetic towards Karnataka during the hearing in the Apex court. The state government has decided to meet Centre for fair representation,” he said.Talking about the status of the case, Jadhav said, “Karnataka has filed an application questioning maintainability of the suit claiming that only parliament has the right to decide demarcation of borders as per article 3. The commission appointed in September 2014 for evidence recording cannot hold hearing until the ruling on suit is given by the top court.”Political analyst Prakash Akolkar said raking up the issue again is a political gimmick by the ruling parties ahead of Mumbai civic elections. “Border dispute is a dead issue and nothing is going to happen in it. Had parties like the BJP and Congress been firm to include the disputed areas in Maharashtra, they would have done it during their tenure when their governments were in power in both the states and the Centre. The Shiv Sena and NCP are trying to undrape the issue again to stir up Marathi pride card for political gain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/declare-disputed-border-areas-of-karnataka-as-ut-says-maharashtra-cm-101611776642720.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra leaders take potshots at Centre; launch scheme for farmers||Ministers of the state’s ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government took potshots at the Centre’s farm laws whilst unveiling a new policy for agricultural pumps and declaring an amnesty scheme for farmers to clear outstanding power bills.While talking about the policy, state public works department (PWD) minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan said, “Today, there are protests in the country because of the wrong decisions taken for farmers. However, the Maharashtra government has brought out a good policy that will benefit lakhs of farmers.”State energy minister Nitin Raut also criticised the Centre’s laws. “At a time when the Centre is forcing laws on the farmers, we are bringing light to their lives with these policies,” he said.The state on Wednesday launched the new policy through which farmers will be provided uninterrupted power supply. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “The biggest demand from farmers through the years has been that they need power supply through the day.” However, he also requested for farmers to pay their pending bills. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar also instructed the energy department to be stricter with the implementation of the policy. “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s wrongdoings have resulted in the power arrears ballooning in the state,” Pawar said.According to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL), the arrears from farmers for electricity bills for agricultural pumps now amounts to ₹45,559 crore. There are 44.38 lakh farmers utilising power to run agricultural pumps in the state. Among various options, farmers will get a 50% waiver if they clear their pending amount within a year. They will also be given three years to clear their bills. Of the recovered amount, as much as 33% will be reserved for the concerned gram panchayat to improve the infrastructure of the local power network, and another 33% will be reserved for the district concerned, for the same purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-leaders-take-potshots-at-centre-launch-scheme-for-farmers-101611776462674.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Padma awards row: MVA unhappy with less awards to Maharashtra||Leaders of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Tuesday expressed their discontent over the number of Padma awardees from Maharashtra. Rajya Sabha MP and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut told reporters that Maharashtra should have got “at least 10-12 awards” and it was “surprising” that the Central government announced only six awards for the state.“Maharashtra is such a huge state. Its contribution towards the country is so huge. Even the Covid-19 vaccine for the country is being manufactured here. Not only me, many people were surprised that the state received only six awards,” he told reporters on Tuesday.Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “The state had suggested 99 names to the Centre, of which only one name was considered. The state committee had recommended Sindhutai Sapkal’s name for Padma Bhushan, but she received Padma Shri. It is unfortunate that the state’s recommendations were not given any importance.” He even alleged that one of the criteria for the awards seems to be inclination towards the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). A senior official from the state’s protocol department, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Maharashtra suggested 99 names for the awards, of which only one was accepted. Every year, almost 10% of the awardees are from Maharashtra, which dropped to 5% this year.”The Central government announced a total of 119 Padma awards this year which includes seven Padma Vibhushan, 10 Padma Bhushan and 102 Padma Shri awards. While no Padma Vibhushan was bestowed on a Maharashtrian this year, Rajnikant Shroff, the founder of leading chemical company United Phosphorus Limited received Padma Bhushan.Padma Shri awards were bestowed on Namdeo C Kamble, Parshuram Atmaram Gangavane, Jaswantiben Jamnadas Popat, Girish Prabhine and Sindhutai Sapkal.BJP leader Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition at Maharashtra legislative council, said, “The awards are bestowed by following a process and it is based on merit. It is not like it is distributed among states. MVA only seems to be angry because their recommendations were not taken in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/padma-awards-row-mva-unhappy-with-less-awards-to-maharashtra-101611776402610.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress wants cases against Arnab Goswami in all police stations||Maharashtra Congress demanded for the arrest of Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami by registering cases for sedition for leak of sensitive information related to national security through WhatsApp chat. The party also demanded that cases be registered against him in all police stations across the city under section 5 of the Official Secrets Act and National Security Act.Party general secretary Sachin Sawant and Mumbai Mahila Congress chief Ajanta Yadav handed over a letter to Samta Nagar police station demanding a case against Goswami. “It is very important to investigate the source of the information which was related to national security. The act of the leak of such information is an act of treason and serious cognisance needs to be taken,” the letter stated.Sawant said it needs to be investigated as to who gave Goswami the information related to Balakot airstrike.Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap and working president Charan Singh Sapra met Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Wednesday and demanded cases against the journalist in all police stations. The party has submitted their complaints in 94 police stations across the city. “There was financial deal between Arnab Goswami and Broadcast Audience Research Council’s former CEO Partho Dasgupta, who has admitted to such transactions. The leak of the information is a serious breach of national secrets. Goswami should be booked immediately under National Security Act, 1980 and Official Secrets Act, 1923. We have been assured by the police commissioner that appropriate action will be taken,” said Jagtap.Republic TV spokesperson said, “It is quite clear that the conspiracy against us is totally political. Political parties are leading this protest. Political parties that do not agree with our coverage are targeting us. As a news media organisation, we understand the political intent behind this, and are determined to fight it with our head held high.”In a statement last week, Goswami had said, “I am horrified that the Congress party actually thinks that any journalist in India expressing the views publicly stated by the Government is committing a crime.” On January 25, Republic Media Network’s statement stated, “Spin doctoring and false attribution of statements made by third parties to Mr Goswami has become the norm in an attempt to create prejudice is deeply conspirational. Mr Goswami has not made any of the statements which are being attributed to him by political parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-wants-cases-against-arnab-goswami-in-all-police-stations-101611776283544.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Not unjust to refuse books to Elgar Parishad case accused: Court||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court recently disposed of an application filed by Gautam Navlakha and Hany Babu, both arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, for books in prison, saying that it was within the power of the jail to allow articles to undertrial prisoners.Babu and Navlakha, lodged in Taloja prison, had approached the court on December 29, 2020, through their lawyers Yug Mohit Chaudhry and Chandni Chawla, claiming that they were denied access to newspapers and were not allowed to get books sent by their families and friends through courier. The two, in their separate pleas, had claimed that the parcels containing books were returned by the prison authority.The court in its detailed order released on January 26, observed: “The prison authority is supposed to take care of the security of the prison. Therefore, I do think that the prison authority has committed any unjust act by refusing the parcel.” The court also said that it would not be just to (sic) pass any order as it would be within the province of the jail authority to accept articles for the undertrial prisoners if attempted to be delivered by their relatives or near ones.The special court said that family members and near ones may approach the prison authority to deliver books.Earlier, on January 12, the same court had allowed access to books from outside the prison, to activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, another accused in the case.During the hearing, Babu’s wife professor Jenny Rowena and Navlakha’s friend Dr Shrimoyee Ghosh had filed an affidavit before the court claiming their parcels containing books were returned. Rowena claimed in the affidavit that she had sent parcels to her husband between September 15 and September 22, containing three books — Sea of Poppies, A Man Called Ove and Last Train to Istanbul.“A week later, the parcel containing the books was returned with an endorsement in Marathi of ‘Covid Suraksha’,” she had said.Similarly, Dr Ghosh had sent a parcel in August to the activist, containing the books The World of Jeeves by PG Wodehouse and Against the Grain: A Deep History of the Earliest States by James C Scott. Gosh claimed that the books were returned with a remark stating that they were not accepted for security reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-unjust-to-refuse-books-to-elgar-parishad-case-accusedcourt-101611776282304.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor held in connection with ₹200-crore loan to HDIL group||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday arrested Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in connection with a money laundering case pertaining to the sanction of a loan of ₹200 crore to Mack Star Marketing Private Limited, owned by Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan.HDIL’s promoters are accused of unlawfully availing loans from Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank and defrauding it of ₹6,670 crore.Sources said this is the third money laundering case involving Kapoor which ED is probing. Kapoor was produced in a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court and remanded in ED’s custody till January 30. ED sources said that during Kapoor’s tenure, Yes Bank sanctioned loans to Mack Star Marketing in an unruly manner. HDIL then utilised this money to clear other loans it had taken from Yes Bank, to ensure that it was not declared as a defaulter. ED suspects that Kapoor was fully aware of the illegal activity and wish to interrogate him regarding the same. Hence, he has been arrested again.In the same case, the central anti-money laundering agency had last week arrested Mehul Thakur, managing director of realty firm Viva Group, owned by the Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) chief Hitendra Thakur’s family. BVA is a supporter of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.Earlier, ED had stated that the Wadhawans and others allegedly diverted ₹200 crore sanctioned by Yes Bank to Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd. This loan was allegedly siphoned off by the Wadhawans by showing a fictitious purpose. The Wadhawans illegally transferred two commercial properties, of Mack Star, valued at ₹34.36 crore, in Kaledonia building, Andheri (East), to Viva Holding, a company of Viva Group. In the sale agreement, the purchase amount was shown to be paid via 37 cheques by Viva Holding to Mack Star Marketing Pvt. The investigation has revealed that these cheques were never encashed by Mack Star, and Viva Holding never made payments for the purchase of the said properties. The Wadhawans had illegally transferred these properties to Viva Group in violation of the article of association of Mack Star. Further, Viva Holding never showed these properties in its balance sheets. Kapoor was previously arrested by ED in March 2020 for allegedly wrongfully sanctioning loans to various companies in lieu of kickbacks. Since then he has been in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. Recently, the Bombay high court (HC) also rejected Kapoor’s bail application in a loan fraud case. Kapoor, his wife and their three daughters are also accused in the case, and it was alleged that the family received ₹600 crore as kickbacks for unlawfully sanctioning loans from Yes Bank. Yes Bank had illegally sanctioned huge loans to various high profile borrowers, which later defaulted in repayments. Some of the defaulters include global tour company Cox & Kings and Dewan House Finance Ltd (DHFL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/yes-bank-founder-rana-kapoor-held-in-connection-with-200-crore-loan-to-hdil-group-101611776042556.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Infiltrators defamed our stir: Farmers at Tikri site||A day after clashes broke out between the police and groups of farmers from the Tikri border during a planned tractor parade that took a violent turn, agitators at the protest site insisted that those who indulged in the incident were “infiltrators” sent to “defame and derail” their movement against three contentious new farm laws.On Tuesday, a group of farmers who started the tractor march from the Tikri border broke police barricades to veer away from the agreed-upon route between the farm unions and Delhi Police. The police resorted to a lathi charge and fired tear gas shells to stop the farmers, but sporadic clashes and stand-offs continued between them till late evening at Nangloi Chowk.Hundreds of tractors managed to break the barricades and marched to Red Fort.A day later, the protesting farmers at the Tikri border alleged that those involved in the clashes were not part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions that has been leading the agitation at the Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur entry points to the Capital for 63 days.Jaswant Singh, a member of one of the unions, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadiya), said: “It is questionable how the police installed the barricades only at one place (Nangloi in west Delhi) to stop the protesters. Besides, how is it even possible that adequate security was not deployed at the Red Fort on Republic Day? It all shows that the government wanted this to happen to divert the attention of people and defame our movement.”Rajvinder Singh, 22, another volunteer at the protest site, said that he was among those who were given the charge of maintaining “discipline” during the tractor march. “Our leaders had announced that we should start the march only after 11am, as suggested by the police. But a group, which was carrying flags of different farm unions, started breaking the police barricades at around 8:30am, and moved ahead. We ran for over 10 kilometres to stop them, but they did not listen to us. I did not recognise them. I think they were trying to reach the Nangloi Chowk before the real protesters in order to complete the task assigned to them,” Singh said.To be sure, the farm unions were responsible for ensuring the protests were peaceful and did not resort to violence or desecration of national symbols, and the onus of Tuesday’s mayhem rests with them. Even the Samyukt Kisan Morcha accepted this at a media briefing at Singhu on Wednesday evening, when it took “moral responsibility” for the violence.Through Wednesday, several farmer leaders called for “peace” and “discipline” from a stage set up at the site.“There are attempts to break the unity of farmers but we won’t let that happen. They (police) also provoked some of our youngsters and made them do whatever happened on Tuesday. We should not let that happen again. I request you all to only follow the directions issued by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and not by people who do Facebook Live from Red Fort displaying their shameful deeds,” said a farmer leader Jiya Lal, addressing the crowd from the stage.His reference appeared to be to Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu, who was part of the mob that led the hoisting of the Nishan Sahib flag at Red Fort, and whom the unions blame for matters getting out of hand.Joginder Singh, the president of another prominent farm group, BKU (Ugrahan), alleged that Tuesday’s incident was a part of a “larger conspiracy” and requested farmers not to get disheartened by it.“Those who travelled to Red Fort and hoisted several religious flags they were not part of any farmer group,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/infiltrators-defamed-our-stir-farmers-at-tikri-site-101611775120291.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Standing committee seeks clarity on sale of bonds by Mumbai civic body||Slamming the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for its plan to raise funds through bonds for its infrastructure projects, members of the standing committee on Wednesday demanded that a status report on the entire plan be submitted to the committee. Corporators of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and Samajwadi Party (SP) said that the civic administration cannot bring in such a crucial policy without getting approval from the standing committee.Rais Shaikh, SP leader who raised a point of order on the subject, said, “The civic body must disclose how much financial deficit there is since they are raising funds from the market. They need to submit a white paper to the committee on the same.”The BMC had recently decided to raise funds by floating infrastructure bonds owing to the financial trouble it faced due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A senior civic official confirmed that the BMC has planned to float municipal bonds and raise ₹4,000 crore to fund infra projects. “The plan is to raise money from the market and fund major infrastructure projects in the future. The policy has not been finalised, and everything about it is still under consideration,” the official said.In Wednesday’s committee meeting, members demanded that the administration submit a detailed planned report on the bonds and its budget. Prabhakar Shinde, BJP leader, said, “The ruling party and the administration should stop such gimmicks and involve public representatives in crucial policies like these. There has been a lack of clarity on the income and expenditure related to Covid-19 and the representatives are being kept in the dark about the BMC’s finances.”Echoing Shinde’s view, Vishaka Raut of the ruling Shiv Sena, said, “The standing committee is a financial body of the BMC, and it is surprising that the administration is not taking the committee into consideration. The opinion of the public representatives needs to be there in key-policy decisions. A status report of the BMC’s finances needs to be submitted to the committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/standing-committee-seeks-clarity-on-sale-of-bonds-by-mumbai-civic-body-101611775321601.html
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Improper staff utilisation a concern during vax drive in Chandigarh||With many sites reporting a low turnout for Covid-19 vaccination, a fresh concern has emerged for the UT health department in the form of improper utilisation of workforce deputed for the drive.The authorities had recently activated two new sites for the vaccination drive, with the deployment of more workforce to vaccinate priority beneficiaries. However, due to low response, the staff capacity is not being utilised to its fullest.“We have to make arrangements for inoculating a minimum of 100 people in a day, which includes deputation of doctors, nurses, and supporting staff. It makes it a team of at least 10 professionals. The staff on almost half of the sites do not see many beneficiaries coming in and thus, they don’t have much to do,” said a senior official of the UT health department.Only half the target achievedOut of a total target of 4,895, so far only 2,464 persons have been vaccinated in Chandigarh.On Wednesday, only eight people came forward for a jab at the civil hospital in Manimajra. Only 51 were vaccinated at the two sites of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Similarly, 87 were inoculated at the two sites of Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, and 50 people at civil hospital in Sector 45. Each of these sites has a capacity to inoculate 100 people.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that they had apprised the central government to increase the number of beneficiaries to be inoculated at one site, however, they were not granted permission for the same.“At a few sites, we have the capacity to inoculate more than 100 beneficiaries so that the capacity of the staff deployed there can be utilised. During routine meetings, we have requested the central government to allow us to increase the number of beneficiaries at one site, however, we were not given the go-ahead,” he said.Another UT health official said that the idea was to broaden the base of the beneficiaries to be called in for vaccination. “If 50 people are coming forward for vaccination out of 100, we expect the number will be pushed up to at least 70 if 200 people are invited. We can stop wastage of resources this way,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/improper-staff-utilisation-a-concern-during-vax-drive-in-chandigarh-101611774120883.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||200,000 frontline workers in Mumbai sign up for vaccination phase 2||Even as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to conclude the first phase of Covid-19 immunisation by February 14, the civic body is gearing up for subsequent phases. As of Wednesday, 200,000 frontline workers have registered on the centralised app, CoWIN, for the second phase.Following the completion of the first phase, the civic body will seek approval from the Centre to start the second phase. “Along with its requisite permission, we will also have to wait to get vaccines to inoculate frontline workers in the second phase. As soon as we get both, we will kick-start the second phase,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.After healthcare workers (HCWs), BMC will vaccinate frontline workers, including police personnel from the state and central police departments, armed forces personnel and disaster management volunteers.“200,000 frontline workers have registered on the app, which will further increase to over 300,000 in the coming days,” said Kakani.In the first phase, BMC has a target to inoculate around 125,000 on HCWs registered on the CoWIN app. So far, 23,399 HCWs have been immunised in the city, as against the target of 34,394 accounting for a 68% turnout.After February 14, HCWs who missed their first appointment will get a chance at vaccination. “If they don’t come forward, we will initiate the second phase without waiting any further. We cannot force anyone since it [inoculation] is a voluntary process,” said Kakani.In a bid to fasten the process of mass inoculation, BMC is increasing vaccination centres. In addition to the existing ten centres, the civic body has started another centre at SevenHills Hospital. The civic body has also increased vaccination units to 90 from 72.On the first day of vaccination at SevenHills hospital on Wednesday, all 376 shortlisted candidates at the hospital got the first jab.Along with SevenHills hospital, BMC also has plans to start vaccination centres at the NESCO Covid-19 jumbo centre. “We are trying to include as many vaccination centres as possible to provide better accessibility to potential beneficiaries, which can help attain a better turnout. Later, we will also include dispensaries, which are already equipped for immunisation programmes,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.In the third phase, senior citizens above 60 years will be inoculated. BMC during their door-to-door survey found that more than 3 million civilians fall into the category. “Their details are already available with us. When we start the second phase, we will open the registration process for them,” said Kakani.Meanwhile, private hospitals are yet to hear from the civic body to open their doors as vaccination centres.Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital and member of the Association of Hospitals, a trust of private hospitals, said, “BMC has asked us to give hospital-wise data on our total number of vaccinators, details of cold storage facilities and the capacity of per day vaccination. We are in the process to compile all data.”As per BMC, no one has developed any severe side effects of the vaccines in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/200000-frontline-workers-in-mumbai-sign-up-for-vaccination-phase-2-101611773580829.html
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to hold MPhil, PhD entrance tests on March 7||After putting it on hold last year due to the pandemic, Panjab University (PU) has decided to conduct entrance tests for MPhil and PhD programmes on March 7 in physical mode.The university has said that the admit cards for the candidates will be made available online by March 2. The centre for the examination will only be Chandigarh.Last year, the varsity had decided to only enrol those candidates who have cleared the UGC National Eligibility Test (NET) including the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF), State Level Eligibility Test (SLET) and the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE).Candidates who have not completed their forms, but have paid the requisite fee, can complete their forms by paying late fees of ₹500 by March 4.The answer key will be uploaded and the objections will be invited on March 22 (through e-mail to arcet@pu.ac.in). March 24 is the last date for submission of objections to the answer key.The result will be posted on PU website from April 16 to 19. No separate result cards will be issued to the candidates.The candidates have been requested to visit https://phdadmissions.puchd.ac.in for updates about the entrance examination. PU had scrapped undergraduate and postgraduate entrance tests last year due to the pandemic and the admissions were conducted on merit basis. According to the recommendations made by University Grants Commission (UGC), institutes have to conduct entrance examinations to admit students to the MPhil and PhD programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-hold-mphil-phd-entrance-tests-on-march-7-101611773400464.html
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||No Rose Festival in Chandigarh this year||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) on Wednesday decided against organising Rose Festival this year in the wake of pandemic.The decision was taken in the MC’s General House meeting where most of the councillors raised their concern over the event, which generally draws huge crowds. The civic body has decided to “symbolically” organise the event and honour Covid-19 frontline workers, including doctors and MC staff, who worked to bring the infection under control in the city.The MC will also felicitate gardeners and other workers of Rose Garden.Since the MC took over the event in 2012, this is the first time it has been cancelled. The civic body had brought an agenda for the general House’s approval for spending ₹89 lakh on the three-day event. The highest amount — about ₹26 lakh — was to be spent on waterproof tents and furniture. A sum of ₹5.15 lakh was proposed to make horticulture arrangements, while ₹7.67 lakh was to be spent on decorations, security, lights and sound system. The remaining amount was reserved for prizes, competitions, fun activities and high tea among others. Like the previous years, helicopter rides were also proposed.However, after opposition from councillors, the civic body decided to constitute a committee that would decide on how to spend a restricted amounton amenities at the garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-rose-festival-in-chandigarh-this-year-101611773222518.html
28-01-2021||Other||Panchkula MC approves ₹119-crore budget||All agendas were cleared in one go at the general House meeting of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) held on Wednesday. In another meeting, which was chaired by mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, ₹119-crore annual budget was approved by the House.The newly elected mayor said, “21 agendas were already listed and have been approved. Three more agendas were added and subsequently given a nod.”The proposed expenditure for 2021-22 is ₹115.65 crore, he added. Making the city clean and green, repairing all public rest rooms and deciding on whether to hand over the responsibility of maintenance of public toilets to market associations or not were among the top agendas. It has been decided to make Panchkula stray animal-free by March 31, besides provision of large dustbins across the markets and removal of encroachments with immediate effect.The MC has passed an agenda regarding maintenance and repair of community centres and installing signs and guide maps in all sectors. The agenda to invite tenders for solid waste management plant has also been passed.Strengthening the bus services, beautification of choes and setting up food streets near them, replacing streetlights with LEDs, and making Panchkula plastic and pollution-free were some of the other agendas approved.Agenda pertaining to a sub-fire station in Sector 20 has been approved as well. Nod has been given to agenda regarding the need of CCTV cameras and security gates at the border Panchkula shares with Punjab. Agendas pertaining to withdrawal of paid parking in sectors 8, 9, and 10 from Red Cross and approval to single slip of ₹10 for all parkings were placed by Sonia Sood.“All these agendas have also been approved,” the mayor said.Congress councillor from ward number 18, Sandeep Sohi, said, “The mayor should have taken the opinion of all councillors before tabling the agenda in the House. We were not consulted. Also, a copy of the budget was not provided earlier.”Usha Rani councillor from ward number 7, questioned, “What was the purpose of a House meeting when they didn’t listen to the demands of other councillors. We gave one application seeking repair of roads in Rajeev Colony, but we were asked to come tomorrow. Why should we visit tomorrow when the meeting was scheduled for today?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchkula-mc-approves-119-crore-budget-101611773220452.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra inoculates 41,470 healthcare workers in a day||Maharashtra inoculated 41,470 healthcare workers (HCWs) — highest in a day so far — on Wednesday. It has also increased the number of centres to 528 from 477 centres, where the vaccination drive was held on Monday. With this, the number of HCW’s inoculated till date has increased to 178,371 since January 16, said Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department.The state government has planned to finish the first dose of all 784,000 health workers by mid-February and start the second dose, which has to be given after a gap of 28 days. It had planned to give Covid-19 shots five days a week (except on Tuesday and Sunday), but this week it will be held for four days, owing to preparations for a pulse polio immunisation programme.On Wednesday, the state recorded a turnout of 77%, which shows an improvement in response from HCWs. The turnout has started increasing after HCWs, who are not on the list for that particular day’s session, were allowed to take their vaccination shot, the officials said. On January 25, the turnout recorded was 74%.The state has also continued giving shots of Covaxin to HCW’s at six centres and vaccinated 219 people on Wednesday.In the two districts of Mumbai, 22,631 HCWs have been vaccinated so far, the health department said. Mumbai reported a 68% turnout on Wednesday with 5,197 HCWs vaccinated at 11 centres and 77 vaccination teams were in action.According to data released by the health department, Gadchiroli, Dhule, Jalna, Buldhana and Wardha districts reported over 100% turnout. Gadchiroli reported the highest turnout with 126% turnout as 885 HCWs were vaccinated.Dr Archana Patil, director, directorate of health services said that they have planned to hold the drive five days a week, except Tuesday and Sunday, and at 511 centres at least across the state. However, this Saturday it won’t be happening because of pulse polio immunisation drive. “This week we won’t be holding the drive on Saturday, as we have to make preparations for the pulse polio immunisation drive to be held across the state on January 31,” she said.“Covid vaccination of a person will be completed only after receiving two shots at a gap of 28 days. Our target is to complete the first round of shots of all the health workers by mid-February and start with the second round of shots of the vaccine from February 13 for all those who have got the first shot 28 days ago,” Dr Patil said.However, it would be difficult to achieve the target considering the pulse polio immunisation programme. “On January 30, we won’t be holding the vaccination drive, so that we can prepare for the pulse polio drive. Also from February 1, we would be holding Intensified Pulse Polio Immunization (IPPI) programme, in which, house to house pulse polio drive would be conducted for five days. The healthcare workers would be visiting every household and ensure polio drops be given to all those children in the age group of 0-5 years who have not reached immunisation camps. It is going to be conducted for three days in rural areas and two in urban areas,” said another official, requesting anonymity.Last week, the state received a second stock of 839,000 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines from the Centre. It needs over 1,700,000 doses to cover 784,000 healthcare workers. With over 1,800,000 doses, the state has more than enough stock to complete two doses of healthcare providers, the officials said.The state had received a batch of 983,000 lakh doses on January 12.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 2,171 fresh infections, pushing the count to 2,015,524. Toll reached 50,894 after 32 casualties were reported. Of them, 17 occurred in the last 48 hours and four in the last week, the health officials said.Mumbai has clocked 435 cases on Wednesday, taking the case count to 307,175. Of them, active cases are 5,645. There were six deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 11,323||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-inoculates-41-470-healthcare-workers-in-a-day-101611772980756.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police rescue kidnapped twin sons of builder in 2 hours||The DN Nagar police on Tuesday rescued 10-year-old twins of a city builder within two hours of their kidnapping by his 46-year-old driver and his brother-in-law.According to police, the accused had planned, executed the kidnapping and allegedly demanded a ransom of ₹1 crore as the driver needed money for his daughter’s wedding.The accused driver lives in Malwani with his family and worked as a driver for the developer, a Juhu resident. He ferried the developer’s twins for tennis coaching at Four Bungalows in Andheri (West) three days a week.On Monday around 7:30pm, the driver approached DN Nagar police, claiming that four people had stopped his car near Juhu and allegedly kidnapped him and the twins, said an officer. “The accused also informed us that the four kidnappers assaulted him and were talking amongst themselves to call the developer for ransom. Meanwhile, he got a chance to flee the spot after a few people were walking towards them. He claimed he managed to flee and directly approached the police station,” said senior inspector Bharat Gaikwad.Police, however, suspected some foul play. They took the driver to the spot that he had mentioned and found the car parked near PVR Cinema in Juhu. We found one of the twins inside the car and searched the other in nearby areas. The police team found the other boy tied to a seat in a school bus parked nearby. Police also found the brother-in-law keeping watch on the child. We then took both the boys to a hospital to ascertain that they were not harmed in any manner and informed their parents,” said Gaikwad. Gaikwad added that after sustained interrogation the duo revealed that the 24-year-old brother-in-law of the driver used to live in Mumbai earlier and worked with a telecom service provider as a salesman and knew how to make phone calls using some mobile phone apps. By the time the police team found the kidnapped child and him in the school bus, he had used an app downloaded in his mobile app to make a call to the Juhu developer and demanded a ransom of ₹1 crore. He had used the app to make the call, to make the call look like an international call.After 18 hours of questioning both the accused separately, they revealed the truth. The driver allegedly confessed that he made kidnapping plan with his brother-in-law as he required money for his daughter’s wedding. Driver’s brother-in-law lives in Delhi and came to Mumbai a week ago to execute the plan, added Gaikwad.The driver and his brother-in-law were produced before a magistrate on Wednesday and remanded to police custody till February 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-rescue-kidnapped-twin-sons-of-builder-in-2-hours-101611772860045.html
28-01-2021||Noida||Silver, gold ornaments stolen from Greater Noida shop; case filed||The police have registered a case against unknown persons for stealing two kilograms of silver and some gold jewellery from a jewellery shop in Jewar. The incident took place on Monday night after the owner had closed for the day and returned home. The complainant, Sanjay Verma, is a resident of Jahangirpur village in Jewar. “I own a jewellery shop in the main market in Jahangirpur. On Tuesday, someone informed me that the shop’s lock was damaged. I immediately reached the spot and found that the shop has been burgled,” he said. The burglar had fled with silver ornaments and utensils, weighing a total two kilograms. The suspect also fled with 50 grams of gold jewellery from the shelf. Verma said that there was a CCTV camera in the shop but he had switched it off when he left for residence. “The CCTV camera in our shop was not functional at that time. But a police team reached the spot for investigation and took the CCTV footage from neighbouring shop. We hope the suspect is arrested,” he said. Verma said that he does not have personal enmity with anybody and he does not know who has committed the crime. The stolen valuables are worth nearly ₹2.5 lakh. Umesh Bahadur, SHO Jewar police station, said that a case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 380 (burglary) of IPC. “We have launched a search to arrest the suspect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/silver-gold-ornaments-stolen-from-greater-noida-shop-case-filed-101611772560007.html
28-01-2021||Noida||Man arrested for ‘objectionable’ post on PM Modi||Jewar Police on Wednesday arrested a 25-year-old man for an “objectionable” Facebook post on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The suspect was identified as Sonu Kumar, a resident of Dastampur village in Jewar. Umesh Bahadur, SHO, Jewar police station, said that a person named Monu Garg, who is a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) youth-wing leader, had filed a complaint at Jewar Police station, alleging that Kumar had made “objectionable” comments on Facebook regarding the prime minister. “The Facebook comment was made on Monday. The local people objected to the social media post and filed a complaint. We registered a case against the suspect under Section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC),” he said.Bahadur said that the police traced his IP address and arrested him on Wednesday. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. The police have seized his mobile phone used for the Facebook post,” he said.Earlier, in October 2020, a middle-aged man, accused of posting objectionable comments against Prime Minister Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on social media, was arrested by Jewar Police. Yogesh Chaudhary, 50, had made the remarks on Facebook, after which a local BJP office-bearer had approached the Jewar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-objectionable-post-on-pm-modi-101611772559222.html
28-01-2021||Noida||Discom’s one-time settlement scheme fails to attract defaulters||NOIDA: The one-time settlement scheme of the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), aimed to recover outstanding dues, has so far received lukewarm response from the defaulters in commercial and industrial categories. As the scheme is about to end this month, officials of the power distribution company said that out of 12,000 big defaulters, only 900 have opted for the scheme. PVVNL chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said that the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) had asked all the power discoms in the state to launch the one-time settlement scheme for the consumers who could not clear their outstanding dues owing to the Covid-19 crisis. “The scheme was applicable for two months between November 30, 2020 and January 31, 2021. Under this scheme, the consumers in commercial and industrial categories had to get 100% waiver on surcharge on pending electricity bills up to November 30. Earlier, the scheme was applicable for urban and rural domestic consumers only,” he said. Singh further said that the discom had high hopes to recover at least ₹100 crore through the scheme as the defaulters had to clear the pending dues at one go. “But the response is not very encouraging for us, as out of 12,000 big defaulters, only 900 have opted for it so far. The scheme is ending on January 31,” he said.The officials said that along with shops, hotels and restaurants, commercial establishments like cinema halls, banks, private hospitals and nursing homes, and schools, among others, were eligible to take benefit of the scheme.The chief engineer also said that the overall figures of consumers, who opted for the scheme, would rise up to 1,000 as some of the small and medium industrial units having a contracted load less than 75 kW have been reported to clear their outstanding dues directly (offline) at the offices of their areas concerned. “We expect to recover ₹25 crore, which is around 25% of the total dues on these consumers till January 31,” he said. PVVNL has around 3.5 lakh consumers in Gautam Budh Nagar district, including 35,000 industrial and commercial consumers, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/discoms-one-time-settlement-scheme-fails-to-attract-defaulters-101611772506335.html
28-01-2021||Mumbai||Day 7 of Covid-19 vaccination: Mumbai sees 68% turnout||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) completed seven days of Covid-19 immunisation in Mumbai on Wednesday with 68% turnout. Of the 7,700 selected healthcare workers, 5,197 were vaccinated. Eight people experienced minor giddiness, called adverse event following immunisation (AEIF), and were kept under observation for 30 minutes before being discharged. The civic body increased its vaccination centres from 10 to 11, by starting vaccination at the Seven Hills hospital in the western suburbs, along with the 10 existing vaccination centres that have been functional since January 16. In the coming days, the BMC will also add more vaccination centres, including the Jumbo Covid-19 facilities at NESCO in Goregaon, Dahisar, Mulund, and the jumbo facility at Richarson and Cruddas (RC) in Byculla. The 10 existing vaccination centres in Mumbai are four major hospitals – King Edward Memorial Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper hospital and Sion Hospital; four peripheral hospitals - Bhabha at Bandra, VN Desai at Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital, Kandivli; the Covid facility at Bandra Kurla Complex; and the state-run JJ Hospital in South Mumbai. So far, BMC has vaccinated a total of 23,339 healthcare workers over seven days, of which 35 people reported minor AEIF immediately after receiving the shots. None had to be hospitalised so far. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of the public health department in the civic body, said, “We are scaling up slowly. Initially we started with 40 booths at 10 centres. We have got permission from the government to increase the booths. We will start vaccination at NESCO jumbo facility on Thursday or Friday, and eventually also start vaccination at the jumbo facilities in Dahisar, Mulund, and RC Byculla in a phased manner, so we can cover more healthcare workers.” The vaccination drive will also take place in the city on Thursday. On the first three days of the vaccination drive, on January 16, 19, and 20, Mumbai saw a relatively low turnout for vaccination, between 50% and 52%, which increased to 92% on the fourth day (January 22), and 90% on the fifth day (January 23). On the sixth day of the drive, Mumbai saw a decrease in the turnout at 77%, but had vaccinated 5,005 healthcare workers. The number of teams carrying out the drive also increased to 77 on Wednesday, from 65 on Monday, 45 on January 23, 39 on January 22, 33 on January 20, and 32 on January 21. On Wednesday, KEM Hospital vaccinated 595 people, and has so far vaccinated 3,712 people; Sion hospital vaccinated 514 healthcare workers (2,021 so far); Cooper Hospital vaccinated 456 people (2,591 so far); Nair Hospital vaccinated 534 people (2,535 so far); VN Desai Hospital vaccinated 218 people (626 so far); Dr Ambedkar Hospital vaccinated 829 people (3,814 so far); Rajawadi hospital vaccinated 783 people (3,455 people so far); BKC jumbo facility vaccinated 557 people (2,345 so far); Bhabha Hospital vaccinated 317 people (1,761 so far); JJ Hospital vaccinated 18 people (163 so far); and SevenHills hospital vaccinated 376 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-7-of-covid-19-vaccination-mumbai-sees-68-turnout-101611772505875.html
28-01-2021||Noida||Noida may experience cold wave till Jan 31: IMD||Residents of Noida and adjoining areas will experience spells of cold wave for the next two days, along with icy cold northwesterly winds and clear skies, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday.The IMD has forecasted cold wave conditions on Thursday and Friday, which may extend till January 31, depending on the wind speed and its direction. The mercury is likely to drop and hover around 4 degrees Celsius during this period. “The wind direction has changed from south-westerly to northwesterly. There will be cold wave conditions in isolated areas of the NCR areas, including parts of western Uttar Pradesh, as the northwesterly winds picks up speed. The minimum temperature is likely to drop to nearly 4 degrees Celsius,” said an official at IMD. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 7.6 degrees Celsius as against 6.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature for Noida was recorded at 21 degrees Celsius as against 20.2 degrees Celsius a day prior. The average minimum for NCR, based on Safdarjung observatory, was 5.4 degrees Celsius — three notches below the season’s average of 8-9 degrees Celsius. The average minimum temperature a day earlier was 2.2 degrees.The average maximum for NCR on Wednesday was 21.5 degrees Celsius as against 20.4 degrees Celsius a day before. The meteorological department has also forecasted moderate fog during the morning hours. According to weather analysts, while the minimum temperature will see a drop, respite from cold conditions is possible only around February 1, when another round of western disturbance will change the wind direction from the icy cold northwesterly to the relatively warmer easterly and south-easterly winds. “The city is currently experiencing northwesterly winds, along with clear skies. As such, the mercury is plummeting. Clear skies allow earth’s heat to escape the atmosphere quickly. This cold condition will prevail till February 1 or 2, till another western disturbance changes the wind directions and leads to a spike in the mercury,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. He added that a layer of thick fog will also dissolve earlier, leading to better visibility during the last few days. “The northwesterly winds are also dry or carry less humidity, leading to a quicker dispersal of the thick layer fog. So, open areas like expressways may experience foggy conditions in the morning that might disperse by 8am,” said Palawat. Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida and Ghaziabad continued to be in the “very poor” category as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) bulletin.The air quality of Greater Noida, however, showed a marginal improvement from “very poor” to “poor” category. “The wind speed has increased from 8-10 kmph yesterday to an average of 15 kmph on Wednesday. The wind speed will remain almost the same for the next few days,” Palawat added. According to the CPCB’s AQI index, Noida recorded an AQI reading of 342 on Wednesday as against 370 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s AQI was 300 against 365 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 357 as against 395 a day earlier. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), no significant improvement in air pollution is expected. “Wind direction is forecasted to shift to North-westerly. Due to cold dry winds, the temperature is likely to decrease for next two days. No significant change is ventilation index is forecasted for the next three days. AQI is likely to marginally improve, and the lower end of the Very Poor category is forecasted for the next three days,” read a statement by SAFAR on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-may-experience-cold-wave-till-jan-31-imd-101611772439204.html
28-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Heliport project to be ready by Sept 2022||NOIDA: The central government agency, RITES, has submitted its detailed project report (DPR) of a ₹43 crore heliport project proposed to be constructed in Sector 151A along the Noida expressway, officials of the Noida authority said on Wednesday.Now, the authority will seek requisite approvals from the state government before floating a request for proposal to select a developer for the ambitious project, the officials said. In August last year, the authority had roped in RITES as consultant for the project. “The DPR has been prepared. But the selection of an agency will take time. The project is likely to be ready by September next year,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.The DPR contains an economic feasibility survey, finalisation of site, preparation of design and other technical details related with the project. The heliport project is spread on 10 acres of land and its terminal building is to be built on 500 square metres, the officials said. As per the initial planning, it will be having a capacity to land 172 helicopters at a time, they said. With three helicopter parkings, the facility will also be having maintenance and repair services.The authority hopes that this facility will immensely help business groups and developers in the city. After approvals from the state government to allow commercial operations, the authority will offer land to the selected developer. The Noida authority sees an opportunity in this project because apart from the proposed international airport at Jewar, several other mega realty projects such as Film City, multi-modal logistics hub, and Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor, among others, are also scheduled to come up in Gautam Budh Nagar district.“The heliport with a repair facility will be in huge demand once it becomes operational. It will not only bring revenue to the authority, but will also provide much needed services to corporate houses. The selected developer will have to invest ₹43 crore in the project to be built under the public-private partnership model,” said an authority official, not authorised to speak to media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-heliport-project-to-be-ready-by-sept-2022-101611772379748.html
28-01-2021||Noida||Noida authority expedites work on Sector 96 underpass||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Wednesday said that it has expedited the construction work of a ₹50 crore underpass being built near Sector 96 on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority, conducted an inspection at the construction site and directed the staff to make sure the project gets completed before the scheduled deadline. The authority has planned to complete the underpass project by September this year.“So far we have completed 19% work of this project and we have a target to finish this by September 2021. We have directed the staff to put the work on fast-track as we want to open it for the public use much before the deadline,” said Tyagi.The underpass is being constructed at 2.3 km from zero point. Once constructed, it will help motorists cross over to other side of the expressway smoothly without experiencing traffic congestion, said the authority officials.Initially the work was in slow mode and later work got affected due to Covid-19 restrictions. Therefore now the authority wants to make for the delay, said officials.The authority had in March-end 2020 started the work on this project that will ease traffic pangs between sector 44, 96, 97, 98, 99 and sector 124, 125 and 127 among other areas, said officials.This underpass is being built exactly in front of Sector 96 site, where the authority’s new administrative building is being constructed. It will be a six-lane underpass that will offer smooth ride to thousands of motorists, who need to cross over from Sector 96 side to Sector 126 side, said officials.The authority is carrying out construction work in such a manner so that the normal traffic on the 25km Noida-Greater Noida Expressway is not disturbed. “We are using push-back construction method to construct this underpass so that the work is kept going on without disrupting the regular vehicular movement on the expressway,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-expedites-work-on-sector-96-underpass-101611772379190.html
28-01-2021||Noida||Traffic resumes at Chilla border as one group calls off protest||Noida: The Noida-Delhi link road, which was blocked by the supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) since December 1, was reopened on Wednesday night after the farmer group called off its 58-day protest at the Chilla border.The decision of BKU (Bhanu) to end its stir comes a day after the violence by protesting farmers during their tractor rally in Delhi.The traffic movement resumed on the Noida-Delhi side at 9.15pm after the BKU (Bhanu) supporters removed their tents and belongings from the protest site.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), GB Nagar, said that the Delhi-Noida traffic was already open. “From Wednesday 9.15pm, traffic on both sides has opened. We have also removed the barricades from the DND Flyway loop leading to the Chilla border,” he said.Earlier, Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh, chief of BKU (Bhanu), said that he was deeply pained at the turn of events in Delhi. “I am pained as some flags other than tricolour were hoisted at the Red Fort by a group of people. I am also pained at the assault on the police personnel. I had started the protest for the welfare of farmers. The situation is volatile, and hence we are ending our protest,” Singh said.The members of BKU-Bhanu had been protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws at the Chilla border since December 1. The farmers had also set up tents and kitchens to keep the protest going.After the announcement of withdrawal from the stir, the farmers were seen loading their belongings on tractors and cars and moving to their native places. On Tuesday, around 300 farmers from different districts of Uttar Pradesh had gathered at Chilla border and marched to Delhi in their tractors on the Republic Day. Some of these protesters had left on January 26 evening after the tractor rally turned violent in Delhi.However, the BKU-Bhanu’s UP president and Singh’s son Yogesh Pratap Singh did not appear satisfied at the withdrawal of the protest. “I am leaving the protest site since the senior BKU functionary announced its withdrawal. I smell a conspiracy in breaking farmers’ protest. The Delhi police did not allow us to march towards Akshardham on the Republic Day and they forced us to return to Noida from Mayur Vihar Extension metro station. Why did not the Delhi police stop other farmers from entering Red Fort?” he said.Meanwhile, Saha said that the traffic police have also tweeted the info so that people can start using the route for commuting to Delhi and vice-versa.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that the farmers’ protest in Noida on the Republic Day remained peaceful and no case was registered against them. “We have not received information of any FIR against them in Delhi as well. The BKU-Bhanu group has called off its protest around 4.30pm. They were removing their belongings from the protest sight on Wednesday evening,” he said.Since the protest had gone violent in Delhi on Tuesday, the farmers’ stir in Noida also lost momentum. However, the Lok Shakti faction of BKU whose about 20 members are protesting at the Dalit Prerna Sthal said on Wednesday that it would continue with its peaceful stir.SK Giri, spokesperson of BKU-Lok Shakti, said that some anti-social elements had tried to hijack the farmers’ protest on Tuesday. “Our protest has been completely peaceful since day one. Our tractor rally was also disciplined and there was no unwanted incident. A Noida police team had come to us and asked to withdraw the protest since the BKU-Bhanu has withdrawn. But we have planned to continue the protest. We also want the government to add our faction in the negotiation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-resumes-at-chilla-border-as-one-group-calls-off-protest-101611772259130.html
28-01-2021||Delhi||Red Fort to remain closed for visitors till January 31: ASI order||The Red Fort will remain closed for visitors from January 27 to January 31, according to an order issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).While the order does not mention the reason behind the closure, it refers to earlier orders of January 6 and January 18 whereby the iconic monument was closed from January 19 to January 22 due to a bird flu alert.The monument was also shut from January 22 to January 26 due to the Republic Day celebrations. However, it was supposed to be open for visitors on January 27, but it did not, sources said.Sources said after the violence that erupted in the Red Fort premises on January 26, the ASI has taken a decision to keep the gates shut to take stock of the damages.Earlier on Wednesday, culture and tourism minister Prahlad Patel visited the site and has sought a report on the incident from the ASI."Visited the Red Fort today morning and instructed the ASI DG to prepare a report on the incident and also lodge an FIR," tweeted Singh after his visit.While it is not clear if the iconic structure was damaged in any way, during the minister's tour one could see vandalised metal detector gate and ticket counter, and broken shards of glass at the premises of the Red Fort.The minister had on Tuesday condemned the actions of the protesting farmers who entered the Red Fort and said it violated the symbol of dignity of India's democracy."I do not want to say anything on the issue yet. I have sought a report, let it come," Patel told PTI.There are 173 monuments in Delhi protected under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). It includes UNESCO World Heritage Sites -- Red Fort, Humayun's Tomb and Qutub Minar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-fort-to-remain-closed-for-visitors-till-january-31-asi-order-101611769294549.html
28-01-2021||Other||Arundhati Roy among others to attend Elgar Parishad on January 30||PUNE The Bhima Koregaon Shauryadin Prerna Abhiyaan’s second edition of the Elgar Parishad on January 30, will be addressed by intellectuals from the liberal background who will speak on the fight against economic, social and cultural policies of the central government. Thus states a pamphlet released by the organisation ahead of the conference on Wednesday.The Abhiyaan, an umbrella body of 56 organisations will hold the conclave at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch, after they were granted permission to conduct the event by the Pune police.Earlier, the conference was scheduled to be held on December 31, 2020, but was postponed after the police denied permission.Booker prize winner and outspoken critic Arundhati Roy; and former IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, will be the main speakers at the event.Other speakers include former high court judge BG Kolse Patil; jailed JNU student leader Umar Khalid’s father - SQR Iliyas; former Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) leader Sharjeel Usmani, documentary filmmaker Randeep Madhuke, Ladeeda Farzana ( Sakhaloon ) and Ayesha Ayesha Renna N , all faces of the Jamia Millia protest against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in New Delhi; activist Satyabhama Suryavanshi; incarcerated IPS officer Sanjeev Bhat’s wife Shweta and daughter Akashi; journalist Prashant Kanojia and Abeeda Tadvi, mother of student Dr Payal Tadvi who committed suicide in Mumbai following harassment by senior doctors in 2019. Similarly, revolutionary songs will be sung by Bant Singh (Punjab), Pariah (Tamil Nadu), Samta Kala Manch and Kabir Kala Manch.Justice (retd) BG Kolse Patil said, “We will continue our fight against the oppressive and repressive policies of the central government which is curbing freedom of speech. The Elgar conference has been defamed by right wing forces who don’t want equality to prevail amongst all sections of society. The country requires a new politics which guarantees socio-economic empowerment of the countrymen. Earlier, permission was declined to conduct the conclave at Shaniwarwada. The police have given permission for only 200 persons as a condition for holding the conference. We have shown the police videos of different public meets which were jam packed and told the home minister about it. We will ensure there is maximum attendance for this meet which espouses the secular values of the country,” he said.The Elgar conference was first held on December 31, 2017, ahead of the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon, which was observed on January 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arundhati-roy-among-others-to-attend-elgar-parishad-on-january-30-101611763497377.html
