29-01-2021||Noida||Politicians flock to UP Gate protest site after emotional appeal by Rakesh Tikait||A day after the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait broke down and made an emotional appeal to people to provide him with food and water, thousands arrived at the UP Gate protest site on Friday, providing strength to the farmer, whose numbers at the site had declined since the incidents of violence in Delhi on Republic Day (Tuesday). The farmers on Thursday had alleged that the Ghaziabad district administration was trying to pressurise them to leave the site and had snapped electricity and even curtailed their water supply. Tikait had also alleged on Thursday evening that some BJP MLAs were planning attacks on the protesters once he got arrested by the Ghaziabad police. On Friday, the protest site close to Ghazipur in east Delhi saw visits from politicians, with Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia arriving in the morning to inspect the arrangements after the Delhi government provided water tankers and mobile toilets at the site. “Delhi chief minister had spoken to Rakesh Tikait who told him that the UP government has snapped power and water supplies. So, we made arrangements of water tankers and toilets and now the farmers can use them. I came here to take a look of the arrangements,” Sisodia told reporters at UP Gate. “We have support for the farmers, and it is unfortunate that they are being termed as violent and traitors .Why is the BJP not able to hear voice of lakhs of farmers, why are they just listening to the voices of a few capitalists,” Sisodia said, while adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should withdraw the three farm laws. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had also tweeted in support of farmers and Rakesh Tikait and stated that the demands raised by farmers were genuine. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, on the other hand, said water supply and electricity had not been stopped.“The number of water tankers had been reduced as the gathering had decreased at UP Gate. So, a few tankers had been deployed elsewhere. The electricity lines had some fault and this was not deliberate. Such issues have taken place previously at UP Gate. We have served them a notice to vacate the site and we are waiting for their reply,” Pandey, added.Later on Friday, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda also arrived at the UP Gate protest site where he met Rakesh Tikait and other farmer leaders present at the site. Jayant Chaudhary, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader, also met Rakesh Tikait while extending his full support to the ongoing agitation. This was Chaudhary’s second visit to the UP Gate site. “They say that they want an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-sufficient), but call farmers ‘desh drohi’ (anti national) and try to pressurise them through use of force. Farmers will never bow down in such a manner. I have come here to support the farmers as a common man, while our party also fights for their cause,” he added. Another Congress leader, Ajay Kumar Lallu, who is also the president of UP Congress committee, arrived at the UP Gate site to support the ongoing movement. Lallu had previously visited UP Gate on December 5 last year. “We fail to understand why the ‘anna daatas’ (food providers) are given dates after dates but the government is not ready to listen to their voices. About 130 farmers have lost their life during the ongoing agitation. Those who indulged in violence have been identified. It, however, seems like they are being protected. We will raise the issues of farmers in Parliament and even on the streets,” Lallu, said. The committee of farmers at UP Gate have already decided that they will not allow any politicians to share their dais. “Even if a politician comes here to support farmers, they will be treated as guests. We have cases where politicians from the BJP donated us flags and even food items, while not revealing their names. So, anyone who supports the farmers is welcome here,” Rakesh Tikait said at UP Gate on Friday. Chandra Mohan, spokesperson and BJP UP state secretary said that “nautanki” (drama) was being played out by some people in name of farmers’ agitation. “These people have got reduced to zero in politics and have now indulged in negative politics. The BJP has always been instrumental and focussed to increase the income of farmers. Farmers always keep country before self and are very patriotic. Further, we have never termed anyone as ‘gaddar’ and never spoken against any community. Over the issue of the new laws, we have spoken to number of farmers’ organisation who support the new farm laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/politicians-flock-to-up-gate-protest-site-after-emotional-appeal-by-rakesh-tikait-101611944958620.html
29-01-2021||Noida||Noida, Greater Noida Ghaziabad only cities across country with ‘severe’ AQI on Friday||Noida: The air quality of Noida and its neighbouring cities turned ‘severe’ on Friday after having remained within the ‘very poor’ category for the past two weeks. Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad were also the only three cities in the entire country to be in the ‘severe’ category of air quality on Friday.Ghaziabad was the most polluted city, followed by Greater Noida and Noida, while rest of the national Capital region were under ‘very poor’ category.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Friday was 423, against 338 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s AQI was 420 against 318 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 415 against 359 on Thursday. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The three cities have been in either ‘very poor’ or ‘severe’ levels of AQI since January 13, while the best air quality last realised was under ‘moderate’ category on January 4. Pollution monitoring agencies stated that the air quality will keep fluctuating into dangerous levels, even as the best respite expected for the next few days will be the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category.“The wind speed was moderate, around 15 kmph, in certain areas of the NCR including south Delhi, however, it went low to around 5 kmph in some parts towards the afternoon. That could be one of the reasons why ventilation in certain areas of NCR has been poor and the particle pollutants could not disperse,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. On Friday, the average volume of major pollutant particulate matter (PM) 2.5 spiked to five times the standard. The average PM2.5 for Noida on Friday was 299.54 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3), against 236.31µg/m3 a day earlier. The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 297.23µg/m3, against 233.2µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad was 324.81µg/m3, against 221.06µg/m3 a day earlier.The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the weather conditions are not too supportive to pull the region’s air quality out of the ‘very poor’ category. “Surface winds are slow and in west south-westerly direction, and forecasted to improve significantly over 48hrs. An improvement in ventilation index is forecasted for the next two days, AQI is likely to marginally improve to the middle to lower-end of the ‘very-poor’ category for Saturday. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate towards the middle-end of the ‘very poor’ category on January 31 and February 1,” said the SAFAR statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-greater-noida-ghaziabad-only-cities-across-country-with-severe-aqi-on-friday-101611944959191.html
29-01-2021||Noida||BKU-Lokshakti extends support to Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur||Bhartiya Kisan Union-Lok Shakti, which had ended its protest at Dalit Prerna Sthal on Thursday, extended its support to Rakesh Tikait on Friday and urged its union members to join protests at Ghazipur. The Bhartiya Kisan Union-Lok Shakti chief Shyoraj Singhsaid that some political leaders and MLAs had infiltrated the protests at Ghazipur border and allegedly threatened farmers on Thursday night. Hence, he added, it was time to support Tikait.Singh on Friday issued a video message and asked all Bhartiya Kisan Union-Lok Shakti members to reach the Ghazipur protest site to support Tikait. “People in western UP should reach Muzaffarnagar protest site. We have decided to support the Ghazipur protest because supporters of an MLA have reached the site and threatened the protesting farmers. The entire incident has deeply hurt Rakesh Tikait, who broke down into tears. The BKU-Lok Shakti will not tolerate such oppressive move,” he said. Singh said that he has sent around 200 supporters to camp at the Ghazipur border in support of Tikait. He said that the district administration and police should negotiate with the farmers and take suitable action and the MLA and his supporters’ involvement was unwanted. It is also expected that some farmers will march from Muzaffarnagar to Ghazipur border to extend support to Tikait. The police teams have been deployed at the Jewar toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway and at Luharli toll plaza in Dadri. Umesh Bahadur, SHO Jewar police station, said that the police have received directions from senior officials to be alert. “We have not been directed to stop farmers,” he said.The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Lokshakti) members on Thursday had called off their protest at Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal Sector 95 after a police team visited them on Wednesday night and informed them that they did not have permission to continue the protests. The farmer leaders too said that since the protest has lost direction after the Republic Day Delhi violence, they decided to end their protest. They had been camping at the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal since December 4 last year.Rajesh S, DCP Noida Zone, said that the two protests of BKU-Lok Shakti and BKU-Bhanu peacefully ended in Noida. “There are no farmers protesting in Noida,” he said. Meanwhile, police teams are still deployed outside the Dalit Prerna Sthal and at Chilla border to ensure the protesters do not gather again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bkulokshakti-extends-support-to-rakesh-tikait-at-ghazipur-101611944957442.html
29-01-2021||Noida||Supporters flock to UP Gate at night as Tikait’s emotional appeal goes viral||Ghaziabad: Thirty-two-year-old Amrita Kundu was one of the first farmers’ supporters who reached UP-Gate protest site in Ghaziabad Thursday night from her house in Nangloi, Delhi. She said this was after she saw a video in which Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait was seen in tears, pleading with people to come with water and food. Kundu said she along with her husband immediately set out in their car to UP Gate along with a bottle of water which they finally offered to Tikait at about 11pm Thursday. “I was shocked when I came across the video of Rakesh ji wherein he was in tears at the dais. I felt very upset about this and straight away came to UP Gate to support the farmers. I and my family have been active participants in the ongoing protests at Singhu and Tikri borders as we are from a farmer family based in Kaithal, Haryana. I could not see my farmer leader crying for help and support of people. So, both of us rushed to the site with water,” she added. As videos and news reports about Tikait breaking down at the UP Gate protest site went viral, the fortunes of the protesting farmers also took a turn. “After the violence in Delhi on Republic Day, many of our people returned home and numbers were thinning. Everyone at the site was upset and even more so when the Ghaziabad police arrived to serve us a notice for vacating the site and for arresting our leader. However, the entire sequence changed when Tikait ji went into tears. He was pained by the series of events and his tears brought more and more people to the site on Thursday night,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the BKU. After the police arrived at the site, Tikait had also said at the dais that he would hang himself rather than leave the protest site. As the video gained traction, it caught the attention of people as well as a group of four who were at their home in Fatehgarh Sahib district, in Punjab. “It was very painful to watch him cry and ask for help. The four of us could not hold ourselves back and we started our journey to UP Gate, driving 300kms with a bottle of water,” said Gagandeep Singh Guraya, an advocate and resident of Fatehgarh Sahib. The group reached UP Gate in their car at about 4am on Friday and finally met Tikait. “There was dense fog in Sonepat and Karnal and our driving speed was reduced to about 5kmph at times. However, we made up for the lost time as other parts of the route were clear. We will now stay here and will see to it that more people reach here, and the protest continues,” said Love Preet Singh, another member from the group. The initial response of people in different cities across the states was unexpected for farmers at UP Gate. “As the night got on, more and more people started to come to the UP Gate site. We initially could not believe the response, but more and more vehicles started to flow in from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand,” Rajbir Singh added. It was around 7pm when Ankit Chaudhary, along with a group of his 17 friends, came across the video over social media and decided to board a tractor-trolley from Datiyana village in UP’s Muzaffarnagar.“We were filled with anger and realised that enough was enough, after we saw our leader in tears in the video. We could not resist ourselves as it seemed to us that he was in pain in trying to save the honour of farmers. So, we got the fuel tank of our tractor filled up and joined the trolley before setting out for a journey of about 150kms to UP Gate,” Chaudhary added. Rakesh Tikait is the son of farmer leader late Mahendra Singh Tikait and resident of Sisoli in Muzaffarnagar district of western UP. Like Chaudhary, Prem Singh Sobta from Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand, who saw Tikait’s video live, prepared himself within half an hour to leave for UP Gate. “We came to UP Gate in two cars and reached by midnight. I had initially come here to attend farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day and left for home thereafter. But I again rushed back when I saw the video. As people started coming, the motivation level of farmers began to rise,” he added. Tikait during his address on Thursday evening had said that he will not leave the site and will consume food and water only if people will bring these to him. This was after he alleged that while Ghaziabad officials were holding talks with him for his arrest and vacating the protest site, some unruly elements arrived at the site to unleash havoc on the protesting farmers. Meanwhile, there were apprehensions among farmers that the authorities will get the site vacated themselves and could even arrest Tikait, following FIRs lodged in connection with the incidents of violence in Delhi on the Republic Day. “When I was at the dais, I felt that something very wrong was about to happen and then I decided that I will not leave farmers and won’t vacate the site. After the video went viral, I was myself surprised that it had so much impact that people set out for UP Gate at night itself,” Tikait said. The dais at the site generally goes silent at night but Tikait was present there till 4am on Friday, meeting everyone who had arrived from their hometowns.Apart from people flocking the UP Gate protest, there were also others who were preparing to leave. An HT team at 3am on Friday spotted Ranjeet Singh resurrecting the banner of the ‘langar’ (community kitchen) set up by Sant Nirmal Singh Bhuri Wale “We had almost packed up our food items and were about to shift to our other langar which is in Haridwar. But we saw people coming to UP Gate and vehicles arriving after the video went viral. As the night continued, more and more people arrived, and we understood that the gathering will swell further. Then we decided that we will not move out and continue to serve people here,” he added. Till midnight, there was heavy deployment of about 2,000 police and security personnel at the site, while officials were preparing to get the site vacated. However, numbers of protesters started increasing and officials decided to withdraw the deployment. At around 2am, personnel of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) deployed at the site were asked to board their buses and return. Ever since the incidents seen in Delhi on January 26, the gathering at the UP Gate site has decreased considerably and stood at about 1,000-1,200 on Thursday. Protesters said that the declining numbers could have given a chance to the authorities to get the site vacated easily. However, BKU leaders said that the gathering after Tikait’s emotional outburst swelled to about 10-15,000 on Friday and almost every inch at the site was occupied. The police, however, pegged the number to be lesser. “The gathering swelled considerably at UP Gate on Friday, and we expect that it was about 5,000. The deployment at the site was also lesser on Friday,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). Thousands of protesters from UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab had been camping at the UP Gate site, near Delhi’s Ghazipur border, since November 28, 2020, demanding repeal of three new farm laws. “We have served notice to the farmer leaders at UP Gate to vacate the site and are waiting for their reply. Thereafter, our next course of action will be decided,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/supporters-flock-to-up-gate-at-night-as-tikait-s-emotional-appeal-goes-viral-101611944958055.html
29-01-2021||Noida||UP govt expands Noida’s horizons; city to get land from 80 more villages, border Bulandshahr||NOIDA: With an aim to expand the boundaries of Noida, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday notified 80 more villages to be brought under the ambit of the New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA). The area is to be developed as a “special investment region” under the name “Dadri-Noida-Ghaziabad investment region” to attract investment and create opportunities. Currently, Noida is spread over 20,000 hectares adjoining the national Capital, which will now be doubled its existing size, to share boundaries with the Bulandshahr district.The Noida authority, which was established on April 17, 1976, will get around 20,000 hectares additional land – 60 villages from Bulandshahr and 20 from Gautam Budh Nagar – to develop, allot and urbanise.“This is a good step ahead for the future of Noida as 80 more villages have been included by the Uttar Pradesh government,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.Earlier, these villages were included in the development area of the UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) for the past 10 years. However, development could not be carried out. Now, the UP governor has taken requisite measures to include these villages as part of Noida. The authority will discuss the developmental model with the UP industrial and infrastructure development department for further progress, said officials.“We will discuss the development model with the state government and take it forward,” said Maheshwari.Officials said the state government and the Noida authority together will finalise the exact area of land to be earmarked for industrial, residential, mixed-land use and commercial use, among other purposes.At present, Noida is surrounded by Yamuna and Hindon rivers. It has around 16,000 hectares of urbanised area (along with 4,000 hectares of flood plain area), of which 47% is for residential purposes and 13% for industrial usage, while the rest of the area is for other usages that include commercial, institutional, and environmental purposes. It is left with around 250 hectares of land, which is earmarked for industrial usage but is yet to be acquired from farmers, officials said.Officials and realtors said that since Noida has emerged as the “economic capital of UP”, domestic and international investors are keen to invest in this industrial town as it has become a brand. However, it is left with no industrial land to be allotted for mega industrial projects, said officials, asking not to be identified.With 20,000 hectares of additional land in its ambit, the authority can carve out industrial sectors suitable to present market demand and create jobs, thus fuelling the local economy, said experts.“The move will certainly help in boosting growth and creation of jobs in this region. This is a much-needed step for future development,” said RK Arora, president of the Uttar Pradesh chapter of the national real estate development corporation (NAREDCO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-govt-expands-noida-s-horizons-city-to-get-land-from-80-more-villages-border-bulandshahr-101611944899491.html
29-01-2021||Noida||UP govt gives green signal for land acquisition for second phase of Jewar airport||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government has sanctioned ₹4,000 crore for land acquisition for the second phase of the Noida International airport scheduled to come up at Jewar. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has been told to begin work on the same.“We have received communication from the state government on this to start work on the second phase. Subsequently, we wrote to the Gautam Budh Nagar administration for necessary action in this regard. Land from a total of seven villages will be acquired for the second phase. We have also sent the superimpose map of this land to be acquired,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of the Yeida.The Yeida had sought permission from the state government to start work on the second project in November 2020, as the 1,334 hectares land needed for the first phase of the airport project was handed over to the Swiss firm Zurich AG, the concessionaire for the airport, which will start work at the site by April, said officials.A total of 1,365 hectares will be required for phase 2, 1,318 hectares for phase 3 and phase 4 will witness land acquisition of 735 hectares, said Yeida officials.There will be two runways in phase 1 and the airport is expected to become operational by 2023-24, said officials of Yeida and Noida International Airport Limited – the two agencies working on the project. In total, the airport is projected to have five runways when it is developed to its full capacity over a total of 5,000 hectares of land, said officials. The estimated budget for the project is between ₹15,000 crore and ₹20,000 crore. “We are likely to issue a notification and invoke Section 11 of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 and start the process of conducting a social impact assessment survey for this land before the acquisition can begin,” said Balram Singh additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Under phase I, villages whose residents would be rehabilitated are Rohi, Parohi, Ranhera, Kishorpur, Banwaribas and Dayanatpur.The administration will soon release the names of the seven villages from where land would be needed before the acquisition process begins, said officials.Apart from this, the administration is also likely to start land acquisition for 40 hectares needed for the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor (DMIC), which passes through the district.The administration will acquire land from Palla and some other villages for the DMIC project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-govt-gives-green-signal-for-land-acquisition-for-second-phase-of-jewar-airport-101611944898856.html
29-01-2021||Noida||Scepticism, faulty data hinders vaccination drive in Gautam Budh Nagar||NOIDA: In what comes as a major concern for the Gautam Budh Nagar administration, many health workers said they are reluctant to receive the vaccination shot against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.The district held its fourth session of phase one of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Friday, even as several corona warriors expressed their reluctance, saying they harboured doubts about the vaccines ranging from its adverse effects to dearth of efficacy data.Rakesh Kumar, a sanitation worker, is among those who did not turn up for inoculation at the primary health centre (PHC) in Dadri. One of his colleagues, Shekhar, said his family asked him not to go for vaccination. “Last evening, he told me that since he had already suffered from Covid-19, he has already developed antibodies and now doesn’t need the vaccination,” Rakesh said of Shekhar.Sudha Singh (name changed), who works as an anganwadi worker, was informed two days ago of her vaccination slot on Friday at community health centre (CHC) in Dadri. She came to the centre, but refused to get the shot. “I’ve come here but will not take the vaccine as I’ve no idea about its accuracy and efficacy. I can’t put my life in danger as I have two small children,” she said. A sanitation worker, who was enlisted for Friday’s inoculation at a booth at the district hospital, echoed similar views. “We are not the experimental type. We were scared in going for duties but had to as there was no other option. Again, when we are sceptical about this vaccine, we are being made scapegoats. I’ll not take the vaccine unless all doctors in the district get inoculated,” he said, requesting not to be named. Reluctance apart, the faulty database has also dogged the vaccination drive in the district. Dr Abhishek Deswal, head of critical care medicine at Sharda hospital, has been deputed in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Covid-19 ward with his team of doctors and paramedics. “No one from our team is enlisted in the vaccination list. I’ve informed the district magistrate and the chief medical officer (CMO), requesting them to include our names in the list on a priority basis,” he said. District magistrate Suhas LY agreed that the database has many faults. “Reluctance is a minor issue. The vaccination list includes thousands of nursing and para-medical students and staff who left the district right after the lockdown was lifted. On the other hand, this list does not include names of those health workers who joined their duties during the pandemic. These faults were not corrected on time, and the Co-WIN portal doesn’t give the rights of editing the list to the data entry operators,” he said. The DM further said that he had asked the district health department officials to prepare an updated list of health workers to be innoculated. Meanwhile, district CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said that the health department is leaving no stone unturned to finish the first phase of vaccination as quickly as possible and proceed to the next phase. “However, reluctance among many health workers is slowing down the process. We are hoping that the number of vaccine recipients will go up in the last two sessions of vaccination for the first phase. There are a variety of reasons why many corona warriors are not keen on getting a dose. So, we are asking senior doctors and hospital officials who have already taken shots to motivate others,” he said.Meanwhile, the district improved its vaccination numbers by nearly 15% this time, as 3,502 out of the intended daily target of 5,234 corona warriors took the Covid-19 shot on Friday. In the four sessions held so far, Covishield could be administered to 9,146 out of 24,453 health workers. The CMO stated that in the remaining two rounds – to be held February 4 and 5 – as many as 15,307 health workers will be inoculated. “While vaccination will take place on 60 booths on February 4, there will be 20 booths on the last session of the first phase. The second phase of vaccination will begin from February 15. We have so far uploaded the names of over 15,000 persons for the second phase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/scepticism-faulty-data-hinders-vaccination-drive-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101611944898120.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Trains for all, more time for eateries: Mumbai inching towards the old normal||With the state’s decision to resume local train services for the general public from February 1 and extend the operational timings for restaurants and shops, the city is inching back to pre-pandemic normalcy. On Friday, the Maharashtra government announced that local trains will resume services during specified hours, but to prevent overcrowding, they would not be operational during peak hours. From next month, shops and restaurants will also be allowed to stay open till 11pm and 1am respectively. On Friday, the Maharashtra government announced that from February 1, regular train services would resume for the general public from the first local train service till 7am; then between 12pm and 4pm; and from 9pm till the last local train service. With a footfall of 8 million passengers daily on Central (CR) and Western Railway (WR), the suburban railway network is the most-used public transport system in the city. Local train services in Mumbai were suspended on March 23, 2020, as part of the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. A limited number of buses operated by Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking as well as autorickshaws and taxis are already operational and there have been some reported instances of crowding in buses. The resumption of train services is expected to make commutes easier and facilitate the reopening of commercial establishments. Passengers welcomed the move to resume train services. “People can slowly resume working now and life is getting back to pre-Covid-19 times. The opening up of local trains for the general public will help passengers tremendously. Travelling by buses, taxis and private vehicles was very difficult in 2020. We had to travel for one hour one way just to reach Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and then one hour again to reach home. The travelling cost had also increased a lot,” said Renuka Singh, a Thane resident. Passenger associations said the stipulated time should be increased for the benefit of those who have long commutes between their homes and offices. “The opening up of local trains for the general public is a good move by the government. However, people staying far away will take two hours in a one-way commute. The timings should be altered and staggered office timings should be introduced by the Maharashtra government,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. The Indian Merchant Chamber (IMC) said any change in working hours — as a response to the time periods when the general public may avail local trains — would be temporary. “We are hopeful that Mumbai will bounce back to normalcy soon. If there is any significant change in working hours, it would be short-term till the situation completely normalises. We are certain this opportunity will be used sensibly by the general public,” said Ajit Mangrulkar, director-general, IMC. The government also announced an extension of working hours for hotels and shops, which was welcomed to the Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT). From February 1, shops can stay open till 11pm and restaurants can be operational till 1am. “There is a huge chunk of customers who shop late after coming back from work, which we were losing due to the previous 9pm deadline. The new timings will help regain some business,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, a spokesperson for the Hotels and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said the government’s announcement came as a huge relief. “Hotels and restaurants are already operating at 50% capacity and this increase in timing is a huge relief for us. This will substantially cut down our losses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trains-for-all-more-time-for-eateries-mumbai-inching-towards-the-old-normal-101611944538497.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Did not find material against MSC Bank directors, officers: Mumbai Police to court||The Mumbai Police on Friday informed a special anti-corruption court that they did not find any evidence against any of the persons connected with Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank concerning a fraud case.The statement was made in an affidavit filed by Mumbai Police in response to a protest petition filed by the complainant in the MSC Bank fraud case.The complainant Surinder Mohan Arora had last week filed a protest petition against the closure report filed by the Mumbai Police. He alleged that the closure report revolved around statements of accused persons – the then office bearers of the bank, completely neglecting the reports of inquiry, investigation and audit conducted by reputed independent organisations like the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) and the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG).Mumbai Police on Friday filed a reply on the protest petition, claiming that while investigating the case, the agency was not concerned with anyone’s political affiliation but was concerned with the illegal acts, if any, committed by them, constituting a criminal offence. “The allegations made by naming persons holding responsible posts and high offices are baseless and merely ipse-dixit,” read the statement by Mumbai Police. “During the investigation, the agency did not come across any material pinpointing any specific allegation against any specific person, director or officer of MSC Bank or any unlawful gain or undue pecuniary advantage received by an individual of MSC Bank,” read the reply.The prosecution further said, “Erroneous or imprudent decisions collectively taken in consonance with various policies, which though may result in undesired results, cannot be said to be a dishonest act with malafide intentions for causing wrongful loss to one’s own institution.” The police further claimed that NABARD’s report is “merely suggestive or recommendatory in nature”. “Those directions do not suggest any registration of offence or even direction to take action against the persons who are at the helm of the business transactions of the bank,” the statement added. The economic offence wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police had filed a first information report (FIR) in the case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Prevention of Corruption Act, and Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act. The case was filed in August 2019 on the direction of the Bombay high court (HC), which was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Arora, who had alleged police inaction into the fraud. The complaint pertained to thousands of crores of rupees obtained in loans by sugar cooperatives, spinning mills and other processing units from the district and cooperative banks.MSC Bank, the apex bank that controlled credit to the co-operative sector in the state and was handled by the then ruling politicians, landed in trouble in 2011 after an inquiry report by NABARD found that the bank was in the red with a deficit of ₹144 crore. The report indicted the board of directors of the bank for financial mismanagement that led to a ballooning of non-performing assets. The complainant Arora had then alleged that illegal loans were sanctioned, and secured assets were sold at throw-away prices, contrary to norms.The NABARD report had said that balance sheets had been fudged to show a profit of ₹2 crore when the bank was facing losses of ₹798 crore. The board had 76 directors, of whom 44 were elected representatives — 25 from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), 14 from the Congress, two each, from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Peasants and Workers Party, and one from the Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/did-not-find-material-against-msc-bank-directors-officers-mumbai-police-to-court-101611944118306.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s TISS allegedly scraps student elections, sparks protests||Student groups at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, are protesting against the institute’s alleged decision to scrap student body elections for the ongoing academic year.While the institute has not issued an official statement on not conducting the student body election, institute officials said that the elections cannot be conducted as students are not physically present on campus.“We looked for precedence of student elections in other universities but couldn’t find any. Student elections are a big event on campus. Conducting an online election will have its repercussions because there is the question of availability of resources,” said Asha Banu, dean of student affairs.On January 19, all members of the institute’s student election committee 2020-21, a non-elected student body that facilitates and supervises the election process on campus, resigned from their posts. “Since we as the committee are meant to conduct elections and establish the students’ representative body, the absence of any such body makes the existence of the election committee superficial and unnecessary,” the committee said in a statement.The committee stated that it had been consistently trying all official channels to communicate to the institute and request student elections. It proposed online elections and/or the formation of an interim student body till the time elections could be held. “We would like to reiterate to the concerned authorities our request to conduct elections, through which student representation can be established in the institute,” said the EC in its statement.This has sparked protests by student bodies on campus as the resignation is being seen as a protest by the committee. “The Progressive Students’ Forum (PSF) – TISS Mumbai, views this behaviour of the administration as highly condemnable and not befitting of those running an institution known for its commitment to social justice and equality,” said a member of the PSF.Banu, however, said that during the lockdown, a spontaneous system of representation has evolved through class representatives (CRs). “The CRs of various programmes are in continuous touch with the institute administration. Students issues are being highlighted via the CRs,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-tiss-allegedly-scraps-student-elections-sparks-protests-101611943938256.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||ICSE board: Academic year to begin in March; Mumbai schools fear losing summer break||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), which runs ICSE schools in the country, has clarified that even as it is yet to declare the dates for its board exams, schools will reopen as per the old schedule for the academic year 2021-22.In a circular issued on its official website recently, the board has stated that the new academic year for schools under the board will remain as it was before. “Schools affiliated to the council shall be from the middle of March to the first week of June. Hill schools affiliated to the board shall begin their new academic year from February,” the circular further states. The circular came as a response to several requests sent by heads of schools affiliated with the board demanding clarity on the new academic year in the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak and the expected delay in the board exams. Principals said they were worried about teachers not getting a summer break with this. “If the academic year begins as scheduled and board exams are delayed, teachers will be busy throughout the year,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal of Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School in Vile Parle. Most schools in the city have scheduled exams for Class 9 students in February. “Due to Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant safety protocols, more teachers will be required for exam work like invigilation. By the time this would be done, the new academic year would begin followed by board exams,” said a teacher. Parents also said they were hoping the board gives some clarity on the academic calendar for 2021-22. “For Class 10 ISC students who will write their exams this year, there will be no break between the board exams and the beginning of Class 11 which will be too hectic,” said a parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/icse-board-academic-year-to-begin-in-march-mumbai-schools-fear-losing-summer-break-101611943638234.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Union Budget 2021: Travel industry hopes for tax exemption, financial aid||Ahead of the Union Budget 2021, the apex body of travel agents – Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) – has suggested that the government outlay plans to enhance and boost travel and tourism by ensuring adequate support in ease of growing the industry. According to TAAI, Budget 2021 should allow leave travel concession (LTC) benefits, which could not be utilised owing to the pandemic, to be carried forward over the next two years. It also stated that it expects the government to fully exempt income tax for two years for all expenses made for travel, tourism, MICE (meetings, incentives, conferencing and exhibitions), adventure, domestic and religious travel, by the taxpayer. In its recommendation to the ministry, TAAI stated that a structured insurance mechanism is required to secure the future of travel agents against principals, viz a viz securing all payments of consumers and travellers. “The proposals on underwriting by the government towards all airline operators to and from India must also be secured in some form of financial security,” said the association. Jay Bhatia, vice president of TAAI stated that travel and tourism trade should be granted an industry status and can be included in the concurrent list across the country which will help to produce high-quality service levels. “We have requested that a single employee benefit or security policy benefit should be adopted under one proviso that will take care of labour welfare, industrial safety and health of self and a maintaining one-wage code across the country with Central and state governments,” Bhatia said.The year 2020 witnessed the unforeseeable impact on the travel and hospitality industry due to the pandemic. The sector was severely hit with restrictions on both international and domestic travel. During the unlock phase, domestic tourism was the first to open up in May 2020. The travel and hospitality industry is one of the largest providers of jobs and has a multi-pier effect on economic growth. Travel portals unanimously said that they are optimistic that the industry will continue to see buoyant growth, driving overall economic growth in the country.“There is a need for greater collaboration between various stakeholders, be it the industry or the government, to create relevant policies and schemes for this sector. To see continued growth in the travel industry, we would like to see better spends to provide necessary infrastructural capabilities, public utilities and more amenities which would promote social distancing norms. Moreover, providing customers with tax incentives and fiscal measures to stimulate demand is critical for the sector. Relief on regulatory aspects on compliances such as TDS and TCS on online players, support to the inbound industry and measures to articulate the government’s plan will provide a roadmap and give clarity to the industry players,” said Dhruv Shringi, co-founder and chief executive officer, Yatra.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/union-budget-2021-travel-industry-hopes-for-tax-exemption-financial-aid-101611943338357.html
29-01-2021||Other||People posing with arms on social media on Ludhiana police’s target||Trigger-happy people, who post videos and pictures of posing with arms or opening fire on social media, are in for trouble.While opening fire will invite legal action with an FIR, posing with arms will lead to cancellation of the arms licence.The move comes following a flurry of complaints regarding such content posted on social media, including Facebook and Instagram.Currently, at least 18,000 people possess an arms licence in Ludhiana.To rein in gun-wielding mongers, police have also formed a team of officials to keep a tab on such posts on social networking sites.In one such instance, some youths had opened fire in the air using their licenced weapon on the occasion of Lohri on January 13. The youths, including a relative of a local Congress leader, had filmed the firing and posted it on social media. After the video went viral, police had lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused.In a similar drive in December 2019, the police had cancelled 24 arms licences and also stalled renewal of 57 licences.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said weapons were for self-defence and not for bragging or flaunting. “Such posts on social networking sites can cause panic among people. Police have already banned weapons at marriage palaces,” he said.In February last year, following a central government notification, the police had asked all arms licence holders, who had three weapons against one licence, to surrender one weapon. According to the notification, only two weapons are allowed to one licence holder. Earlier, three weapons were permitted against one licence.Under fireNovember 19, 2019: Punjabi singer Elly Mangat was booked for opening celebratory fire from a rifle at his friend’s birthday party at Darod village in Sahnewal, 20km from Ludhiana, after his video went viralJanuary 22, 2020: The Ludhiana police had issued summons to Punjabi singers Sidhu Moose Wala, alias Shubhdeep Singh, and Mankirt Aulakh over a video promoting gun culture and violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-posing-with-arms-on-social-media-on-ludhiana-police-s-target-101611940157172.html
29-01-2021||City||Maoist commander kills brother who joined police in Bastar||A Maoist killed his own brother who had joined the police force after quitting CPI (Maoist) in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh, officials said on Friday.The deceased, Somdu Ram Poyam alias Mallesh, was a district reserve guard (DRG) constable and was killed by his brother with sharp weapons on Thursday night at Kotrapal village under Jangla police station limits.Mallesh was a Maoist commander and had surrendered in 2014 in Bijapur.“Mallesh then joined the DRG and was working with the Bijapur police. A couple of days ago, Mallesh went to his village and on Thursday night his brother, Kosa, who is a jan militia commander of the Maoists killed him with the help of others,” Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P told HT.Also read: We take it seriously, Jaishankar tells Israel after blast near embassy in DelhiThe IG further said that Kosa came to his village along with a group of Maoists and killed his brother after thrashing him.“Police reached the village on Friday morning and as per Mallesh family members. The family said that the Maoist set the victim's body on fire in front of them. We have launched a hunt for Kosa and others in the jungle,” said the IG.On Tuesday, two villagers were allegedly killed by the Maoists in two villages of Rajnandgaon district under the newly formed the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone.It is worth mentioning that in the last five days, Maoists killed six people, including a deputy sarpanch and a contractor, in three Maoist-affected districts of Chhattisgarh.As per Chhattisgarh police records, total 36 policemen lost their lives in Maoist attack in Bastar in 2020 while 46 civilians were killed in a total of 308 Maoist-led incidents in Bastar last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maoist-commander-kills-brother-who-joined-police-in-bastar-101611939154519.html
29-01-2021||Pune||SPPU, PMC to provide free tuition to 100 SC, 50 open students||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) social welfare department, together, will provide free tuition to 100 schedule caste, and 50 open category students, for competitive examinations. Students in need of the free coaching can apply online on the official website – sdd.punecorporation.org till February 20. Selected students will get the free tuition benefit for one year under this scheme. All the details regarding the criteria of students, online application process and other details are on the website. Once a student applies for it, s/he needs to take a print-out of the application, attach necessary documents along with two passport-sized photographs, which need to be submitted at the S M Joshi Hall, near Daruwala bridge, Somwar peth before February 20. “This scheme is for the schedule caste and open category students living under the jurisdiction of PMC. It is necessary to have residential proof of applicant’s family staying in PMC jurisdiction for the last three years. Also, students should be graduates or post- graduates and accordingly a passing certificate needs to be attached with the application form,” said Ranjana Gage, PMC deputy commissioner of the social welfare department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-pmc-to-provide-free-tuition-to-100-sc-50-open-students-101611936736948.html
29-01-2021||Pune||Covid impact: Pune RTO issues fewer licences in 2020 compared to 2019||The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted all sectors including the Regional Transport Office (RTO) in Pune. As per data shared by Pune RTO, both the number of learning and permanent licences issued in the year 2020 was less in comparison to 2019. The number dropped in 2020 at the Pune RTO office due to the lockdown period closure of four months. In the year 2020, a total of 2, 71,987 licences were issued, in comparison to the 2019 total of 3, 34,226 by the Pune RTO. “Every year we cross the 3-lakh figure for issuing licenses but last year due to Covid-19 and a countrywide lockdown, the RTO offices were closed for public. Accordingly, the learning and permanent licences tests and the licence issue department were also closed impacting the total number of licences issued from the Pune RTO division” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer. The Pune RTO resumed back services for the public from June 22. Initially, only learning licences tests were conducted maintaining social distancing. The other RTO related works of transport and non-transport vehicles also began from the main office building at Pune RTO, Sangamwadi. In order to maintain social distancing and follow Covid-related safety measures, the public was not allowed to enter office premises initially, the applications and documents of each and every person were taken at the entrance gate of the office. Now, every person has to go through thermal scanning and is given a sanitiser at the entrance gate. The Covid slowdown Comparative data of Pune RTO in 2019 and 2020 Learner’s licences issued – 2019 – 2,24,874 2020 – 1,82,300 Permanent licences issued – 2019 – 77,885 2020 – 64,412 Additional enforcement permanent licences issued – 2019 – 31,467 2020 – 25,275 Total licences issued – 2019 – 3,34,226 2020 – 2,71,987||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-impact-pune-rto-issues-fewer-licences-in-2020-compared-to-2019-101611936616948.html
29-01-2021||Pune||U-12 Junior little champions bronze series to be played in mini-set format||One set till quarterfinals, then semi-finals and the finals will be played in the mini-set format – this is how the stage is set for the 110 under-12 tennis players from the city, in action during the Junior Little Champions Bronze series tennis tournament at the Metro City Sports club from Saturday. “Under-12 should play best of three mini-sets, so the volume of a match will be less as compared to the best of three, normal sets,” explained Hemant Bendrey, coach of India’s highest ranked WTA player Ankita Raina. In the mini-set, instead of players playing six-game sets, it is reduced to four games per set. A best of three mini-sets will be played after the quarterfinal. Another coach from the city, Ravindra Pandey, head coach at the Solaris club said, “Instead of having a one set match, these young players must be allowed to play at least eight games per match so one can come back in the match even if s/he is trailing.” Being the first tennis tournament in the city after 10 months, that too for kids, organisers are well prepared with all the precautionary measures. All the basic Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) guidelines will be followed while only one parent is allowed with the player on court. No handshakes for players. “The matches will start at 8am and it will continue till 10pm for the first two days and finals will be played on February 1. Parents are satisfied with the precautionary measures set up at the tournaments,” said Navnath Shete, tournament director. “My daughter Kavya Pandey is very excited to take part in the tournament after so many days. Since the age of four we have exposed her to tennis and she is doing well till now (Kavya is currently 10 years-old),” said Veenita Pandey, Kavya’s mother. Bendrey is happy as tournaments are back on track in the city, “Competitions are oxygen for all sports. By giving permission for tournaments, the government has injected life back into the games. Sports will be lively again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/u12-junior-little-champions-bronze-series-to-be-played-in-mini-set-format-101611936557025.html
29-01-2021||Pune||AQI index drops in Pune with minimum temperature at 12.7 degrees Celsius||After the minimum temperature in Pune city dropped to 12.7 degrees Celsius, the air quality in the city has also slipped from good to moderate. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) has forecasted moderate air quality for the next few days as the night temperature will be around 13 degrees Celsius. “The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Pune was in the moderate category on Friday. The AQI will continue to remain within the moderate category until January end due to similar temperature and ventilation as on Friday,” said SAFAR officials. According to the weather department, the day temperature on Friday was 31 degrees Celsius whereas the night temperature in the city was 12.7 degrees Celsius. “The night temperature is likely to remain around 13 degrees in the city until January 31. And the day temperature is likely to be around 31 degrees Celsius which will be warmer than normal. The sky in the city will remain clear,” said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. The weather across Maharashtra shall remain dry until February 2. As per the IMD, the highest maximum temperature reported on Friday was 33.5 degrees Celsius at Panjim and the lowest minimum temperature was reported at 10.8 degrees Celsius at Nashik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aqi-index-drops-in-pune-with-minimum-temperature-at-12-7-degrees-celsius-101611936497798.html
29-01-2021||Jaipur||Kota police nab wanted criminal with reward of ₹one lakh||On the day when Jaipur range police nabbed the most wanted criminal of the state, Papla Gujjar, Kota city police caught hold of Aslam Sher Khan alias Chintu, 40, who was carrying a bounty of ₹one lakh on him.Chintu is a noted criminal of Kota city with a dozen criminal cases against him, including those involving murder, firing, abduction, and intimidation of the evidence, lodged in different police stations of the Kota city. Recently, the district administration had demolished his house.Vikas Pathak, superintendent of police (SP), Kota city, said Chintu was convicted by a local court in a 2005 murder case but was later granted bail during which he started his illegal businesses again.“In order to nab him, we started creating pressure on him. On Wednesday, his house in Kota was demolished after we had written to the local body that it was illegally constructed. In the meantime, six teams were formed to nab Chintu,” Pathak said.Also read: We take it seriously, Jaishankar tells Israel after blast near embassy in DelhiThe SP added that the teams raided many possible targets. His aides were questioned, teams were sent to Jaipur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Jhalawar, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat.“During the investigation, the location of the accused was found in Delhi. Different teams raided locations across Delhi, Noida and Haryana. From there, Chintu fled and went towards Maharashtra and Gujarat. Fearing arrest, he kept changing his whereabouts. On Thursday, the special team arrested him from the Dhara area of Kota Rural,” said Pathak.On September 25, 2005, Tempo Union President Jamil was shot dead by Chintu and his aides. On March 30, 2009, a local court sentenced him to life imprisonment.In November 2013, Chintu appealed against the conviction and petitioned for bail in the High Court. The petitioner's bail plea was dismissed after which he took refuge in the Supreme Court. The top court then granted him conditional bail on March 9 2014. He was out of jail since then and continued his illegal activitiesOn January 18, 2021, the apex court ordered the state police to arrest the accused within three-weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/kota-police-nab-wanted-criminal-with-reward-of-rs-one-lakh-101611935472154.html
29-01-2021||City||Jagan govt, AP poll panel at loggerheads as nominations for local election begin||The ongoing cold war between the YSR Congress party government in Andhra Pradesh and state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar took a serious turn on Friday with the latter transferring senior IAS officer Praveen Prakash, principal secretary in the chief minister’s office.The order evoked sharp reactions from chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy's camp, even as the nomination process for the first phase of elections to 32,504 wards across 3,249 gram panchayats began in the morning.Prakash, considered as the most powerful bureaucrat in the CMO, is also principal secretary (political) in the general administration department, responsible for the transfer of IAS officers as per the instructions from the chief minister.In his letter to chief secretary Adityanath Das, the state SEC said Prakash, being the head of the general administration (political) department, should implement the SEC's orders on the transfers but had deliberately ignored his duty.Also read: We take it seriously, Jaishankar tells Israel after blast near embassy in DelhiThe CMO official was primarily responsible for scuttling the video conference convened on January 23 meant to review the poll preparedness as well as to impart instructions to the collectors, he charged.Ramesh Kumar said Prakash had instructed the collectors, SPs and other officials not to participate in the SEC meetings and not to cooperate with the poll process as well. He reminded that in the past too, there were instances of Prakash disobeying the Election Commission of India when he was the district collector of Visakhapatnam.“Since he is the fulcrum of administration, directly dealing with collectors and SPs and privy to influence their action, the SEC has felt that his continuance is prejudicial to free and fair elections,” Ramesh Kumar said and ordered Prakash's transfer with immediate effect.“He is barred during the course of the elections to have an interaction with district collectors and superintendents of police or any other officers who either directly or indirectly deal with matters relating to the polls," he said.A couple of days ago, the SEC issued orders censuring two senior IAS officers – principal secretary of panchayat raj Gopala Krishna Dwivedi and commissioner M Girija Shankar - for failing in their duties in the revision of electoral rolls in the state which led to the denial of voting rights to over 3 lakh new voters.He even wrote to the department of personnel and training (DoPT) in the Centre, recommending compulsory retirement of these two IAS officers. However, the Jagan government rejected the censure proceeding stating that the SEC had no authority to censure the serving IAS officers as per the All India Services rules. It also wrote to the Centre not to accept the SEC recommendations.Escalating the confrontation further, Ramesh Kumar on Friday wrote a letter to Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan, asking for sacking of state panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and advisor (public affairs) to the state government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy for allegedly making derogatory comments against the SEC.Reacting strongly to a series of orders issued by the SEC, Ramakrishna Reddy said the SEC had crossed all his limits in taking action against the IAS officers. “He lacks basic decency and culture and is behaving like a stooge of Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu. Does he want to conduct the elections with TDP agents?” he asked.YSRC general secretary and parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy alleged that Ramesh Kumar had gone "mentally deranged". "He deserves to be sent to a mental hospital for treatment. He is unfit to be in that constitutional position,” Sai Reddy said while speaking to reporters in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagan-govt-ap-poll-panel-at-loggerheads-as-nominations-for-local-election-begin-101611934214719.html
29-01-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand High Court adjourns hearing on Lalu Prasad Yadav's bail plea to Feb 12||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday adjourned hearing on Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav's bail plea for February 12, even as the leader filed a supplementary affidavit to highlight the period of custody served by him and the recent developments on his health front as grounds.The former Bihar chief minister has been serving jail term since December 23, 2017, after his conviction in three fodder scam cases in quick succession.Prasad has already secured bail in two cases on the ground of completion of half of the term. He moved a bail application in the third and last case on similar ground in the High Court last year.Filing a supplementary affidavit with the court, Prasad said that he would be completing half of the sentence (42 months) on February 7. Urging the court to grant him bail, he also stated that he was airlifted and moved to the All India institute of medical sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, last week after his health condition deteriorated.Also read: Blast reported near Israel embassy in Delhi, car windscreens damagedThe bench of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh, however, adjourned the matter for next hearing on February 12, asking the opposite party, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), to file its reply, if any, in the meanwhile."We have received Prasad's supplementary affidavit but nothing new has been disclosed in it to counter our earlier stand that the leader has to serve about eight months more to complete half of the sentence in this case," said assistant solicitor general and CBI's counsel Rajiv Sinha.He added, "According to our calculation, Prasad has only completed 34 months and some days in custody, which is still short of about eight months to complete 3.5 years. His other ground of deteriorating health has nothing to do with bail. An ailing person requires treatment and that is being given to him."However, Prasad's lawyer Prabhat Kumar said, "On the last date of hearing in December 2020, we had sought six weeks to furnish a detailed computation of the period served by Prasad in custody."He added, "We have now filed a supplementary affidavit with a revised chart supported by lower court's certified order sheets to show the details of custody period served by Prasad in this case."According to the revised computation, Prasad would be completing half of the sentence on February 7, Kumar said.The aforesaid fodder scam case against Prasad relates to fraudulent withdrawal of ₹3.76 crore from Dumka treasury during December 1995 to January 1996.A special CBI court, in 2018, had sentenced Prasad to 14 years of imprisonment- seven under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and another seven years under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act.It had expressly said both sentences would run consecutively.However, Prasad’s lawyers hope that the High Court will strike down this decision and let the two sentences run concurrently. If that happens, Prasad will have to undergo a seven-year imprisonment in this case.Prasad, who had been undergoing treatment in custody for over two years in Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), was moved to AIIMS, New Delhi, last week after his condition deteriorated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-high-court-adjourns-hearing-on-lalu-prasad-yadav-s-bail-plea-to-feb-12-101611930323483.html
29-01-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: First to use ultraviolet rays to disinfect metro||The Lucknow Metro has set another record by becoming the first metro project in the country to use ultraviolet (UV) rays to sanitise train coaches, a senior official said on Friday.The UP Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has taken inspiration from the New York Metro's experiment to sanitise trains with UV lamp rays, it said.“Passenger safety and comfort has always been our topmost priority and whatever we do is in sync with our objective to provide the safest and the most convenient mode of public transport to the people," UPMRC Managing Director Kumar Keshav said.Lucknow Metro has become the pioneer of metro train sanitisation through UV technology, the UPMRC said."When we started token sanitation by UV radiation, we received overwhelming response and appreciation from our passengers. Now, with train sanitation by ultraviolet rays, we want to assure all our passengers that their Lucknow Metro was, is and will always be the safest mode of transport," Keshav said."We are seeing a significant increase in ridership everyday and it is this confidence of our commuters that pushes us to put in more and more efforts to make their travel enjoyable and hassle-free,” he added.    Keshav said that Lucknow Metro was also the first metro project in the country to have started token sanitisation through 'UV box' which was developed in-house.Giving boost to the Make in India mission, Lucknow Metro in consultation with an Indian firm that deals in tube lights used in sanitation apparatus, has developed a UV sanitisation apparatus which works on ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) disinfection method, the UPMRC said.     It uses short wavelength ultraviolet (Ultraviolet C or UV-C) light of 254 nm UV-C to kill or inactive micro-organisms by destroying nucleic acids and disrupting their DNA, it said.The apparatus which was certified by DRDO in October, last year, sanitises the entire coach in seven minutes and as added care, "We are sanitising each coach for 15 minutes", the release said.    The best part of this initiative is that it is very economical, costing 1/40th of the cost involved in sprinkling of manual sanitislsers, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-first-to-use-ultraviolet-rays-to-disinfect-metro-101611925741949.html
29-01-2021||Lucknow||'Big disappointment': Mayawati on President's address to farmers||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national president Mayawati on Friday termed the President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the joint session of Parliament as a "big disappointment" for the farmers and the poor."The Centre is harassing and exploiting the agitating farmers who have launched a stir demanding withdrawal of the three newly enacted agriculture laws. The BSP will raise its voice against the exploitation and injustice meted out to farmers," she said in a tweet.Mayawati’s reaction came after the BSP announced in the morning to boycott President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to the joint session of Parliament at the start of the budget session.Earlier in the day, while expressing solidarity with the agitating farmers protesting against the three farm laws enacted in September last year, Mayawati posted a series of tweets, "In protest against not accepting the agitating farmers' demand of the withdrawal of the three disputed laws and adopting a lax attitude in the matters of public interest, the BSP today (Friday) decided to boycott the President’s address to Parliament."Also read: India took short term pain for long time gain - Chief economic adviserShe further said the Centre should take measures to normalise the situation in Delhi and other areas. "The Centre should not make innocent farmers scapegoat under the guise of riots on the Republic Day in Delhi. There is truth in the objections of the BKU and other farmer leaders against the farm laws. The central government should pay attention to their demands," Mayawati added."Farmers, who have made the country self-reliant in agriculture, are agitating for the withdrawal of the three agriculture laws. The government is harassing the farmers and the silence of the government over the issue is sad," the BSP chief said.Communicating her party's stand on the three agriculture laws, Mayawati said, "The BSP has always opposed the new agriculture laws in Parliament and outside which were introduced by the Centre in a very immature way. Along with the poor, the Dalits and the backwards, the BSP will always raise its voice against the exploitation and injustice meted out to farmers."Mayawati's tweets announcing a boycott of the President's address came at 9 am— two hours before the start of the President's address to the joint session of the Parliament. The Akali Dal, the Aam Aadmi Party and 16 opposition political parties led by the Congress on Thursday announced the boycott of the President’s address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/big-disappointment-mayawati-on-president-s-address-to-farmers-101611925681844.html
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Pre-primary classes to restart in Punjab schools from Feb 1||Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday said that following the conditional approval of the state government, pre-primary classes at all government, aided and private schools will restart from February 1. The schools would function from 10am to 3pm after 10 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The school education department had on Wednesday announced to restart primary classes at all schools from January 27. Students of Classes 3 and 4 were allowed to attend school from January 27, while those of Classes 1 and 2 were to return to classrooms from February 1, it had said. Earlier this month, the state government had reopened schools for Classes 5 to 12. With this, all schools will be fully functional in the state for the first time after the institutions were shut down in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The minister claimed that as parents have supported the decision of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government on reopening schools, he has directed the education department officials and school managements to strictly comply with the Covid-19 safety guidelines. In an official statement, he said that the schools have been asked to prepare special seating plans keeping social distancing in mind apart from compliance of other safeguards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/preprimary-classes-to-restart-in-punjab-schools-from-feb-1-101611924082262.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Schools in Delhi to reopen for students of Classes 9 and 11 from Feb 5||The Delhi government on Friday allowed schools to reopen for students of Class 9 and Class 11, and colleges to restart from next month, which have been shut since March last year in order to avoid the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the classes will resume from February 5 with the permission of parents and for clearing doubts and holding practical classes. Authorities will have to follow all Covid-19 protocols put in place, he added.Sisodia said the conditions would be similar to the ones announced when schools reopened for students of Classes 10 and 12 on January 18. Sisodia said students will attend classes only with the consent of parents and that physical attendance will not be compulsory and added that all schools and colleges will be expected to follow the Covid-19 guidelines."Schools for classes 9 and 11 students, as well as colleges and degree diploma institutions will reopen in Delhi from February 5, following Covid protocols. The students will attend classes in a staggered manner and with the permission of parents," Sisodia said, according to news agency PTI.Classes for students of 10 and 12 were allowed to resume from January 18 for pre-board preparations and practical work with strict masking and distancing guidelines in place. The Centre had allowed the reopening of schools from September 21, 2020, for the first time after the nationwide lockdown in March. States were allowed to decide whether to reopen schools according to their Covid-19 situation.Delhi has recorded 634,524 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including 622,114 patients who have either been discharged or have migrated or recovered, according to the bulletin issued by the health department on Thursday. The Capital's death toll has mounted to 10,835 and the number of active cases in the national capital is 1,575, of which 645 are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-in-delhi-to-reopen-for-students-of-classes-9-and-11-from-feb-5-101611922556146.html
29-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 4 die after consuming illicit liquor, second such tragedy this month||Four people died and six others were hospitalised after they consumed illicit liquor in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district on Friday, a police officer said. This is the second such tragedy in the state this month. Seven people died after having illicit liquor in the Bharatpur district of the state over two weeks back.Additional police superintendent Gajendra Singh said three policemen, including the local police station in-charge of Mandalgarh, have been suspended over the Bhilwara tragedy.Also Read: Eight Bihar cops injured in attack by men involved in illicit liquor tradeChief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the loss of lives and announced financial assistance of ₹2 lakh each to the families of the four and ₹50,000 each to six hospitalised people.Seven excise officials were also suspended while authorities ordered an inquiry over the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-4-die-after-consuming-illicit-liquor-second-such-tragedy-this-month-101611920837327.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan station premises to get a new look in 3 years under SATIS||If all goes as per plans for the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), the Kalyan station premises will wear a decongested look with better traffic management, parking facilities and flyovers in the next three years.The Smart City Kalyan Dombivli Corporation Limited (SKDCL), which is planning the project, is now on the verge of planning its design and will soon initiate the ground work.The foundation stone of the Kalyan Station Area Traffic Improvement Scheme (SATIS) was laid down by the Maharashtra state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday.Tarun Juneja, executive engineer, SKDCL, said, “We will first develop a parking facility behind the state transport depot and also design a modernised depot by replacing the existing one. For this, we will require the approval of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). We have got approval to cover the nullah behind the ST depot, where a parking lot will be set up. We have got the nod to do so from IIT Bombay and the work of covering the nullah will be initiated soon.”The KDMC was included in the smart city mission in 2016. Out of the several other projects planned under the smart city mission, the Kalyan station area development is one such. Considering the population growth in the Kalyan-Dombivli, which has crossed 15 lakh, the SKDCL has planned SATIS for both Kalyan and Dombivli stations. The Kalyan railway station has around 4 lakh commuters travelling to Mumbai and other cities daily. This leads to major congestion outside the station.As per the KDMC, the project once implemented will ease congestion for the next 25-30 years.“SATIS includes revamping the old ST depot, improving traffic management with separate flyovers for buses and small vehicles, designated parking lots and hawking zones and auto rickshaw stands. This will completely change the look of the station and ease congestion for another 30 years,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.The SKDCL has appointed three consultants for the work of the SATIS, the estimated cost of which is ₹498Cr.“The station area congestion has been a nightmare for most of the commuters as they get stuck in the traffic every day. This project should be implemented on a fast track mode and not stalled for years like several other projects,” said Smita Poojari, 38, a commuter who boards a local train from Kalyan to her work place in Mumbai daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-station-premises-to-get-a-new-look-in-3-years-under-satis-101611920297839.html
29-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand registers marginal increase in Covid-19 vaccination percentage||The vaccination percentage in Uttarakhand has witnessed a marginal increase from 59 per cent previously on January 21 to 65 per cent on January 28, said state health officials.While vaccination of beneficiaries was 59 per cent on January 21, it was 62 per cent on January 22, 64 per cent on January 25 and 65 per cent on January 28.Kuldeep Martoliya, officer for state extended programme for immunisation, said so far over 19,517 healthcare workers have been vaccinated. He said since January 16, a total 299 vaccination sessions have been held in the state, with 68 sessions conducted on Thursday.The vaccination target for Thursday was set for 7,403 healthcare workers of which 4,827 were vaccinated. The vaccination rates in the districts were Almora (58 per cent), Bageshwar (71 per cent), Chamoli (77 per cent), Champawat (93 per cent), Dehradun (55 per cent), Haridwar (52 per cent), Nainital (70 per cent), Pauri Garhwal (77 per cent), Pithoragarh (49 per cent), Rudraprayag (65 per cent), Tehri Garhwal (86 per cent), US Nagar (63 per cent) and Uttarkashi (74 per cent).Also read: India took short term pain for long time gain -Chief economic adviserUttarakhand, at present, has over 92,000 doses of Covishield vaccine. A second consignment was received by the state in the third week of January. The state received the first consignment of 1.13 lakh vaccines on January 13. The health official said doses will be sufficient for 46,000 health workers, covering the total healthcare workers of the state.The Uttarakhand government has developed over 300 cold chain points where the vaccines are stored in temperatures between two and eight degrees as guided by the Centre. Further, 483 ice-lined refrigerators, 547 deep freezers and three walk-in freezers have been arranged.At present, the vaccination drive is taking place on four days a week in Uttarakhand - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-registers-marginal-increase-in-vaccination-percentage-101611919823118.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||‘Shut colleges brought down narcotics cases in Navi Mumbai’||With the closure of schools and colleges during the lockdown, the narcotic cases in Navi Mumbai have gone down in 2020.Navi Mumbai being an educational hub, most dealings were conducted by youngsters across the campuses in the city. About 99 per cent of the drug movement was stopped during the lockdown due to closure of campuses, claimed the police.However, dealers used web portals and courier services for sale of drugs ordered online in the form of home appliances or groceries, making it difficult to trace.While 153 cases were registered in 2019, a mere 61 were registered in 2020, out of which 35 were registered before March and the remaining 26 from March to December, according to the Anti-Narcotic Cell (ANC).The Navi Mumbai ANC also claimed that the sale of cocaine, heroin and hashish has reduced during the lockdown while consumption of synthetic drugs like LSD, MD, brown sugar and ketamine increased.Deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pravin Patil, said, “We initiated a special drive against narcotics in 2019 and registered 153 cases and seized drugs worth ₹2.80Cr. The drive continued in the early 2020 wherein we registered 35 cases in the first three months. However, during the lockdown, there was a strict vigil at all posts and the movement of the drug peddlers was restricted. In the last two to three months, their movement has again increased after normalcy was beginning to set in. We registered 26 offences in this period.”In 2016, the ANC registered 77 cases in which 142 were arrested. In 2017, the cases were decreased to 54 cases in which 74 accused were arrested. In 2018, 44 cases were registered and 80 arrested.The ANC police inspector Ravindra Budhwant said, “Due to the lockdown, peddlers and consumers were locked in the house. Thus, trafficking was less. Most of the dealing in Navi Mumbai is at the campuses of educational institutions, especially the higher education. Last year, 99 per cent of the dealings in campuses were stopped. However, most shifted online. We got a tip off that their network was activated after June wherein they used mobile applications and online portals. The consumers would order through courier services disguising them as home appliances or groceries.”Budhwant added that the police would work with the cyber cell to know how much of the business was shifted online.Synthetic drugs on the riseA number of synthetic drugs on the market including Ecstasy, LSD and methamphetamine are said to be more effective than the natural ones, and thus more in demand. In most of the consumption cases, police have found the involvement of youngsters more even during the lockdown period. Earlier they used to deal with marijuana, Mephedrone (MD) and hashish (charas), but now they are increasing their network with other drugs. Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) paper, heroin, most of the synthetic drugs, which use more chemicals than natural ingredients, are riskier than normal drugs, said an officer.Budhwant said, “These drugs are marketed as being good for concentration or being a herbal product. Most of these messages are made viral through social media. When the schools and colleges were operational, we communicated with the students every month. However, now our spread is limited.”Young dealers on the radarApart from the poor drug addicts and dealers, other main dealers are youngsters, especially students. An officer from ANC said, “We believe these student peddlers belong to a chain of illegal supply of drugs that are brought from outside the district and sold to students by local suppliers, which eventually reach the campuses here. These students act as a link between drug suppliers and campuses. We don’t like to arrest students but if they don’t mend their ways, it leaves us with no choice.”The ANC have asked the volunteer teachers of schools and colleges to keep sending awareness messages on the students’ social media groups. The Navi Mumbai police twitter handle has also posted several awareness messages. The messages include identifying the drug and behaviour of people who are consuming it and also how to approach police if anyone found such activities in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shut-colleges-brought-down-narcotics-cases-in-navi-mumbai-101611919937368.html
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||7 protesters from Bathinda arrested in Delhi for R-Day violence||Delhi Police arrested seven protesters belonging to Bangi Nihal Singh Wala village in Bathinda district on Friday for the violence in the national capital on Republic Day. Lamenting the police action, family members of the seven villagers demanded their immediate release and withdrawal of the cases. Bathinda Range inspector general Jaskaran Singh, however, said he was unaware if any resident of the district had been arrested by Delhi Police. Village sarpanch Rajinder Singh, who headed to Delhi on Thursday night with members of the affected families, said the seven were arrested by police authorities from Paschim Vihar (West). He said all seven were members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) and were protesting at Tikri border. “The families were informed telephonically on Thursday. The seven have been implicated and we demand their release,” he said. All face non-bailable charges: Activist Manjit Singh Buttar, a youth activist from Bangi Nihal Singh Wala, said the villagers were arrested under Section 333 (voluntarily causes grievous hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “All face non-bailable charges. The village stands with their families,” he said. Kulwinder Kaur, whose husband Jagsir Singh, 34, was among those held in Delhi, said a group of 40 villagers had left on January 23 to join the tractor march. “It was his third visit to the Delhi border. Farmers have been fighting to safeguard their interest. The government should release them without delay,” she said. A former panch member Buta Singh said his younger son Gurphinder Singh, 23, were also arrested. “Gurphinder and seven others were part of the tractor march and were caught while returning to Tikri. My son was not part of any criminal activity. We will go by the leadership of Sidhupur faction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-protesters-from-bathinda-arrested-in-delhi-for-r-day-violence-101611918976899.html
29-01-2021||Bangalore||BJP wins Karnataka legislative council deputy chairmanship backed by JD(S)||MK Pranesh from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday was elected as the deputy chairman of the Karnataka legislative council. Pranesh won the election 41 to 24 as the Janata Dal (Secular), or JD(S), backed the BJP, sealing an alliance that would help the passage of contentious bills, including the anti-cattle slaughter bill.The victory came even as JD(S) chief and former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda refused to attend the President’s joint address in protest against the BJP-backed farm laws.The JD(S) and the BJP have shared a tumultuous relationship in the past. But the two sides have also come together to defeat the Congress, who they consider a common rival, on various occasions. Also Read: JD(S) to back BJP’s anti-cattle slaughter bill in KarnatakaThe alliance comes at a time when chief minister BS Yediyurappa has been under pressure over the cabinet reshuffle, non-performance of his government, farm laws and the resurfacing of old and new corruption charges, among other issues. The Congress has hit back at their former allies, calling them a party of convenience whose support is always available to the “highest bidder”. “This will bring more clarity of where they stand and their supporters will also be aware,” said a senior Congress leader. The JD(S) has bargained to get the chairmanship and the front-runner, Basavaraj Horatti, has already issued a statement to help pass the anti-cattle slaughter bill. The council had witnessed unruly scenes on December 15 as the BJP and Congress clashed when the deputy chairman SLDharme Gowda sat in the chairman’s (Pratapchandra Shetty) chair before the latter could enter the House. The Congress believed that Dharme Gowda would take up the no-confidence motion to remove Shetty. Dharme Gowda was found dead on a railway track in Chikmagaluru district on December 20. He is suspected to have died by suicide.Senior JD(S) leaders have spared no opportunity to hit out at the BJP in the past and hold the party responsible for the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government.“In solidarity with my farmer brothers fighting against the three #FarmLaws, I have decided, after consulting my party @JanataDal_S units, not to attend the President’s joint address of Parliament today,” Deve Gowda posted on Twitter.The Congress said that the stand of the JD(S) goes against their claims of being a party that represents interests of the farming community. The impact of the BJP-JD(S) alliance, the opposition said, will be felt in the upcoming zila panchayat and other upcoming elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-wins-karnataka-legislative-council-deputy-chairmanship-backed-by-jds-101611914596683.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||NGT slams Delhi Jal Board over Yamuna pollution||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) over pollution in Yamuna saying water quality remains highly deteriorated as pollutants are still being discharged into the drains.The green panel directed the Delhi Chief Secretary in coordination with the Chief Secretaries of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to personally monitor the progress of Yamuna cleaning by evolving effective administrative mechanism to handle grim situation caused by years of neglect.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said it is clear that major problem of preventing pollution by discharge of sewage, industrial effluents and other pollutants remains unaddressed. There is hardly any improvement in evolving meaningful and effective institutional mechanism for monitoring. Though Integrated Drain Management Cell is reported to have started functioning, tangible results are yet to be shown, as noted in the report of the Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC). The tribunal noted that the YMC has particularly found that 147 drains in the catchment of Najafgarh and Shahdara drains have not been tapped.The NGT said that YMC has noted huge gap in generation and treatment of sewage and has rightly recommended that all the drains in which untreated sewage is being discharged need to be intercepted and diverted so that the untreated sewage is not conveyed to the river. “Such gaps need to be bridged in UP and Haryana also. The IDMC and DJB have to ensure this for Delhi. The monitoring by Additional Chief Secretary and Chief Secretary Delhi has yet to take place. “Necessary devices for sewage and effluent treatment have still not been installed to the required extent. Inspite of availability of huge funds, DJB is not working in a professional manner, as observed by the YMC,” the bench said.The tribunal said water quality remains highly deteriorated as pollutants are still being discharged into the drains. “Flood plains are not being made encroachment free, affecting the riverine ecology. Awareness programmes are inadequate. “Biodiversity parks and other measures have also been found to be inadequate. Frothing frequently found is in absence of regulating composition of detergents, which find place in the river through sewage, for which action needs to be taken by DPCC/CPCB/Ministry of Consumer Affairs. E-flow needs to be managed by resolving inter state issues administratively,” the bench said.The tribunal said that accountability needs to be enforced against failure of time lines which are being changed at leisure with no adverse consequences against non-performers. Compensation regime needs to be strictly followed on 'polluter pays' principle which was not happening depicting failure of the regulators, it said.The tribunal also said there is need for continuous and effective working of the IDMC to plan and oversee prevention of untreated sewage being discharged in the drains or the river. Apart from discharge of sewage, there is need to stop industries from discharging effluents by concerned statutory authorities, it said.“The issue of protection of flood plains by the DDA remains to be satisfactorily addressed even though steps are said to have been taken for constitution of a SPV for the purpose. “Encroachment is huge and steps taken are miniscule. Meaningful working of special purpose vehicle by DDA will depend on success to remove encroachment and keeping continuous vigilance,” the bench said.The tribunal said the YMC has functioned for more than two years and contributed in a big way in steering the authorities with a clear road-map by its exhaustive reports on every aspect but the action taken by authorities has been found to be inadequate.“We place on record our appreciation for the contribution of YMC in the last more than two years. With the taking over of the further monitoring by the Chief Secretaries of NCT of Delhi, Haryana and UP, proceedings of the Committee constituted by this Tribunal on the subject will stand concluded,” the bench said.The green panel had directed the Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments to take expeditious action on sewage management, industrial pollutants and solid waste being discharged into the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ngt-slams-delhi-jal-board-over-yamuna-pollution-101611910705922.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Three days after R-Day violence, Delhi govt renews support to farmers||Three days after protests against the Centre’s farm laws turned violent in the city, the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Delhi government renewed their support to the farmers who are demanding the farm laws be repealed.Kejriwal on Friday morning asked deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and urban development minister Satyendar Jain to visit the agitating farmers at Delhi’s borders and ensure, once again, that they get access to water and sanitation facilities.At the same time, AAP MPs, led by Sanjay Singh, held a sit-in protest at the Parliament demanding the farm laws be withdrawn. The AAP was also among the opposition parties which boycotted the President’s address in the Parliament on Friday morning over the same issue. In his first tweet on the matter ever since the mayhem in Delhi on Republic Day (Tuesday), the chief minister and AAP national convener Kejriwal on Friday assured farmers that he continues to support their demands, which he said are “justified”. Responding to a tweet from an unverified account of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, Kejriwal said in Hindi: “Rakesh ji, we are fully with the farmers. Your demands are valid. It is completely wrong to discredit the farmers’ movement, calling the farmers as traitors and making false cases against the farmer leaders who have been agitating peacefully for so many days.”The number of farmers participating in the sit-in swelled overnight at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in Ghazipur after a video of an appeal made by Tikait in which he said he would not leave the venue went viral. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia who reached Ghazipur at around 11.25am oversaw the arrangements made by the city administration and met Tikait.“Yesterday (Thursday), chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to Tikait who complained that the UP government has removed all arrangements for water from the Ghazipur protest site. Kejriwal assured him that the Delhi government would get it done. So, today, mobile toilets have once again been installed here and water facility has also been provided by us,” said Sisodia while talking to reporters during his visit. He also reiterated that the AAP stands in support of the farmers. “The farmer who has been giving food to the entire nation is being called a traitor. They (farmers) are being abused and called violent. It is for the first time in India’s history that the Sikh community, known for their hardcore nationalism, are being called traitors by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Central government,” he said. Also Read: Tense situation at Singhu border farm protest site, police fire tear gas shellsSisodia, who is also a senior AAP leader, questioned the BJP-led Central government for not withdrawing the three farm laws till now even as the farmers have been protesting for more than two months now. “The BJP and the Central government will have to answer what kind of pressure are they facing from a few big private businessmen that they are refusing to hear the voices of crores of farmers and the public in general,” Sisodia said. At Singhu border, minister Jain and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said they have not been allowed by the Delhi Police to station the water tankers for the farmers. “The BJP government is not letting us set up even the basic facilities for the protesting farmers here at Singhu. Me, Jain and all other AAP MLAs are here to provide water facility to the farmers. If there is any specific order by the Central government that water should not be provided to the farmers then they should show us the order. They cannot stop us. Delhi government will ensure that sanitation and water facilities are set up at Singhu border today [Friday],” said Chadha. At the Parliament, the AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh and Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann alleged that AAP MPs are not being allowed to enter the Parliament. “We have not been allowed entry into the Parliament. They shut the door on us because we are vehemently opposing the three farm laws. The BJP has ensured that only the political parties which support their decisions are allowed entry into the Parliament. We will continue our sit-in here outside the door of the Parliament,” said Mann.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-days-after-r-day-violence-delhi-govt-renews-support-to-farmers-101611910876627.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Tense situation at protest sites, police fire tear gas shells at Singhu||Clashes broke out between farmers who are on a sit-in protest at the Singhu border and a group of people who came to remove farmers from blocking the roads around 1.45pm. The two groups pelted stones at each other. Delhi Police had to fire multiple rounds of tear gas shells to stop the two groups from becoming more violent. At least one person and one police official was injured in the stone-pelting. After the stone-pelting stopped, the situation remained tense.On Thursday a group of people who claimed to be locals from the nearby areas of Bawana had come to the border and asked the farmers on sit-in protest to vacate the roads. The group had left on Thursday but warned that they would return again on Friday. At the Tikri border too , the situation continued to be tense. A group of about 50 persons tried to get near the spot where farmers are protesting. Unlike the situation at the Singhu border, police in Tikri managed to separate the group from the farmers.Ravindra Kumar Chaudhary, a resident of Baba Haridas Colony at Tikri Border, said, “For the last two months we have been tolerating whatever these protesters were doing on the pretext of agitation against farm laws. Whatever they did on January 26 is unacceptable. We will not tolerate the insult of our national flag.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tense-situation-at-singhu-border-farm-protest-site-police-fire-tear-gas-shells-101611909376373.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court rejects bail plea of Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita||A Delhi court on Thursday denied bail to Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita who was booked under the stringent UAPA for allegedly conspiring to orchestrate the north-east Delhi riots last year. The court said there are linkages shown by the prosecution between Kalita and other accused persons and the allegations against her were prima facie true.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat also said all the citizens of the country under the Constitution of India have the right and freedom to protest including the right to oppose any legislation, however, it’s not an absolute right but subject to reasonable restrictions. It said that previous sanction was taken under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and thus, an independent review of the evidence gathered during the investigation has been done by an independent authority after its satisfaction about the evidence.“The contention of the counsel for accused that the sanction was given in haste is not for this court to give an opinion on. What is important is that an independent authority has given its opinion about the applicability of UAPA in the present case,” the court said.It noted that as per the prosecution, there were messages on Delhi Protest Support Group Whatsapp Group, particularly on February 22, 23 and 24 last year, allegedly showing the role of Pinjra Tod.Kalita was arrested for hatching a conspiracy along with the other co-accused to orchestrate the north-east Delhi riots. The specific role for which she has been accused is for calling people to block the roads, thus resulting in the riots.Communal riots had broken out in north-east Delhi in February last year, claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-pinjra-tod-member-devangana-kalita-101611909258425.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains open to all from February 1 but only within 3 time slots||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday allowed the general public to use the suburban train services in Mumbai starting February 1. The timings for general public’s use of the local train service will, however, be restricted to avoid crowding, said officials.The suburban train services--the biggest mode of public transport in Mumbai-- was shut since March 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, workforce in essential services, women, and some other categories were subsequently allowed to use the service after easing of restrictions in place to contain the disease.According to the new directives, general commuters will be allowed to board locals till 7am in the morning, then between 12 to 4pm in the afternoon and from 9 pm till the last local of the day in the night. This means the general public will not be allowed to travel between 7am and 12 noon and between 4pm and 9 pm, which are considered peak travel hours.The government has also urged offices to go for staggered working hours to ensure less crowding in trains, considered the lifeline of the city.Also Read: Court fails to see plight of Marathis: Sena on border dispute with KarnatakaThe state government has also allowed shops and restaurants in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to remain open till 11pm and 1am, respectively.Hoteliers and shopkeepers have welcomed the move. The Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT) said, it will help the shopkeepers who are facing huge business losses. “There is a huge chunk of customers who shop late after returning from work but we were losing them due to the previous 9pm deadline. The new timings will help to regain some business,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT.Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson, Hotels and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) also the move a huge relief for the sector. “The hotels and restaurants are already operating at 50% capacity and this increase in the timings of operation is a huge relief for us. This will substantially cut down our losses,” said Kohli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-open-to-all-from-february-1-but-only-within-3-time-slots-101611908549779.html
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||'PLA efforts to alter status quo were and are being effectively countered'||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) agreed to push for “early disengagement” of their frontline troops at friction areas on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh at the ninth round of military talks on Sunday. Lt Gen YK Joshi, the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Army’s Northern Command, spoke to Ravi Krishnan Khajuria, about the current situation in Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir. Edited excerpts:What is the current situation in eastern Ladakh?The operational advantage achieved by our troops on August 29-30, 2020, has put the PLA on the backfoot in key areas. This gives us the position of equivalence. Necessary measures have been put in place to respond to any threat over the entire spectrum of conflict. Any efforts by the PLA to change the status quo were and are being effectively countered. The 9th Corps Commander-level talks were held on January 24. The focus is to restore the status quo ante pre-May 5, 2020, and the same has been communicated to PLA counterparts. They also want to disengage at the earliest. It is difficult to fix timelines for such a complex issue, yet we are hopeful of an early and amicable resolution.Also read: Jaishankar yellow-cards China for violating pacts, spells out the India wayIn case of a conflict, how prepared are we? We have been relentless from the moment the situation escalated in eastern Ladakh in May 2020. Our troops are equipped with the wherewithal to inhibit any PLA misadventure.Chinese have ramped up border infrastructure along LAC. What about us?In May 2020, the existing infrastructure helped [Indian] forces to effectively counter the PLA threat. The infrastructure has been boosted in terms of roads, bridges, billeting of troops, availability of weapon systems in the tactical battle area. Apart from the civil administration and government machinery, Border Roads Organisation has also pitched in to support the troops. IAF [the Indian Air Force] has also played a major part in ensuring that an air bridge is up and running once the roads close due to snow.Pakistan is using drones and digging cross-border tunnels to push arms, drugs, and terrorists into Jammu & Kashmir. How are we tackling this?A strong counter-infiltration grid, physical domination at multiple tiers, and the latest technology have brought down the intrusion rates to negligible along the LoC [Line of Control]. There is a state of despondence among terror groups which is forcing ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence] and the Pakistan Army to explore alternate methods. ...these [tunnels] are dug up under fields that are invisible due to tall elephant grass on the Pakistan side. BSF [Border Security Force] has launched an anti-tunnel drive across the IB [International Border]. We have ground-penetrating radars that help in the detection of tunnels, anti-tank mines, and IEDs [improvised explosive devices], besides anti-drone systems.On Army Day, you said the internal situation in Jammu & Kashmir is stable and under control but has the potential of flaring up. Can you elaborate?The situation is stable yet the dynamics that are at play are never constant. Our adversaries have left no stone unturned to keep Jammu & Kashmir on the boil. With the actions taken by the administration and measures adopted by security forces, Pakistan Army is facing an existential threat. It will attempt to use all its cards to flare up the situation. The increasing number of unilaterally unprovoked ceasefire violations, Pakistan-based tanzeems [organisations] trying to enhance recruitment, providing financial support to overground workers, and narco-sponsored finances for terror activities are proof of their desperation.How is the situation in the Kashmir Valley? How many terrorists are still active there?In Kashmir, the synergised counter-terrorist grid eliminated 184 terrorists including top commanders, in 2020. Several hideouts were also busted, and large quantities of arms and ammunition were seized. Actions by security forces and intelligence agencies led to arrests of a large number of OGWs [over-ground workers], thereby denting the network of tanzeems. The situation has moved towards peace, but the challenge lies in sustaining it.What is being done to reverse the trend of radicalisation of Kashmiri youth by Pakistan via the internet?ISI, which is spearheading the proxy war in Jammu & Kashmir, is employing a host of social media platforms and technologies for spreading propaganda, pushing radicalisation, and intensifying a false sense of victimhood. The drop in their cadre strength due to a robust counter-infiltration grid has forced Pakistan to create digital tanzeems as proxy fronts to Hizbul Mujhaideen and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) which are using social media for recruitment. This effort is being countered by a comprehensive multi-agency initiative. The deep monitoring of social media platforms and cyber-surveillance of suspects has been undertaken.How many terror launch pads are active across the LoC?Over the last 30 years, Pakistan has established an extensive terror infrastructure comprising terrorist training camps and launch pads across the LoC. We have confirmed reports of 19 active terrorist camps and over 50 launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. As per reports, around 300 terrorist cadres are ready to infiltrate. Of these, most are of Pakistan-origin terror groups such as LeT, JeM and Al Badr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pla-on-the-backfoot-want-to-disengage-101611908655560.html
29-01-2021||Kolkata||Teesta Barrage: Former land owners demand jobs, start agitation in north Bengal||At a time when all eyes are on the farmers’ protests in the National Capital Region, hundreds of farmers whose lands were acquired to build the Teesta Barrage in north Bengal have started an agitation in Siliguri demanding jobs. The protesters, under the banner of Jalpaiguri Land Losers Association (JLLA), started an indefinite sit-in demonstration in front of the chief engineer’s office of the Teesta Barrage project and did not allow even the officials to enter the office. The Teesta Barrage project, the largest irrigation project in east India, was sanctioned by the Planning Commission in 1975 and the work started in 1976. Also Read: More politicians likely to join BJP during Amit Shah’s 2-day visit to BengalIt aims to provide irrigation water in various districts of north Bengal including Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Malda, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar. Three hydro power projects are also part of this national project. “Though lands were acquired in different phases since 1967 till 2006 with the promise of financial compensation and government jobs to each member of the land-losing families, more than 500 land-losers in Jalpaiguri district itself are yet to get jobs,” said Najrul Rahaman, president of JLLA. Teesta Barrage was declared a national project in 2008-2009. While the Centre was to bear 90% of the project cost, the state was supposed to bear 10%. The project, however, got delayed because of alleged irregularities and some engineers and contractors were arrested. Even after 45 years, the first phase is yet to be completed. “Though the Left Front government kept its promise and gave jobs to many, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has only given us assurances over the past decade,” said Rahaman. They even held a 26-day hunger strike in 2019 in Jalpaiguri.The agitators said that a meeting was held on December 17, 2019, but the agitators got nothing more than assurances. Ujjawal Roy, secretary of JLLA, said: “There are a few thousand of us waiting for justice. More than 300 people are participating in the sit-in demonstration here.” Raju Bista, BJP’s Lok Sabha MP from Darjeeling and the party’s national spokesperson, said: “It is infuriating that those who suffered due to the project are yet to get proper compensation. The cost estimates of the project have gone up several times, yet the project is far from being completed.” Ashim Chowdhury, executive engineer, Mahananda Link Canal Division, Teesta Barrage project, said: “We and members of the local administration held a meeting with the agitators on Thursday afternoon. The agitators are demanding jobs in exempted category.” The meeting, however, failed to solve the deadlock. ”Going by the tardy pace, it would take several years to complete even the first phase,” said a former executive engineer of the project, adding that the project was marred by rampant corruption. Initially, the project cost was ₹69.72 crore and now it has surpassed ₹3,000 crore. Goutam Deb, the state tourism minister and the region’s senior Trinamool Congress leader said: “In 2019, I had arranged a meeting between the agitators, the Jalpaiguri divisional commissioner and the Jalpaiguri district magistrate. They have been demanding jobs even before the TMC came to power. I don’t know about the updates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/teesta-barrage-former-land-owners-demand-jobs-start-agitation-in-north-bengal-101611905896231.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Court fails to see plight of Marathis: Sena on border dispute with Karnataka||Amid the political bickering between Maharashtra and Karnataka over their border dispute, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Friday said the latter has pledged to remove Marathi culture and language from Belgaum region evnen as the issue remains in the Supreme Court. “The border dispute is pending in the Supreme Court. People like Arnab and Kangana get quick justice in the court, but can’t the Supreme Court see the anger and the blood spilled by Marathi brothers? While the case is pending in the Supreme Court, the Karnataka government gave the second capital status to Belgaum and built Vidhan Bhavan there. Is this not contempt of court?” the editorial asked.Also read | All you need to know about Maharashtra-Karnataka border rowIt further slammed Karnataka deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi over his demand that Mumbai be made a Union Territory. The Sena mouthpiece also cornered the state Bharatiya Janata Party leaders over their silence on remarks made by Savadi, himself a BJP leader.“Savadi has insulted the 105 martyrs of the united Maharashtra movement (People who had died during the agitations for inclusion of Mumbai in Maharashtra). Savadi is a BJP leader...will they [BJP] at least condemn his statement,” the editorial said.The border dispute has been raging for the past three days now. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had demanded that the disputed areas should be made Union Territory till the resolution of the matter. The Maharashtra government on Thursday re-released an old documentary that makes case for inclusion of Belgaum and other border areas in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-fails-to-see-plight-of-marathis-sena-on-border-dispute-with-karnataka-101611905836284.html
29-01-2021||Jaipur||3 of Rajasthan family die in under-construction water tank collapse in Jalore||Three of a family, including husband, wife and their daughter, died in Rajasthan's Jalore district when an under construction water tank collapsed late Thursday evening, said police officials.A family in Jalore's Bairath village was busy building a water tank near their house, to cater to their need for drinking water, when the sand under the tank suddenly sunk, causing its collapse, according to the police.Mota Ram (40), his wife Murki Devi (38) and his daughter Santu (10) got burried under the sand at the time of the collapse, however, their 12-year-old son was saved by villagers, said police.Police and district administration launched a rescue operation after learning about the mishap and recovered the three bodies after two hours of toil.Also Read: Rajasthan’s Barmer oil refinery to start by 2022, investors assuredSub divisional officer Champa lal Jeengar said the family was building the water tank for the past two days, however, it collapsed Thursday late evening.Jalore district collector Himanshu Gupta and superintendent of police (SP) Shyam Singh and other officials met the bereaved family members to offer condolences.In a similar incident in September last year, three workers had died in Baitu block of Barmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/3-of-rajasthan-family-die-in-under-construction-water-tank-collapse-in-jalore-101611904775526.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt extends lockdown restrictions till 28 February||The Maharashtra government on Friday extended the ongoing restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic till February 28. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar issued the notification extending them by a month.“As the chairperson of the state executive committee I hereby issue directions that the guidelines to operationalise ‘Mission Begin Again’ for easing of restrictions and phase-wise opening, will remain in force till February 28 for containment of Covid-19 epidemic in the state and all departments of government of Maharashtra shall strictly implement these guidelines. The activities already allowed and permitted from time to time shall be continued and all earlier orders shall be aligned with this order and shall remain in force up to February 28,” states the order.Also Read: Mumbai locals: More trains from today, but not for general publicAlmost all restrictions imposed in the state under lockdown, which began from the third week of March 2020, have been lifted, except the curbs on the reopening of private and government offices, swimming pools, and interstate activities that are still in place. Local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are also yet to begin operations for all commuters.The state government has allowed partial opening of schools. It has allowed classes 5 to 12 to resume but are yet to allow classes 1 to 4 to reopen. The ban on social, religious and political congregations still continues with the extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-restrictions-by-a-month-101611904456153.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court rejects Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita's bail plea||A court here has rejected the bail plea of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student and Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in a northeast Delhi riots case.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, in his order passed on Thursday, said the allegations against Kalita prima facie seem to be true.Kalita was arrested in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy behind the riots.Communal violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying-guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-rejects-pinjra-tod-activist-devangana-kalita-s-bail-plea-in-uapa-case-101611902386117.html
29-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Barmer oil refinery to start by 2022, investors assured||The Rajasthan government has sped up the work to set up Barmer oil refinery while developing the area around it as the petroleum chemicals and petrochemical investment region (PCPIR) with an eye on investors, who have been assured of commencement of oil production from October 2022.Advisor to the Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Dr Govind Sharma said the state government is working fast to complete the refinery project soon. He added that work orders worth ₹38,000 crore have been issued for the project worth ₹43,000 crore.State industries minister Parasadi Lal Meena said the government is working with a multi-pronged approach to provide a favourable environment to the investors in the state. Through extensive policy reforms and simplification of rules, we have made the path of investment easier, he claimed.He went on to say that there were ‘unprecedented’ investment and employment opportunities created through the PCPIR, being developed adjoining the Rajasthan refinery. “With our efforts, Rajasthan will grow into a major hub for petrochemicals products,” he added.Addressing investors and industrialists from 19 countries, Meena said, the 9 million metric ton per annum (MMTPA) capacity refinery and the co-petrochemical complex, being set up by the government of Rajasthan in partnership with HPCL, will attract large-scale investment in the petrochem sector in the region.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot had announced the establishment of PCPIR for industries based on refinery products in the budget.Also Read: 9 ancient Jhalawar idols returned from Ajmer after 113 yearsThe land for setting up petrochem industries in the first phase of PCPIR has been identified, Meena added.The Pachpadra refinery is being jointly developed by HPCL Rajasthan Refinery Limited (HRRL) -- 74:26 joint venture between HPCL and the government of Rajasthan-- at a cost of ₹43,321 crore.Mines minister Pramod Jain said the Refinery is the dream project of CM Ashok Gehlot and it was the government's endeavour to start production at the refinery by October 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthans-barmer-oil-refinery-to-start-by-2022-investors-assured-101611903181837.html
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||CBI raids FCI godowns in Punjab, Haryana after complaints of irregularities||The Central Bureau of Investigation conducted surprise checks at 20 Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns in Punjab and Haryana on Friday after getting a number of complaints regarding alleged irregularities, officials said. The move is part of preventive vigilance to check corruption at locations where public dealing takes place, they said. The action started jointly with vigilance teams of the FCI in the two states “In view of the large number of complaints of irregularities in FCI godowns, the CBI is conducting joint surprise checks in Punjab and Haryana. It is a part of preventive vigilance,” the CBI spokesperson said. The raids, which began on Thursday night, resumed on Friday morning in at least 60 godowns belonging to state agencies such as Pungrain and the state warehousing corporation in Punjab. The CBI teams, accompanied by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, took samples for quality and quantity and sent them for examination. Terming it a routine check, officers of Punjab’s food and civil supplies department confirmed that the raids were conducted in godowns in Bathinda, Dhuri, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Sangrur, Tarn Taran, Moga, Khanna, Patiala and Jagraon. The department clarified that the foodgrains, though stored and preserved by the state food department, are a property and responsibility of the FCI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-raids-fci-godowns-in-punjab-haryana-after-complaints-of-irregularities-101611903496512.html
29-01-2021||Other||Farmers’ protest: Haryana khaps begin meetings to discuss plan of action after Tikait’s appeal||A day after protesting farmers were asked to leave Delhi’s Ghazipur border and the video of an emotional Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait entreating them not to do so went viral on Thursday, khap meetings started in various corners of Haryana, mostly in the central and Bagri belt of the state.One of the state’s influential khaps, Kandela, was holding a meeting on Friday at Kandela village. Likewise, Dadan and Barh khaps were holding their meetings at Uchana village and Julana in Jind respectively. Phogat khap is meeting in Dadri, Sarv khap in Rohtak , and Sarv Sheoran khap at Kharkari village in Bhiwani, among others.Tekhram Kandela, head of Kandela khap, said moved by Tikait’s emotional video, hundreds of farmers from their khap have already reached the Ghazipur border.“We will reach Delhi’s borders in double numbers than earlier and we are ready to face police bullets. Those were not Tikait’s tears, but that of the entire farming community. Several crucial decisions will be taken today in the meeting,” he added.Also read | At Tikri border, farmers take out a ‘tiranga rally’Meham Chaubisi president Tulsi Grewal said they had called an emergency meeting on Thursday night and farmers of their khaps have already started a march towards Ghazipur. “Our farmers are now moving to Ghazipur to face UP Police. The UP government cannot suppress farmers’ voices by disconnecting the supply of water, toilet and electricity. Our farmers are heading for Ghazipur with water, milk and food. Tikait is the hero of the farming community and we will sit with him until the three laws were repealed,” he added.Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Kungar village in Bhiwani, said three dozen farmers from their village reached the Ghazipur border on Thursday night after watching Tikait’s video.Protesters have blocked the Chandigarh- Jind highway and farmers have started reaching toll plazas in Rohtak, Dadri, Bhiwani, Jind, Hisar and other parts of the state.Two online campaigns in favour of Tikait were trending on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-haryana-khaps-begin-meetings-to-discuss-plan-of-action-after-tikait-s-appeal-101611901875964.html
29-01-2021||Jaipur||9 ancient Jhalawar idols returned from Ajmer after 113 years||After over a long wait of 113 years, nine ancient idols of archaeological importance were finally brought back to Jhalawar from the Rajputana Archaeological Government Museum of Ajmer, Rajasthan.The move follows the renewed demand to bring back over a dozen ancient Idols to Jhalawar’s archaeological museum, which has been restored and refurbished in the year 2019.The superintendent of the Jhalawar museum and the state archaeology department in Jhalawar, Umrao Singh, said that 9 out of the 12 ancient idols have reached Jhalawar museum from Ajmer, while the remaining idols could not be brought due to their fragile constitution.The returned idols include Shiv Parvati Bel, Yog Narayan Vishnu, Toran Dwar, Varah Avatar Khand, Pranay Yugal, Tridev Murti khand, Jain Toran Dwar, Dev Purush Sheesh Khand and Sheesh Khand."The idols reportedly date back to the 10th -11th century," said Umrao Singh.Also Read: Rajasthan reduces 2% VAT on fuel after premium petrol price crossed ₹100-markRajesh Gupta Karawan, the general secretary of district Congress committee and a social worker had written to the district administration and the archaeology department requesting them to bring back Jhalawar idols. He thanked both for “respecting” the sentiments of the people of Jhalawar.Historian Lalit Sharma said, "These ancient idols were sent from Jhalawar in the year 1908, prior to Indian independence, since there was only one archaeological museum in the state in Ajmer but later, those idols never returned despite the establishment of an archaeology museum in Jhalawar in the year 1915".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/9-ancient-jhalawar-idols-returned-from-ajmer-after-113-years-101611901444762.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC headquarters open to public as part of Heritage Walk initiative||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) 128- year-old headquarters will now be open for public viewing. as part of the Heritage Walk initiative inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday evening. This initiative is a joint venture of the civic body and the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), and involves guided tours through the building, with story-telling sessions about its historic and architectural significance. The BMC headquarters were completed in 1893, and the building has been constructed in the Venetian Gothic, Indo-Saracenic style. The heritage tours will commence this weekend, with four batches of 15 people each. Two batches are scheduled to visit the headquarters at 4pm and 5.30pm on Saturday, and two batches will visit at 9am and 10.30am on Sunday. Tourists can book the tour on bookmyshow.com, an e-commerce website, that MTDC has tied up with for the initiative. Following this week’s take off, every subsequent week will have eight batches, depending on the offtake. Each tour will cost ₹300 per person. Also Read: Mumbai locals: More trains from today, but not for general publicThe patrons will gather at the selfie-point outside the headquarters, opposite the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT station), and commence the tour. A historian will take tourists through the main staircase of the building, the heritage dome, courtyard, inner courtyard, the corporation hall, the mayor’s chamber, commissioner’s office, and the standing committee hall. The tour will conclude at the museum, where photos and videos of the building are on display. Khaki Tourism, a city-based heritage tourism firm, has been appointed for curating the tours. Bharat Gothoskar, a history enthusiast and the founder of Khaki Tours, said, “Throughout the tour we will narrate 20 to 25 different stories.”The tours have been named Urbs Prima which means primary city in Latin. There is a statue of an angel with an outstretched arm atop the main entrance of the BMC building. Explaining the significance of the statue, Gothoskar said, “She represents colonial Bombay, and has a phrase carved in stone that reads Urbs Prima in Indis. This line is in Latin, and was coined in 1860s. It means Primary City in India. We have hence named the tour Urbs Prima.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-headquarters-open-to-public-as-part-of-heritage-walk-initiative-101611901696566.html
29-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan reduces 2% VAT on fuel after premium petrol price crossed ₹100-mark||The Congress government in Rajasthan, led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, has decided to reduce the rate of value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by 2% after the price of premium petrol crossed ₹100/litre-mark on Wednesday. The reduction in VAT will be effective from January 28, according to the state finance department.A release from the CM’s office, issued late Thursday night, states that despite the negative impact on economic activity due to the pandemic and the subsequent decrease in revenue, the decision to reduce VAT has been taken in the interest of the common man. The reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel will provide relief to commuters as well as to transport, infrastructure, real estate, and other businesses.“With the reduction in VAT rates, the government’s revenue will reduce by approximately ₹1000 crore annually,” said the statement.Gehlot claimed that despite the international crude oil prices staying at the lowest level for some time, inflation was rising in the country due to petrol and diesel prices being at the highest level, causing economic hardship to the common man.He said that the Central government was currently charging an excise duty of ₹32.98 per litre on petrol and ₹31.83 per litre on diesel, which he said was “excessive”.He added that the basic excise duty forms a part of the divisible pool of the Centre's tax revenue, from which, 42% of resources are shared with the states, which has been reduced continuously from ₹9.48 to ₹2.98 for per litre of petrol and ₹11.33 to ₹4.83 for per litre of diesel – causing a huge loss of revenue to all the states including Rajasthan.The CM said that the Centre has been continuously increasing the additional excise duty from ₹8 to ₹18 per litre on petrol and diesel; and special excise duty hike from ₹7 to ₹12 on petrol and up to ₹9 per litre on diesel has been done.Also Read: Robert Vadra gets protection from arrest till Feb 8 in money laundering caseHe continued that due to this Central policy, the states are not benefitting while the common people have to bear the brunt of expensive petrol and diesel.He demanded that following his government’s reduction in VAT, the Central government should also offer relief by reducing Central taxes on petrol and diesel.With a hike of 26 and 38 paise per litre on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively, the price of petrol in Sri Ganganagar of Rajasthan had reached ₹98.31 per litre for normal petrol and ₹101.80 per litre for premium petrol.In the capital Jaipur, petrol price had reached ₹93.86 per litre and diesel price reached ₹85.94 per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-reduces-2-vat-on-fuel-after-premium-petrol-price-crossed-rs-100mark-101611897324348.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia to visit Ghazipur border to review arrangements for protesters||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday that he would pay a visit to the Ghazipur border in the national capital to view several arrangements for the protesting farmers. This visit of Sisodia comes after Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait had requested chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to provide water and other basic facilities to the farmers- who have been camping at the border point against the Centre’s three farm laws for over two months. On the other hand, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairman Raghav Chadha will be visiting the Singhu border to inspect facilities for the protesters.“Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader sitting on Ghazipur border had asked Chief Minister @ArvindKejriwal Ji was to facilitate water etc. for farmers. On the orders of the Chief Minister, the entire arrangement was done in the night. I will go to the border this morning to see its arrangement,” Sisodia’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.Delhi CM Kejriwal while terming the Republic Day tractor rally chaos as ‘unfortunate’ said on Thursday that such incidents would not end the farmers’ movement. He added that said that “strictest punishment” must be given to those responsible for the violence.Meanwhile, farmers camping at the Ghazipur border said on Friday that they would not accept the administration notice to vacate the premises and would not leave till the laws are repealed by the Centre. The Ghaziabad district administration had ordered the protesters to vacate the site by Thursday evening adding that they would be forcefully removed if the orders were not followed. However, the farmers refused to vacate and on the contrary, Uttar Pradesh Police and Provincial Armed Constabulary deployed at the site were seen leaving.Speaking to news agency ANI, a protesting farmer said, “We do not accept the notices given by the government. No returning back to the homes until and unless the laws are taken back. We are protesting here peacefully.” Another protester said that the agitation would only end once the farmers’ demands were met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-to-visit-ghazipur-border-to-review-arrangements-for-protesters-101611897928188.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Farmer’s protest: After Tikait’s appeal, more people rush to Ghazipur site||More protesters began arriving at the Ghazipur farmer protest site from Uttarakhand, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi hours after Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait broke down during his address on Thursday and vowed not to leave the venue citing plans to arrest him.“We could not stop ourselves when we saw Rakeshji’s video in which he was crying and saying he will not have water or food. Our group immediately fetched water and started our journey. We drove about 300km and reached ...[the protest site] at 4 am [on Friday]...,” said Gagandeep Singh Guraya, a resident of Punjab’s Fatehgarh Sahib.“There was dense fog in Sonipat and Karnal and we even had to slow down our speed to about 5 kmph. For the rest of the distance, we drove at higher speeds... We will now stay here and will see to it that more people reach here, and the protest continues,” said Love Preet Singh, another member of the group.Also read | Farmers told to vacate protest sites in Haryana, UPAmrita Kundu, 32, said she saw Tikait’s video on Thursday in Delhi’s Nangloi and immediately told her husband that they should rush to Ghazipur. “I came here to offer him water and I was moved by his emotional appeal. I could not see him in tears and I along with my husband reached by 11pm. I offered water to Rakeshji and he had it. My father-in-law and even my 10-year-old son often go to the Singhu and Tikri protest sites as we are from a family of farmers from Kaithal, Haryana,” she said. Kundu added they celebrated her birthday and marriage anniversary at the protest sites this year.Ankit Chaudhary, another protester, said he rushed to the site with a 17-member group on a tractor from Muzaffarnagar after seeing Tikait’s video on social media. “We said enough is enough when we saw our leader in tears. ...he was in pain and trying to save the honour of farmers. So, we rushed in our tractor-trolley and 18 of us reached by 4 am. We will now stay here and will also call up our other friends to the site.”Prem Singh Sobta from Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar echoed Chaudhary. “We came in two of our cars and reached by midnight. I initially came here to attend the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day and left for home thereafter. But I again rushed back when I saw the video. A lot of people have reached and more will come on Friday. It will motivate the farmers who are continuing with their agitation.”Ranjeet Singh, a resident of Shahjahanpur, said they ran a community kitchen and about 50 of them were camping at the site. “We decided on Thursday to leave for Haridwar where we have another camp as there were apprehensions of police action and also that electricity and water supplies also got affected. But when we saw people coming in after the video went viral, we decided to stay back.”BSU leader Rajbir Singh said Friday will be a vital day as more people will come and join the protest. “There is also a Mahapanchayat call... and people from different districts will attend it.”Authorities issued an ultimatum to the protesting farmers to vacate the Ghazipur site as security forces dug trenches, put up barricades, and bolstered numbers at farmer protest sites on Delhi’s borders on Thursday two days after the violent Republic Day tractor rally. Farmers, primarily from western Uttar Pradesh, have been sitting in Ghazipur for about two months.Tikait was served a notice under section 133 of CrPC (conditional order for removal of the nuisance) for eviction from the site and he was also to be arrested. He remained defiant, saying there was no question of vacating Ghazipur and that police can do whatever they want. Tikait accused the government of trying to destroy farmers and warned if the three farm laws are not repealed, he will commit suicide. He broke down towards the end of his address to the protesters on Thursday.A large police contingent and protesting farmers were positioned on either side of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway when Tikait announced a hunger strike. With visuals of Tikait breaking down beamed on television, around 5,000 farmers gathered at his ancestral village of Sisauli, roughly 100km away, and threatened to march to Ghazipur.The number of people at the Ghazipur protest site had decreased to about 1,000-1,200 on Thursday as many people left it following the January 26 violence. Protesters said the declining numbers could have given authorities a chance to get the site vacated easily.The heavy deployment of police was relaxed when three buses carrying the provincial armed constabulary personnel left the site around 2 am on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-after-tikait-s-appeal-more-people-rush-to-ghazipur-site-101611899415809.html
29-01-2021||Patna||Bihar youth gets 20 years jail term for raping minor||A special Pocso court cum sixth additional district and session court in Bihar’s Ara city on Thursday awarded 20 years rigorous imprisonment to a youth for raping an eight year old minor girl in April 2019, said a law officer.The court had found the accused guilty on January 20 this year and the quantum of sentence was announced on Thursday. The judge also imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on the guilty. The fine will be handed over to the victim.Both the survivor and the convict are residents of a village situated under Hasan Bazar out post police station, said special public prosecutor Saroj Kumari.According to the case report, the convict and her family had threatened the survivor’s family, after the minor was raped at her house on April 19, 2019, to not lodge an FIR or else suffer the consequences.The mother of the survivor, however, lodged a complaint at the Ara Mahila police station. Court had framed charges against the convict on August 19 the same year. Prosecution produced six witnesses during the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-youth-gets-20-years-jail-term-for-raping-minor-101611896088532.html
29-01-2021||Lucknow||UP’s tableau adjudged best at Republic Day parade in Delhi||Uttar Pradesh’s tableau depicting the Ram Temple at this year’s Republic Day parade in New Delhi was adjudged the best and awarded by Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Thursday, the defence ministry said.A government statement quoted chief minister Yogi Adityanath as saying that the tableau had made the state proud.The theme of Uttar Pradesh’s tableau was “Ayodhya: Cultural Heritage of Uttar Pradesh”. The cultural heritage of ancient holy town Ayodhya, a replica of the Ram Temple, glimpses of “Deepotsav” and various stories from the epic of Ramayana were depicted in the tableau.The first part of the tableau showed Maharishi Valmiki writing the Ramayana. Its centre had a model of the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya.Also read | Bird Flu: Over 7,100 birds culled in UP’s biggest-ever operation since 2013“The tableau represented the grandeur of the Ram temple even to those millions who watched the parade virtually. For the first time, the tableau will be taken from Delhi to Lucknow, passing through various districts of the state. The people will be able to have a close look at the tableau amid chanting of Jai Shri Ram and showering of flower petals,” the chief minister said, according to the statement.Director (information and public relations) Shishir and additional chief secretary (ACS) (information) Navneet Sehgal presented the two-foot-high trophy to the chief minister on their return from Delhi. Shishir said the achievement was the result of teamwork and the combined efforts of the government and the people of the state and made a special mention of the lyricist Virendra Singh, whose song gained maximum appreciation from the jury. Shishir said this was the second year in a row that UP had won a prize for its tableau. Last year, it won the second prize.Additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal said the tableau displayed a glimpse of Ayodhya’s rich heritage and culture.In all, 32 tableaux -- 17 from states and Union Territories, nine from Union ministries, departments and paramilitary forces, and six from the defence ministry -- were part of this year’s parade on Rajpath, according to a PTI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-tableau-adjudged-best-at-republic-day-parade-in-delhi-101611892935642.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Beating Retreat ceremony at Vijay Chowk today: Know which routes to avoid||The Delhi Police will put several traffic restrictions in Delhi on Friday during the Beating Retreat ceremony at the historic Vijay Chowk. The traffic advisory issued by the police stated that curbs would be put in place between 2pm till 9.30pm and parking will be available for those who want to see the illumination at Vijay Chowk behind the water channels between Rafi Marg and “C” Hexagon after 7pm.Vehicular movement would be restricted on Rajpath between Vijay Chowk and ‘C’ hexagon, Rafi Marg between Sunehri Masjid roundabout and Krishi Bhawan roundabout, the advisory said. Traffic would also be not allowed on the Raisina Road from Krishi Bhawan roundabout towards Vijay Chowk, beyond Dara Shikoh Road roundabout, Krishna Menon Marg and Sunehri Masjid roundabouts towards Vijay Chowk.Also Read| Beating Retreat: New song to be played to commemorate 50 years of 1971 victoryCommuters had been advised to opt for alternative routes such as Aurobindo Marg, Safdarjung Road, Kamal Ataturk Marg, Ring Road, Rani Jhasi Road among others. The advisory added that buses will divert from their normal routes from 2pm to 9.30pm and entry and exit gates of Udyog Bhawan and Central Secretariat Metro stations will remain closed from 2pm to 6.30pm.At this year’s beating retreat ceremony, a special new composition named ‘Swarnim Vijay’ will be featured to commemorate five decades of the country's victory against Pakistan in the 1971 war. “The entry band will be a massed one with ‘Swarnim Vijay’ theme. It will be a special new composition to commemorate 50 years of victory of India in the 1971 war against Pakistan,” an official statement said.Also Watch| Beating retreat ceremony at Attari-Wagah border on Republic Day﻿A total of 15 military bands and an equal number of pipes and drums bands from regimental centres and battalions will be a part of the ceremony. Apart from these 15 bands, the Navy, the Air Force and the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) will have one band each. The ceremony which will have 26 musical performances will end with ‘Sare Jahan se Acha’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beating-retreat-ceremony-at-vijay-chowk-today-know-which-routes-to-avoid-101611891527280.html
29-01-2021||Lucknow||66.41% health workers get Covid-19 vaccine shots in 3rd round in UP||The third round of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign went off smoothly at 1,537 vaccination centres in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday with 171,198 health workers (66.41%) out of the targeted 257,781 getting the jabs till 5pm, according to official data.The health department organised 2,305 vaccination sessions in all 75 districts of the state to inoculate health workers. UP has received 1,055,500 Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin doses.The highest turnout of beneficiaries was reported from five districts– Balrampur (99.07%), Siddharth Nagar (98.32%), Sant Kabir Nagar (97.52%), Barabanki (92.45%) and Fatehpur (88.40%), whereas, the lowest turnout was reported from Sonebhadra (44.75%), Firozabad (45.31%), Gorakhpur (45.58%), Chandauli (46.66%) and Rae Bareli (46.78%).As many as 173 cases of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) were reported from across the state, where vaccination drive was conducted from 9am to 5pm. All the beneficiaries were kept under observation. They were healthy and safe, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health and family welfare).The fourth round of Covid vaccination is being organised on Friday. The health and family welfare department plans to vaccinate 2.10 lakh health workers in the 2,100 vaccination sessions across the state.Health workers, who got the first dose on Thursday, will be given the second dose on February 25, he said.Prasad said messages were sent to the health workers who were listed for the vaccination and their names were uploaded on the CoWIN portal.Those health workers not suffering from any disease were given either of the two vaccines — Covishield or Covaxin. Enthusiasm was witnessed among health workers across the state as they came in large numbers to get the vaccine, added Prasad.Also Read: 44 vials of Covid vaccine go waste in UP’s Sambhal“I inspected the vaccination drive at Avantibai Hospital and King George’s Medical University. It was continuing smoothly at both the centres as well as at other vaccination centres across UP,” Prasad said.After getting the vaccine, the beneficiaries were kept under observation for 30 minutes. The strength of vaccinators’ teams has been increased, he said.Health workers who missed the dose in the first and second round had been told to get themselves vaccinated in the third round, he said. The state government has decided to organise Covid vaccination twice a week, on Thursdays and Fridays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/6641-health-workers-get-covid-19-vaccine-shots-in-3rd-round-in-up-101611891786679.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s borders with Haryana, UP remain closed at multiple points||Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at multiple points on Friday even as the authorities gave an eviction notice to protesting farmers at the Ghazipur protest site a day earlier. Till Friday morning, farmers continued to camp at the Ghazipur border, affecting the vehicular movement between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.Several other borders of the national Capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed for traffic movement due to the farmers’ agitation against Centre’s three farm laws. The protests began on since November 26.Also read | Rakesh Tikait’s appeal draws more protesters to Ghazipur, Cops leave | 10 pointsThe Ghazipur border has been closed for commuters from Uttar Pradesh. The traffic police have advised commuters to take routes passing through DND, Karkari Mod, and Shahadra to travel to Ghaziabad.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh remained closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to take the alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Commuters have been asked to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44.The other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches can be used for traveling between the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-borders-with-haryana-up-remain-closed-at-multiple-points-101611889815113.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Farm stir: Heavy traffic near Akshardham, Nizamuddin||The Delhi traffic police on Friday issued a traffic alert in view of the ongoing protest by the farmers' union against the Centre's three farm laws. The traffic police said Singhu, Auchandi, Mangesh, Saboli and Piau Maniyari borders are closed and advised commuters to take alternate routes."Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders opened. Please Take alternate route. Traffic diverted from NH44 near DSIDC Narela. Avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road and NH 44," the Delhi traffic police tweeted.Traffic AlertSinghu, Auchandi, Mangesh, Saboli,Piau Maniyari borders closed.Lampur, Safiabad,Singhu school&Palla toll tax borders opened. Pl Take alternate route.Traffic diverted from NH44 near DSIDC Narela. Avoid Outer Ring Rd,GTK road& NH 44It further said that Ghazipur border is closed and traffic is diverted from many areas."Gazipur border closed. Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli, Paper market, Telco T point,EDM Mall, Akshardham & Nizammudin Khatta.Traffic is very heavy in the area & Vikas marg, Pl take alternate route," the police added.Traffic Alert Gazipur border closed.Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9,Road no 56, 57 A,Kondli, Paper market, Telco T point,EDM Mall,Akshardham & Nizammudin Khatta.Traffic is very heavy in the area & Vikas marg, Pl take alternate route.Hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members stayed put on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway early on Friday, notwithstanding the Ghaziabad administration’s ultimatum to vacate the UP Gate protest site.Traffic jams were reported around Delhi's border with Uttar Pradesh on Thursday night as the police blocked roads and tried to remove protesting farmers from the Ghazipur protest site.Thousands of protesting farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farm-stir-heavy-traffic-near-akshardham-nizamuddin-101611886030500.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air deteriorates further, slight improvement on horizon||The air quality in Delhi at 7am on Friday deteriorated to reach the higher end of the“very poor” zone. It was recorded at 406 in the AQI scale. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 357, in the “very poor” zone, on Thursday. On Wednesday, the AQI was 318. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), forecasted that the pollution levels are expected to reduce in the coming days.Also Read: NGT directs Delhi CS to monitor Yamuna rejuvenation“A marginal improvement in ventilation index is forecasted for the next two days and AQI is likely to marginally improve to the lower end of the very poor category in the next two days. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate towards the middle-end of the very poor category on January 31,” the Safar forecast read. On Thursday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the entire city, was 3.8 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature was also three degrees below normal, at 19.4 degrees Celsius. The IMD forecast said that the cold conditions are not expected to subside at least till February 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-deteriorates-further-slight-improvement-on-horizon-101611888255501.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: His night vigil||It’s midnight. This chic south Delhi market is completely quiet—even the barking dogs have gone silent. Arvind Kumar, however, is wide awake. His eyes are cast downwards, towards his shoes, inches away from an electric heater, glowing red. He is sitting on a chair outside the glass door of a boutique. The shop is locked for the night but is dimly lit inside, and one can see the dresses arranged around the mannequins. It is very cold.Mr Kumar is a security guard. “I have been working in Delhi for 25 years,” he says in an alert voice.It is assumed that, on looking back at one’s career, a middle-aged person can easily chart the progress attained over time. “But I see no progress... my line is straight,” Mr Kumar says matter-of-factly. He is 58, and his salary and the nature of his work have remained the same, he mutters. “Everything I earned over the years has gone into supporting my family in Gaya (Bihar) and into the weddings of my four daughters. I’m still supporting my parents and my wife, Anita Devi.” His two sons are farmers in the village, he says.Throwing a glance inside the showroom, Mr Kumar admits that the cost of a single dress is probably more than his entire year’s earnings. “Some people have so much money... what can one do.”A long pause follows. Suddenly a dog starts barking.“This is also the time of the night when Mr Kumar starts to feel hungry.” His shift begins at 7 in the evening. He gets here by walking from his single-room dwelling in Munirka, after a meal of dal and roti he cooks for himself.On finishing his shift in the morning, he walks straight to his room and rustles out a quick breakfast, instead of stopping by a pavement stall for chai and toast “and spend my money unnecessarily.”Since the nature of his night-long job forces him to stay awake, with no one around for a chat, how does he pass his long empty hours? Mr Kumar shrugs his shoulders, saying, “I think about how my life has passed and how it will pass.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-night-vigil-101611881922862.html
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt extends suspension of mobile internet, SMS services in 3 districts||The Haryana government on Thursday extended the suspension of mobile Internet services, SMS services, and all dongle services in the districts of Sonipat, Palwal and Jhajjar for the next 24 hours till Friday 5 pm.However, voice calls have been exempted, from the order.This order is issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these three districts of Haryana and will be in force with immediate effect."The state government has decided to extend the suspension of internet services in order to stop the spread of disinformation and rumours through various social media platforms," said a government spokesperson.The Haryana administration had suspended the mobile Internet and other telecom services, barring voice calls, on January 26 in view of the violence in the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-extends-suspension-of-mobile-internet-sms-services-in-3-districts-101611881788522.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Court suspends MLA Bharti’s conviction and sentencing in assault case||A Delhi court on Thursday suspended the conviction and sentence awarded to Malviya Nagar Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Somnath Bharti in a 2016 assault case at the AIIMS, pending the outcome of his appeal filed before a higher court. The new order has kept alive Bharti’s chances to continue as a legislator.Under the Representation of the People’s Act, a legislator stands disqualified upon being sentenced to jail for a minimum of two years.The membership of the house is lost with immediate effect.The legislator then has to obtain a stay on the conviction to remain a member of the house -- a mere suspension of sentence or jail term will not suffice.On Thursday, special judge Vikas Dhull said the appeal hearing, challenging the order of the magistrate court, was going to take time. The judge also directed Bharti to pay a personal bond of ₹20,000 and produce one surety of like amount.“Since the appeal is going to take considerable time for disposal and having regard to grounds set out in the appeal, the application filed by the convict/appellant is allowed and conviction order dated January 22 and sentence order dated January 23 are suspended during the pendency of this appeal…..,’ the judge said in his order.Bharti, through his counsels Mohammad Irshad and Pritish Sabharwal, had filed a plea challenging the conviction and sentence awarded to him for breaking the fencing of a boundary wall of AIIMS with an earthmover on September 9, 2016.He was accompanied by 300 others, according to the complaint to by RS Rawat, chief security officer, AIIMS.The court had convicted Bharti for various offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code, including sections 323, 353 and 147. The court, however, had acquitted Bharti’s associates and co-accused - Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey — citing lack of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-suspends-mla-bharti-s-conviction-and-sentencing-in-assault-case-101611881330569.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||8,244 health workers get Covid-19 shots in Capital||Of the 10,600 intended beneficiaries on Thursday, 8,244 received Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi, the highest number of people taking the shot in a single day ever since the nationwide drive began on January 16, according to official records.The government also opened 25 new vaccination sites in the city. Both central and south districts saw highest increase in the number of vaccination centres with four additional sites each.“The sites were increased in places that saw high turnouts – over 90% — for the last couple of days when the number of people getting the shot went up,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.Thirty four hospitals in the city were able to administer 100 vaccines on Thursday, including 10 hospitals run by the Delhi government, according to government officials. According to city hospitals, the high turnout is the result of a tweak in the government’s CoWIN platform that allows walk-in beneficiaries even if their names are not on the day’s list.A senior doctor from Central government-run Lady Hardinge Medical College said, “Only about 50% of the people who are called in for vaccination each day actually come to the centre for vaccination. Health care workers are still hesitant to get the vaccines but there are also people who are on leave or in quarantine and cannot come. Also, a few people are sent back each day because of contraindication. So, we were able to vaccinate more people by allowing walk in.”On Thursday, south-east Delhi saw the highest turnout with 89.8% of the beneficiaries getting the shot. And, the lowest turnout was in Northeast Delhi where 62.7% people received the jab. This, however, is better than the 53.3% average vaccination that happened across the city on January 16 when the nationwide drive was rolled out. “As more and more people are getting vaccinated, the others are realising that there is no serious side effect of the vaccines and more and more people are turning up. The numbers are expected to improve further,” said the doctor from Lok Nayak hospital.As on Thursday, 47,959 health workers have received the vaccine out of the estimated 300,000 who will get it. Those who have taken the shot will be given a second dose of the vaccine in 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/8244-health-workers-get-covid-19-shots-in-capital-101611880836468.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||NGT directs Delhi CS to monitor Yamuna rejuvenation||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Chief Secretary of Delhi, in coordination with other authorities and the Chief Secretaries of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to personally monitor the handling of the grim situation caused by years of neglect in the rejuvenation of Yamuna river by evolving an effective administrative mechanism.The tribunal's order came observing that the satisfactory results are not visible on account of the failure of enforcement and monitoring, as found by the monitoring committee.An NGT bench headed by chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel recommended that the causes of failure of existing mechanism and remedial measures required be addressed in the light of reports of the committee.This needs to be further overseen at the national level by the Central Monitoring Committee, headed by Secretary of Jal Shakti Ministry, which also includes National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), in terms of earlier orders of this tribunal, the bench pointed out.The NGT bench further made it clear that non-adherence to timelines must result in adequate and stringent action against accountable persons."Timely completion of projects must be ensured, otherwise for generations the problem will remain untackled, as vested interests will like the projects to remain pending and delayed to the detriment of the public interest," the NGT said."Interim measures like phytoremediation need to employed where a permanent solution is delayed. Earlier directions of the tribunal, which by and large remain uncomplied so far, need to be strictly followed with meaningful coercive measures against the erring officers and the violators," the NGT further said.The NGT said that River Rejuvenation Committees (RRCs) of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh may accordingly monitor execution of the action plans with proper inter-departmental coordination, to remedy the polluted stretches of Yamuna river in their respective jurisdiction subject to oversight of the chief secretaries on quarterly basis, who may thereafter give their quarterly reports to the Central Monitoring Committee (CMC) headed by the Secretary, Jal Shakti in terms of its earlier order dated September 21, 2020.The bench noted, the matter has been dealt with by the Supreme Court for 23 years, before transfer of the matter to this tribunal in the year 2017 and by this tribunal for almost nine years.The bench said that the committee has functioned for more than two years and contributed in a big way in steering the authorities with a clear roadmap by its exhaustive reports on every aspect but the authorities' action has been every time found to be inadequate and continues to be so.This requires the authorities to change their attitude and rise to the occasion to discharge their constitutional obligation to the citizens to provide a clean environment by protecting the scarce sources of water by stringent steps against the erring officers and the violators and by effective monitoring at appropriate higher levels, reviewing/modifying the failed models and failed officers, the bench recommended.The RRCs of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh may accordingly monitor execution of the action plans with proper inter-departmental coordination, to remedy the polluted stretches of river Yamuna in their respective jurisdiction, the bench said.The NGT was hearing a matter relating to rejuvenation of Yamuna river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ngt-directs-delhi-cs-to-monitor-yamuna-rejuvenation-101611880673275.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||AAP amends party rules at council meet||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday passed six amendments in the party constitution in its national council meeting held in Delhi – the first after it won the Delhi assembly elections in February 2020 with a majority of 62 out of 70 seats.Sisodia said, “The amendments would help the party grow across states.”The new amendments allow the party to induct recruits and give them election tickets irrespective of the number of people in their families who have contested elections. They prohibit members of the party to flag concerns and share criticism regarding the party and the leadership in public domain, and allow interim appointment of office bearers by national and state executives in case of sudden vacancies, said Delhi’s deputy chief minister and senior AAP leader Manish Sisodia in a press conference after the meeting.Sharing a list of amendments passed on Thursday, Sisodia said, “District level units of the party will now be considered as its primary units, instead of booth-level units under the old clauses, and MPs and MLAs of the party will by default become members of the national council and the concerned state council, so that they can contribute to the party’s growth without any delay.”He added, “Also, party members will have full permission to take up concerns about the party, behaviour of other members, or criticise the leadership in designated communication forums of the party, but they cannot do that outside those forums or in public domain… We have also decided that from now on the state council or the national council meeting can take place virtually and it will be valid.”“Earlier, there was a clause in the party’s constitution that said two people from the same family cannot fight the election. This rule will be only valid for the existing members of the AAP. But we are witnessing that many new leaders are joining our party whose two family members have contested elections. In such cases, the party has decided to allow such people to join, contest elections and work for the AAP. The amendment would apply to new recruits,” he added.There is a clause in the party’s constitution which says that no member will hold the same post as an office-bearer for more than two consecutive terms of three years each. However, party convener Arvind Kejriwal has held the same position for two terms which ended in April 2019, but it was extended for one year in view of the Lok Sabha and Delhi assembly elections. But in 2020, the national council meeting could not take place because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-amends-party-rules-at-council-meet-101611880220030.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||At Tikri border, farmers take out a ‘tiranga rally’||Several farmer unions protesting at the Tikri border took out a “tiranga rally” on Thursday in what they said was an attempt to dispel “myths” allegedly being propagated by the government that protesters at Delhi borders did not respect the Tricolour, while insisting they would not vacate the protest site until their demands were met.On Tuesday, a group of agitating farmers had stormed Red Fort during the tractor rally organised by farm unions against the three new farm laws and hoisted religious flags.At least 394 policemen were injured in violence at different spots in the city during the agitation.One farmer was killed when his tractor rammed into a police barricade and overturned.Unlike the Singhu border, where a group raised slogans against the farmers and accused them of “disrespecting the national flag”, the Tikri border remained relatively peaceful on Thursday even as security was beefed up by the police at the main entry point.Pargat Singh, a protester from Ferozpur, said: “The tiranga rally was taken out by the farmers from Punjab and Haryana to condemn what had happened at the Red Fort on Republic Day. We have been constantly saying that those involved in the incident were infiltrators. Farmers like us, who work day and night to ensure that every citizen in the country gets enough food to eat, can never disrespect the national flag.”Navkiran Natt, another protester at Tikri, alleged: “The government first sent its infiltrators to perform that shameful incident at the Red Fort. Now, it’s trying to stage protests against the farmers and trying to set a narrative that it’s the farmers who had disrespected the national flag. We want to make it clear that we love our national flag and we have nothing to do with what happened at the Red Fort.”The protesters also said that the police were trying to cut off the protest site to discourage the supporters of the farmers’ movement from visiting them.Jagmohan Singh, a farmer leader, said, “Some visitors also complained that police did not allow them to enter the protest site.”A senior police officer, who was not authorised to speak to the media, said that the police were reacting to the violence on Republic Day and ensuring it was not repeated.Shalini Singh, joint commissioner of police (western range), said that the increased police presence at the Tikri Border was as per an “upgrade” in force deployment.“The inner roads where people can walk to the protest venue or nearby neighborhoods are still open. The situation is peaceful,” said the officer.On whether protesters were going back to their villages, Joginder Singh, president of BKU (Ugrahan), a prominent group of protesting farmers, said, “People are spreading rumours. Only those who had come just to participate in the January 26 tractor parade have left. All the other protesters are still here and we will not leave till our demands are met.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-tikri-border-farmers-take-out-a-tiranga-rally-101611879251661.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Singhu tense amid high security, counter-protest||Increased police presence, freshly dug up trenches, additional concrete barriers separating two protest sites and counter protests demanding immediate removal of the agitating farmers from the highway were witnessed at Singhu border, one of the three major sites of farmers’ protest in the Capital, on Thursday.Farmers said police had installed additional concrete barriers between the two stages, practically cutting one’s access to the other and thus making the group sitting close to the Delhi border vulnerable — an allegation the police sought to play down — and forcing many protesters to use longer routes through inner lanes to enter the main protest area.Ghanshyam Bansal, additional deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), said, “These barricades were present from the early days of the protest. They had been displaced in between and are now being put back in their place.”The protest site at the Singhu border is divided into two parts: the main Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) stage and the Kisaan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) stage, situated 500 metres away. Until Thursday, the farmers could move from one site to another using a narrow passage but now that has been blocked, the farmers alleged.Gurpreet Singh, 25, a farmer from Hoshiarpur in Punjab, said, “Now, protesters at the first (KMSC) stage will face difficulty in coming towards the main stage. Movement between the two stages has been restricted.”Around 12pm, around 50 people gathered near the KMSC stage raising slogans against the farmers and demanding that the protest at Singhu border be cleared.One of them, Mohan Bhardwaj, 42, a resident of Bawana, said, “We had been sympathetic to their cause so far because we too are farmers. But when we saw their actions during Republic Day, when they insulted the tricolour at Red Fort, we knew that they were not farmers. This is why we want them to be removed.”On January 26, a section of farmers had stormed the monument and installed religious flags on its domes.Bhardwaj said, “Today, we came here to talk to them and give a warning. Tomorrow, we will return with people from 50 villages and get the protest site cleared. We are talking to them (the farmers) politely but if they don’t listen, we’ll do what they did.”Sudhir Chauhan, 34, who claimed he was the president of the collective Hindu Yuva Seva Sangh that organised the protest, said, “Locals have suffered due to this (farmers’) protest. The distance that could be covered in 15 minutes took two hours. We won’t tolerate that anymore because these are not farmers. They are anti-nationals.”Along with members of the collective, local workers of Hindu Sena were also present at the spot. “We had not given any call to reach Singhu border but I got to know that some of our workers had reached the spot with local residents. These workers did not like the action of the farmers during Republic Day which is why they went to protest,” said Vishnu Gupta, national president.Members of Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch – a collective of around 50 villages in Delhi – had also reached the area along with their supporters and members. Anup Singh Maan, 78, a resident of Alipur and general secretary of the group, said, “We had extended an invitation to farmers to talk to us but they denied. We will hold meetings among ourselves and decide what to do on Friday,” he said.The protesting group included members of Hindu Sena, and Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch – a collective of around 50 villages in Delhi.The group dispersed at around 2.30 pm – around 30 minutes after SKM started a “sadhbhawna yatra” (goodwill rally) on the Kundli highway covering over 16 kilometres. With tricolour hoisted over their tractors and other vehicles, farmer leaders including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Jagmohan Singh, Jangbir Singh, Rajinder Singh, Amarjeet Singh and others participated in the yatra aimed at reinforcing feeling of unity among farmers.Reacting to the notices sent to farmer leaders on Wednesday, SKM, in a statement on Thursday, said: “Instead of taking action against the real criminals, the police are arresting farmers who were protesting peacefully.”Meanwhile, due to increased barricading and the presence of trenches, locals also faced problems in commuting with many being forced to take longer routes covering the interiors of villages on foot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/singhu-tense-amid-high-security-counterprotest-101611878619403.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||At Red Fort, crowd tried snatching guns from two cops: FIR||Protesters who ran amok at the Red Fort on Republic Day tried to snatch weapons of two Delhi Police constables, according to a first information report (FIR) filed in connection with a farmers’ demonstration that spun out of control in the national capital.In the FIR — filed on Wednesday — the police registered a case against unidentified protesters for attempt to snatch weapons of security personnel and attempt to murder, theft, dacoity, rioting, and criminal conspiracy, among other charges.It said some of the protesters, who deviated from the route agreed upon with the police and stormed the historic monument, were armed with pistols as well as swords, spears, sickles, sticks and rods. The nine-page FIR added that they also stole the police’s anti-riot gears.They were also booked under the Ancient Monument and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 (for causing damage to the monument), Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 (for vandalism), and the Arms Act 1959 (for illegal possession of arms).Hundreds of farmers climbed the ramparts of Red Fort after storming it, hoisted religious flags, resorted to vandalism, fought a pitched battle with the police, and threw some of them into trenches as dramatic scenes unfolded on Republic Day.The FIR was filed based on the statement of Rituraj, a station house officer at Kotwali police station; Red Fort comes under the jurisdiction of the police station.In his complaint, the police official, who was present during the mayhem, said nearly 1,000 -1,200 protesters reached near Raj Ghat in 30-40 tractors, 125-150 cars, and motorcycles around 12.15pm on Tuesday.According to the complaint, the protesters rammed their tractors into police’s barricades at Nishad Raj Marg on Shanti Van Chowk and made their way towards the fort. It said after entering the fort premises on cars, tractors and motorcycles, they made their way to the ramparts and hoisted various flags, including the Nishan Sahib of Sikhs.When senior police officers ordered the use of force against protesters who were entering the fort from the Meena Bazar side, those who were already inside attacked policemen with swords and sticks, the FIR said.It said the protesters thrashed policemen with spears, swords, sticks and rods, and pushed them into the moat, injuring some of them grievously. The FIR mentioned that one of the constables on duty, 31-year-old Bhawani Singh, said he was carrying an MP5 rifle (a submachine gun), which the protesters tried to take away from him.“When I did not let them take it away, they took out the magazine and stole it with 20 live rounds. I was surrounded by the protesters and they pushed me into the moat. The impact of the fall was such that I fractured my left knee. The protesters continued to pelt stones at me and I had to use a shield of another policeman to cover myself. I was saved by my colleagues who also have sustained injuries,” Singh, who is due for a knee surgery on Friday, told HT over phone from Sushrut Trauma Centre at Kashmere Gate.Protesters also tried to snatch the single loading rifle of another constable but failed, the FIR said. But he lost a magazine that had 20 live cartridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-red-fort-crowd-tried-snatching-guns-from-two-cops-fir-101611878215659.html
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers told to vacate protest sites in Haryana, UP||Police and local administrations started removing farmers from some of the protest sites in Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh on Thursday morning and vacated several toll plazas occupied by members of farm bodies demanding repeal of the three new agriculture laws.Farmers across rural Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh held local maha-panchayats to discuss the future course of action on Thursday, deciding to intensify the protest after a few days. They blamed the government for the violence at Red Fort and Delhi’s ITO on Republic Day.Late on Wednesday night, local police used mild force to remove protesting farmers from a highway in Bhagpat in western Uttar Pradesh. Farmer leaders alleged that police were harassing families of farm union leaders and protesting farmers in villages.At Ghazipur on Delhi border, the local administration snapped electricity and water supply to the protesting farmers and asked them to remove the blockade going on for the past two months. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shanker Pandey asked the farm leaders to vacate the site by Thursday night. “The district administration has asked protesters to vacate the dharna site by tonight,” said a district officer.“I will not vacate the place,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait. His supporters in Muzaffarnagar urged him to continue, declaring that thousands of farmers would get themselves arrested if Tikait was taken into custody.A small farmers’ group, which had started a dharna (sit-in) against three new agriculture reform laws at a college ground in the Bajna area of Mathura district on December 2, suspended their agitation on Thursday after talks with Mathura police and district administration officials.“We have suspended our agitation for one month after assurances (were) given to look into our local issues,” said Ram Babu Katelia, the national president of the Bhartiya Kisan Kalyan Samiti.Farmer leaders in Haryana said that the district administration and police were mounting pressure on them to clear the toll plazas and ensure free movement of vehicles.Azad Palwan, a farm leader from Jind, said district officials called them and asked to vacate Khatkar and other toll plazas in the district. “The farmers have refused to vacate the toll plazas in the district until our demands are met,” he said.Balwant Nambardar, head of Phogat Khap, along with four other farmers had a meeting with Bhiwani deputy commissioner, Jaibir Arya, and told him that they will not vacate the Kitlana toll plaza, where hundreds of farmers have been protesting for over a month. “We will clear the toll plazas in the district after our top leaders call,” he said.The farmers protesting at Masani village in Rewari have vacated their protest site and shifted to Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border in the neighbouring state’s territory. Rewari deputy commissioner Yashendra Singh, said they have cleared the National highway 8, which connects Delhi to Jaipur, in their territory. The protest is continuing at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan side.Police cleared the Palwal protest site on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal (KGP) expressway on Thursday morning. “The nearby villagers had requested them to vacate the sites on Wednesday late evening. The protesters had assured them that they will leave early morning and had packed their stuff at night and left on tractors and other vehicles,” said Jangsher, inspector of Gadpuri police station, in whose jurisdiction the protest site falls. The protesters at this site had tried to break police barricades and enter Delhi on January 26, said Deepak Gahlawat, superintendent of police, Palwal.In UP’s Muzaffarnagar, two kisan panchayats held on Thursday reiterated their support to Tikait and said they would intensify their agitation in the coming weeks.At least 12 khap panchayats in Jind and Hisar districts of Haryana reiterated their support to the farmer protests in Delhi. “They (khap panchayats) have unanimously decided to support the ongoing farmer protest. The attack at Red Fort was a government conspiracy,” said Sahil Rukaya, who participated in the meeting in Hisar.On Thursday, mobile internet services in three districts of Haryana – Sonepat, Jhajjar and Palwal – were suspended till 5pm on January 29, a government order said. The services were shut down on the evening of January 26 for 24 hours initially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-told-to-vacate-protest-sites-in-haryana-up-101611873991878.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||3 arrested from Lucknow for ₹2-crore heist at Mira Road jeweller showroom||The Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) police along with special task force (STF) of the Uttar Pradesh Police on Wednesday arrested three accused — Dinesh Nishad, Shailendra Kumar and Vinay Kumar — from Lucknow, UP in connection with the January 7 jewellery heist at S Kumar Gold and Diamonds showroom in Shanti Nagar in Mira Road. The accused had fled with diamond, gold and other ornaments worth around ₹2 crore. “We have recovered gold worth ₹35 lakh, ₹1 lakh in cash, two mobile phones, two countrymade revolvers and cartridges from the accused. More arrests are possible in the case,” said a police officer.After the incident took place on January 7, police looked at CCTV footages from the shop as well sa nearby areas. While the accused were wearing masks inside the shop, nearby CCTV cameras caught them remove the masks and run. The police then shared the images with other police stations. Following this, UP STF officials got in touch with Mira Road police. With the help of two informers, two accused were nabbed. During questioning, they led the police to the third accused. The accused were allegedly planning another heist in Lucknow. Another accused is still on the run.Mira Road police have taken transit remand and the accused will be produced before Thane court after they arrive at Mira Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-arrested-from-lucknow-for-2-crore-heist-at-mira-road-jeweller-showroom-101611868393670.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra home minister warns of action over post against BJP MP Raksha Khadse||Taking note of a screenshot of derogatory remarks against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament (MP) Raksha Khadse which was shared online, state home minister Anil Deshmukh has warned of stern action by the cyber cell. Khadse, a BJP MP from Raver in Jalgaon district, has lodged a complaint with the police. Late on Wednesday, Deshmukh posted a tweet: “Shocking to see such a derogatory description of Raksha Khadse, BJP MP from Maharashtra on the official site of the BJP. Maha Govt. will not tolerate this disrespectful behaviour towards women. @BJP4India must take action against those responsible or @MahaCyber1will step in.”The home minister retweeted a post by journalist Swati Chaturvedi along with his warning. The screenshot shared with the tweet had objectionable words next to the MP’s name in place of her constituency. While the screenshot indicated that the derogatory comment was made on the party’s website, no such remark was found on BJP.org. Khadse said that it might be the handiwork of some mischievous elements and the viral image seemed like it was doctored. “The screenshots are being made viral from Save Maharashtra From BJP. Somebody is playing mischief to defame me using the Photoshopped image. When I checked the party’s official website there was no such reference found. I have informed party bosses about it and lodged a complaint with the superintendent of police,” Khadse told Marathi news channels.Maharashtra BJP’s media head Vishwas Pathak said, “It is either mischief played by some miscreant or an incorrect Marathi translation of her constituency Raver, mentioned next to her name. It should be thoroughly investigated. Demeaning reference of any woman is not acceptable at any cost. At the same time, by retweeting it, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has shown insensitivity and apathy towards women.”“After I spoke to the superintendent of police, the post was removed from Save Maharashtra From BJP, website, which is against our party. The Marathi translation of the constituency’s name was misused by the group. I have spoken to party leaders who have discussed strict action and investigation into the entire episode,” said Khadse.The MP said that she was surprised to see that the Maharashtra home minister used the incidence for politics. “The minister should not have retweeted the word which is derogatory and maligning the dignity of any woman. It is sad that he used the post for political gain,” she said. Khadse is the daughter-in-law of former state minister Eknath Khadse who recently defected to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) after accusing state BJP leaders of ill-treating him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-minister-warns-of-action-over-post-against-bjp-mp-raksha-khadse-101611868093436.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra social outfits demand investigation into Delhi violence, support farmers’ protest||Social outfits in Maharashtra, which have been supporting the farmers’ protest against new farm laws, have condemned the January 26 Delhi violence but reiterated their support to the agitating farmers. They are now demanding a detailed inquiry into what happened on January 26 and want the guilty to be punished. The Jan Aandolanaanchi Sangharsh Samiti (Maharashtra) blamed anti-social elements for indulging in violence. “We demand that there should be a proper investigation regarding this incident. Such anti-social elements need to be identified, and appropriate legal action should be taken,” read a statement issued by the samiti. It said that the farmers have been protesting peacefully from the last two months, and efforts were being made to defame the protests. The Kamgar Sanghatana Samyukta Kruti Samiti (Maharashtra) has called the violence a Central government conspiracy to break the struggle. “How can anyone even enter the Red Fort when the whole area is turned into a fortress on such an important day?” questioned Vishwas Utagi, co-convenor of the samiti. “The whole thing is suspicious as one faction started its march before time, deviated from the given route and then indulged in violence,” said Utagi. The Satyashodhak Shetkari Sabha (SSS) said it does not stand with those farmers who indulged in violence. “It is an attempt to divert attention from the real struggle and spoil the name of a genuine agitation,” said Kishore Dhamale, SSS. “We would not like to associate ourselves with such anti-social elements at any cost,” he added. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at different borders of Delhi since November 26 last year, against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. On January 26, a tractor march was organised by the farmers that got derailed and violence erupted in the Red Fort area. Nandurbar farmer dies on her way back home Sitabai Tadvi, a farm leader from Nandurbar, who was a part of the farmers’ protest at Delhi, died due to the cold in Jaipur. Tadvi, who was at the forefront of the farmers’ agitation, was travelling back to her village from Alwar. She fell ill on the way and was admitted to a hospital at Jaipur where she succumbed to her illness, according to reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-social-outfits-demand-investigation-into-delhi-violence-support-farmers-protest-101611867913789.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||MVA parties slam Karnataka DyCM for demanding Mumbai as Union Territory||Ruling allies in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Thursday slammed Karnataka’s deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi for demanding Mumbai be declared a Union territory. Congress described it as a sinister design of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government to weaken Maharashtra. The Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) also criticised Savadi’s demand, describing it as baseless. BJP’s Maharashtra state unit also dismissed Savadi’s claim. Savadi’s comment came after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had suggested on Wednesday that the Centre should make the Marathi-speaking areas on the Karnataka-Maharashtra border a Union territory since there is an ongoing case in the Supreme Court on this issue. While Maharashtra has staked a claim over these areas, which include Belagavi (also known as Belgaum), Karwar and Nippani, Karnataka has maintained ownership of the area. On Thursday, Savadi said, “Earlier, we were part of the Mumbai region. My demand and the demand of the people in this region is that Mumbai is attached to Karnataka. I demand the Central government ensure Mumbai should be declared a Union territory. The issue will be resolved once we demand Mumbai,” he said. Congress described Savadi’s demand as a conspiracy. “It exposes the sinister plot of the Modi government to weaken Mumbai and also Maharashtra. We have seen how attempts were made to shift the international financial centre and also trade to Gujarat. The Central government has been a silent spectator as its ultimate aim was to make Mumbai a Union territory,” alleged Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant, adding that the Centre was using agencies like Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation to “to trouble businessmen and Bollywood” to weaken Mumbai. Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut said his party was not taking Savadi’s comment seriously. “Savadi should understand history. The boundary dispute with Karnataka is to protect Marathi language and culture,” he said. Raut also said Maharashtra did not discriminate against the Kannada-speaking population in the state, unlike the way Karnataka has done in its Marathi-speaking areas. “The Maharashtra government provides grants to Kannada schools, libraries and cultural organisations in the state. Does this happen in Belgaum?” he asked. Maharashtra deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar said Savadi’s claim on Mumbai was “baseless and pointless”. “The demand made by the chief minister [Thackeray] has no connection with what the Karnataka deputy chief minister has said in his response,” he said. “The Karnataka deputy chief minister may have made the demand to please their people. It has no base beyond that. His demand is baseless and pointless,” Pawar said. State BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari also disregarded Savadi’s comment. “In our view, the statement made by the deputy chief minister of Karnataka in Mumbai is not worth taking cognizance of. We don’t want to give importance to it. The relation of Mumbai and Maharashtra is too old and demand cannot make any difference,” Bhandari said. The border dispute has its origin in the States Reorganisation Act of 1956 that brought Belagavi and 10 talukas that were once part of the colonial Bombay Presidency and later part of Mysore, into Karnataka. Maharashtra opposed this on the ground that the population of Belagavi, Nipani and Karwar are mostly Marathi speakers. This dispute is pending in the Supreme Court. At a public event on Wednesday, Thackeray had said, “When the issue is pending in the Apex court, the Karnataka government changed the name of Belgaum [to Belagavi], and set up their second capital there. A Marathi-speaking mayor was booked under sedition for taking the pro-Marathi stand. This is nothing but the oppression of the Marathi-speaking citizens in border areas. This leads to the contempt of court. There is a need to declare the disputed areas as Union Territory to restrain the Karnataka government from this unilateral action.” State NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase asked state BJP leaders to clarify their stand on Karnataka deputy chief minister’s remarks on Mumbai. “We want to know if the demand made by Karnataka deputy chief minister is acceptable to the state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. We want them to clear their stand. If they are with Maharashtra then they are also expected to reply to the demand,” Tapase said in a statement released on Thursday.The Maharashtra Government released a 50 year old documentary on border dispute titled ‘A case for Justice’ which justifies the inclusion of border areas in Maharashtra. The documentary released on YouTube was directed by Kumarsen Samarth. It shows scenes like an NCC placard in Marathi and a teacher teaching languages like Marathi, English and Konkani. The documentary was released on the direction of the Maharashtra chief minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-parties-slam-karnataka-dycm-for-demanding-mumbai-as-union-territory-101611867793552.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra-Karnataka border row: Uddhav Thackeray turns aggressive to corner BJP||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has become aggressive on the issue of the Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute over the past two days, leading to political bickering, with claims and counter-claims between the two states. Thackeray’s aggressive stance on the decades-old issue is not new for his party, but it is now aimed at scoring politically over the Shiv Sena’s rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).At the receiving end of the continuous attacks by the BJP over various issues, Thackeray is now relying on Sena’s time-tested issue of Marathi pride to counter his political rivals. It comes in handy for him ahead of the civic polls in several cities, including Mumbai, scheduled to be held in less than a year. For the Shiv Sena, the cause of Marathi “asmita” or pride and safeguarding Mumbai against attempts to “take it away” from Maharashtra have been pet issues over the years, political analysts said. The Marathi pride issue could also help the Sena minimise the division of its votes with Raj Thackeray’s Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS). For the Sena, retaining power in the Mumbai civic body as well as some other cities such as Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli is important. The Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute has its origin in the States Reorganisation Act of 1956. It made Belgaum and 10 talukas of the Bombay State, once part of colonial Bombay Presidency, a part of the then Mysore state. Maharashtra opposed the move, arguing that Belgaum, Nipani and Karwar had a majority of Marathi speaking population and should have been part of the state. Karnataka opposed it. The dispute subsequently went to the Supreme Court (SC) and is pending there. The Marathi speaking people in these areas have been agitating for inclusion in Maharashtra for five decades and have often alleged that the Karnataka government has been trying to suppress their agitation and imposing the Kannada language on them. After Thackeray on Wednesday sought Union Territory status for the disputed areas, Karnataka deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi demanded that Mumbai should be made a Union Territory as it belongs to Karnataka. The statement invited the ire of Shiv Sena and Congress leaders who said that it is the BJP’s ploy to carve Mumbai out of Maharashtra.While Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut asked Savadi to study the history of the issue properly, Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande said, “Mumbai is not a disputed land. It was always a part of Maharashtra. The statement that came from Savadi has exposed the BJP’s plot to take away Mumbai from Maharashtra. Earlier too, there was a ploy to join Mumbai with Gujarat. This has been BJP’s hidden agenda. Till the Shiv Sena is there, it will never let this happen. Uddhavji has clearly said that atrocities on the Marathi-speaking people of Belgaum will not be tolerated any further.”Political analyst Hemant Desai said that Sena’s policy has been to take up emotional issues and issues of identity. Another political analyst, Pratap Asbe said that the Sena is now catering to its constituency on the grounds of Marathi pride.Desai said, “Since the beginning, it has been the policy of the Shiv Sena to take up emotional issues and ones involving identity. Mumbai is an emotional issue for the Shiv Sena. By saying that the BJP wants to take Mumbai away, they want to benefit in BMC election. Besides that, they can corner the BJP on the border dispute as it will not be as aggressive as the ruling alliance here [Karnataka has BJP government]. This is pure politics; these issues will be raked up time and again. Like the Kaveri water dispute [between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu], this border dispute will not be resolved.”Asbe echoed Desai’s views and said that the issue will be kept alive for political gains. “The matter is with the Supreme Court. It will make no difference if Uddhav Thackeray speaks or (Karnataka CM) Yediyurappa speaks on it. The CM has taken up the issues for the Shiv Sena to corner Maharashtra’s BJP leaders. While doing so, the Sena is catering to its constituency which is for Marathi pride,” Asbe said.Desai said that though politicians keep these issues alive, such issues may not resonate with younger generation voters. “It has been so many years, I do not think that the new generation would be interested in such issues,” he said.BJP leader of opposition in the legislative Council Pravin Darekar said that the state BJP stands with the people of the Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka. “I am not the spokesperson of the Karnataka government. Neither have I heard the statement made by a Karnataka minister. However, the BJP leaders in Maharashtra stand with the people of Belgaum,” Darekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrakarnataka-border-row-uddhav-thackeray-turns-aggressive-to-corner-bjp-101611867555551.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil kicks off statewide tour from Gadchiroli||The Nationalist Congress Party’s Maharashtra chief and senior minister Jayant Patil kicked off his statewide tour — “NCP Parivar Samwad Yatra” on Thursday. Patil started the tour from Maoist-infested Gadchiroli district of the state. In the first four days till January 31, he will be travelling to four districts of Vidarbha region – Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Bhandara and Gondia – covering 15 Assembly constituencies.The senior leader will be travelling to all the districts and will cover all Assembly constituencies of the state in phases. He said that the objective is to strengthen the organisation by having a dialogue with party cadres, discussing problems they are dealing with and making attempts to resolve them.In an address in Gadchiroli district, Patil also urged party cadres to constitute booth committees, which is a key to power. “If our booth committee is powerful, then we would easily achieve success, thus efforts should be made to make them capable enough,” the water resources minister told a gathering at Aheri in Gadchiroli district.“In the recently-held gram panchayat elections, the NCP has a good amount of success. The newly-elected members should ensure to undertake maximum development works with the help of state rural development minister Hasan Mushrif,” Patil added.State home minister Anil Deshmukh, who is also guardian minister of Gondia district, attended one of the meetings held by Patil on the first day of the tour. Patil was accompanied by Rupali Chakankar, state women wing president and Mehboob Shaikh, state youth wing chief.In the first phase, the state NCP president will cover 82 Assembly constituencies situated in 14 districts covering Vidarbha region and parts of north Maharashtra. He will be covering around 3,000km in 17 days. In the first phase of the tour, Patil will cover Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia, Yavatmal, Washim Nagpur, Wardha, Amravati, Akola, Buldhana, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon district.Patil is considered one of the most trusted aides of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and was appointed as head of the state NCP unit in April 2018, in the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ncp-chief-jayant-patil-kicks-off-statewide-tour-from-gadchiroli-101611867373472.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders Maharashtra government to compensate Covid-19 victim’s heirs||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government to pay compensation of ₹5 lakh to the legal heirs of 82-year-old Malati Nehete, a Covid-19 patient who had gone missing from the Covid ward of the Government Medical College (GMC) and Hospital at Jalgaon on June 2, 2020, and was found dead in one of the five toilets attached to the ward eight days later.The bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice Shrikant Kulkarni was irked to note that for about eight days, the patient was missing and nobody had bothered to take it seriously and did nothing except filing a missing report.“It is evident that neither doctors on duty nor staff nurses were monitoring the patient,” said the bench. “Having regard to the above factual scenario, we have no hesitation to hold that it is because of culpable negligence of doctors, staff nurses and para-medical staff on duty, patient Malati Nehate met with her unfortunate death,” said the bench.Pratibha Shinde, president of Lok Sangharsh Morcha, and two other persons had filed a public interest litigation (PIL), highlighting the apathetic approach of doctors and other staff at the GMC at Jalgaon, in treating Covid-19 patients.They contended that apart from lack of adequate doctors and para-medical staff, the authorities at the hospital had turned a blind eye towards the guidelines and protocols issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Their counsel, senior advocate Gayatri Singh, highlighted the case of Malati Nehete, who was shifted to the government medical college from Railway Hospital in Bhusawal on June 1, 2020. Her swabs were taken for Covid-19 testing, however, initially, she was admitted to the non-Covid ward. The 82-year-old, who required support for all her movements, was shifted to Covid ward after her rest report showed her positive for the deadly virus. On June 2, she went “missing” and was found dead in one of the five toilets attached to the Covid ward after eight days.Additional government pleader PS Patil had opposed their prayer for compensation of ₹50 lakh to the kin of the 82-year-old on the grounds that her family members are educated and could avail appropriate legal remedy.As regards other prayers for inquiry and action for negligence and dereliction of duty, Patil pointed out that inquiry was already initiated and an offence was registered with the local police station in connection with the incident.The bench, however, overruled the objection, saying the HC, being the protector of civil liberties of citizens, has not only the power and jurisdiction but also an obligation to grant relief to the victims or heirs of the victim whose fundamental rights are flagrantly infringed and call upon the state to repair the damage, irrespective of individual remedy available to them.HC has also directed the state to take appropriate action against the erring hospital staff, based on the report of a three-member committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-maharashtra-government-to-compensate-covid-19-victim-s-heirs-101611867193638.html
29-01-2021||Bhopal||‘Liberty has to be balanced with duty’: HC denies bail to comedian Faruqui||The Madhya Pradesh high court on Thursday refused to release stand-up comic Munawar Faruqui on bail, holding that he was prima facie (on the first impression) guilty of hurting others’ religious sentiments “under the garb of stand-up comedy” during a public show staged in Indore on January 1.In his 10-page order dismissing Faruqui’s bail plea, justice Rohit Arya also urged the states to strive to ensure that the “ecosystem and sustenance of coexistence in our welfare society is not polluted by negative forces”.The court emphasised that “liberty of an individual has to be balanced with his duties and obligations towards his fellow citizens”, adding that “mutual respect, faith and trust amongst all citizens of India are basic tenets of coexistence, in a welfare society governed by the principles of rule of law”.The court brushed aside Faruqui’s defence that although he was present at the show in Indore, he did not say anything that day.He had also contended that there was no need for him to remain behind bars because the alleged offences of hurting religious sentiments and violating Covid-19 protocol were punishable with a maximum jail term of only three years.Opining on the merit of the case, the high court held: “The evidence/material collected so far suggest that in an organised public show under the garb of standup comedy at a public place on commercial lines, prima facie; scurrilous, disparaging utterances, outraging religious feelings of a class of citizens of India with deliberate intendment, were made by the applicant.”By a common order, the court also dismissed the bail plea of Nalin, a co-accused in the case. Apart from Faruqui and Nalin, three others named as accused in the first information report (FIR) are Edwin Anthony, Prakhar Vyas and Priyam Vyas.Commenting on the high court’s order, senior advocate Vivek Tankha, who represented Faruqui, said: “I am disappointed with the order, to say the least.” About the prospect of filing an appeal before the Supreme Court, Tankha said that a decision would be taken by the parties soon.Faruqui was arrested on January 1 on the complaint of Hindu Rakshak Sangathan convener Eklavya Singh Gaud, who is also a son of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Malini Singh Gaud, in Indore, just before he was about to start his performance at a restaurant. He has been in jail since.The high court, in its order, held that Faruqui’s was not a case of “no evidence”; nor can the stand-up comedian’s complacency be ruled out at this stage, especially when a similar FIR had been registered against him in Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh too.Justice Arya also referred to the accusations made by complainant in this case, Gaud, that Faruqui had been cracking “filthy jokes against Hindu Gods, Lord Shri Ram and Goddess Seeta” in the social media for the last 18 months.On this, the judge said that “there is nothing on record to the contrary”, pointing out that Faruqui had not countered Gaud’s allegations about his jokes on Hindu Gods in social media.In the order, the judge cited Article 51A of the Constitution on the Fundamental Duties to emphasise that “every right is coupled with duty” and that the duties and obligations are inherent thereunder. “Intensity of crime and degree of involvement with an element of mens rea (criminal intent) adjudge impact of crime in the society,” said the court, adding that what is punishable under Section 295A (hurting religious beliefs and sentiments) of the Indian Penal Code was the intention and the manner in which statements were made. “Before parting with the case, it is considered apposite to observe that our country is a beautiful country and sets an example of coexistence amid diversities; be it religion, language, culture, geographical locations etc., to the world at large,” justice Arya said in his order. .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/liberty-has-to-be-balanced-with-duty-hc-denies-bail-to-comedian-faruqui-101611865551969.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic budget 2021-22 may not have any new taxes||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) budget for 2021-22, which will be presented before the standing committee in the first week of February by municipal commissioner IS Chahal, is unlikely to introduce new taxes for Mumbaiites. However, the civic body revises property tax every five years, and a revision is due in 2021 through a special sitting of the standing committee of the civic body, according to the civic official. The hike will not be announced in the budget document 2021, but a few months later. The outlay is likely to be higher than the previous year, according to a senior civic official. At a time when the BMC, the country’s richest civic body, is facing a cash crunch, the budget will prioritise expenditure on key departments such as health, education, and infrastructure-related developments such as roads and coastal road. Funds will be allotted for at least one new infrastructure project that has been on the cards in 2020. A senior civic official said, “Every year, usually there is an 8% to 10% increase in the budget. Our budget will be larger this year as well, and the capital expenditure will also be more. Moreover, important departments such as health, education, and infrastructure projects will not see a cut in the budgetary allocation, or a reduction in the budget outlay in comparison to last year.” The coastal road project is likely to receive substantial amount of funds. Moreover, the BMC’s plan to come up with a desalination plant at Manori in Mumbai that was approved by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in November will also receive a budgetary allocation. “We are not increasing any new taxes this year in the budget. However, during the year, a revision in the property tax is due,” the officer added. The BMC budget 2020-21 was pegged at ₹33,441.02 crore, which was 8.95% more than the previous year’s budget. The budget for 2019-20 was pegged at ₹30,692.59 crore. The senior civic official quoted above said, “The civic body plans to increase its capital expenditure. On the revenue expenditure side, pensions and salaries will not be touched, but the BMC is looking to bring down administration related revenue expenditure.” Another senior civic official from the property tax department said, “There are several components of the property tax. For homes below 500sqft, only general tax has been waived. In 2021, when we look at revision of the property tax, we are not going to increase general tax or factor component. So the increase will be minimal. But the civic body’s kitty is likely to see an increase in revenue by up to 17%.” Anandini Thakoor, trustee, H-West Citizens’ Federation, said, “Among the top priorities should be better civic amenities for citizens, primarily water supply and better roads. There are many more, but these two areas need work on priority. The BMC should beef up their conservancy staff.” The BJP on Thursday alleged that the municipal corporation is heading toward bankruptcy, and has manipulated figures of income. The BJP claimed the BMC has received only 25% of the estimated income in 2020-21. The BJP said while the property tax department earned only ₹734.34 crore instead of the estimated income of ₹6768.58 crore, and the development plan department earned only ₹708.28 crore instead of the estimated ₹3879.51 crore. Yet expenditure on Covid-19 relief work has been ₹2,100 crore so far. While the BMC showed a surplus of ₹6.52 crore in February, this increased to ₹2,579.33 crore in August, which the BJP claimed is manipulation of numbers, alleging the following budget 2021 will also show manipulated figures. A senior civic official said, “All accurate details have been submitted to the standing committee. Moreover our expenditure, for example the Covid-related expenditure, amounts to ₹1,533 crore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-budget-2021-22-may-not-have-any-new-taxes-101611863413643.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination turnout in Mumbai falls to 58%||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday, the eighth day of its Covid-19 vaccination drive, saw its turnout fall from 68% to 58%. According to BMC officials, they anticipate the turnout to increase during the weekend.On Thursday, 4,430 healthcare workers (HCWs) got vaccinated against the target of 7,700 set by the BMC. As of January 28, 27,829 HCWs have been vaccinated. Further, officials said, six cases of minor adverse effects were reported, post which the affected were kept under observation for 30 minutes and discharged. In total, around 40 cases of minor adverse effects have been reported in HCWs.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “The turnout probably went down due to it being mid-week, but we cannot confirm the fall to any particular reason.”Dr Gomare added, “However, we are anticipating the turnout to go up during the weekend i.e. Friday and Saturday. We are also going to add the NESCO Covid-19 centre, which will act as 12th vaccination centre.”On the first three days of the drive — on January 16, 19,and 20 — Mumbai’s turnout was between 50% and 52%, which increased to 92% on the fourth day (January 22), and 90% on the fifth day (January 23). On the sixth day, Mumbai saw a 77% turnout, followed by 68% on Wednesday, but it went down to 58% on Thursday.In the coming days, the BMC will also add more vaccination centres, including the jumbo Covid-19 facilities at Dahisar, Mulund, and the jumbo facility at Richarson and Cruddas (RC) in Byculla. The 11 existing vaccination centres in Mumbai are the four major hospitals — King Edward Memorial Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper Hospital and Sion hospital; four peripheral hospitals — Bhabha at Bandra, VN Desai at Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital, Kandivli; the Covid-19 facility at Bandra Kurla Complex; and the state-run JJ Hospital in South Mumbai, followed by Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-turnout-in-mumbai-falls-to-58-101611862700554.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||15-year-old survives 35-foot fall from terrace near Mumbai||Ajay Pawar, a 15-year-old, survived a 35-foot fall from the terrace of his building in Vasai while playing with his friends. The incident took place when Ajay, a Class 10 student studying in a school in Mount Abu, was trying to retrieve his footwear which fell on a scaffolding while playing. He stepped on a plastic sheet, which was there as part of the scaffolding cover to let sunlight in. But it broke owing to his weight and he fell. A cycle parked outside the building broke his fall. Hearing the commotion, society members rushed to the spot. “We first took him to a local hospital but later shifted him to Tungha Hospital in Mira Road where he is undergoing treatment,” said Ajay’s father Laxman, 48.The teenager lives with his family consisting his father, mother and elder brother at Anand Nagar in Vasai (West). Laxman said after the plastic tore, Ajay fell 35 feet. “He fell on a cycle parked in the society premises and hence was saved. He has received injuries to his chin and hand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15yearold-survives-35-foot-fall-from-terrace-near-mumbai-101611862513102.html
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s active Covid-19 cases remain below 1% for 10 days in a row||A significant dip has been witnessed in the infection spread as the Covid-19 active case ratio in Chandigarh has remained below 1% in the last 10 days.Only 232 cases have been reported in the past one week, even though the testing levels have remained largely constant. The fatalities linked to infection have almost been halved as only 17 deaths have been reported in last one month as compared to 39 in December last year. However, the fatality ratio with respect to the total cases remains constant at 1.6%.“It is a significant improvement for us from what we were observing during September when the positivity rate was around 22%. The test positivity rate remaining below 3% from the last three to four weeks is certainly a good news,” UT’s health department director Dr Amandeep Kang said. “People are following appropriate behaviour and they should definitely not lower the guard at this critical juncture,” he added. While a similar trend continues to be witnessed in major parts of the country, experts suggest that to sustain this flattening of the curve, the current situation needs to be dealt with continued urgency like the one shown when cases were at the peak and infection was widespread. “Suggesting that we have reached a stage of herd immunity against this virus will require proper study and scientific process. However, it is a fact that a huge chunk of population has been exposed to the virus and was never detected. The majority of these were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic who did not report to medical facilities. So, they have brief immunity against the virus,” Professor Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday also said that India has flattened its Covid-19 graph as 146 districts recorded no new cases in the last seven days. The small union territories in the country have also shown a similar trend with the recovery rates remaining above 95%. The average seven-day growth of cases has also been below 1%, while the ratio of the active case has been below 1% as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-active-covid-19-cases-remain-below-1-for-10-days-in-a-row-101611862333127.html
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh court frames charges against three in 2013 Audi-Tavera killer crash||A district court has framed charges against three men and discharged two others in the July 2013 Audi-Tavera accident case that claimed three lives.The court of additional sessions judge Rajeev Goyal charged Rajat Kapoor, Trivikram Singh Toor and Gurpreet Singh under Sections 279 (rash driving), 357 (assault or criminal force in attempt wrongfully to confine a person), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304 Part 2 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code. Rajat, 36, a businessman and son of an industrialist, is a resident of Sector 4, Panchkula; Trivikram, 29, is from Phase 10, Mohali; and Gurpreet, 36, is a trader from Kharar. Rajat was driving the Audi Q7 that had hit the Chevrolet Tavera on the night of July 22, 2013, while the other two were travelling with him.Two accused, Prabhjit Zira and Harsimranjit Singh, both aged 35, who were also in the Audi, were discharged after their defence counsel, Terminder Singh, argued that they had been falsely implicated and there was no evidence against them.The prosecution will present evidence on the next date of hearing on March 10.The caseOn the night of July 22, 2013, four students from Ghaziabad were travelling in a Chevrolet Tavera after a sojourn to Dharampur, Himachal Pradesh. They were on their way to the Sector-17 ISBT to catch a bus to Delhi. As they reached the road dividing Sectors 17/18, Harsimranjit’s Audi Q7 crossed the divider and hit the Tavera, killing two students and the driver on the spot. The driver, Hast Bahadur, 34, was a resident of Dharampur. The students killed were Sahil Juneja, 22, and Kuldeep Singh, 19. Sahil was pursuing BBA and Kuldeep was an engineering student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-court-frames-charges-against-three-in-2013-audi-tavera-killer-crash-101611862152316.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED summons issued to Congress minister’s wife||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Swapnali Kadam, wife of Congress minister Vishwajeet Kadam, for questioning in connection with the alleged illicit properties of her father, Pune-based businessman Avinash Bhosale. ED officials, however, refused to divulge details of the case.Swapnali’s father, builder and hotelier Avinash Bhosale has purportedly amassed huge properties in Pune and ED wishes to question her about alleged irregularities linked to her father’s properties.Vishwajeet Kadam did not answer calls and text messages.Bhosale was examined by ED officers in November 2020 for several hours in connection with an old case under Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). Previously in 2015, he was fined ₹1.83 crore by the special director of ED, Mumbai for alleged FEMA contravention.“The builder was fined on three counts — for opening a bank account abroad without Reserve Bank of India (RBI) permission, maintaining the bank account even after returning to India and using international credit card abroad,” said an ED officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ed-summons-issued-to-congress-minister-s-wife-101611862093060.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Nagpur medical college opts for online classes for first-year batch||Days before first-year undergraduate medical and dental batches across state institutes were scheduled to start physical classes, authorities of the Government Medical College (GMC) Nagpur announced their decision to continue online classes for the first-year batch instead of onsite classes in view of increasing Covid-19 cases in Nagpur city.“The present Covid-19 scenario in Nagpur is not very stable as Covid-19 cases are being admitted in government institutions. It is not feasible and safe to conduct onsite theory classes for first-year MBBS [Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery] students, especially after positive cases were revealed in some institutes in the city recently,” stated a letter addressed to the National Medical Commission (NMC) by the management of GMC Nagpur. The management of GMC Nagpur is now planning a combination of online and onsite classes for the first-year batch. Onsite classes are being considered only for practical which is a minor part of the first-year medical course. “Looking at the present scenario, as a precautionary measure, it has been decided to conduct online theory classes and offline small group practical classes for the time being for first-year MBBS batch beginning from February 2, 2021,” stated a circular released by the institute.Earlier this month, in a circular, the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS) clarified that classes for super speciality courses including Doctor of Medicine (DM), Master of General Surgery as well as Diplomate of National Board will begin from January 19. Similarly, first-year MBBS and Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) courses should start their academic session from February 2. The delay in starting the classes was keeping in mind the delay in BDS admissions that will take place till January 31 this year.The scenario in Mumbai, however, remains unchanged for most medical institutes. Varsha Phadke, dean of KJ Somaiya Medical College, said, “Our classes will begin on schedule on February 2 in the offline mode. Proper arrangements have been made to ensure safety of staff and students.” Several institutes in Mumbai and Pune plan to insist on a seven-day compulsory quarantine for their first-year batch before starting classes. “We might have to opt for online classes for the first week of February while our students remain in hostels for the compulsory quarantine. Once that is over, we plan to start physical classes,” said an official from the admissions office of a Pune-based medical institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nagpur-medical-college-opts-for-online-classes-for-first-year-batch-101611861853079.html
29-01-2021||Delhi||Shameful to call me a traitor: On the run, Sidhu releases video||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who was seen at Red Fort during a violent farmers’ protest, is likely to figure prominently in the list of people the Delhi Police will probe in connection with the mayhem on Republic Day, according to officials aware of the matter.“He will be probed in two cases by two different units. The crime branch will probe him for the violence at Red Fort. The special cell will probe him for the alleged conspiracy and plans to embarrass the government and the country at an international platform for doing what he did on Tuesday,” one of the officials said.The officials said they were yet to approach Sidhu, who allegedly led the mob that laid siege to the historic Red Fort, resorted to vandalism, and fought a pitched battle with the police after the protest by farmers against three agricultural laws plunged into chaos.A video purportedly showing Sidhu at Red Fort has been circulating on social media.The officials privy to the investigation said Sidhu may not be in Delhi and could have already fled to Punjab or Haryana. Officials posted at the borders have informed the police’s top brass that Sidhu, who was in Singhu (on the Haryana border) on January 26 morning, has not been spotted since that night.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group that is organising the ongoing farmers’ protest, at Singhu and Tikri borders, blames Sidhu for the violence and for insulting the national flag at Red Fort.The SKM is holding meetings with the government on the farm laws that they want scrapped, and agreed to follow certain routes specified by the Delhi Police during their rally on Republic Day. Trouble began after some protesters deviated from the routes agreed upon.On Thursday, Sidhu denied the charges through a Facebook post. “...We all were peaceful and were exercising our democratic rights to protest peacefully, we were under the leadership of our farmer union leaders. We did not damage property... everything was peaceful nobody disrespected our national flag. Stop portraying this incident in any bad manner or bad light...(sic)”“...The tricolour was not demeaned, and there was no violence till I was there. Their support for what the public did at the Red Fort would have pressured the government to repeal the black (farm) laws,” Sidhu said. He added that thousands of people had reached there, but there was “no farmer leader”.They put up the ‘Nishan Sahib’ and a farmer flag at the flagpole to register their protest, said Sidhu.“If you say by doing so I have turned traitor then those who were present there were traitors too,” said the actor-turned-activist said.“If you impose all these things on one person and give him a certificate of traitor then I think you should be ashamed of yourself,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shameful-to-call-me-a-traitor-on-the-run-sidhu-releases-video-101611861434971.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon: What are your apprehensions if Varavara Rao is granted bail, HC asks NIA||Stressing on the need of striking a balance between fundamental rights of a prisoner to have a healthy life and the facilities available for treating ailing prisoners in jails, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday has sought to know from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on their apprehensions in the event 82-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao is released on bail on medical grounds.The court’s query was based on the fact that while Rao was deemed fit to be discharged from Nanavati Hospital, his family has opposed the proposal of the NIA and state to shift him to Sir JJ Hospital to monitor his condition, stating that there was every chance of him suffering a relapse and having to be shifted back to the private hospital, hence he should be either shifted to Taloja jail or allowed to go home to Hyderabad.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale was hearing a petition filed by Rao’s wife seeking bail for him on medical grounds when the court was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh that the state had made arrangements to take care of prisoners above the age of 60 years lodged in various jails across the state.While referring to Rao’s latest medical report by Nanavati Hospital, Singh said the report reiterated that Rao’s condition was stable moving him to Sir JJ Hospital was only aimed at ensuring that he was provided with the medical regimen prescribed by Nanavati doctors and his condition was monitored.However, justice Pitale sought to know from Singh as to what was the apprehension of the agency if Rao was allowed to go home on bail on medical grounds and his advanced age, Singh said that accusations against Rao were serious and as there were orders of other courts wherein an under-trial who was 85-year-old and had multiple health problems was denied bail on the medical ground due to the serious charges against him, Rao who is booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, he should also not be given bail. When justice Pitale suggested that Rao could be enlarged on bail with stringent conditions, Singh sought to know whether the court was doubting the capabilities of the doctors at JJ Hospital. Justice Shinde then said, “We have to strike a balance after the concerns of the accused’s family as well that of the state and agency is taken into consideration. While the family says that the prisoner has a fundamental right to a healthy life and the state and agency are bound to provide the same, the state and agency say they are willing to provide it, but then again there is the fact that Rao had to be shifted from JJ Hospital to Nanavati Hospital. This is a dialogue but we are expected to go beyond the existing procedure in light of the age of the accused and his medical condition.”Singh then said that it would be appropriate that the court impose conditions on the state and the agency to ensure that Rao’s condition was properly monitored and all medical help was extended to him in case of any medical emergency. The court has now posted the hearing on February 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-what-are-your-apprehensions-if-varavara-rao-is-granted-bail-hc-asks-nia-101611861612963.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man, friend arrested for stealing ₹71 lakh||The JJ Marg police on Wednesday arrested a man from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and his friend for allegedly stealing ₹71 lakh from a house in Nagpada area.The arrested accused Tabrez Ansari, 30, is a Nagpada resident and runs tours and travel business.According to the police, the complainant, a 50-year-old widow, had sold her ancestral property at her native place for ₹71 lakh. The cash was kept in her house.Ansari, who lives in the same locality, was aware of the money. He convinced his friend to help him to steal the cash and promised to settle with her at his native village in Allahabad.On January 3, when Shaikh and her daughter were away, she broke open the door and stole the bag containing cash from the house, said senior inspector Subhash Borade of the JJ Marg police station. The friend later handed over the bag to Ansari. Ansari gave her ₹10,000 to buy new clothes and fled to his native place, said Borate.“We scrutinised CCTV footage of the vicinity and also checked call data records of the victim’s family members and the persons from the locality known to them, and zeroed on Ansari,” Borate added.On questioning, Ansari’s family members and friends revealed that he spent a lot of money on alcohol and drugs. A police team then rushed to Allahabad and arrested him in the case, said Borate. His friend was also arrested in the case. Both are now in police custody and we have recovered amount of ₹57 lakh from them, added another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-friend-arrested-for-stealing-71-lakh-101611861493055.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 impact: Jobs of 66% affected, 28% got pay cut, finds survey||A recent survey found that the jobs of around 66% of the respondents were severely impacted due to lockdown owing to Covid-19. Around 17% said they lost jobs, 28% said they their salary was reduced and 25% said they worked during lockdown without any pay. The survey was conducted jointly by NGO Praja Foundation and Hansa Research in December 2020. The results of the survey stated that 47% of the respondents said they had to rely on their savings during the lockdown for daily expenses. It also revealed that despite being under metal distress, 84% respondents did not speak to anyone.According to NGO Praja Foundation, a total of 2,087 households were interviewed for the survey, which includes 791 households which were interviewed for livelihood, housing and transport related issued, 527 samples for education, and 769 for health-related issues. The aim of the survey was to understand the impact of the pandemic on key sectors in Mumbai.While some said they had to leave their jobs, or worked with reduced salaries, many also said that they had to work extra hours or were overburdened. It also revealed that 71% of the respondents were not able to save money during lockdown. In addition, 44% unskilled workers said they lost their jobs in the lockdown.Milind Mhaske, director of Praja Foundation, said, “Livelihood and employment across sectors have been the worst hit. Two of every three respondents said their livelihood was adversely impacted, of which 36% had leave-without-pay, 28% worked with reduced salary, 25% worked without salary and 13% had extra working hours or were otherwise overburdened.”The survey also covered the aspect of migration due to lockdown. Around 23% respondents said they have to leave Mumbai during lockdown citing reasons such as losing jobs and not being able to afford rent among others. “The survey also highlighted some lifestyle changes and preferences which can be adopted for future planning of the city. Of those working from home, 63% said they would like to continue to work from home (70% female, 59% male) in the future. In terms of travel to work, preference for walking and buses has increased as compared to what it was before the pandemic,” added Mhaske.For those working from office, the demand for travelling via bus increased marginally, resulting in a fall of demand for trains. Of the total respondents, 2% had Covid-19, of which 77% were admitted to a hospital. Of them, 39% respondents received free treatment for Covid-19. Of the 61% who spent money on Covid-19 treatment, the majority (50%) spent less than ₹10,000, revealed the survey.Further, 48% respondents said they managed the treatment cost with help from family/relatives/friends, 27% sourced it from their regular income, while 23% sourced it from insurance. On the mental health end, the survey reveals that in spite of the majority respondents facing stress, 84% did not speak to anyone about their mental state.The survey also spoke with parents on how they and their children managed education during the lockdown. It found that 97% students attended school through online classes, 62% parent respondents favoured offline education, 63% said online classes made children physically inactive in spite of schools having extra-curricular activities, while 43% said their child faced eyesight problems. Around 65% respondents also said that their children were irritable due to online classes.Meanwhile, in case of more than one child needing a device for education wherein there is only one device available, 6% said they gave priority to their male child’s education in case of a clash in lecture timings, followed by 19% who said parents or children decide internally who will attend the class at that time. The remaining 75% said lecture timings did not clash, which reflects that schools managed online classes considering these needs.Concluding the survey, Nitai Mehta, founder of NGO Praja Foundation, said, “The survey has highlighted the urgency for better policy-making and planning for future. The focus, in the immediate term, needs to be on creating avenues and securing livelihoods of the lowest socio-economic sections of the city as they were most affected by the pandemic. For the future, this experience provides cues for better planning of the city and strengthening of public infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-impact-jobs-of-66-affected-28-got-pay-cut-finds-survey-101611861433086.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra schools reopen: 32% students from state attended classes||More than 1.2 million or 32% students from Class 5 to 8 attended schools across the state on the first day after schools reopened on January 27, according to a report shared by the state education department. On Wednesday, more than 34,000 schools in the state, which is about 86% of the total schools for Class 5 to 8, reopened after a gap of 10 months following a lockdown put in place in March 2020 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the education department, 50% students in these schools were asked to attend on a rotational basis. Districts such as Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Gondia and Satara recorded good attendance with 40%-65% students present on the first day. Thane rural saw a poor turnout with only 9.5% students. Balu Bhoyar, principal of Karamveer Vidyalaya in Chandrapur, said parents were more willing to send their children to school now as opposed to that in November. “We are seeing a gradual increase in attendance and it is a good sign. As more students are coming in, we are now making provisions to divide them into groups to follow social distancing norms,” he added. As part of SOPs, teachers and non-teaching staff had to undergo reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for Covid-19. Of the 146,000 teachers and staff members tested, 714 were positive for the virus and will not be able to attend school for the next few days. While several schools in the state reopened for students for Class 9 to 12 from November 23, those for Class 5 to 8 in places other than Mumbai, Thane city and Navi Mumbai corporation areas reopened on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-schools-reopen-32-students-from-state-attended-classes-101611861193069.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to quash FIR in matrimonial discord citing serious allegations||The Bombay high court (HC), while rejecting a petition seeking quashing of a first information report (FIR) filed by a woman against her husband, brother-in-law and mother-in-law, has held that when serious allegations are levelled against the accused in a matrimonial dispute, the court cannot exercise its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The woman had complained the three after they ill-treated her as she failed to comply with their demand for dowry.The complaint states that the husband indulged in forced unnatural sex with her and she was told that her husband’s behaviour would change for the better only if she complied with their dowry demand.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition of the 33-year-old husband, his 29-year-old brother and 60-year-old mother was informed that they sought quashing of the FIR filed against them at the Vile Parle police station on November 29, 2019. The three had been booked for offences punishable under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. According to the complaint lodged by the woman, she had met her husband through a matrimonial website in 2016. Both the families agreed and the two were engaged. The man established forcible physical relations with the woman and then left for his service on a cruise. After returning, the two were married in April 2017. The complaint states that after marriage the three accused started ill-treating her and demanded that she arrange for dowry from her parents. The husband forcibly indulged in unnatural sex to force her to comply with their demand for dowry. The woman also made some other serious allegations against the husband. Advocate Aniket Vagal for the petitioners submitted that it was a fit case for the court to exercise its power under Article 226 of the Constitution to quash the FIR. However, advocate Jayshree Tripathi for the woman drew the attention of the court to the seriousness of the allegations made by the woman against the three more-so the husband and suggested that the court should not quash the FIR. After hearing the submissions the court observed, “Having perused the material on record, considering the seriousness of the allegations levelled against the petitioners and the fact that prima facie the ingredients of the said offences can be found in the said complaint lodged by respondent no.2 (woman), we are of the opinion that the petitioners have failed to make out a case for exercise of jurisdiction of this court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and inherent powers under section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.” Thus, the court dismissed the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-quash-fir-in-matrimonial-discord-citing-serious-allegations-101611860952206.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 4 foreign nationals arrested for duping job aspirant of ₹17 lakh||The cyber police of the Mumbai crime branch have arrested four foreign nationals from Pune for allegedly duping a Chembur resident to the tune of ₹17 lakh on the pretext of helping him to get a job at a hotel in Canada. Police seized four laptops, 14 mobile phones, data card, and several SIM cards, including that of international numbers, from the accused.According to the police, the victim, Vishal Mandavkar, 30, lives in the Chembur area and after completing the hotel management course, he was looking for jobs abroad. While searching jobs on websites he unsuspectingly clicked on a job search link and sent his resume for the post of manager in a hotel in Canada.One of the accused then contacted the victim on his mobile number and asked him to deposit money for visa fees, employment authorisation fees, basic travelling allowance. The victim deposited total ₹17.22 lakh in different bank accounts given by the accused in the last few months, said Bharambe. As the accused started demanding more money to conduct RBI verification, he suspected foul play and contacted cyber police station in BKC and registered a case on January 15. Acting on his complaint, cyber police arrested the four accused from Undri area in Pune and they are in police custody.After scrutinising eight month’s data recovered from the laptop belonging to the accused, police found data of 27,000 people and details of 64 accounts of 12 banks in India and two banks in abroad- one in Dubai and another in Nigeria.After scanning the bank transactions police learnt that the accused had transferred amount of around ₹10 crore in two bank accounts in Nigeria and Dubai and ₹2 crores in 12 bank accounts in India, said joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe of the crime branch. “On further probe, we found that the accused have duped over 2,000 people in the last two years. Passports details and bank details of 2,500 people were also found from memory cards recovered from the accused.The arrested accused identified as Ogunsakin alias Michael Olayeni, 32, Sotomiwa Oadele Ogunmoroti, 26, and Augustin Francis Williams, 22. They stayed in Undri area of Pune. The accused claimed that they came to India two years ago on education visa but while checking we found that visa of one of them had expired while other’s details are being verified, said Bharambe. We are investigating to find out as to from where the accused obtained data of the people, said Bharambe, adding that the gang has routed money through various banks in India and drawn amounts from various places.Advocate Tushar Lavhate, who represented Olayeni, Thompson and Ogunmoroti said, “There is no legally admissible evidence against my clients who are just students in Pune. It’s impossible to prove the charges against them in a court of law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-4-foreign-nationals-arrested-for-duping-job-aspirant-of-17-lakh-101611860892870.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||40,187 more healthcare workers inoculated, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 vax tally touches 219,696||Maharashtra reported 73% inoculation on the eighth day of its vaccination drive, on Thursday, as 40,187 healthcare workers (HCWs) took their vaccine shots against the targeted inoculation of 54,771 beneficiaries, at 538 vaccination centres. The cumulative number of beneficiaries in the state has touched 219,696.Of the total beneficiaries inoculated till date, around 2,311 have been given Bharat Biotech Limited’s Covaxin. The percentage at the vaccination centres with the Covaxin shots have witnessed a low response as compared the centres wherein Covishield is being administered.Against the target of 700 targeted doses at seven centres with Covaxin, only 232 turned up (33.4%) on Thursday. Thane tops in the cumulative figures of the vaccination with 22,188, followed by Pune with 18,949 HCWs vaccinated, while in Mumbai suburban district, 16,918 have taken their shots, said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, health department. Dhule, Beed reported more than 111% vaccination, while eight other districts including Palghar, Nanded, Sindhudurg, Thane, Gadchiroli saw more than 90% of the turnout.The turnout for the vaccination dropped on Thursday after reporting 77% inoculation on Wednesday and 83.73% on Saturday. Buldhana (44%), Mumbai city (51%) and Aurangabad (51%) districts reported the lowest turnout. The vaccination centres in Maharashtra have been increased to 538 from 528 on Wednesday.The state government has completed the enrolment of the frontline workers who are to be inoculated in the second phase. “We have received over 1.8 million doses for the inoculation of 785,927 HCWs with two shots each within the stipulated period. We expect the first phase to be completed by end of February after which the second round for the frontline workers is expected to begin. But for it, we will require another stock of the vaccine from the centre,” said an official from the public health department of the state government.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 2,889 new cases and 50 deaths taking the tally to 2,018,413 and the toll to 50,944. State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.52%.Mumbai reported 394 new infections on Thursday, taking the tally to 307,569 and toll to 11,330 after seven fresh deaths reported in 24 hours. Pune clocked 247 new cases while Nagpur and Nashik saw 225 and 133 new cases. The recovery rate in the state touched 95.28% after 1,923,187 patients have been discharged from the hospital, till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/40187-more-healthcare-workers-inoculated-maharashtra-s-covid-19-vax-tally-touches-219696-101611860773208.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||Quality of treatment suffers at civic-run tertiary hospitals as doctors continue to be deputed to Covid-19 centres||While there has been a gradual fall in the number of Covid-19 patients at civic-run tertiary hospitals, the footfall of non-Covid patients has increased by almost 80%. However, a large number of resident doctors continue to be stationed at Covid-19 jumbo centres and Seven Hills Hospital, where almost 90% of the beds are vacant. Medical students say this is leading to a severe shortage of doctors at major civic-run hospitals and affecting the quality of treatment. At the start of the pandemic in March 2020, hundreds of resident doctors King Edward Memorial (KEM), BYL Nair, Dr RN Cooper and Lokmanya Tilak General hospitals were deputed at Covid-19 jumbo centres and Seven Hills Hospital. During the early months of the pandemic, the footfall of non-Covid-19 patients had reduced to almost 10%. Consequently, the distribution of manpower didn’t pose any problems. However, 10 months down the line and with the state announcing measures to gradually lessen restrictions on public movement, major hospitals have started receiving a large number of non-Covid patients. As a result, resident doctors are working extra-long hours, leading to exhaustion. “With relaxation in the lockdown, we are getting many serious patients who couldn’t reach hospitals earlier. They need more attention. But due to shortage of staff, we aren’t able to provide timely treatment,” said Dr Arun Ghule, president of KEM Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD). Parel-based KEM Hospital, the biggest civic-run hospital, presently gets around 4,000 patients in its out-patient department (OPD) daily. Under instructions of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the hospital has stationed almost 50 of its resident doctors at Nesco Covid Jumbo centre, in Goregaon, and Seven Hills Hospital, in Marol. Similarly, Sion Hospital, which received around 1,500 OPD patients daily before March, has stationed almost 100 of its resident doctors at various jumbo centres. Resident doctors said they are no longer required at the Covid-19 centres since the number of patients has come down significantly in recent months. They also said their medical practice and education is being affected. “Now, the number of patients to outside hospitals has reduced to a locally-manageable level, and the workload at KEM Hospital has increased to more than the pre-pandemic situation. Due to this, we aren’t able to perform our basic educational activities which is the main purpose of our PG course,” reads the letter sent by MARD KEM on Thursday to the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). Sion Hospital has also approached its management to address the same issue. “There has been an almost 80% rise in the footfall of non-Covid patients. We are working 14-24 hours daily for their treatment. Earlier, if we could attend to a patient within an hour, it now takes us almost two hours due to the manpower crunch,” said a member of MARD, Sion Hospital. When asked about the students stationed at Covid-19 centres, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “All the students are made to work for around 15-30 days. Also, they should also gain experience of treating Covid-19 patients. It will help them to gain first-hand experience as a doctor.” The civic-run tertiary hospitals are likely to face a further shortfall of doctors as many final years postgraduate students will go on study leave from February. “We really hope that the hospitals solve this issue before we go on our study leaves as our final exam is scheduled in May,” said another doctor from Nair Hospital which has stationed 10 doctors at Seven Hills Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/quality-of-treatment-suffers-at-civic-run-tertiary-hospitals-as-doctors-continue-to-be-deputed-to-covid-19-centres-101611860593059.html
29-01-2021||Mumbai||BMC budget 2021: New taxes unlikely but property tax to be revised later||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) budget 2021 for Mumbai city, to be presented before the standing committee in the first week of February by municipal commissioner IS Chahal, is unlikely to introduce new taxes for Mumbaiites. However, a revision of property tax in 2021, done every five years, is likely, according to civic officials.The hike in property tax will not be announced in the budget document 2021, but in the months following the beginning of financial year 2021-22.Budget 2021 outlay is likely to be larger than the previous year, according to a senior civic official.At a time when the BMC, the country's richest civic body, is facing a cash crunch, its budget 2021 will prioritise expenditure in key areas such as health, education, and infrastructure-related developments such as roads. Funds will be allotted for at least one new infrastructure project."Every year, usually there is an 8% to 10% increase in the budget. Our budget will be larger this year as well, than last year, and the capital expenditure will also be more. Moreover, the important departments such as health, education, and infrastructure will not see a cut in the budgetary allocation or a reduction in the budget outlay in comparison to last year," said a senior civic officer.The Mumbai coastal road project is likely to receive a substantial amount of funds."We are not introducing new taxes this year in the budget. However, during the year, a revision in the property tax is due," the officer added.The BMC budget 2020 was pegged at ₹33,441.02 crores, which was 8.95% more than the previous year's budget. The budget 2019 was pegged at ₹30,692.59 crores.The senior civic officer quoted above said, "The civic body is planning to increase its capital expenditure in the budget 2021. On the revenue expenditure side, the pensions and salaries will of course not be touched, but BMC is looking to bring down administration-related revenue expenditure.Also Read: Mumbai: 1st rake for Metro-2A arrives; CM to unveil it on FridayAnother senior civic official of the property tax department said, "There are several components of the property tax. For homes below 500 sq feet, only general tax has been waived off. This year in 2021, when we will look at a revision of the property tax, we are not going to increase the general tax or the factor component. So the increase that citizens will feel is very minimal. But the civic body's kitty is likely to see an increase in revenue by up to 17%."Everyone owning a property in Mumbai has to pay property tax to the civic body.For those who own a flat in a building, the property tax is mostly collected by housing society as part of the monthly or annual maintenance charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-budget-2021-new-taxes-unlikely-but-property-tax-to-be-revised-later-101611818710723.html
