30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Right to life meaningless without right to education: Justice Gavai||Justice Bhushan Ramkrishna Gavai, a judge of the Supreme Court of India, on Saturday said that the right to life was meaningless without the Right to Education.Justice Gavai was speaking during the two-day international webinar on “Global challenges in modern times” organised by Chandigarh University.“Right to life provided to us under Article 21 of the Constitution of India is meaningless without the incorporation of the Right to Education as Dr BR Ambedkar said that there was no use of rights if a person does not possess the knowledge to use them,” the judge said.“With the implementation of the New Education Policy, more deprived sections of the society of our country will come under the ambit of education and will improve their social and economic status,” said justice Gavai.Supreme Court judges from ten countries including India, USA, UK, Nepal, Brazil and others are taking part in the international webinar to dwell upon issues like Right to Education, nuclear energy and environment protection, laws for migrant population and human rights.Justice Surya Kant said, “With the enactment and implementation of the Right to Education, the social and economic status of citizens, especially the vulnerable sections of society, drastically improved.”Justice Kant further added that women today had dismantled the social barriers and inequality that the world had enforced upon them: “This has been made possible in countries like India only because of the recognition of the Right to Education.”Justice Brian Preston, chief judge of land and environment, Court of New South Wales, said, “Countries like India have committed to reduce carbon emissions by 35% by generating 9% of the total electricity from nuclear energy, which is currently at 4.2%.”Speaking on the contribution of migrant workers, Ananda Mohan, a justice of the Supreme Court of Nepal, said, “Migrant workers are the most unprotected sections of humanity, especially those working in unorganised sectors and those self-employed in urban centres away from their native places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/right-to-life-meaningless-without-right-to-education-justice-gavai-101612031304320.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Case against Rajdeep Sardesai, 7 others for trying to provoke a riot on R-Day||New Delhi Delhi Police on Thursday filed a case against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai and six others for allegedly trying to start a riot on Republic Day, among other sections. Others named in the FIR include Congress Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor,and journalists Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath, Vinod K Jose. The case filed at the IP Estate police station has been registered under Indian Penal Code sections of 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), and 505(1)(b) (intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Police in Gurugram, Bhopal and Noida have also filed similar cases against the seven for allegedly misreporting and spreading disharmony during the violent clashes in Delhi on Republic Day. On Friday, the Editors Guild of India condemned the police action, saying it was an attempt to “browbeat” and “intimidate” the media.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh tweeted though his verified Twitter handle that due to false and misleading information that a farmer had died due to police firing on Republic Day, a case has been registered. Singh said that the post mortem report in the farmer’s case regarded the cause of death to be shock and haemorrhage due to a head injury received, after his tractor overturned. Also, on Saturday evening, Mandeep Punia, a freelance journalist who contributes to The Caravan magazine, was detained at Alipur police station while he was reporting the farmers sit-in protest. Though, no senior police officer wished to comment on journalist Punia’s detention, his friends alleged he had been arrested.A police officer, who did not wish to be named, said Punia was not carrying any identity card. “He was part of a group of protesters who were pulling down the police barricades. Mild use of force was done during which he was caught. A case under section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) has been registered against him at Alipur police station, He is likely to be arrested in the case. There was another journalist with him. He had an identity card. We are verifying his identity,” a police officer said on Saturday evening. A group of 200 persons, who claimed to be locals, had on Friday crossed barricades and gone near the main stage of protesting farmers, which resulted in a clash between the two groups. Police after that stopped entry of anyone beyond the barricades that have come up on the main road at Singhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/case-against-rajdeep-sardesai-7-others-for-trying-to-provoke-a-riot-on-rday-101612031301283.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||No more institutional quarantine for UK returnees to Delhi||Passengers flying in to Delhi from the United Kingdom (UK) will no longer have to complete a mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival, an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) – the nodal body that decides on implementation of Covid-19 guidelines in the Capital — said.The seven-day institutional quarantine rule for UK fliers, even if they tested negative for Covid-19 on arrival, was introduced on January 8, when the Central government resumed flight operations between India and the UK after a temporary suspension since December 22 in the light of a new strain of Covid-19 which had emerged there.The new DDMA order, which was issued on Friday, cites “low positivity rate” among UK returnees as the reason for the relaxation. Fliers, however, will have to continue adhering to a seven-day home quarantine rule, government officials said.“As a matter of abundant precaution in view of the increased transmissibility of the new variant, DDMA orders dated January 8 and (another on) January 12 mandated compulsory institutional quarantine for a period of seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine for those travellers who are found negative in RT-PCR test at airport,” said the DDMA order, which HT has seen.The order was signed by Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev, who also heads the executive committee of the DDMA. The DDMA is chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal. Its vice-chairperson is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.The order further said, “The situation has now been reviewed and considering the low positivity rate of UK returnees it has been decided that the aforesaid additional measure of compulsory institutional quarantine of travellers tested negative may not be required furthermore… Strict surveillance (has) to be kept on persons who test negative in the airport and (are) kept in home quarantine.”Two senior DDMA officials, who did not wish to be identified, however, clarified that the seven-day home quarantine rule for those who tested negative on arrival would still continue and they will be monitored by district surveillance teams.Travellers who test Covid-19 positive on arriving from the UK are isolated in special wards set up at the government’s Lok Nayak hospital and four other private hospitals. Their contacts are further traced and isolated in similar wards on testing positive for Covid-19. Their swab samples (both UK returnees and their contacts who test positive) are sent for further examination to determine the strain of the virus with which they were infected.In Delhi, so far 13 Covid-19 patients were found infected with the UK strain. All of them had returned from the UK and none of them were cases of local transmission, said a senior official in the government’s health department.“Surveillance of people who have returned from the UK should be scaled up,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He further said, “The UK variant is spreading fast across several countries. It is replacing the old variant. Initially, it was found to be more transmissible. Now, several research groups based in the UK have said that it is likely to cause more deaths too. Fortunately, vaccines have been found to be effective against it. But we cannot let our guards down.”(ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-more-institutional-quarantine-for-uk-returnees-to-delhi-101612031182500.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown delayed admission time among head injury cases: PGI study||The restrictions imposed to curb the Covid-19 pandemic also led to amplification of the already-delayed admission process among head-injury patients at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, a study has found.The study called “Collateral fallout of Covid-19 lockdown on patients with a head injury from north-west India” has appeared in Acta Neurochirurgica, the European journal of neurosurgery, which states that out of a total 3,372 patients, there were 83 head-injury admissions per week before Covid-19 restrictions, which decreased to 33 every week (60% drop) during the lockdown and stabilised at 46 per week during the unlock phases.The researchers have noted that timely transportation to an appropriate trauma care facility is an essential component that affects the final outcomes in case of head injuries, and during Covid-19, the proportion of patients who reached PGIMER within optimal time decreased.“Covid-induced restrictions caused a significant increase in the proportion of patients arriving directly without resuscitation at peripheral centres and later than 6 hours of injury. Post Covid-19, the proportion of patients reaching later than 6 hours increased significantly from 66% to 74%,” the study states, adding that this may have led to a significant increase in severe head-injury mortality rate from 47% before pandemic to 59% during the lockdown.Need to improve inter-hospital transfer The researchers impute factors such as hindrance in arranging transport and disruption of routine transfer services to the increase in mortality rate. The findings also imply that inter-hospital transfer coordination was a domain that needed to be relooked at.On the other hand, some positive effects were noticed such as head-injury cases under the influence of alcohol saw a decrease.“Lockdown restrictions with restricted access to alcohol can explain this trend. A decline in head-injury patients with comorbidity was also seen after the pandemic. With increased awareness that comorbidities constitute a significant risk factor for Covid infection, persons with pre-existing illnesses were not venturing out of the home during the pandemic,” the researchers said.Researchers, however, have acknowledged that this was a single-centre study, and hence the observations may not be generalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-delayed-admission-time-among-head-injury-cases-pgi-study-101612031182069.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||After slow start, placements pick up pace at Chandigarh institutes||Due to the economic slowdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the placement season at Panjab University and other institutions in Chandigarh did not kick off on a high note this academic year, but has finally started to pick up the pace.After the outbreak last year, there were apprehensions that placements will be majorly affected this year. However, experts say the impact is not that big. In fact, online placements are going on at several PU departments, including University Business School (UBS) and University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET). Interviews are being conducted through videoconferencing.Placements are also going on at Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET) and other institutes. Due to a late start, the process is expected to stretch over the coming months.Meena Sharma, head of PU’s central placement cell, said: “We had apprehensions in the beginning, but now placements have picked up the pace. There is also an increasing demand from the market, and we are getting a good response now.”Unlike previous years, the special placement week was not held at UBS this year and the placements are being conducted online. Placement coordinator Tejinder Pal Singh said: “We are expecting to reach close to previous years’ numbers in the coming months. We are also trying to bring more companies for placements.” Last year, a UBS student had received the highest package of ₹55 lakh, while the average package was ₹9.5 lakh.Slowdown in some sectorsHowever, a slowdown has been witnessed in some sectors. JD Sharma, head of career development and guidance centre at PEC, said: “Presently there is a slowdown for recruitment in some specific sectors, such as capital goods, automotive and fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG). It may or may not affect the total placements of the institution. It will take time to assess the situation.”However, sectors such as coding, software, consulting, sales and e-marketing are recruiting a good number of students, he said. KG Sharma, head of training and placement at CCET, said: “There is a slight impact on the placements, especially in mechanical and civil engineering branches, because these companies are in a ‘wait-and-watch’ mode. For electronics and computer science engineering, placements are almost similar to previous years.”At UIET, there has not been much of an impact on the placements in computer science and IT branches, and none of the usual recruiters has backed, said a placement coordinator, who did not wish to be named. Professor Kapil Dev, training and placement officer at GGDSD College, said: “Our regular recruiters are already carrying out placement drives. Even packages being offered to students have increased compared to the last year. We have not seen any major impact on the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-slow-start-placements-pick-up-pace-at-chandigarh-institutes-101612031002037.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Okhla sanctuary to see bird festival on Feb 2||The divisional forest department is all set to celebrate a bird festival at Okhla bird sanctuary to commemorate International Wetland Day on February 2, officials said. According to the divisional forest department, several birders have been invited for a quick assessment of the species density in the sanctuary, which also happens to be Gutam Budh Nagar’s only eco-sensitive zone. “We have planned the event to spread awareness about wetlands and also assess the species density in the sanctuary. For this, invitations are being sent to different birders of the city, as Gautam Budh Nagar happens to have a good birding community. We have also sent an invitation to the minister of state for forest, environment and zoological garden, Anil Sharma,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. He added that the birding would help the department with constructive analysis, which may help it to take measures to improve the habitat of the sanctuary. Earlier in January, the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC)-2021, which was conducted by Wetlands International South Asia and the divisional forest department fund, showed that while the number of species in the sanctuary has increased since last year, their population has decreased. The census returned a total 8,068 birds across 73 species, of which 27 were residential and 46 were migratory species. The AWC-2020 in comparison recorded only 62 species – 28 of which were resident species and 34 were migratory. However, their population stood at 8,776.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/okhla-sanctuary-to-see-bird-festival-on-feb-2-101612030941197.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly unseats Kalka MLA Pradeep Chaudhary||The Haryana Vidhan Sabha on Saturday issued a notification to unseat Congress MLA from Kalka, Pradeep Chaudhary, 58, who was convicted and sentenced to three-year imprisonment in a case of rioting by a Himachal Pradesh court on Thursday. With his disqualification, bypolls have been necessitated from Kalka assembly seat, along with Ellenabad seat in Sirsa from where INLD MLA Abhay Chautala had resigned last week. Chaudhary stood disqualified with effect from January 14, the day he was convicted along with 14 others by the court of judicial magistrate, first class, Nalagarh. The court also imposed ₹85,000 fine on each of them. The case dates back to May 31, 2011, when one Suchha Singh, a resident of Paploha village near Kalka, climbed up an electricity pole at Barotiwala village in Nalagarh to evade checking by traffic police. Singh came into contact with a live wire and was grievously injured. He succumbed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.After Singh’s deaths, a mob from nearby Haryana villages placed his body at the Red Light Chowk and staged a protest. The protest turned violent and protestors attacked the police personnel present on site. They had also blocked traffic on the highway and set two government vehicles, including a bus and a pick-up vehicle, ablaze. Chaudhary was part of the unruly mob led by one Mahesh Kumar .Having a house in Sector 2, Panchkula, Chaudhary in October 2019 had wrested the Kalka Assembly seat by defeating sitting BJP MLA Latika Sharma by 5,931 votes.He has been disqualified as per Section 8 (3) of the Representation of the People Act. The disqualification provision says that a person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years shall be disqualified from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years after release. Additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain said the MLA will also continue to be disqualified and barred from contesting elections for a further period of six years after his release. “However, if the high court stays the conviction of the MLA, then his membership of the assembly will get restored from that day. But the restoration of membership will not be applicable if the high court only grants him bail,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-assembly-unseats-kalka-mla-pradeep-chaudhary-101612030881768.html
30-01-2021||Noida||12-year-old girl raped in Greater Noida; suspects still at large||A 12-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 40-year-old man in Dhankaur village on Saturday, when she had gone to a farm in the village with her relative for work. The suspect, identified by the police as Gajan, is the owner of the farm. Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), GB Nagar, said that the girl’s maternal aunt, 40, is also co-conspirator in this case. “The aunt works at the farm in Dankaur. On Saturday morning, the woman took her to the farm for work and handed her over to the suspect. She then fled the spot. The suspect allegedly raped her and also threatened her of dire consequences if she reported the matter to the police,” she said. The suspect also physically assaulted the girl when she tried to resist. She returned home and narrated the incident to her family members. The family members and relatives then reached the police station and protested demanding the arrest of the two suspects. “My younger sister had gone for work with her aunt. The farm owner, a powerful man, raped her,” said the girl’s brother at police station. Anil Kumar Pandey, station house officer (SHO), Dankaur police station, said that based on the complaint of minor’s brother, a case has been registered against the two suspects under sections 376 (rape), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code(IPC), and relevant sections of Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. The girl has been sent for a medical examination at the district hospital and her medical report is awaited. Shukla said the police have launched a search for the two suspects, who are presently absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/12yearold-girl-raped-in-greater-noida-suspects-still-at-large-101612030821753.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: Tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Punjab’s power couple does the honours at Mohali Punjab’s power couple, chief secretary Vini Mahajan and director general of police Dinkar Gupta, attended the state-level Republic Day function at Mohali, where state governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore was the chief guest. Mahajan welcome Badnore by presenting him a bouquet, while Gupta accompanied the governor when he was inspecting the guard of honour. This is perhaps the first time any couple is simultaneously serving at the helm of the administrative and police services of the state. Rare bonhomie at Chandigarh MC meet The general house meeting of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation normally sees heated exchanges between BJP and Congress councillors but the last meet witnessed a rare consensus with everyone supporting each other’s suggestions on the Rose Festival. The councillors, barring a few nominated ones, were in favour of not organising the festival this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Drenched when IMD forecast sun? Air your grievances In order to improve its forecasting service, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has started a new crowd sourcing measure to provide feedback and report weather events such as rain, hail, fog and dust storm. So if you got drenched in the rain while the IMD had predicted a sunny day, you can air your grievances at https://city.imd.gov.in/citywx/crowd/enter_th_datag.phpPGI remembers martyrs with two-minute silence A two-minute silence was observed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, on Saturday in memory of those who sacrificed their lives in the struggle for India’s independence. Work came to a standstill for two minutes as the clock struck 11am to commemorate the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, observed as Martyr’s Day. Respective heads of advanced centres took part in the event in their respective buildings. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-101612030764394.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Work on Noida e-surveillance project to start soon||NOIDA: Work on the ₹83 crore e-surveillance project for Noida, which will put at least 60 traffic intersections and large part of the city under electronic monitoring, is likely to start soon as the authority is going to select an agency for the same, said officials.“We are about to open the price bid submitted by the three agencies. As all the laid down procedures are finished, we now need to select one successful bidder. We have a target to start work at the site in the next 15 days, as per rules,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority.To begin with, 60 busy traffic intersections will be put under surveillance to intensify enforcement and ensure discipline on roads, so that the thousands of motorists plying on city roads do not face traffic congestion or safety hazards. Later, the authority will install cameras at all intersections and cover the entire city if all goes well, said officials.The authority had started the process of hiring the agency in September 2019.“As per the terms and conditions, the agency will be given six months’ time to install high definition CCTV cameras at 60 intersections and other areas, and connect the same with a control room to be set up at the Sector 94 building. The agency will have the onus of looking after the operations from the control room. It will speed up the process of issuance of e-penalties for violation and bring order on city roads,” said Mishra.The project had been conceived in 2012 with an aim to address deteriorating law and order of the city. It had planned to put 203 square kilometres areas under real-time surveillance. In 2016, officials prepared detailed project reports for this project. The Indian institute of technology (IIT) Delhi, a consultant for Noida, had given its green signal for the project in 2016 and also approved a budget of ₹114 crore which was later scaled down, said officials.On May 3, 2016 the then Uttar Pradesh chief secretary had asked administration in 12 cities including Noida to improve traffic to reduce pollution. But this project could not be implemented on the ground. The project was revived in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-noida-e-surveillance-project-to-start-soon-101612030761750.html
30-01-2021||Noida||UP CM directs officials to expedite work for Jewar airport||Noida: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, has directed officials to expedite work for the Noida International Airport scheduled to come in Jewar. The CM asked officials to coordinate between different departments and get required no-objection certificates (NoC) from the departments concerned.The chief minister directed officials of the departments of irrigation, power, public works, women and child development, forest and basic education, among others, to relocate their properties, if any, located on the airport project’s area. “This will help complete the airport project on time,” the cm said, while addressing officials at his residence in Lucknow. He said that the Jewar airport is important for the economic development and prosperity of the state. “Better connectivity plays an important role in commercial and industrial development. The Noida International Airport will play a leading role in the development of Uttar Pradesh,” the CM said. The meeting was attended by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari, additional chief secretary (basic education) Renuka Kumar, additional chief secretary (irrigation) T Venkatesh, additional chief secretary (civil aviation) SP Goel, among others. The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has so far acquired 1,334 hectares of land needed for the first phase of the project. The airport will have two runways which will be operational by 2023-24. Officials said the airport will initially have a passenger capacity of 12 million per year.In total, the airport is projected to have five runways when it is developed to its full capacity over a total of 5,000 hectares of land. A total of 1,365 hectares will be required for phase 2, 1,318 hectares for phase 3, while phase 4 will need 735 hectares.The state government had recently sanctioned ₹4,000 crore to acquire land acquisition for the second phase of the project. The estimated budget for the project is between ₹15,000 and ₹20,000 crore.Zurich Airport International AG, the Swiss firm who is the concessionaire for the project, is expected to start work at the site by April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-cm-directs-officials-to-expedite-work-for-jewar-airport-101612030761223.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Rakesh Tikait emerges as face of UP Gate protests||Ghaziabad: Buoyed by the support of the people, Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU’s) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has become a popular face at the UP Gate protest site, where farmers have been camping since November 28, 2020 demanding repeal of the three new farm laws. Many in the ranks at UP Gate feel that Tikait’s stature has grown considerably during the past two days and more so after his emotional appeal in which he also broke down in tears in front of supporters and media persons late on January 28. Many youngsters who flocked to the UP Gate site after his appeal have termed him “Baba Tikait”, which otherwise is referred to Rakesh Tikait’s father late Mahendra Singh Tikait, who led various farmers’ movements for about 25 years and is a founder of the BKU, with one of the most famous ones being a seven-day massive dharna at the Boat Club in Delhi in 1988, besides cordoning the office of the divisional commissioner (Meerut) for about 25 days in January 1988.Rakesh, however, said that “it was absolutely wrong” to term him so.“His (Rakesh) image has seen a sharp rise during the past couple of days and it will skyrocket if the government repeals the three farm laws. The face of the agitation has changed a lot in the past couple of days. For us farmers the country comes first, then the farmer himself and thereafter the caste system. When people saw him crying on television, they were touched and many of the Jaats also arrived here to stand by his side,” said Harendra Tomar, a farmer from Kishanpur Baral in western UP’s Baghpat district. Rakesh had also led a major farmers’ rally through western Uttar Pradesh in October 2018 and arrived at UP Gate in Ghaziabad where farmers had then clashed with the Delhi police. But, as things unfolded, the farmers retreated on the night of October 2, 2018. Some of the BKU leaders at the site said that many farmers who were part of the October 2018 agitation were not ready to come out again to participate in the ongoing protest against the three new farm laws. “Now the situation has changed and for the past two months, Rakesh Tikait has emerged as a leader of farmers and even more so after January 28, when he broke down. After that day, the people seem to have connected with him emotionally and it is for the first time that panchayats are being held in areas of Baraut, Shamli, Bulandshahr, Muzaffarnagar and Mathura, among others,” said Arun Panwar, another farmer who is from Bulandshahr city. The farmers, during the ongoing protests, have scribbled phrases such as “Kisan Kranti Gate” at the UP Gate flyover, and also put up a picture of Mahendra Singh Tikait. Panwar said that the current support enjoyed by Rakesh Tikait will also help him in the future, in case he has any political ambitions. “He will have a majority of people standing by his side and will give leverage to any party whom he wishes to support, in case he wants. The current situation in western UP is also likely to have an impact for the ruling party as the state will go to polls in the upcoming assembly elections,” he added.Rakesh had also contested the 2007 UP assembly elections from the Khatauli seat, and the the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Amroha on a ticket given by the Rashtriya Lok Dal.However, he lost both elections. From the dais of the UP Gate protest site on Friday, Rakesh told people that he “voted for the Bharatiya Janata Party while his wife voted for another party.”His elder brother Naresh Tikait, who heads the “non political” BKU, is the head of the Balyan Khap. During the ongoing protest against the three new farm laws, many of the Khap leaders from western UP lent their support to Rakesh. Gaurav Tikait, the youth wing president of the BKU, said that “personality” and “people” cannot be compared. He said his grandfather, Mahendra Singh Tikait, was a force to reckon with as thousands of farmers rallied behind him in times when there were no means of communication to spread messages. “Present times are different. He (Rakesh) is leading the protests well and has become a prominent face in the farmers’ protest against the three laws. The agitation is continuing, and the outcome will provide the answers. Since the agitation is our priority, it will not be right to comment on western UP politics scenario,” he added. Ever since January 28, Rakesh has been at the dais of the UP Gate site for most of the time, delivering speeches for the large gathering that is swelling up every day.“Everyone who comes here tries to meet him and even take pictures with him, and he is not in a habit of denying. This is why he tries to stay here, even giving necessary directions from time to time. His popularity has increased so much that people have created several social accounts in his name and are posting messages,” said Digambar Singh, state president of the BKU’s youth wing.Dharmendra Malik, the media in-charge of the BKU, said that they have come across eight such social media profiles and are now trying to approach the social media companies to get a “verified” badge for Rakesh’s social media account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rakesh-tikait-emerges-as-face-of-up-gate-protests-101612030703485.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||New GMDA roads to have cycle tracks||New roads constructed by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will have a cycle track, the authority’s chief executive officer, VS Kundu, said on Saturday, while discussing plans for the same on Anaath Road, near Shankar Chowk, and the new sector road from Rampura Chowk, on National Highway-48, to Pataudi Road. Besides these, a survey is also underway at Genpact Chowk on Golf Course Road to assess the feasibility of a cycle track.“Under the city’s comprehensive mobility plan, we realised that the right of way on Gurugram roads is heavily lopsided towards motorists. We want to change this pattern, prioritising pedestrians first, followed by cyclists, public transport and motorists. Hence, barring some areas in Old Gurugram where the road width is narrow, we have decided to construct cycle tracks and footpaths on all new roads falling within GMDA’s jurisdiction,” said Kundu, adding that the GMDA is aiming to construct at least 60 kilometres of cycle tracks and footpaths across Gurugram this year. GMDA has a total road network of roughly 270 kilometres, of a total 1,267 kilometres in the district, as per a Haryana Vision Zero report. For all cycle tracks and footpath projects, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and GMDA work together. Prior to the commencement of on-ground constructions, MCG clears all encroachments.Anaath Road runs parallel to Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and houses the passport office, besides many multinational corporations. The 2.5-kilometre stretch also leads to several factories in Udyog Vihar area and is used by more than 6,000 pedestrians and cyclists every day.“The building of cycle tracks is part of the bigger objective of redesigning Anaath Road entirely for the benefit of pedestrians and cyclists as a model street. The redesigning is being carried out in two parts — in one part, a cycle track, footpath and green belts are being set up, while in the other, the existing carriageway is being relaid,” said Kundu.Kundu said that work on redesigning Anaath Road will commence in March-end and the authority is aiming to complete the work by September. A Raahgiri event was also held on the Anaath Road on Saturday, wherein Kundu stressed on the importance of addressing the needs of pedestrians and cyclists.The new sector road in Manesar links two major road networks, the NH-48 and Pataudi Road, and it provides access to residential areas in sectors 81, 82, 85, 86, 89, 90, 93 and 94.GMDA officials said that the base of the six-kilometre pothole-ridden stretch is being strengthened to sustain the weight of high traffic volume and also provide Manesar residents with an alternative route to Pataudi and Dwarka Expressway.Kundu said that the GMDA is also considering building a cycle track from the GMDA office, near Huda City Centre till the Genpact Chowk on Golf Course Road. “A topography survey for this stretch is underway. The GMDA had done a survey of this route in the past as well. However, some aspects were not fully covered. Hence, it is being redone. Depending on the outcome of the survey, we will take a call on constructing a cycle track on this stretch right away,” said Kundu.Over the past six months, the infrastructure for cyclists has witnessed a growth in the city. The city’s first cycle track along the Netaji Subhash Marg, between Subhash Chowk and Huda City Centre, opened last October, and a month later, another track, between Gold Souk Mall and Hamilton Court on Vyapar Kendra Road, was also opened.To ensure all cycle tracks are safeguarded, the GMDA has placed bollards at all entry and exit points to prevent vehicles from entering the main tracks. At a few points, the GMDA is also planning on deploying security guards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/new-gmda-roads-to-have-cycle-tracks-101612030701709.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||H-Rera sends notice to developer for selling units in unregistered real estate project||Haryana-Real Estate Regulatory Authority(H-Rera) in Gurugram has directed builders to refrain from selling apartments and plots before registering them with the real estate regulator. The authority on Friday issued a notice to the developer of Adani M2K project in Sector 102A for neither seeking permission from H-Rera nor registering the project before launching it in the market and opening units for booking — both of which are against the rules. The action was taken after a decoy customer was sent to a property dealer, who helped him to book a project in the unregistered project.  “A decoy customer was sent to the property dealer. The customer paid the booking money in both cash and cheque, and he was allotted booking. This is illegal as the project has no registration, no permission and is only on papers of the developer. Such practices would not be tolerated and a heavy penalty will be imposed on the violators,” said Dr KK Khandelwal, chairman, H-Rera, Gurugram.The authority has also directed penal proceedings to be initiated against the developer. The penalty of violations may go up to ₹12 crore against the promoter and ₹2.7 crore against the real estate agent. The authority said that a show-cause notice has been issued to promoter and they have been directed to produce records pertaining to the properties they have sold.Khandelwal said that it is mandatory under the H-Rera Act for all commercial and residential real estate projects, where the land is over 500 square metres, or eight apartments, to register with the authority for launching a project, in order to ensure a greater transparency in marketing and execution of the project. “It has been observed that not only the promoters but also property dealers are involved in such unscrupulous activities. They not only try to sell unregistered projects but also do not care to get themselves registered with the authority. The act itself mandates that no real estate agent can participate in the advertisement, marketing, or sale of any project without getting himself or his association registered with H-Rera,” said Khandelwal. Despite repeated phone calls and messages, a representative of the developer did not respond to a request for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hrera-sends-notice-to-developer-for-selling-units-in-unregistered-real-estate-project-101612030702202.html
30-01-2021||Noida||As gathering swells at UP Gate, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait appeals to govt to hold talks||Ghaziabad: Rakesh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader who is spearheading the farmers’ protest at the UP Gate site, on Saturday appealed to the government to hold talks over the farmers’ issues, saying that a solution to the ongoing crisis can be reached only through discussions.His statement comes two days after he broke down before supporters and media persons late Thursday, when the gathering at the protest site had considerably reduced and the Ghaziabad administration had served him a notice under section 133 of the CrPC for vacating the site. Back then, Tikait had alleged that some ruling party MLAs had allegedly come close to the protest site and had allegedly wanted to attack the farmers after his arrest. Later, his tearful appeal had drawn thousands again to UP Gate.“We want the government to talk to us and if they have reservations, they must share them with us. We will uphold the honour of the government and will not allow the name of our country, government or farmers to sully. If they have any issues or reservations, they must tell us and we will help them resolve issues with the farmers,” Tikait said to a large gathering at UP Gate in the afternoon, adding that the day will come when the government will say “jai kisan” (hail the farmer).He said he doesn’t mind the police using lathicharge against him but said that the police personnel at the site should ensure the safety of people there. With reference to the past two days, he said the storm has passed and that the “bigger trees” have fallen.“Now, those left are standing strong here; they will not break and will continue with the protest. We are people who obey panchayats and want peaceful resolution of issues. We appeal to the government to hold talks. We will also welcome opposition leaders if they come here but they will not be allowed to share the dais. We thank them if they stand with the farmers,” he added. Tikait, along with other farmers’ leaders, also face FIRs after the violent incidents in Delhi, including at the Red Fort on Republic Day, after a major tractor rally by the farmers entered the national Capital. Since Tikait’s emotional appeal on Thursday, a number of leaders and politicians of various parties have flocked to the UP Gate site to meet Tikait and to offer their support.Prominent among those were Delhi’s deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party leader Manish Sisodia, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary, UP Congress committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, while many others have already spoken to him over the phone and extended help and support. On Saturday, Tikait was joined by Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Singh Chautala, who backed the farmers in their protest and had also carried out a tractor rally from Punjab’s Ambala earlier this month. “When Mahendra Singh Tikait carried out protests to support UP farmers, Chaudhary Devi Lal used to support him. Their friendship and their struggle are well known, and I have come here to put a stamp on the same friendship,” Chautala, who is the grandson of former deputy prime minister Chaudhary Devi Lal and the son of Haryana’s former chief minister, Om Prakash Chautala. Mahendra Singh Tikait is the founder leader of the BKU and Rakesh’s Tikait’s father.“The Prime Minister had told us that he will increase the income of farmers and waive their loans, and will also implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee report. When the country was facing tough times during the pandemic, farmers worked in fields and provided food to people. During these testing times, the three farm laws were brought in. Farmers’ leaders also held discussions several times and the government let the agitation to linger on, but the farmers were not deterred,” Chautala said, recalling incidents in Delhi on Republic Day, blaming the government for lodging cases against farmers’ leaders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired an all party meeting ahead of Monday’s budget session where he said the government stands by the offer made to the farmers by agriculture minister Naresh Tomar at the last meeting between the government and farmer representatives.Parliamentary affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi told media persons that the Prime Minister, at the meeting, said that whatever was discussed between the Agriculture minister and the farm leaders at the 11th meeting still stands good. “Agriculture minister Tomar had said that the government is open for discussions; he also said that I (Tomar) am a phone call away and I am ready for discussions and this still stands good,”Joshi said.The farmers at UP Gate have been on protest there since November 28, 2020, demanding repeal of three new farm laws, besides a new law on minimum support price. The government and farmer union leaders have held several rounds of talks but the deadlock continues. During the last round of talks, the government had proposed staying the implementation of the farm laws for a period of one-and-a-half to two years but the union leaders insisted on a complete rollback.(With HTC inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-gathering-swells-at-up-gate-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-appeals-to-govt-to-hold-talks-101612030701190.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Domestic help, four others held for demanding ₹60 lakh extortion||Noida: Police on Saturday evening arrested five suspects of a gang, including a domestic help, in connection with an extortion racket. The suspects had demanded ₹60 lakh from the president of Bulandshahr Zila Panchayat who presently lives in Noida Sector 50, the police said. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, in a press conference, said that on January 20, the gang members had dropped an extortion letter to Chaudhury Omveer Singh’s house seeking the extortion money. The suspects had identified themselves as members of the Bawana gang and threatened the victim for consequences if the demands were not met, the police said. Soon, the suspects started making internet calls, to escape surveillance, to the victim. The suspects had also opened one round fire outside the victim’s house to threaten him, the police said. The victim then filed a complaint at Sector 49 police station on Friday, and a case was registered under IPC sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation), said the addl DCP.The police arrested the suspects from a rented accommodation in Barola village. The suspects were identified as complainant’s former domestic help Kuldeep Yadav, current domestic help Suresh Sahu, both from Darbhanga in Bihar, and three accomplices Aman Nautiyal from Uttarakhand; Omu Bhadauria from Agra and Vansh Dagar from RK Puram in Delhi. The addl DCP said that Yadav had left the job in December last year and went to Delhi to run a tiffin service. “In Delhi, he found a Facebook group named Neeraj Bawana gangster fans. In the group, he met three other suspects and planned to extort money from his former employer,” he said. Yadav told the police that he needed money and hence he hatched a plan for extortion. Police said that Yadav had also roped in the complainant’s present domestic help Sahu in the plot. “Sahu used to leak the movement of his employer to the gang,” the police said. The police arrested the five persons from Yadav’s rented accommodation in Noida. Police also recovered four mobile phones used in making calls, one countrymade gun and one live cartridge from their possession. The suspects will be produced in court on Sunday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-domestic-help-four-others-held-for-demanding-60-lakh-extortion-101612030521206.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Four get 20 years in jail for raping 14-year-old minor||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district court has awarded 20 years of imprisonment to four men for raping a 14-year-old girl in 2015.The victim’s father had lodged an FIR at Jewar police station on July 13, 2015. He had alleged that Mohsin enticed his 14-year-old daughter and took her with him as some villagers had seen him with the girl. The police had then registered a case under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping woman to compel her mar­riage) of the Indian Penal Code.The police had recovered the victim and launched an investigation in the case. In her statements to the police, the victim had stated that she was taken to several places and four persons raped her. On July 5, 2016, the police had filed a charge sheet against the four accused -- Mohsin, Allaudin, Sadab and Irshad -- under IPC sections 363,366,368 (confinement), 376D (gang rape), and 506 (criminal intimidation), among others, and under the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act . The court passed the ruling on Thursday, said Neetu Bishnoi, special public prosecutor.“Additional District Judge Anil Kumar has awarded 20 years’ imprisonment under IPC section 376D (gang rape) to Mohsin, Allaudin, Sadab and Irshad. The court has also awarded an imprisonment of five years under IPC section 366 to each of them. Both the sentences will run concurrently,” Bishnoi said. “Besides, Mohsin was also awarded seven years’ imprisonment under IPC section 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and two years’ imprisonment under IPC section 471 (using as genuine a forged document),” said Bishnoi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-four-get-20-years-in-jail-for-raping-14-year-old-minor-101612030461678.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Arun Vihar Institute club gets new management team||NOIDA: Established in the memory of the youngest Param Vir Chakra awardee Arun Khetrapal who had lost his life during the 1971 India-Pakistan war, the Arun Vihar Institute (AVI) club at Sector 29 in the city elected its 23rd management committee recently. During the annual election held on January 10 this year for the new committee, Lt Col (retd) Mahendra Kumar was elected as the new president, while Col (retd) Subhash Sharma won the post of vice-president with a thumping majority. For the first time, the eight-member management committee included three female members, including Anuradha Singh, Kavita Malhotra and Sushma Malhotra. The other elected members are Col (retd) Rai Singh Deopa (VSM), Col (retd) AK Upreti and Lt Col (retd) SK Sharma. Formed to provide sports, catering and entertainment facilities to ex-servicemen living in sectors 28, 29 and 37, the club is believed to be one of the best clubs for ex-servicemen in the national capital region (NCR). The club, which was started in 1991 by army veterans, has presently 3,900 members.The new chief of the club, who is also the director of Shaheed Smarak in Noida, said that the new team is already on its job to make the club the best in Delhi-NCR. “The club activities were suspended for three months due to the Covid-induced lockdown last year. But after getting permission from the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration, on June 14 last year we started take-home facilities of food for the senior citizens living in all three societies associated to it. From September 21 last year, we opened our library following all essential safety protocols. Since we have a very dedicated team of veterans in this committee, we will leave no stone unturned to develop the infrastructure of the club, which will provide the best sports, catering and entertainment facilities to our members,” he said. Echoing similar views, new vice-president Sharma said that at present the club has a wide range of outdoor and indoor sports facilities, including badminton, tennis, table tennis, billiards and bridge. We regularly organise cultural shows for our members. Very soon, we’ll organise a cultural show on the eve of Saraswati Puja and Valentine’s Day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-arun-vihar-institute-club-gets-new-management-team-101612030461130.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Noida transport dept makes high security registration plates mandatory by April 15||Noida transport department has asked vehicle owners to get High Security Registration Plates (HSRPs) by April 15, after receiving directions for the same from Lucknow for its enforcement. Vehicles not having HSRPs may be fined after April 15. The UP government on Thursday issued a staggered time slot for installation of HSRPs. All vehicles in NCR will need HSRPs by April 15. For other districts, the vehicle owners have been given different time slots based on their vehicles’ last digit. Uttar Pradesh has about 3.28 crore vehicles and the government aims to equip them all with HSRPs by July 2022. AK Pandey, ARTO (administration) said that the government has already made HSRPs mandatory for all the vehicles. “Recently the Association of Registration Plate Manufacturers of India wrote to the state government which has issued a direction for all vehicles to be fitted by HSRPs by April 15 this year in the NCR,” he said. Gautam Budh Nagar has around 7.34 lakh vehicles registered, of which 1.5 lakh vehicles have so far been fitted with the HSRPs. On Thursday, special transport secretary Akhilesh Kumar Mishra wrote a letter to the transport department about the staggered time slot for systematic installation of HSRPs on vehicles. As per directions, districts in NCR — like GB Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Hapur — will need to ensure HSRPs by April 15. For other districts, vehicles having 0 and 1 as last digit registration number will need HSRP by 15 July 2021; 2 and 3 as last digit by October 15, 2021; 4 and 5 last digit by January 15, 2022; 6 and 7 last digit by April 15, 2022; and 8 and 9 last digit by July 15, 2022.People can book their HSRP slots on www.bookmyhsrp.com and https://www.makemyhsrp.com. They need to fill the vehicles’ details and make the payment in advance to get time slots to visit their dealers’ office to get HSRP. They can also request for home delivery of the number plates. Radha Krishna Shrivastava, assistant general manager Rosmerta, the firm which runs bookmyhsrp.com, said that the company has production units in Noida and Greater Noida. “We have been efficiently delivering these HSRPs at the dealers’ office and also at customers’ residence. The staggered time slot will ensure smooth installation of HSRPs on vehicles,” he said.The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has mandated that all vehicles sold in India before April 2019 need to have an HSRP. HSRPs are tamper-proof, as compared to the conventional number plates. These plates are issued only after the vehicle owner provides information such as engine number, chassis number, etc. This is a crucial step in preventing counterfeiting of high security registration plates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-transport-dept-makes-high-security-registration-plates-mandatory-by-april-15-101612030341612.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Noida gets respite from cold wave; air quality improves||Noida: Facing cold wave and extreme winter conditions for the past three days, Noida saw a slight respite on Saturday as the minimum temperature went up by over a degree. Also, the air quality of the city on Saturday improved to ‘very poor’ again. The air quality of Noida and its neighbouring cities had turned ‘severe’ on Friday after having remained within the ‘very poor’ category for the past two weeks.However, the cold wave-like conditions in the region will prevail till February 2 with foggy morning. According to weather analysts, cold wave-like conditions will return on January 31, along with dense fog, in the western Uttar Pradesh that includes Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida. However, due to another western disturbance, the wind directions are set to change from February 3 onwards, leading to possibilities of thunderstorm, light rains and rise in mercury, they said. “Friday was comparatively warmer due to better sunshine. However, the mercury may fall by a degree on Sunday and Monday, leading to cold wave-like conditions again. The mercury will significantly rise around February 3 and 4 due to change in the wind directions from icy cold north-westerly to warmer south-westerly,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet, a private weather forecaster. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature for Noida on Saturday was recorded at 7.6 degrees Celsius against 6.3 degrees a day earlier. The maximum temperature for the city was recorded at 20.9 degrees Celsius against 20.1 degrees a day earlier. The average minimum and maximum for NCR, based on Safdarjung observatory, was 5.4 degrees Celsius and 21.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. “The minimum may hover around 4 to 5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, along with moderate to dense fog in the morning hours,” said an IMD official. For a cold day, the maximum temperature should be either below 15 degrees Celsius or it should be 4.5 degrees Celsius below the season’ average. For cold wave, either the minimum temperature should be below 4 degrees Celsius, or it should be below 4.5 degrees of the season’s average.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida and adjoining areas saw a remarkable improvement as the ventilation improved. However, the air quality index (AQI) of the three cities -- Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad -- are still under ‘very poor’ category. The three cities have been suffering ‘very poor’ or ‘severe’ levels of AQI since January 13, while the best air quality last realised was under ‘moderate’ category on January 4 this year. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), AQI of Noida on Satuday was 302 against Friday’s 423. Greater Noida’s AQI was 308 against 420 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad witnessed an AQI of 338 against 415 on Friday. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. “The wind speed was better on Saturday reaching up to 20 kmph in certain areas, which helped with dispersion of the particle pollutants. The wind speed will be good for the next few days until February 2 when the wind directions change,” said Palawat of Skymet. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality may improve due to winds. “High winds are forecasted to continue for the next 24 hours. Due to the better ventilation index, AQI is likely to improve further to the lower end of very poor to poor. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate on 1st and 2nd February but within the very poor category,” said a SAFAR statement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-gets-respite-from-cold-wave-air-quality-improves-101612030341089.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Indian researchers discover new gecko species in Arunachal Pradesh||A team of researchers from five institutes across India have discovered a new gecko species in Arunachal Pradesh. Their discovery was published in the international peer-reviewed journal Evolutionary Systematics on Thursday.The new species, which belongs to the genus Cyrtodactylus commonly known as bent-toed geckos, was discovered by Zeeshan Mirza of the National Centre for Biological Sciences in Bengaluru, Harshal Bhosale and Mandar Sawant of the Bombay Natural History Society in Mumbai, Faizan Ansari of the Madras Crocodile Bank in Chennai, Gaurang Gowande of Ferguson College in Pune, Pushkar Phansalkar from Pune, and Harshil Patel of the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University in Surat.The researchers have named the species Cyrtodactylus arunachalensis after the state in which it was discovered.“The finding of this lizard species is important because it proves that the state of Arunachal Pradesh is rich in biodiversity which is yet to be documented. With many development projects lined up in the state, some of these species may be wiped out even before they are discovered,” said Mirza.The team found the gecko on a month-and-a-half-long expedition across Arunachal Pradesh during late June to early August 2019 in an attempt to study undocumented biodiversity in the state with the help of DNA data. The gecko is the fourth new reptile species to be discovered by the team during the trip. The other three species that have been discovered were snakes, one of which was a pit viper species — Trimeresurus Salazar which was named after the character Salazar Slytherin from the Harry Potter series.“These geckos are strictly nocturnal and are found usually around rocky areas or under culverts. Most members of this group look quite similar and hence a close look is necessary to separate the species. In many cases, comparison of DNA sequences is necessary to confirm identification,” said the researchers in a statement.“When it comes to lesser invertebrates and insects, only about 50% species have been documented. However, with newer techniques and concerted efforts by more people, these species that have existed for long are coming to be known to science,” said Varad Giri, veteran herpetologist, who was not a part of the research team.The research team has, since then, been working on comparing the morphology and DNA of the gecko species with related species.“We are currently working on the other specimens collected during our trip. We are sure that there are many more species to be discovered,” Mirza added.Since the team had visited Arunachal during the monsoons the last time, members plan to visit again during a different season for a fresh survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-researchers-discover-new-gecko-species-in-arunachal-pradesh-101612030282041.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||State plans Marathi lessons for non-Maharashtrian auto drivers, hawkers||In a bid to promote Marathi language among non-Maharashtrians in the city, the state government will soon launch an initiative for non- Maharashtrians autorickshaw, taxi drivers, hawkers and labourers in the city to learn Marathi.The state government aims to teach Marathi to 5,000 autorickshaw, taxi drivers, hawkers and labourers in a year and the first phase will start from May 1. The state government will conduct classes in different areas of the city. Non-Maharashtrians drivers will be approached after getting their details from the state transport department.Further, the drivers can themselves also register for the classes. The state government will also take help from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and local corporators in different civic wards in the city.“We are aiming to provide learning resources, especially among the non-Maharashtrian population as they are willing to learn. They are a part of the city and we are attempting to reach out to them. We will provide online resources as well,” said Prajakta Lavangare Verma, secretary, Marathi Bhasha department of state government.Autorickshaw drivers have appreciated the initiative and have stated that the learning programme would help new drivers. “Majority of the non- Maharashtrians have a domicile certificate and can converse in Marathi. However, new drivers find it difficult, particularly the locations and routes. It is a good initiative as more people will be able to learn the language.” said Ashfaque Khan, autorickshaw driver and resident of Chembur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-plans-marathi-lessons-for-non-maharashtrian-auto-drivers-hawkers-101612030042055.html
30-01-2021||Noida||Noida: 45-year-old man gets 3 years’ imprisonment for molesting 10-year-old girl||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district court on Wednesday has awarded three years’ imprisonment to a 45-year-old man under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for molesting a 10-year-old girl in Noida.The case pertains to 2014 when the father of the minor had lodged an FIR at the Noida Phase 2 police station against convict Jai Prakash. In his complaint, he had stated that around 10pm, his daughter was bringing him water at his clinic from home, which is nearby, when Prakash molested her. The complaint had states the convict was inebriated. He was caught by neighbours but he threatened them and fled.The police registered FIR under IPC sections 354, 506 and the POCSO Act. Charges were framed on July 6, 2015.The victim and her brother, who was a witness, concurred with the father’s statement in the complaint. They identified the convict, who they said had been inebriated, and worked as a driver. When the neighbours caught the convict, the driver’s employer had defended him and both threatened the residents and ran away.Sub-inspector Satendra Pal Singh stated that on October 8, 2014 he had arrested Prakash from Sector 82. He had recorded the statements of the victim, her father and brother, and also recorded a neighbour’s statement who was an eyewitness to the incident.“Additional district judge Niranjan Kumar has held the accused guilty and awarded three years’ simple imprisonment and fine of ₹3,000 to the accused,” JP Bhati, special public prosecution officer, said Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida45yearold-man-gets-3-years-imprisonment-for-molesting-10-year-old-girl-101612029981075.html
30-01-2021||Other||MBBS student found hanging in hostel room at Ludhiana hospital||A 32-year-old MBBS student was found hanging under mysterious circumstances at Satguru Partap Singh Hospital, Sherpur Chowk on Friday night.Police said the final-year student was living alone in the hostel room. An employee, who went to serve him dinner, was the first to see his lifeless body hanging from the ceiling fan and informed the authorities, who further sounded the police.ASI Kapil Kumar, in-charge at Sherpur police post, said no suicide note was recovered from the room. But, according to his classmates and other hostel inmates, he seemed to be depressed for the past few days.Police have informed the deceased’s family in Maharashtra. He is survived by his wife, whom he had married only over a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mbbs-student-found-hanging-in-hostel-room-at-ludhiana-hospital-101612029201150.html
30-01-2021||Other||Speeding Mercedes claims labourer’s life in Ludhiana village, driver held||A 28-year-old scooterist was killed after a speeding Mercedes car hit him at Lehra village in Dehlon on Friday. The victim, Ravi Parkash, a labourer living in Dehlon, was crossing the road on foot when the car hit him.The driver, Mohammad Rizwan of Navi Abadi, Malerkotla, a businessman, has been arrested.Parkash’s uncle Pargat Singh complained to the police that his nephew was going to Khera village on a scooter. When he reached near Lehra village, he stopped to get his scooter’s punctured tyre repaired. As he was crossing the road to approach a mechanic, Rizwan’s speeding Mercedes hit him, killing him on the spot.Onlookers nabbed Rizwan and informed the police.ASI Baljit Singh, who is investigating the case, said Rizwan had been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. His car has been seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speeding-mercedes-claims-labourer-s-life-in-ludhiana-village-driver-held-101612029081078.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Inoculation of frontline workers in Maharashtra from Monday||After Centre’s directive, the Maharashtra government has decided to begin vaccination of frontline workers from February 1. Maharashtra has 580,000 frontline workers, including police, sanitation workers and revenue machinery enrolled themselves on centralised CoWIN app for vaccine shots till date.On the other hand, the state government has instructed civic bodies in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to take due care to restrict potential spurt in Covid-19 cases following opening up of the suburban trains for the general public from Monday. The municipal corporations in MMR will continue with their tracking and testing drive, to keep the spread under control, besides keeping the Covid Care Centers (CCCs) intact for the next few months.After vaccinating 261,319 healthcare workers till Friday evening, the state machinery has announced to begin inoculation of frontline workers simultaneously from Monday. The district administrations have been directed to increase or shift the number of the vaccination centres, from 239 on Friday, as per the requirement. The state government has been assured by the Centre of an adequate supply of the vaccine doses.“Healthcare workers and frontline workers will be simultaneously inoculated across the state from Monday. We have asked the district administrations to increase or shift the centres as per the requirements. Large scale medical institutions with the Centres will have a greater number of booths. We have already started sending out the messages to the frontline workers. We have been communicated by the Center that the vaccine will be supplied as per the requirement,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, state health services.The enrolment of the frontline workers is incomplete and is expected to add up to 200,000 more in the coming days. “Police personnel, armed forces personnel, sanitation workers, employees of municipal corporations and councils, revenue who are directly involved in Covid-19 related activities are covered as frontline workers. Around 200,000 of them enrolled so far are from Mumbai. The simultaneous vaccination of both the priority groups will help us in increasing the percentage of the vaccination too,” said another health department official.The state government expects spurt in cases in MMR after opening up of the train services from Monday. “There could be a slight spurt in cases in Mumbai and surrounding areas, but it will be manageable as the timings have been staggered. If the government kept opening up activities slowly over the next 3-4 months, the surge could be minimal and controllable,” said Dr Avinath Supe who heads the state-appointed deaths audit committee. Before the lockdown was imposed in March 2020, over 7 million people used to travel by Mumbai suburban trains every day. Though the timings are restricted for the general public, the administration is expecting overcrowding in trains, which could lead to a surge in cases. Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said, “We do not expect much of the surge if the people adopt Covid appropriate behaviour by wearing masks and keep sanitizing hands. Our Covid centres will be functional till March 31 and the current number of tests will continue. We have continued strict surveillance of the passengers coming from countries like the UK and from other states too. All precautions are being taken.”Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said that crowding due to trains may lead to the surge if people let their guard down. “Municipal corporations in the MMR all prepared it there is any surge,” he said. Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation said, “Though a surge is expected it would not be more than double in our jurisdiction. Our Covid centres in KDMC have the capacity to take up 900 patients daily. If required we will increase the testing centres at Railway stations to contain the spread. We have been strictly implementing the Covid-19 related protocol,”Meanwhile, the state reported 2630 more cases and 42 deaths of Covid-19 on Saturday taking the tally to 2,023,814 and toll to 51,042. Mumbai’s case tally touched 3,08492 and toll went up to 11345 after the city clocked 429 cases and 7 deaths on Saturday.The state has 44,199 active cases including 13,504 in Pune, 7677 in Thane and 5769 in Mumbai. State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.52% and the recovery rate at 95.23%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19inoculation-of-frontline-workers-in-maharashtra-from-monday-101612028962887.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Corporators affiliated with NCP in Beed municipal council join Shiv Sena||In a development that may cause unease between ruling partners Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena, four councillors from a local alliance led by NCP in Beed municipal council joined Sena, on Saturday. The defection is attributed to the rivalry between former state minister and Shiv Sena leader Jaidutt Kshirsagar and his member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) nephew Sandeep Kshirsagar (NCP) at the local level.Leaders from the ruling parties, however, felt that the issue is unlikely to cause any friction between the ruling parties as corporators were not elected on NCP symbol.Sandeep defeated Jaidutt in Assembly elections last year after the latter quit the NCP ahead of the elections and joined Shiv Sena.The 40-member municipal council is controlled by Sena with the help of independent corporators. Jaidutt’s younger brother Bharatbhushan is a council chairman. After the defection of the four corporators, Sena-led alliance’s strength has risen to 25.“It’s the tussle between Kshirsagar uncle-nephew at a local level and would not have any repercussions at the state level. I am not fully aware of the details, but the local level alliance is in power in the municipal council comprising of many corporators elected without party symbols. This episode cannot be compared with the one in Parner and will have no connotations at the state level,” said state minority development minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik.Municipal council elections were held before Assembly polls when Jaidutt was in NCP. The corporators shifted to Shiv Sena with him and continued ruling in the council. On the other hand, Sandeep revolted and formed his own alliance in the council. The corporators later came under NCP. On this backdrop, there would not be any repercussion at the state level.“The corporators joined us owing to the trust they have in (Jaidutt) Kshirsagarsaheb. The corporators inducted today will be treated respectfully in the party. It has been proved now that people do not respect the people who disrespect their elderly,” said Bharatbhushan Kshirsagar.In July last year, five Sena corporators from Parner municipal corporation had a crossover to NCP leading to friction between the two parties. NCP had to send them back to their party after Sena leadership reacted strongly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-corporators-affiliated-with-ncp-in-beed-municipal-council-join-shiv-sena-101612028781741.html
30-01-2021||Other||Plastic kite string claims biker’s life in Punjab’s Samrala||A 28-year-old motorcyclist was killed after a plastic kite string wrapped around his neck, causing him to fall on the road, at Gobindsar village in Samrala on Saturday evening. The victim, Jasbir Singh of Gobindsar village, was commuting with a friend, who also suffered injuries.The friend told the police that they were headed to Gobindsar, when a plastic kite string wrapped around Jasbir’s neck, throwing him on the road. His head struck against the road and proved to be fatal. Police have initiated a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plastic-kite-string-claims-biker-s-life-in-punjab-s-samrala-101612028661057.html
30-01-2021||Other||Unemployed Ludhiana man held for raping minor neighbour||A 20-year-old unemployed man has been arrested for raping his 16-year-old neighbour in Prem Nagar of Dhandhari Khurd. The girl was alone at home when the accused sexually assaulted her.In her complaint to the police, the minor girl’s mother said they lived in the labour quarters in Prem Nagar. On January 27, her 16-year-old daughter was home alone, while the rest of the family was away. When they returned around 9pm, they couldn’t find her in the room. The woman said she stepped out to look for her daughter, but could not trace her. She then went to the common toilets of the labour quarters. As she opened the door, she was shocked to find her neighbour raping his daughter. On seeing her, he managed to escape from the spot.Her traumatised daughter revealed that while she was at home, their neighbour came over and asked her to accompany him somewhere. But, he took her to the toilets and raped her.Inspector Davinder Kumar, station house officer (SHO), at Focal Point police station, said following the woman’s complaint, they booked the accused under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 3 and 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A probe was initiated and the accused was arrested from the area on Friday.He was produced in court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody. If proven, Section 376 of IPC entails jail terms lasting between seven years to life in prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unemployed-ludhiana-man-held-for-raping-minor-neighbour-101612028601080.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Nurses, sanitation staff call off strike after North Corp clears pending dues||Sanitation employees and the nurses and paramedic staff of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation called off their 24-day-long strike on Saturday. The move comes after the civic body released pending salaries upto December of these employees. However, teachers, engineers, horticulture department staff, clerical staff of the civic body continued to be on an indefinite strike under the aegis of the Confederation of MCD Employees Union.Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation, said, “Salaries of sanitation employees along with nurses and paramedic staff have been cleared till December so we have appealed to them to call off the strike to which they agreed. A meeting with the agitating sanitation employees was convened today (Saturday) where we assured them to consider their other demands of regularisation as well. Sanitation employees along with nurses and paramedic staff have called off their strike. We have also released two months salaries of teachers and other employees and we appeal to them to return to work.”The mayor said that the sanitation employees will return to work from Sunday and clear the streets that are filled with garbage.The civic employees of the north corporation had gone on an indefinite strike from January 7 against non-payment of their salaries for the last 4-5 months and pending pensions.“The sanitation employees and nurses have called off their strike as their salaries have been cleared till December and demands have been met. But the Confederation does not acknowledge the pick and choose method of the civic body hence employees of other departments such as engineers, teachers, horticulture staff etc will continue their strike. A decision on the further strategy will be taken on February 1,” Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary of the Confederation said.Confirming the development, president Hindu Rao Hospital Nurses’ Union, Indu Jamwal said that their pending salaries have been cleared so the strike has been called off.“The strike at all the hospitals of the north civic body (Hindu Rao, Kasturba and Rajan Babu TB hospitals) have been called off and we have returned to work,” Jamwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nurses-sanitation-staff-call-off-strike-after-north-corp-clears-pending-dues-101612025960884.html
30-01-2021||Kolkata||Illegal pistols, rifles seized in Kolkata and Malda in poll-bound Bengal||A dozen illegal firearms were seized since Friday by the police in Kolkata and Malda district of West Bengal where politics has been marked by violence in the run-up to the assembly polls due in April-MayThe detective department of the Kolkata Police on Saturday morning conducted a raid at the inter-state bus terminus on the banks of the Hooghly river and arrested Shah Rukh Mistry, 23, a resident of Basirhat in North 24 Parganas district. A married woman identified as Yasmeen Begum, 37, who is a resident of Baruipur in South 24 Parganas district was also arrested.Also read: BJP president JP Nadda announces alliance with AIADMK in Tamil Nadu“Six improvised 9 mm pistols, 12 magazines and some ammunition were seized from the duo. The interrogation revealed that they had returned from Bhagalpur in Bihar where they procured the weapons. They were carrying the consignment to a man named Abdul Salim Gazi in Baruipur. Gazi was subsequently arrested. More raids are being conducted to recover arms and nab the associates of the arrested persons,” said Murli Dhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime).In Malda district, where a firearms manufacturing unit was busted a few days ago, officers from the Harishchandrapur police station seized two improvised rifles, two pistols and some ammunition from the Gobrahat area on Friday night. District police officers said they arrested two men, identified as Saddam Hossain and Majirul Haque. Both are residents of the Dharampur area in the Manikchak community block of Malda.A few days ago, the Malda police unearthed a firearms factory at Kaliachak and arrested two residents of Bihar’s Munger district. They were allegedly making firearms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/illegal-pistols-rifles-seized-in-kolkata-and-malda-in-poll-bound-bengal-101612020783878.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||ICICI Bank case: Special court accepts ED's complaint, summons Kochhars||The Special PMLA court on Saturday issued summons to former ICICI Bank managing director (MD) Chanda Kochhar and other accused allegedly involved in money laundering case being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The special court on Saturday accepted the complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the money laundering allegations, also involving Chanda Kochhar's husband Deepak Kochhar.While accepting the complaint, the court directed Chanda Kochhar, Videocon group MD Venugopal Dhoot and eight other companies to appear before it on February 12.On November 3, 2020, the ED had filed a complaint against the Kochhars and Dhoot and also termed the eight companies among the accused as the money was allegedly laundered through these companies. The ED started the probe after the CBI registered a case of corruption against the Kochhars. The CBI had in 2017 initiated an inquiry against the couple after a whistleblower alleged that ICIC Bank had sanctioned credit facility of about ₹3,250 crores to various entities in contravention to the rules and policies.Also read: Uttarakhand BJP MLA faces ire for likening farmers' demands to 'eagle's urine'In its FIR registered in January 2020, the CBI alleged that six high-value loans worth ₹1,875 crore were given by ICICI Bank to Videocon group companies between 2009 and 2011. It was alleged that in 2009, the credit facility to Videocon was extended in contravention of rules and policy by the sanctioning committee. At that time, Chanda Kochhar was one of the members of the committee.Further, a loan of ₹300 crore was disbursed to M/s Videocon International Electronics Limited, a Videocon Group Company, on September 7, 2009. It is alleged that an amount of ₹64 crore, out of the loan amount, was transferred to M/s NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon Industries Limited (VIL) on September 8, 2009.The ED, which investigated the allegations, claimed, the VIL transferred the money to NuPower Renewable Pvt Ltd (NRL) through Supreme Energy Private Limited (SEPL) which was later acquired by Pinnacle Energy, a family trust of Deepak Kochhar. The agency claimed that the NRL was owned, controlled and managed by Deepak.“The loan funds travelled from the VIL to the NRL through the SEPL, but two intermediary companies were brought in for layering. The proceeds of crime of ₹64 crores, received by the NRL were utilized for the purchase of properties,” the ED has claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/icici-bank-case-special-court-accepts-ed-s-complaint-summons-kochhars-101612017745532.html
30-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP MLA faces ire for likening farmers' demands to 'eagle's urine'||Amid the ongoing protest by the farmers demanding the Centre to repeal the three farm laws, BJP MLA from Uttarakhand's Jhabreda constituency of Haridwar stirred a storm by likening farmers' demands to "eagle's urine". BJP MLA Deshraj Karnwal said that that the "farmers don't know what their demands are".A video of the MLA making the aforementioned statement to some local media persons in Haridwar went viral on the social media on Saturday morning drawing sharp criticism from opposition Congress and local farmer leaders. Karnwal reportedly made the statement two days ago.HT has access to the video in which the ruling party MLA could be purportedly seen making the derogatory statement while condemning the violence in Delhi during tractor parade on Republic Day.Karnwal while condemning the violence said, "What happened on January 26 in Delhi was very unfortunate. I fully condemn it. It was completely a conspiracy by the Congress and other Opposition parties."Also read: What the Union Budget needs to get rightHe further stated, "Initially the farmers had demanded amendments in the farm laws which the government accepted. Then also they didn't end the agitation. The government is asking them about their demands but they are like we want eagle's urine, which is a non-existent thing. How can the government meet their demand for a thing which doesn't exist?"Karnwal couldn't be contacted despite several attempts.As soon as the video went viral on social media, Karnwal and BJP came under attack by the Congress and farmer leaders which termed his statement "highly condemnable and unpardonable."State general secretary of Rashtriya Kisaan-Mazdoor Sangathan, Anil Choudhary termed Karnwal as a "blot in the name of an elected public representative.""What he said for the farmers shows his mindset. And the shameful thing is that a person like him is an MLA. He knows nothing about the laws and is using such derogatory words for the farmers. They will answer him and the BJP in the next election," said Choudhary.Congress state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana attacked the ruling BJP on Karnwal's statement."What he said about the farmers is not just his words but the mentality of the BJP which has been labelling our farmers' as terrorists, anti-nationals and people funded by Pakistan and China. It is just unpardonable," said Dhasmana adding, "BJP leaders like Karnwal are just towing the line of their senior leaders sitting in Delhi."The state BJP leadership, meanwhile, said that they have come to know the matter through media and would ask Karnwal for a "clarification."Bansidhar Bhagat, BJP state president said, "The matter has come to our notice through media. We would seek a clarification from Karnwal on his use of words for the farmers following which an appropriate action would be taken."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-faces-ire-for-likening-farmers-demands-to-eagle-s-urine-101612016996724.html
30-01-2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur Police destroy 1200 litres of illegal liquor||Jodhpur Police on Saturday destroyed 1,200 litres of illegal liquor after raids in some parts of the city.The raids are part of a campaign by police after four persons died in Bhilwara district after consuming spurious liquor."The campaign was conducted by Pratap Nagar, Dev Nagar, and Rajiv Gandhi police stations along with the Excise Department," Superintendent of Police (SP) Neeraj Sharma told ANI.He said 1,200 litres of illegal liquor was destroyed.The raid was conducted in Nat Basti of the Pratap Nagar."We destroyed illegal liquor stored in a house and the arrested the accused," he said.The police also destroyed illegal breweries in the area."While some accused have been arrested, others are being identified. We will conduct a strict investigation in the matter," an excise official told ANI.Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday suspended 12 personnel including police and excise officials for alleged carelessness in connection spurious liquor deaths in Bhilwara district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jodhpur-police-destroy-1200-litres-of-illegal-liquor-101612012761353.html
30-01-2021||Lucknow||Booked during anti-CAA protests, AMU student banned from Aligarh for 6 months||The Aligarh administration has banned AMU student leader Arif Khan Tyagi from the district for six months terming him a threat to peace in the city, a year after he was booked under different charges during the anti-CAA protests on the campus.Aligarh Muslim University spokesman Professor Shafay Kidwai told PTI the externment order pertained to the protests on the campus against the Citizenship Amendment Act which began on December 15, 2019.The externment order was issued to the final-year post graduate student by the Additional District Magistrate (ADM) City Rakesh Kumar Maalpani last week under the Uttar Pradesh Control of Goondas Act. Arif received it two days back.The order stated that Arif was a threat to the peace of the city and his presence posed a danger to its peace-loving residents.Arif has had more than half a dozen cases registered against him during the two months of anti-CAA protest on the campus in December 2019 and January 2020.After he was served the order, Arif told mediapersons that all the cases against him pertained to protests on the campus. He said all citizens whether farmers, trade union members or students have a right to peaceful protest."The externment order was yet another attempt to muzzle freedom of expression," he said, adding he would move court against the order.AMU spokesperson Kidwai said the student had been named by the police for the violent incidents which took place on the night of December 15, 2019. He said that the university had not separately filed any complaint against the student.Violent protests had broken out against the CAA on the campus on December 15 in which over 70 people, including students, AMU security staff and police personnel were injured. The university had to announce an extended winter break following the clashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/booked-during-anti-caa-protests-amu-student-banned-from-aligarh-for-6-months-101612008350969.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Padmi Shri recipient Girish Prabhune served ₹1.83 cr property tax notice by PCMC||Girish Prabhune, the recipient of Padma Shri award, who runs the Punarutthan Samarasata Gurukulam, an NGO in Chinchwad, has been given a notice by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) divisional tax department to pay ₹1 crore 83 lakh property tax.Prabhune was conferred with the Padma Shri award on January 26 while the notice was served to him on January 22. Notice to Prabhune, who is working for the upliftment of the Pardhi community and their children since 1970, has not gone well with political parties from the city.Notice also states that if arrears are not paid then the property will be sealed“The notices were issued by the junior clerk. The name of my organisation was there in the list which also had 5,000 other names to whom the notice was served. I have been assured by the Bharatiya Janta Party MLAs Mahesh Landge and Laxman Jagtap that the notice will be revoked on Monday,” said Prabhune.The notice on priority was served to people from twin cities who have arrears above ₹25 lakh.“Only notice has been given till now and no other communication has happened from PCMC,” added Prabhune.The Punrutthan Samarasata Gurukulam is run by Krantiveer Chapekar Smarak Samiti.“The notices were issued as per rules and it includes all the people who have not paid taxes. We have followed all the rules and regulations,” said Smita Zagade, deputy commissioner, property tax department, PCMC.PCMC has started issuing notices via 16 divisional tax collection offices and whoever has arrears above ₹25,000 have been given notice.The city of Pimpri-Chinchwad currently has 5,27,388 properties. It has 4,47,008 residential, 46,828 non-residential, 3,700 industrial, 8,781 open spaces, 15,819 mixed and other 5,202 properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/padmi-shri-recipient-girish-prabhune-served-rs-1-83-cr-property-tax-notice-by-pcmc-101612009040241.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Transporters’ assoc opposes scrapping of 15-year-old vehicles||After the central transport ministry declared the scrapping of vehicles 15 years-old and more, the transporters’ association in the state has strongly opposed the decision. In a letter written to union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, the Maharashtra state goods and passenger transport association has demanded an alternative to scrapping of vehicles. “The decision taken by the union transport ministry is unfair and needs a rethink as lives of millions of people are dependent on it. There are a large number of people across the country who earn their daily bread and butter through autorickshaws, trucks, transport vehicles, buses and other private vehicles. Most of them have vehicles above 15 years of age and suddenly scrapping the vehicle will impact them financially. Already all of us are struggling to recover from losses caused by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Baba Shinde, president of the association. “Earlier the government told us to covert to CNG, so we accepted that decision and most of the vehicles installed CNG kits. We have requested Gadkari to arrange a meeting with the association to try and find a solution,” added Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/transporters-assoc-opposes-scrapping-of-15-year-old-vehicles-101612004299995.html
30-01-2021||Kolkata||With Shah’s WB trip cancelled, BJP flying TMC rebels to Delhi in chartered plane||With Union home minister Amit Shah cancelling his two-day Bengal trip on Friday night after the IED blast outside the Israeli embassy in Delhi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday afternoon made hectic arrangements to fly a group of rebel Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders to Delhi in a chartered plane.Those who were scheduled to take the 4.10 pm flight included former minister Rajib Banerjee, who resigned from the Domjur assembly seat in Howrah on Friday; Vaishali Dalmiya, the sitting MLA from Bally in Howrah and who was expelled by the TMC recently; Prabir Ghosal, the MLA from Uttarpara in Hooghly district; Rathin Chakraborty, former mayor of Howrah town; Partha Sarathi Chatterjee, former MLA from Ranaghat in Nadia district and actor Rudranil Ghosh, who recently started speaking against the TMC.The actor used to be a CPI(M) supporter during the Left era and switched over to the TMC after Mamata Banerjee came to power. Dalmiya, a businesswoman and daughter of former BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya, joined politics in 2016. So did Ghosal, a senior journalist.“I was contacted by people from Shah’s office after I resigned from the assembly on Friday. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, who is the observer for Bengal, also contacted me. I was supposed to meet Shah at his hotel on Friday night but his trip was cancelled. I will contest from Domjur again. The voters have seen how I worked for them. Positions are not important for me. I want to work for people. I needed the right political platform to achieve that. I never liked mudslinging in politics,” Rajib Banerjee told reporters before boarding the flight.Also read: Centre stands by offer made to farmers: PM Modi at all-party meetShah was scheduled to arrive in Kolkata around 11 pm on Friday but he had to cancel the trip in view of the security threat in the national capital. He was supposed to welcome the dissident TMC leaders into the BJP at a rally in Howrah district on Sunday afternoon.“We have been told that Shah will be present when we join the BJP at the party’s headquarters this evening,” Ghosal told HT. “It is a great honour for us that Shah has sent a special plane. We will return tomorrow and attend the rally in Howrah. There was no alternative but to leave the TMC,” he added.“This is going to be a new start,” said Dalmiya.Senior TMC leader and panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “It is not a matter of honour if someone leaves the TMC for no definite ideology. Our party is huge. We do not stop anyone from leaving.”The rally in Howrah will be held as planned. Bengal BJP leaders said Union defence minister Rajnath Singh is likely to address it. Singh was scheduled to arrive in Kolkata on Saturday night.On Saturday, Shah was also scheduled to address a rally at Thakurnagar (in North 24 Parganas) which is the headquarters of the Dalit Matua community that has demanded implementation of the amended citizenship law in Bengal. Matua leader Shantanu Thakur won the local Bongaon Lok Sabha seat in 2019 for the BJP, defeating his aunt and then sitting TMC MP Mamata Bala Thakur.BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya visited Thakurnagar on Saturday afternoon and Shah called up Shantanu Thakur.“The Union home minister said the rally will be held any day. We will wait,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/with-shah-s-wb-trip-cancelled-bjp-flying-tmc-rebels-to-delhi-in-chartered-plane-101612003175825.html
30-01-2021||Lucknow||50 youth conned with fake job letters in govt hospital in UP's Bareilly, probe ordered||An inquiry has been ordered after 50 youth were duped with fake appointment letters to posts at a government hospital here allegedly by the clerks posted in the Chief Medical Officer's office and a district women's hospital, police said on Saturday.Acting on a complaint given in this connection by the affected youth, an inquiry has been ordered by the district police chief.About 50 youths have charged a clerk in the medical official's office here and three other staff in the women's hospital of taking ₹3 lakh from each of them with the promise of securing jobs in a 300-bed hospital that was opened in 2019 in the district.SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said the issue is serious and the Circle Officer (Sadar) Dilip Kumar has been asked to probe it with further action to be initiated on the basis of the inquiry report.In their written complaint to police, the youths alleged that the clerks told them in 2019 that recruitment was open for the posts of supervisor, computer operator, lab technician, driver, ward boy among others on contract basis in the new hospital and that the appointment will be made by the Bareilly CMO.They were told that they will get jobs if they give ₹5 lakh each for which they had paid an advance of ₹3 lakh each after which they were made to fill an application form.Also read | No mandatory institutional quarantine for fliers from UK: Delhi govtFollowing a 'delay' in getting the appointment letters, the youths approached the clerk posted in the office, who allegedly issued fake appointment letters in March last year with the letterhead of Rashtriya Swasthya Mission (National Health Mission) with a fake signature and stamp of the Chief Medical Superintendent (CMS), they said.Later using the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown that followed as a ruse, the youths were told that their jobs were shelved as the hospital had been turned into a Covid care centre.When they raised the issue again in August last year, they were called to the district hospital for a medical test and given forged medical certificates with the stamp and signature of a senior official of the hospital.When they reached the hospital for joining duty in September and October, officials told them that they were given fake appointment letters and also told that no recruitment process was initiated after the opening of the new hospital.When the youths cornered the clerks, they allegedly promised to return the amount in two months time but none of the victims have got their money back till now, they further said in the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/50-youth-conned-with-fake-job-letters-in-govt-hospital-in-up-s-bareilly-probe-ordered-101612002049658.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Most people have access to basic needs in Punjab, Haryana: Economic survey||The economic survey for 2020-21, presented by the Union government in Parliament, shows that Punjab and Haryana are among top four states where the rural and urban population have the highest access to bare necessities. These include housing, water, sanitation, electricity, clean cooking fuel and other facilities. The survey reveals that as compared to 2012, access to bare necessities has improved across all states in the country in 2018, but are highest in Kerala, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat, while it is the lowest in Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Tripura. The survey revealed that 50% to 70% of the Punjab population had access to bare necessities in 2012 whereas it improved and remained above 70% in 2018. “It has improved disproportionately for the poorest households as compared to the richest households across rural and urban areas. The improvement in equity is particularly because while the rich can seek private alternatives, lobby for better services, or if need be, move to areas where public goods are better provided for, the poor rarely have such choices,” the survey observed. It said that the highest access to bare necessities in rural areas in 2018 is recorded in Punjab, Kerala, Sikkim, Goa and Delhi. The central government has launched schemes, including the Jal Jeevan Mission, Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana and others, to address these gaps. The economic survey also said that Punjab reported a high attendance rate of 61.6% of the children in the age group of 3-5 years in 2017-18. The survey said the age specific attendance ratio (ASAR) indicated that children in the age-group of 6-13 years have reported almost 95% and above attendance across states but the attendance rate in the early childhood education is low and diverging. Threat of labour shock on PunjabThe economic survey cautioned Punjab about the impact of Covid-19 on gross value added (GVA), labour markets and fiscal position, saying that Punjab is expected to experience informal labour shocks in the services sector. The economic survey also highlighted that Punjab had higher a unemployment rate in 2018-19, as it recorded a 7.4% unemployment rate (urban and rural) as compared to the national 5.8%. The economic survey also recorded the percentage of literates (above seven years) by religious or social groups in 2017-18 and revealed that 87.3% males and 75% females in Sikhism were literate which is higher than the literacy ratio of all religious group average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/most-people-have-access-to-basic-needs-in-punjab-haryana-economic-survey-101612003400844.html
30-01-2021||Other||Odisha allows reopening of Anganwadi centres, gatherings of up to 500 people||In view of the decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, the Odisha government on Saturday allowed the reopening of Anganwadi centres and gatherings of up to 500 people with strict adherence to the safety guidelines, a notification said.It asked the School and Mass Education Department to make a decision on the date of reopening of schools for classes 9-12.The administration also allowed the functioning of cinema halls as per the SOPs issued by the central and state governments.The relaxations are part of the state government's unlock guidelines which will remain in force till February- end.Social, religious, political, sports, entertainment, academic and cultural gatherings of up to 500 people will be allowed, for which permission will be accorded by district magistrates, municipal commissioners or other officers authorised by them, it said.The state government allowed a maximum of 50% hall occupancy in closed spaces with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol.Anganwadi Centres will reopen from February 1, while the Department of School and Mass Education will decide on reopening primary schools with the government's approval.The Department of Higher Education will also make an appropriate decision regarding the reopening of colleges with adherence to the central guidelines, the notification issued by the Special Relief Commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-allows-reopening-of-anganwadi-centres-gatherings-of-up-to-500-people-101612001071985.html
30-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan law student arrested for threatening to rape a journalist on twitter||A 26-year-old law student from Udaipur in Rajasthan was arrested on Saturday for criminal intimidation and intention to insult the modesty of a woman after he allegedly threatened a woman journalist from Delhi on social media, said police officials.Rohini Singh, a Delhi-based journalist tweeted to inform inspector general of police (IGP) Udaipur range, Satyaveer Singh, that one of the Twitter users from the state had threatened on Friday to rape and kill her; she also tagged chief minister Ashok Gehlot to her tweet, demanding action.Following the complaint by Singh, Udaipur police registered a case against the holder of the Twitter account ‘KViayan’. CM Ashok Gehlot also directed Udaipur IG and SP to look into the matter and take action.Acting upon the CM's direction, several police teams began a hunt to identify and arrest the accused, said police.Later, IG Satyaveer Singh said that the accused had been identified as one Kapil Viayan, who had been arrested and put under interrogation.“During his interrogation, the accused confessed that he had doled out a threat to the journalist in anger against her style of reporting on the ongoing farmers’ agitation at the borders of Delhi,” said the Udaipur IGP.He added that Viayan was a second year student of law and a resident of Semari village in Udaipur. Viayan was also associated with Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the students’ wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-law-student-arrested-for-threatening-to-rape-a-journalist-on-twitter-101612000635527.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Kalka Congress MLA faces disqualification from assembly||Congress MLA from Kalka (Haryana) Pradeep Chaudhary, who was convicted and sentenced for three years of imprisonment in a 2011 case of rioting by a Himachal Pradesh court on Thursday, faces disqualification as a member of the legislative assembly.Legal experts said that the MLA will be disqualified as per Section 8 (3) of the Representation of the People Act. The disqualification provision says that a person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years shall be disqualified from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his release.Since the Supreme Court in a 2013 judgment had declared sub-section 4 of Section 8 of the Act ultra vires (beyond legal power), Chaudhary will not be saved from disqualification under this provision.Section 8(4) provided that disqualification of an MP or MLA will not take effect until three months have elapsed from that date or if within that period an appeal or application for revision is brought in respect of the conviction of the sentence, until the appeal is disposed off by the court.In its ruling, the apex court had held that if any sitting member of Parliament or a state legislature is convicted of any of the offences mentioned in Section 8 of the Act and by virtue of such conviction or sentence suffers disqualifications after the pronouncement of this judgment, his membership of Parliament or the state legislature will not be saved by sub-section (4) of Section 8 “which we have by this judgment declared as ultra vires the Constitution notwithstanding that he files the appeal or revision against the conviction or sentence.”Former Haryana advocate general, Mohan Jain, said that Chaudhary is liable to disqualified from the membership of the assembly as per the law.Additional solicitor general (ASG), Satya Pal Jain, said that the MLA stands disqualified the moment he is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years.He will also continue to be disqualified and barred from contesting elections for a further period of six years after his release, said Jain, an expert on constitutional law.“However, if the high court stays the conviction of the MLA, his membership of the assembly will get restored from that day. But the restoration of membership will not be applicable if the high court only grants him bail,” the ASG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kalka-congress-mla-faces-disqualification-from-assembly-101611999320485.html
30-01-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Minor girl raped by shopkeeper and his son in Ballia||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man and his son in a village, police said on Saturday.The girl had gone to buy some items from a shop in the village under Dokati police station area three months ago when the shopkeeper allegedly raped her and threatened her against telling anyone about it, they said quoting the complaint given by the girl's father.The father has also stated that when she went to the same shop again a week later, the shopkeeper's son allegedly raped her and threatened to kill her family members incase she told anyone, police said.The girl's family took her to a doctor on Thursday when she was not feeling well after the incident. They came to know that she was three months pregnant and the matter came to light, they said.Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada said on the complaint of the girl's father, an FIR has been lodged against the two accused on Friday and the girl has been sent for a medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-minor-girl-raped-by-shopkeeper-and-his-son-in-ballia-101611990658705.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Leopard spotted in Delhi, alert issued||The Delhi forest department has put out an alert after videos of a leopard being spotted at outer Delhi's Najafgarh area have surfaced.Kamal Preet, Delhi's chief wildlife warden, confirmed that the the leopard was first spotted on January 27 on a CCTV camera."Teams from the west and the north division are jointly handling the operation. We also have former wildlife inspectors, who have been appointed as consultants, that are also helping the teams from the headquarters. Coordinated efforts are being made to capture the animal," she said.Deputy conservator forests (north division) Navneet Srivastava said that after being first spotted on January 27, the leopard was also spotted on January 28 and January 29 near the Najafgarh drain."The last spotting was on January 29 near the Najafgarh drain. This means that the animal has moved away from the main Najafgarh city. We have issued alerts around Ghummanhera and Jharoda Kalan and other nearby villages asking people to not step out after dark and also to keep their pets inside," Srivastava said.He said that cages have been placed and round-the-clock patrolling is being conducted by the forest department teams to capture the animal."Once the animal has been captured, we will discuss the possibility of moving it either to the Delhi zoo or to the Asola Wildlife Sanctuary. In case, we don't have the space or facility to move the leopard within the city, we will look at options from other cities. However, that will be a decision taken by the higher authorities," Srivastava said.Meanwhile, cabinet minister and Najafgarh legislator Kailash Gahlot also wrote a letter to the forest department urging teams to ensure the quick capture of the animal for the safety of the residents of the area."On the matter of a leopard sighting at Najafgarh, the forest department officials have been asked to capture the animal as soon as possible. People are requested to not panic and alert the authorities if they spot the leopard. Leopard is a protected wildlife animal so residents are requested to refrain from attacking it," Gahlot said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/leopard-spotted-in-delhi-alert-issued-101611994248546.html
30-01-2021||Lucknow||10 killed, dozen injured in bus-truck collision on UP's Moradabad-Agra highway||At least 10 people were killed and around a dozen received injuries when a private bus collided with a truck on the Moradabad-Agra Highway on Saturday morning owing to poor visibility due to dense fog, an official said.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced a financial assistance of ₹2 lakh for the kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 for those injured, District Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Singh said.Top police and administration officials including Singh and Senior Superintendent of Police Prabhakar Chaudhary have reached the spot.The accident took place at around 8 am near Manpur village under Kundarki Police Station area here, Singh said.Rescue operation is underway and the injured have been admitted to a nearby government hospital, Singh said.The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/10-killed-dozen-injured-in-bus-truck-collision-on-up-s-moradabad-agra-highway-101611988520127.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Allegations of malafides related to TRP fraud case baseless: Mumbai police commissioner||Allegations of malafides against him and his force’s investigation into the television rating point (TRP) fraud are baseless and false, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh has said in an affidavit filed in the Bombay high court.The affidavit was filed in response to the allegations by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which owns Republic TV, and the channel’s editor-in-chief, Arnab Goswami, in their petitions seeking quashing of the first information report registered against them in the case.It cited the press briefing Singh held on October 8 and said the details of the case he provided then were based on a preliminary investigation and analytical report submitted by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). The affidavit added the report said three channels had bribed households to bolster their ratings.“The Respondent [Singh] in pursuance of his duty was within the realm of law to inform the public at large about the crime registered, background, and nature of crime. It is submitted that the answering Respondent [Singh] holds periodic briefings as per the procedure and practice established in sensitive cases and was providing credible information to the extent it was fit and proper to disclose and answering the queries as received from the journalists/reporters without divulging any secret and confidential information/material collected during investigation, the disclosure whereof could affect administration of justice. It is submitted that media briefing was held strictly in confines of the law and the principles enunciated by this Hon'ble Court and the Hon'ble Supreme Court.”Shashank Sandbhor, assistant commissioner of police, in a counter-affidavit has submitted that the petition filed by Hansa Research Group seeking reliefs similar to those sought by ARG Outlier Media in their petition indicates that it is trying to "somehow protect them from prosecution". He added the group has moved the court “to stall on-going investigations as they have revealed a nexus between the Hansa Group and the channels”.The affidavit and counter-affidavits were filed before the bench of justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale by senior counsel Kapil Sibal, representing the state and Mumbai police, on January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allegations-of-malafides-related-to-trp-fraud-case-baseless-mumbai-top-cop-101611989884341.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses plea by judge challenging his removal for sexual harassment||The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed the plea by a judicial officer challenging his removal from service on charges of sexual harassment of a female Ahlmad at the Dwarka District court in 2016, where he was posted as an additional judge.A bench of justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and justice Asha Menon said that the Delhi Higher Judicial Service (DHJS) officer was given ample opportunity by the Full Court of the Delhi high court to justify his stand. The court also said that even the Supreme Court in 2019 had held that there was no perversity with the order passed by the disciplinary committee.“….having judicially examined the report, not only as to the procedure followed and opportunities at each and every stage provided to the petitioner but also on merits, we are more than convinced, of the conclusion having been rightly drawn on the basis of material on record that the allegations of sexual harassment against the petitioner, stand proved,” the bench said in a 32-page judgment.The court’s decision comes on the plea by the officer, who had challenged his dismissal from service by the Delhi government in March last year, on the recommendations of the Full Court of the Delhi high court on charges of sexual harassment. The officer had sought his restoration in service, with all consequential benefits.The incident of sexual harassment dates back to July 5, 2016, when the accused judicial officer was an additional district judge posted at Dwarka courts in Delhi. A junior judicial assistant working in his court alleged sexual harassment by the officer and forwarded her complaint to the chief justice of the Delhi high court for appropriate action.The woman had said that she worked in the court of the accused officer as Ahlmad (judicial assistant) between May 18, 2015 and May 18, 2016. The registrar general of the Delhi high court, after the incident, had directed the station house officer (SHO) to register an FIR against the accused officer and he was suspended from service.The officer in his plea, however, contended that false charges were levelled against him by the Ahlmad since he had issued notice to her in connection to some missing documents on July 5, 2016 and in the counterblast, she had filed a complaint against him on July 11, 2016.He, through his counsel, stated that on 19th July, 2016, an Internal Complaint Committee (ICC) under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (Sexual Harassment Act) was appointed, which did not exonerate the judicial officer, even when it should have.The officer also said that he was not given a copy of the report of March 9, 2018 by the ICC, detailing its findings. He added that the report did not find any “proved allegation”.The bench, while referring to Aug, 2019 judgment of the SC, noted that the apex court had held that there was no error in the decision of the Full Court of the Delhi HC of July 13, 2016 to suspend the petitioner and initiate inquiry proceedings against him.The court also said that the defence taken by the officer at this stage has already been exhausted before the SC. It also said that the SC had held the proceedings culminating in the report, proving the sexual harassment charge was validly instituted against him.It also said that the SC was seized of all details of the communications sent to the judicial officer, but did not direct the Full Court to consider the ICC report afresh, considering it as a report of the inquiring authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-by-judge-challenging-his-removal-for-sexual-harassment-101611985992564.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||BJP's Thane unit to hold spiritual meetings for party workers||The Thane unit of the BJP has decided to hold spiritual meetings for the party's local workers and functionaries regularly, its office-bearer said on Saturday.BJP's district-city chief and MLC Niranjan Davkhare said this initiative is aimed at helping the party cadre relax their mind and keep them motivated."Amid all the hectic political activities, our party workers need some peace of mind. Therefore, we have decided to regularly hold spiritual meetings for them," he said.These sessions would be held once a month for about one hour. Besides 'satsang' (spiritual meetings), activities like breathing exercises and meditation would be part of it, he added."It will improve the performance of the party workers and keep them motivated," Davkhare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjps-thane-unit-to-hold-spiritual-meetings-for-party-workers-101611983550367.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Cab dropped off 2 people near Israel Embassy blast spot, CCTV footage found||The Delhi Police’s special cell team on Saturday obtained a CCTV footage of the spot near the Israel Embassy where an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) blast took place on Friday evening, sources told news agency ANI. The footage showed a cab dropping off two people who walked towards the embassy. Attempts are on to identify the cab driver and sketches are being made. A high alert has been sounded in cities such as Jaipur and Mumbai with security tightened in sensitive areas in wake of this incident in the national Capital.The IED exploded at 5.05pm on Friday and there were no injuries or damage to any property. Officials pointed out that a note addressed to the embassy sealed in an envelope was found at the explosion site but they refused to divulge further details, according to PTI.Delhi: A low-intensity explosion occurred near Israel Embassy yesterday. Samples collected from the spot by a crime investigation team this morning. Investigation is underway. (Pics source: Delhi Police) pic.twitter.com/qKHMrPRtKGThe explosion took place at a time when top political leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, were attending the Beating Retreat ceremony at Vijay Chowk, which is less than two kilometres away from the embassy.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said he has full confidence that India will carry out a thorough investigation into the incident and ensure the safety of Israelis who are there. Soon after the incident, National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval spoke to his Israeli counterpart and updated him on the situation.Also Watch| Blast in Delhi: Israel envoy says diplomats safe, Jaiskankar assures security﻿Meanwhile, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders told Hindustan Times that Union home minister Amit Shah postponed his two-day visit to West Bengal due to the incident. Shah is in constant contact with police officials and is monitoring the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cab-dropped-off-2-people-near-israel-embassy-blast-spot-cctv-footage-found-101611982149542.html
30-01-2021||Jaipur||Israeli embassy blast: Jaipur city on high alert||A high alert has been raised in Jaipur city after an IED blast took place near the Israeli embassy in the national capital of Delhi on Friday evening, according to a senior Rajasthan police official.“After the blast in Delhi, a telephonic conversation took place between the top officers of Delhi police, intelligence agencies in Delhi and Jaipur police around 8.30 pm in the evening after which an alarm was raised,” said a top Rajasthan police official, who didn’t wish to be named.The police officer added that security has been raised in the extra sensitive areas of the city, especially in the Walled City. However, there is no need to panic for the common people, he added.“The city police have activated their sources and checking has been carried out in the sensitive zones of the city,” the police official added.Meanwhile, the CISF has stepped up security at the Jaipur airport.An explosion took place near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi on Friday evening, prompting authorities to scale up security and sound a high alert in the national capital.The blast caused by a "very low-intensity improvised device" shattered the windscreens of three cars parked in the area.Also Read: After NSA Doval’s phone call, PM Netanyahu sends a message to PM ModiThe blast came on the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Israel on January 29, 1992.The IED device detonated at 5.05 pm near Jindal House on APJ Abdul Kalam Road which is just 150 meters from the Israel Embassy. Police said it has been scanning the area and have not found any battery or electronic device yet with which the explosion could have been triggered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/israeli-embassy-blast-jaipur-city-on-high-alert-101611978626206.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Raj Thackeray to visit Ayodhya Ram Mandir in March; Shiv Sena takes a veiled dig||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray will visit the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya in March, according to a senior party leader. The decision was taken in a party meeting held at Bandra in Mumbai.“Rajsaheb will visit Ayodhya between March 1 and 9 to seek the blessings of Lord Ram. He will also visit the Hanuman temple there. He will be accompanied by his party colleagues,” announced senior MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar.Political analyst Hemant Desai said that Raj Thackeray was aiming to project himself as a Hindutva icon with an eye on ascendency in Maharashtra politics.“Raj wants to fashion himself as a Hindutva leader and become close to the BJP. Since the current Shiv Sena no longer advocates a stringent Hindutva line like its founder Bal Thackeray, Raj wants to fill that vacuum,” Desai reasoned.After the 2019 Maharashtra assembly elections, when Raj’s party could only win one seat while his rival and cousin, Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray outmanoeuvred the BJP to become the chief minister of Maharashtra, Raj Thackeray was seen to be warming up to the BJP with a more pronounced pro-Hindutva line.A year ago, he unveiled a saffron flag for his party and later raised the issue of reopening of temples when the restrictions imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic were being lifted gradually.“Even BJP would like to have Raj at their side as he can split Shiv Sena votes and benefit them,” Desai argued further while pointing out that even on the issue of farmers' agitation against the three Central farm laws, Raj did not criticise the BJP.The Shiv Sena was quick to taunt Raj Thackeray, saying the party-- once seen as Maharashtra’s original Hindutva outfit-- was ready to guide his visit to Ayodhya.“If Raj Thackeray feels like going to Ayodhya, he should do so. We will guide him,” said Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut.After he floated the MNS in 2006, Raj Thackeray pursued an aggressive and violent agenda guided by regionalism and sons of the soil policy.He launched a violent campaign against north Indians, accusing them of “stealing” jobs meant for the locals. His party men resorted to physical attacks on north Indians youth appearing for railway recruitment examinations and also migrant labourers in Mumbai and in other parts of the state.Also Read: Maharashtra Congress raises questions over fundraising for Ram templeThe campaign seemed to pay off initially as the MNS won 13 seats in the 2009 assembly elections, however, the appeal soon wore off with the party getting reduced to just one assembly seat after 2014 polls.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he campaigned against the BJP with bitter criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, that did not turn his political fortunes. For a year now, after the formation of Uddhav Thackeray led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, he appears to be moving closer to the BJP.BJP leaders have said in the past that they are open to an alliance with the MNS provided Raj gives up his opposition to north Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-thackeray-to-visit-ayodhya-ram-mandir-in-march-shiv-sena-takes-a-veiled-dig-101611975630088.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Farm agitation swells after surge in Jatland||Thousands of farmers poured into Ghazipur on the eastern fringes of Delhi on Friday after an emotional appeal for support by farm leader Rakesh Tikait, indicating that the government crackdown on the two-month-old agitation following violence on Republic Day may have partially backfired.Farmers from 10 districts in western UP, a stronghold of the influential Jat community, congregated at a massive gathering in Muzaffarnagar, where they announced the social boycott of anyone not backing the movement. In Haryana, khaps, or clan-based bodies, vowed to send at least one person from each family to bolster the ongoing stir against three agriculture laws passed in September.Throughout the night, cultivators took tractors, trucks and motorbikes to reach the Delhi border, where numbers swelled and morale mounted with the arrival of a new contingent of protesters determined to defend the honour of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Tikait.While just about a thousandfarmers had gathered at Ghazipur on Thursday, the number swelled around 10,000 on Friday.“If the police use force on us for not leaving, it is not a problem. But if some political organisations attempt to trouble us, that is unacceptable...Now, I will not surrender (to the police), we’ll continue to protest here,” Tikait told the gathering.It was a dramatic reversal from Thursday afternoon, when dwindling numbers, bitter public fallout of violence by farmers at the Republic Day tractor rally, and increasing police presence, left the protesters demoralised.The Ghaziabad administration served Tikait, son of legendary farm leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, with an ultimatum to vacate the site or face penal consequences, part of a wider crackdown on the agitation since January 26. Farmers also said that the authorities cut off their water and power supply to the site.But instead of caving in, Tikait broke down in front of television cameras and vowed to not leave the site until the government repealed the laws. “If the farm laws are not repealed, Rakesh Tikait will commit suicide,” he had said, biting back tears.These visuals were beamed on television channels and went viral on social media, triggering calls for mobilisation from temples, mosques and panchayats across western UP throughout the night. Tikait’s resolve to not drink water unless it was brought from his village in particular touched a chord with the people, who carried water in bottles and pouches from their homes in the heartland to the Capital’s edge.Prabhjeet Singh, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar who returned to Ghazipur a day after he left for his home, said, “We couldn’t leave him (Tikait) to battle it alone when he needed us the most”By morning, the agitation seemed to have regained some of the momentum it lost when on Republic Day, farmer groups broke through barricades, clashed violently with police, ran riot on the Capital’s streets, and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, on its ramparts.The violence and vandalisation were widely condemned and sparked statements of remorse and anguish from farm groups across north India, even as unions leading the stir blamed fringe elements, a government “conspiracy”, and Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu for stoking passions.The improvement in morale was visible in the principal protest site at the Singhu border despite violence by a mob of around 200 people earlier in the day. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body leading the stir, said farmers will hold a one-day hunger strike to mark Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary on January 30.“Today, we just saw farmers arriving in Ghazipur. In a couple of days, more protesters will arrive at Tikri, Singhu, and Shahjahanpur border from Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan,” said Darshan Pal, president of Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab.Ghazipur is the smallest of the three protest sites — after Singhu and Tikri on the Capital’s northwestern and western borders respectively — where farmers have camped since November.But on Friday, it was the focal point of the agitation as politicians, journalists, ordinary people made a beeline to meet Tikait, and union leaders scrambled to put up more tents, and set up community kitchens for the incoming crowds.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia met Tikait and extended unconditional support on behalf of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “It is in such tough times that one aandolankari (protesters) come to help other aandolankari (protesters),” Tikait responded.Other politicians to visit were Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary, UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, and Congress leader Deepinder Singh Hooda. Opposition politicians across the country also extended their support.“I want to tell the farmers, don’t retract even by an inch. These laws will give a shock to middle class too, as food prices will skyrocket. The only solution is to repeal these laws,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said.In Haryana, khaps held meetings across the state and decided to send members to the farmer protests, and socially boycott leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party (JJP). Haryana is governed by a BJP-JJP coalition. The move came even as the Haryana government suspended mobile internet in 17 districts.In Muzaffarnagar, Tikait’s brother Naresh Tikait organised a show of strength attended by tens of thousands of farmers. “The ongoing movement is a battle for the honour of farmers and, if it ends, it will damage our very existence,” said Naresh Tikait after the seven-hour mahapanchayat.In the face of increased mobilisation, police retreated from the Ghazipur site even as UP additional director general of police (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar said they were in touch with farmer leaders to find an amicable solution through talks.(with inputs from HTC in Lucknow, Chandigarh and Rohtak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farm-agitation-swells-after-surge-in-jatland-101611970909266.html
30-01-2021||Lucknow||₹230 crore collected for Ram temple: Trust||The treasurer of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust Swami Gobind Dev Giri said in Haridwar that to date, about ₹ 230 crores have been collected since the beginning of January as donations for the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya under Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan. The donations have come from across the country.“Temple construction is being done in three phases with the technical committee supervising the whole construction process. We will also be bringing pilgrims and religious scholars from foreign countries such as Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand to visit Ayodhya and other religious-spiritual sites of the country,” he added.On January 15, President Ram Nath Kovind donated ₹5 lakh to the drive. Other prominent contributors include the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.Shri Niranjani Akhada from Haridwar also donated ₹21 lakh to Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) central secretary Ashok Tiwari which was handed by Shri Mahant Ravindra Puri, secretary of Niranjani Akhada and head of Mata Mansa Devi Trust.The construction of a Ram temple at the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi site was made possible by a November 9, 2019 Supreme Court ruling that ruled in favour of a temple, ending a decades-long litigation, although the dispute dates back centuries. The construction of the temple was launched on August 5 last year with a prayer presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/230-crore-collected-for-ram-temple-trust-101611967625703.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||More FIRs on Cong leader, journos||Police in Bhopal and Gurugram filed a case against seven people, including Congress leader Shashi Tharoor and journalist Rajdeep Sardesai, for allegedly misreporting and spreading disharmony during violent clashes in Delhi on Republic Day.This came a day after Noida police filed an FIR against the same group of people under similar charges. On Friday, the Editors Guild of India condemned the police action, saying it was an attempt to “browbeat” and “intimidate” the media.The Gurugram FIR was filed on Thursday night on the basis of a complaint by Jharsa resident Pankaj Singh, 34, who works with a private company. In Bhopal, the FIR was registered by Sanjay Raghuvanshi, 43, a local resident, late on Thursday.All three FIRs name Tharoor, Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath, Vinod K Jose and unknown persons. In the Noida and Gurugram complaints, charges of sedition, criminal conspiracy, promoting hatred, among others, were leveled. In the Bhopal FIR, charges of promoting enmity were used.Karan Goel, ACP (DLF), said police will probe the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-firs-on-cong-leader-journos-101611966521025.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The thermocol man||He has a theory on dreams. “These sapne (dreams) don’t come to all,” says Balram. “People with less money don’t dream.”He patiently explains that by dream he doesn’t mean what one sees while sleeping, but the things one aspires for when fully conscious.Ok, but surely there must be at least one thing he aspires for?Balram takes some time to think before answering—“To earn enough to keep my family well-fed, to keep having a job.”The nature of his work is part of a niche. He pedals around the Capital on his rickety cart collecting thermocol pieces, the kind that are used to cushion electrical gadgets or delicate furniture items from breaking during transport. In fact, this afternoon in south Delhi’s Green Park he is on a roadside, piling up a mound of such pieces into a gigantic bundle bond in a net.A native of Gorakhpur, in UP, Balram, 35, arrived in the city 8 years ago. “I had no dreams back then too. I left my village because finding work in a big city seemed worth the trouble of leaving your des.” He has no regrets, he confirms.By now, Balram is a full-fledged Delhiite, having set up his roots firmly in the city’s soil. He lives in Okhla with wife, Meena, and sons, Soni and Kishen. “They go to school,” he points out.Firmly tying the knot of the net in which he has gathered the thermocol, Balram says that over the years he has developed work-related contacts and while leaving his house at 8 every morning, he knows exactly where he has to go to find spare thermocol. “Sometimes I go to factories or warehouses, and sometimes to houses where people have just shifted.” Every evening he sells the collection to a dealer in Okhla.Now Balram single-handedly transfers the pile onto his cart. He climbs on the rider’s seat and says, confession like, “I don’t have a dream but I do want, someday soon, to rid myself from the cycle of byaj (interest)... I had borrowed money to build a house in the village... earlier we had no house of our own. My real savings for the future can only start after I’ve paid all my interests.”He now pedals away, the thermocol on the cart glinting from far away, like a snow-encrusted mountain peak. He returns home at 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-thermocol-man-101611966894964.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Questions raised after police fail to stop breach||Multiple barricades, deep trenches, and at least 1,000 personnel of Delhi Police and paramilitary forces failed to stop a mob of 200 people from reaching the stage of the farmer protest at Singhu border, attacking the protesters with sticks, and pelting stones at them in a breach that sparked clashes at the site on Friday afternoon.This was the first incident of violence at the protest site, and forced police to lob tear-gas shells and lathi-charge both farmers and the mob, who claimed to be local residents. Television visuals also showed police and some counter-protesters beating a farmer.Many farmers at the site accused Delhi Police of being mute spectators while the mob came dangerously close to the farmers and attacked them. They also pointed out that the security forces had stopped several journalists and politicians from reaching the stage of the site earlier.“If police wanted, they could have stopped those goons. Carrying national flags and shouting slogans, it was clear that they were protesting against us. Police should have stopped them from coming here. It wasn’t difficult to make out that they are not among us protesters. The violence could have been avoided,” said Joginder Kaur, 55, a farmer from Kot Budha village in Tarn Taran district of Punjab, who was near the stage when the violence started.The site is divided in two parts. First is the Kisaan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) stage, and then a larger Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) stage about 500 metres away. Vehicle coming to Singhu are stopped at the first barricade set up a kilometre away from the KMSC stage. Only police officers, media personnel, and people connected to the protests are allowed to pass through the barricaded highway.But on Friday, the mob managed to walk past barricades and security forces from the first barrier to the KMSC stage. The farmers also alleged that the mob shouted slogans like “Goli Maaro... ”.“Police stopped water tankers from reaching us. This morning, I walked up to the barricades requesting them to let the tankers enter but the police did not allow. Some politicians were also stopped . Then, why did they allow the mob shouting provocative slogans reach till the stage area? The videos are there for everyone to see,” said Jaswant Singh, 32, a farmer from Jalandhar district.He was referring to videos on social media -- not verified independently -- that showed a group of men pelting stones while police personnel stood next to them. One video showed a masked man throwing stones. Another showed some police personnel in anti-riot gear standing during the stone pelting.A photograph of a man, who was identified by many on social media as Aman Dabas, husband of Bharatiya Janata Party councillor from Bawana Anju Dabas, also went viral on social media. Anju Dabas confirmed her husband was in Singhu but said he was not there as a party representative. “He was there as any other local who is facing problem due to the ongoing agitation of farmers,” said Anju.Delhi Police issued a statement, which said that around 1.30pm, around 200 locals reached the GTB Memorial, towards Singhu and went to meet the farmers. “They said they have been providing all kinds of help to protesters for last two months but now their livelihood is getting affected, hence they are requested to open the border and vacate the road,” a Delhi police spokesperson said.“This was resisted by some farmers and pushing-pulling of the police barricades kept to secure the langar tents...during this stone pelting started,” the spokesperson added. The statement did not clarify which group pelted the stones.A senior officer in Singhu said police did not let the locals reach the stage. “The place near the stage, where the locals reached today is an open area. People are free to walk until this point. After today’s incident, people will not be allowed to walk up to that point too,” said the officer.Until late Friday, police arrested 44 persons from both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/questions-raised-after-police-fail-to-stop-breach-101611966151021.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Sticks, stones at Singhu as group enters site, clashes with farmers||A group of around 200 people who said they were locals entered the Singhu border protest site despite heavy barricading and police presence on Friday, and clashed with both cops and farmers in an incident that led to injuries to an SHO and several others.The SHO of Alipur, Pradeep Paliwal, was injured after he was hit on his left palm by the sword of a protesting Sikh farmer. Eyewitnesses said that the farmer was intending to drive the stone-pelting mob away, even as police said that he attacked the officer. There were also visuals of police personnel and members of the group of counter-protesters beating the farmer with lathis.Gurkirat Singh, 22, a farmer from Gulalipur village in Tarn Taran district of Punjab, said the incident unfolded before him. “The violent crowd which had come to attack us was throwing stones, sticks, and bricks. The farmer was trying to chase the mob away. Instead, he was attacked by police and the mob, and the officer got hurt in the process,” he said.Delhi Police said they have registered a case of attempt to murder, rioting, obstructing public servant on duty and other sections against the 25-year-old farmer, Ranjeet Singh from Nawanshahr district in Punjab. Police said 44 people from both groups, who were indulging in violence, were caught at the spot.“At least five police personnel sustained injuries. The 25-year-old protester who injured inspector Paliwal has been arrested, and the sword has been recovered. We are verifying the identity and the affiliation of the 43 persons arrested in the case. They belong to both groups,” said a senior police officer.Farmer leaders said at least 15 protesters were hurt during Friday’s clashes.How it beganThe main protest site at Singhu border -- where hundreds and thousands of farmers have gathered at different points over a 64-day protest, and where tents now stretch for more than 10km -- is divided into two parts. First is the Kisaan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) stage, and then a larger Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) stage about 500 metres away.At around 12.30pm, over 100 people claiming to be locals managed to come close to the KMSC stage by crossing police barricades set up over 1km before the tents begin. They were raising slogans of “goli maaro...” (shoot the traitors) and branding the farmers as “Khalistanis”. Some of them had covered their faces with mufflers and handkerchiefs.These protesters claimed to be anguished by the insult to the national tricolour during the Republic Day tractor rally by farmers that descended into violence, and particularly by the hoisting of a Sikh religious flag alongside the national flag at Red Fort.Many among them had come to the protest area on Thursday as well, demanding the removal of farmers. HT reported on Thursday that the protesters included members of groups called the Hindu Sena, the Hinda Yuva Seva Sangh, and the Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch (DDVM), which is a collective of about 50 villages.“Some of us had gone to Alipur police station to submit a letter calling for clearing the highway and we sent a similar letter via email to Delhi police commissioner and Lieutenant Governor. While we were returning, we got to know of the incident. Our people told us that farmers had become hostile leading to the clashes. If we had been there, we could have stopped the situation from escalating,” said Anup Singh Maan, general secretary, DDVM.Ravi Das, who was part of the group, said he was a local resident and was bothered by the farmers’ protests. “We wanted farmers to clear the highway. They were carrying weapons like swords, so we had to save ourselves. They started throwing stones,” he alleged.The group was briefly stopped by the police at the point of entry at the barricades set up on one carriageway near the Singhu border toll plaza. However, they soon jumped over to the other side and rushed at the tents set up by the farmers, disrupting their lunch langar.Rare breachIt was a rare breach of the security setup on a day when Delhi Police did not allow any vehicles to cross the barricade. Only those on foot were allowed after stating the purpose of their visit. Aam Aadmi Party leaders Satyendar Jain and Raghav Chadha were also not allowed to visit the protest site on Friday morning.“We had come here to ensure that the farmers have water and adequate facilities for toilet and cleaning. But the police are not allowing the Delhi Jal Board water tankers to pass. This is a human rights violation. The BJP government is treating farmers like terrorists,” said Chadha, AAP MLA and DJB vice chairperson. Jain added, “The police are telling us that they have orders from above to not allow water tankers. We asked them to show the orders, but they didn’t do that.”At around 1.40pm, the counter-protesters began pelting stones at farmers, and they retaliated. The two groups threw sticks, stones, and bricks at each other, injuring several people and leading to the police firing several rounds of tear gas shells to control the situation.Kashmir Kaur, 60, a farmer from Wali Pur village in Tarn Taran district, said she was sleeping inside a tent set up for women – close to the flashpoint. “We were resting when the first tear gas shell entered the tent. I couldn’t see because of it and had to run towards the other side. Our blankets and clothes caught fire as well. I don’t know why police were firing tear gas shells towards us when they [the mob] was the one attacking us,” she said.Though police were able to take the counter-protesters away from the main site around 2pm, nearly 30 minutes later, another round of stone-pelting began despite the presence of personnel from the Rapid Action Force. The police then led the group to around a kilometre from the protest site.Around 3pm, however, the group entered a Guru Tegh Bahadur memorial on the side through a gate near the barricades and replaced farmer union flags with the tricolour, before being chased away by the security forces.KMSC member Kuldeep Singh, 56, a farmer from Lohian in Jalandhar district, said: “These elements were sent here to provoke us. How is it possible that when water tankers are not being allowed, a mob of around 100 people managed to enter, damage our langar, and throw stones at us amid police presence,” he said.Near one of the concrete barricades set up on Friday after the incident, a group from Tarn Taran district sat huddled. “Around a dozen of us will participate in vigil and patrol in batches of three. Today, all of us will stay awake and keep an eye,” said Karaj Singh, one of the protesters in the group.(with inputs from Abhishek Dey)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sticks-stones-at-singhu-as-group-enters-site-clashes-with-farmers-101611965723289.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Police urge people to assist probe with footage of R-Day tractor rally violence||Delhi Police has urged public to come forward and get their statements recorded or hand over the footage if they happened to witness the violence on January 26 when farmers clashed with security personnel during their tractor rally."All members of the public, including media personnel, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incident or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or camera, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/footage/picture in their possession", Delhi Police said on Twitter.It said the identity of people providing information will be kept confidential.On Tuesday, during the tractor rally, a group of farmers deviated from the assigned route, broke through barriers, clashed with security personnel in several parts of Delhi. They also vandalised property and even entered the Red Fort, where they hoisted their flags.Over 25 FIRs have been registered in connection with the January 26 violence. It has lodged an FIR under sections of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sections of IPC dealing with sedition.Delhi Police on Friday served notices to 12 farmer leaders, including Buta Singh Burjgill, Darshan Pal Singh, Rakesh Tikait, Shamsher Pandher and Satnam Pannu, to join an investigation into the violence.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-urge-people-to-assist-probe-with-footage-of-r-day-tractor-rally-violence-101611965332774.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police on high alert following blast near Israel Embassy in Delhi||Mumbai (Maharashtra) [India], January 30 (ANI): Security has been tightened in Mumbai at all locations including near Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus railway station and Mumbai Police is on high alert following a low-intensity explosion that took place near the Israel Embassy in Delhi.A low-intensity explosion took place near the Israel Embassy this evening. No injuries have been reported in the incident so far. Windscreens of several cars parked in the vicinity of the Embassy on Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road were found damaged.The explosion took place not far from Vijay Chowk, where several VVIPS including President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in attendance during the 'Beating Retreat' ceremony.Investigators have recovered an envelope, with text written on it related to Israel Embassy officials, from the site of the blast near the Israeli Embassy here on Friday, according to sources."The envelope has a text related to an Israel embassy official. It is a case for investigating officers to see whether or not it has any link with the case. But, it has been recovered from the blast site," a senior government official told ANI.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar assured Israeli Foreign Minister of "fullest protection".Meanwhile, Union Home Minister Amit Shah is in touch with senior Delhi police officials and is constantly monitoring the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-on-high-alert-following-blast-near-israel-embassy-in-delhi-101611965156544.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Tears, water, and a protest rekindled||It was around 9pm on Thursday when Gaurav Sangwan, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar, back with his wife and two children for only three hours after spending a fortnight at the Ghazipur protest site, received a video message on WhatsApp. It showed farmer leader Rakesh Tikait breaking down in tears while speaking to the media.Tikait, facing a situation where water and power at the encampment was cut off and an eviction notice served by the Uttar Pradesh Police and the district administration, was saying in the video that he would not leave. He also vowed that he would not drink water until it was brought from his village in the heart of western UP.Less than 30 minutes after he watched the clip, Sangwan was driving back to Delhi in a car with five other farmers. “If a man cries, he is a good man. I will be betraying a good man if I stayed back at home,” Sangwan said at the Ghazipur site on Friday, summing up his decision to return.Sangwan was among thousands of agitators who were swayed by Tikait’s tears and his call for water from back home; they rushed to Ghazipur despite the possibility of a midnight crackdown on the protesters days after the Republic Day tractor march in the national capital descended into violence and chaos.This time, apart from old-timers who had been here before, farmers who initially sat out of the protest landed up as well. Instead of winding up, by Friday morning the protest spot had crowds much larger than at any time over the past two months. Farmers there said the crowd would swell even more by Saturday morning.As they streamed in, most of the farmers did not head to tents or langars (community kitchens) ; instead, they went straight to the stage to hear their leader speak. And Tikait -- son of the legendary late farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait who headed the Bharatiya Kisan Union -- addressed them again and again, until his voice cracked and broke.Each time he could speak no more, the crowd called out to him. “Tikait tum aage badho, hum tumhaare saath hain (Tikait, you move ahead. We are right behind you).”Farmers flocked to click pictures with him, journalists queued up to interview him, and protesters all around discussed his video message from the previous evening.For the first time since the protests began in November, attention , restricted largely to the two larger protests sites, Singhu and Tikri, inhabited largely by farmers from Punjab and Haryana, moved to Ghazipur.From the stage, Tikait hit out at the local administration for cutting the water and power supply to the protest site.“If the government (local administration) doesn’t send water tankers within two hours, we’ll dig our own bore wells here and draw water. The ground and its water belongs to everyone,” he told a gathering that was growing through the day.But neither Tikait, nor the other farmers here, were short of water on Friday.While some locals arranged for water tankers, as did the Delhi government -- it was visuals of people bringing drinking water directly from their villages to Tikait that stood out.A man from Meerut brought an old plastic bottle, only half filled with water; a young boy from Muzaffarnagar, sitting on his father’s shoulders, carried a large tumbler in his hands; someone from Amroha brought water straight from the Ganga; and lots of the returnees carried water to the stage in large plastic jugs. Tikait’s associates would pour some of the water in a small steel container as a symbol of respect.A woman who sang on the main stage offered to sell a recently constructed house if the movement needed funding; some residents of Noida and leaders from the Ghazipur Mandi said from the stage that, despite the inconvenience, they did not mind farmers occupying the road.Support also arrived in the form of political leaders. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia extended unconditional support, and said that he was sent by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to ensure that all arrangements were in place.“Kejriwal ji sent me to ensure you don’t face any problems,” Sisodia told the gathering.“It is in such tough times that one aandolankari (protester) come to help other aandolankari (protester),” Tikait responded.Other politicians to visit were Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary, UP Congress Committee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, Haryana Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda, Swaraj India founder Yogendra Yadav, and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad.As more people poured in -- some tractors made multiple rounds to nearby villages to ferry people; others took public buses -- the Ghazipur site was clearly not prepared for the surge. Tents brought down by the departing farmers on Thursday afternoon were hurriedly re-erected; new ones came up as well. At the langars, the lunch was mostly limited to rice and dal, and the snacks to tea and rusk.“Now we won’t make the mistake of leaving in large numbers until our demands are met. Tikait’s cries made us realise that taking one step back would mean government taking many steps forward to remove us,” said Harminder Singh, a farmer who returned from Bareilly.Tikait assured the farmers that there was no going back a second time.On Thursday, he offered to surrender to the police before saying he would not leave -- for the sake of the agitation to repeal three contentious farm laws, and for the sake of his “Sikh brothers”, who, he said, were being branded as traitors over the Republic Day violence, which he said was part of the “conspiracy” to malign the movement.“The government conspired to insult us. But now I’ll ensure the farm laws are repealed and you return homes safely and with pride,” he told the gathering.By repeatedly waving a large national flag from the stage, he did his bit to undo the damage caused to the movement by the violence and vandalism on Republic Day.The UP Police were on the sidelines throughout Friday.A Delhi Police officer, who did not want to be named, said the barricades were made more secure to negate any chance of people from either side mingling with each other. “But we did not stop any media persons. They were allowed to pass, upon producing identity cards,” said the officer.Delhi Police personnel stayed beyond the barricades, several hundred metres from the stage, where the gathered crowd raised their hands each time Tikait sought their assurance for a peaceful protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tears-water-and-a-protest-rekindled-101611963311489.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body tops Covid vaccination chart with 124% success rate||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has completed 124 per cent vaccination till Friday, the highest across Thane district.Thane is closely followed by Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) at 101 per cent and Navi Mumbai Municipal corporation (NMMC) at 89 per cent overall.The district overall has completed 86 per cent immunisation till Friday. The vaccination drive began within Thane district on January 16 with 23 vaccination centres. The number of centres has increased to 42 centres from Wednesday.TMC and NMMC have the most number of centres at 10 each. However, on the first day of the vaccination, KDMC had completed 100% immunisation. With a good start, the KDMC has managed to complete immunisation of 3,146 health workers overall, despite a target of 3,100.Moreover, TMC, which started with 88.25 per cent vaccination on the first day, saw more than 100 per cent vaccination till last Saturday. They also took special permissions and increased the number of vaccination centres to 10 from the previous four. This helped surpass the target of 6,000 vaccinations. TMC has immunised 7,422 beneficiaries till now.Both TMC and KDMC have initiated walk-in vaccination facilities for health workers, contributing to an increase in the daily target.“We have the Indian Medical Association, Thane chapter’s members and also have reached out to Asha workers across the city to come forward for the vaccination drive. This has helped us surpass the target. We have been provided with 19,000 doses of the vaccine by the district and will soon rope in the police personnel, revenue department and senior citizens with co-morbidities for the vaccination drive,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.On Friday, a total 451 beneficiaries were vaccinated while the target for the day was 400. Presently, there are four centres that carry out vaccination in KDMC limits.“Although the turnout is more than the target, there is still confusion among the paramedical staff. They are not willing to come for the vaccination. We will try and counsel them and make sure all of the listed beneficiaries take the dosage,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.She added that there was no wastage in the entire drive. “We have not wasted a single dosage till date. In case if the vaccine was left for the day, we go for walk-in immunisations to make sure it was used because once removed, it cannot be restored,” added Panpatil.The highest number of vaccinations carried out by the civic body in a day is 467, which was on Thursday. The civic body has listed 5,116 health workers for the first phase of vaccination. They, however, do not have a timeframe to complete all the health workers yet. NMMC vaccinates 5,424The NMMC has successfully vaccinated 5,424 out of the 6,100 people targeted till Friday. The ones who didn’t turn up were due to issues like being out of station, allergy, pregnancy or lactation.NMMC medical officer, Ratnaprabha Chavan, said, “No one was unwilling to get vaccinated. There has been no untoward incident post vaccination besides a few minor side effects. Headache and heaviness are common side effects after any vaccination for some people. Around two or three people faced the same daily. Besides that, no one has faced any major side effects.”On Friday alone, 1,008 out of 1,100 patients were vaccinated, giving a 92 per cent success rate. NMMC has a total of 10 booths and target per day is now 1,100 as one booth has capacity of 200 beneficiaries and the rest have 100.“As per the government approvals, we would add booths. As of now, we have the capacity of 50 booths if required,” NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. In phase I, the total beneficiaries to get vaccinated are 19,085 in NMMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-tops-covid-vaccination-chart-with-124-success-rate-101611948678703.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||After civic body’s inaction, AAP build crematorium wall in Kalyan||After giving 10 days to the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) to build the wall of a crematorium at Vitthalwadi in Kalyan (E), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) members have themselves started the construction as the civic body failed to do so.With the KDMC elections likely to be held this year, AAP bought the construction materials, spending their own money and started building the wall.“This wall was demolished a year ago for building a public toilet to which we had opposed and the work was stopped. However, the contractor appointed by the civic body did not rebuild the wall. This is the only crematorium in Kalyan East and it does not have a proper wall,” said Dhananjay Jogdand, president, AAP, Kalyan.“Ten days ago, we had written to the civic officials to build the wall or we will build it from our pockets. There was no response from the civic body and today we are doing it by ourselves,” he added.Baban Baraf, deputy engineer, sewage department, KDMC, said, “When the public toilet was opposed, we asked the contractor to stop the work. We had given orders to rebuild the wall, which was demolished. They were supposed to carry out the work in 2-3 days. Meanwhile the AAP members started the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-civic-body-s-inaction-aap-build-crematorium-wall-in-kalyan-101611948318263.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||‘Thane Mental Hospital structures need urgent repairs’||The portion of a plaster that collapsed in one of the Thane Mental Hospital’s structures last week had brought to the fore the urgent need for repairs. Around 102 inmates were shifted to a different ward after the collapse while the mental hospital authorities had put forth a proposal for the renovation of the buildings in hospital premises two years ago and are awaiting funds for the same.Dr Sanjay Bodade, medical superintendent, Thane Mental Hospital, said, “There are some structures within the hospital that are very old and are in urgent need of redevelopment. We are waiting for the earlier grant of ₹24Cr towards the renovation of the hospital. It has been two years since the wait.”There are 73 buildings in the hospital premises. Among these, 14 are for men and 15 are for women. Around 12 buildings among these are in a dangerous condition.The staff are worried that if the renovation is not completed before the monsoon, some of the structures may collapse. A structural audit was conducted last week after a portion of the slab from the ceiling between building Nos. 13 and 14 fell down. These buildings are now vacant as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-mental-hospital-structures-need-urgent-repairs-101611948078240.html
30-01-2021||Other||40K health workers get Covid-19 vaccine in Maharashtra, tally touches 261,319||Maharashtra inoculated 40,732 healthcare workers (HCWs) across 539 vaccination centres on Friday. The state achieved 74% of its intended target to vaccinate 55,320 HCWs, data from the health department revealed. So far, the state has immunised 261,319 of around 800,000 HCWs.Of the shots administered on Friday, 301 were Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, while the remaining were Serum Institute of India’s Covishield. The state has administered 2,613 Covaxin shots across six districts, including Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur.Meanwhile, Mumbai achieved 72% of its daily vaccination target on Friday, with 5,510 HCWs getting the shot across 12 centres. Four cases of adverse effect following immunisation were also reported, but none of the beneficiaries had to be admitted to a hospital, a statement from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) read. The total number of beneficiaries has reached 33,505 HCWs in Mumbai, BMC data said.A senior health department official said the CoWIN app usage is improving gradually. The official added that the vaccination teams are using the app for nearly 90% of the process, including intimating the HCWs.Other parts of the state, such as Beed, Dhule, Satara, and Wardha districts witnessed more turnout than their daily target. While Beed reported 1,180 beneficaries against the target of 900, Satara district vaccinated 1,759 HCWs who walked-in to the centres as against their daily target of 1,600.However, Parbhani, Jalgaon, Sangli and Yavatmal recorded immunisation below 50% of their target. While Parbhani had targeted to inoculate 600 people, only 191 (32%) HCWs turned up for the process. Jalgaon had a target of 1,300, but could immunise only 46% (602) of HCWs.Another state official said the government has added many vaccination centres to boost the numbers. “There will be some variation on a day-to-day basis. However, we are achieving our minimum daily target to inoculate 40,000 people [across the state],” the official said. Meanwhile, 2,771 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from across the state, taking the tally to 2,021,184. Of these, 43,147 are active cases. The state also added 56 Covid-19 deaths, pushing the death toll to 51,000. Of the 56 deaths reported, 36 occurred in the past 48 hours, while six were added from last week. The remaining 14 deaths are from the period before last week. Mumbai reported 494 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the city’s tally to 308,063. The active cases in the city stood at 5,417.Mumbai’s toll reached 11,338 after eight more people died.The number of fresh cases in January across the state has shown a decline, even as the deaths have decreased significantly between December and January. This month, the state has recorded 89,072 cases so far, which is a dip of 17.69% from December, when it recorded 108,216 cases. In January, till Friday, 1,479 fatalities were reported, which is a dip by 37.59% (2,370). Meanwhile, Mumbai saw 46.72% increase in cases in January so far from December. However, the number of fatalities in Mumbai has seen a minor dip, from 232 in December to 222 this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40k-health-workers-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-maharashtra-tally-touches-261319-101611947900457.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Thane: Kin of police who lost lives to Covid given postings in dept||Twenty-six-year-old Suparna Santosh Kalamkar, who was a banker till recently, proudly flaunts her new uniform of a police constable.Kalamkar, whose father Santosh, 51, succumbed to Covid-19 in August last year, was appointed as a constable in the Thane police commissionerate in her father’s place along with 74 others.She said that it was her father’s dream to salute her on duty and she will now strive to serve with honesty and integrity.The Thane police commissionerate instated around 75 family members of police officials who lost their lives on duty or due to Covid-19. Thirty four of them were those whose father or mother succumbed to the deadly virus. They were given appointment letters by Hemant Nagrale, Director General of Police, Maharashtra.Kalamkar said, “I completed my Bachelor of Management Studies (BMS) and was working in a private bank while studying for MPSC and UPSC exams. My father wanted me to become a police officer so that he can salute me on duty. He passed away in August, but I have now got a chance to fulfil his dream.”Another beneficiary, Leena Ghansham Salgaonkar, pursuing her masters in commerce, was appointed as a constable after her father Ghansham died due to Covid. She said, “I lost my father in July and within a week received a letter from Thane commissionerate asking any eligible family member to join duty as a police constable. I have an elder sister who is married. So, my mother asked me to take up the job. We submitted the documents and I got the appointment letter too. They have asked us to join as police constable on Saturday but I will see that I appear for exams and achieve the officer’s post in the future,” she added.Nagrale said that these initiatives should be taken across every commissionerate and district. “I will see that it is done on a priority basis. This will help family members of our police department to shape their lives.”Vivek Phansalkar, commissioner of police, Thane, informed that at least 34 policemen lost their lives due to Covid. “All my police officers and employees were frontline workers and we had assured to take care of their families. We are behind our police force and feel happy to have done our duty towards their families,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-kin-of-police-who-lost-lives-to-covid-given-postings-in-dept-101611947898437.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai crime branch recovers 44 stolen bikes; catch 3||Three persons were arrested and 44 Bullet bikes worth ₹1.30Cr stolen from across Maharashtra and Goa were recovered by Navi Mumbai crime branch earlier this week.The accused used an ignition system (a spare part) easily found in the market to start the Bullets found parked randomly across the city. Around 64 bikes were stolen in the last four months.The accused have been identified as Sohail Shaikh 27, a resident of Mumbra who is into real estate business, Saurabh Karanje, 23, a resident of Vikhroli and Amol Dhobhale, 35, a resident of Pant Nagar in Ghatkopar.There was a continuous rise in motorcycle theft cases between September 2020 and January 47, 2021 in Navi Mumbai, Mumbai, Thane city, Pune city and rural Pimpri-Chinchwad, Ahmednagar and Goa.Sunil Shinde, senior police inspector, crime branch unit 1, said, “We visited each and every spot where these 64 thefts took place and took all the minute details. We managed to crack the mobile numbers of the accused and traced their movements.”Shinde formed four different teams to trace the accused, and on January 22, they arrested two from Sector 17, Vashi.“Shaikh and Karanje were arrested on January 22 and Dhobhale was arrested on January 23. Dhobhale is a history-sheeter and along with others, sold the motorcycles. Our teams reached Navi Mumbai, Thane, Mumbai, Pune and Usmanabad, recovered 44 stolen motorcycles and a four-wheeler worth ₹1.30Cr and have opened around 64 cases.”During investigation, the police found out that the accused used an ignition switch to start the motorcycle. They used to remove the ignition switch socket and replace it with the new one.“Later, they used to make fake documents and number plates, and sold the motorcycles,” added Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-crime-branch-recovers-44-stolen-bikes-catch-3-101611947538580.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination for those aged over 50 by March-April: Mumbai civic body||If all goes as per plan, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) aims to start phase 3 of vaccination for general public above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities by March or April, and phase 2 for frontline workers by mid-February. While the civic officials said general public may have to pay for the vaccine, there is no decision on the cost. The BMC is also exploring enrolment of private hospitals for vaccination. Currently, the BMC is carrying out the first phase of vaccination for healthcare workers (HCW), which began on January 16. Speaking at the Social Sanchar event organised by V-Citizens Action Network (VCAN), Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner of BMC, said, “We aim to complete the first phase by February 14. Post this, we aim to kick off the second phase, which will cover police, solid waste management workers and Mumbai Fire Brigade. But it will depend on when we receive the vaccine deliveries, considering it is regulated by the Central government.” Kakani added, “By March or April, we aim to kick off the third phase in which the general public will be vaccinated. This will include those above the age of 50 and those who have comorbidities. This too will depend on the deliveries. We can augment our daily vaccination capacity to 50,000. For the third phase, our capacity needs to increase further…We are in touch with the chiefs of several private hospitals, and in the coming days, we plan to complete the shortlisting process.” The BMC officials also plan a Covid awareness programme to rule out rumours and misinformation about the vaccines. On Friday, the BMC clarified that vaccination is voluntary. It also added that administering Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, is not advisable for individuals below the age of 18 years. Meanwhile, the civic body on Friday completed its ninth day of immunization at 12 centres, with the addition of NESCO Covid jumbo facility in Goregaon. Friday’s vaccination drive saw a turnout of 72%, as 5,510 healthcare workers were vaccinated out of 7,697 expected to turn up for the day. Among these, four people experienced minor giddiness, called adverse event following immunisation (AEFI), and were kept under observation for 30 minutes before being discharged. So far, the BMC has completed vaccination of 33,505 healthcare workers in the city. The BMC has shortlisted about 125,000 healthcare workers for the first phase, who will receive two doses of the vaccine. “We have to wait 28 days before we can administer the second dose. We will be able to administer the second dose to those who came in for immunization on January 16, from February 13 or 14.” The BMC will also open vaccination centres at jumbo facilities in Dahisar, Mulund, and Richarson and Cruddas (RC) in Byculla, in the coming days. The number of teams carrying out the immunisation drive also increased to 80 on Friday, from 77 on Thursday and Wednesday, from 65 on Monday, 45 on January 23, 39 on January 22, 33 on January 20, and 32 on January 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-for-those-aged-over-50-by-march-april-mumbai-civic-body-101611947418700.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Paintings by JJ students, neon lights give Navi Mumbai new look||The dingy and dark underpasses will soon be history in Navi Mumbai. A drive through some of the underpasses in Navi Mumbai with its beautiful neon hues is akin to driving under a starlit sky.Thanks to the students of JJ School of Arts and the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), the subways and walls in the city have been beautified with colourful paintings and the NMMC has illuminated them with neon lights.Residents are now having fun taking joy rides under these subways.“As you drive through the Seawoods underpass, the colourful hues make it look like staring into the galaxy. With different planets on one side and the stars in neon colours, it is hard to believe that you are on a street in Navi Mumbai,” said Janki Narayan, 33, resident of Seawoods.Read more: In race for cleanest city title, Navi Mumbai civic body puts up dustbins, works on feedbackAs part of NMMC’s Swachh Survekshan 2021, the underpasses and subways within the city are illuminated with creative art works.“We were allotted different spaces in each ward to paint. I had a team in Belapur, where we made a galaxy-based theme and used colours accordingly. We painted the ceiling of the subways during the night and the sides during the day. We managed to complete one subway in less than a week,” said Prasad S (23 years), a student of JJ School of Arts.The one at Seawoods Darave is catching everyone’s eye. Besides the galaxy, they have also painted an astronaut beside the subway entrance to give it a complete effect. The NMMC planned the lights as per the colours used in the paintings, giving an additional hue to the creativity of the students.Read more: Swachh Survekshan 2021: Mock survey in Navi Mumbai planned from Feb 8-13Sunil Lad, executive engineer, NMMC, said, “We have currently finished the underpass at Vashi, Nerul LP, Sanpada and CBD Belapur. A few more will be completed in a fortnight. We are also focussing on the lakesides. Beautification also ensures that people do not litter and dirty the walls. Moreover, students can showcase their creativity.”There are various additions in these paintings as per the space available in each ward. In Vashi, they have painted a tri-colour to mark Republic Day. The NMMC has provided the students with good quality paint that can be maintained easily and will help highlight their themes.Abhijit Bangar, NMMC chief, said, “The quality of paint used for these paintings are such that it won’t wear off easily. Moreover, the art work will not get spoilt if the walls are washed with water. This makes it easy to maintain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/paintings-by-jj-students-neon-lights-give-navi-mumbai-new-look-101611947358242.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Fake social media account of Panvel civic chief blocked; case registered||The Panvel city police have registered a case against an unknown person for creating a fake social media account of Sudhakar Deskmukh, the municipal commissioner of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC).The police had blocked the account that had a picture of the commissioner and was used to extort residents. Deshmukh also posted on his official account alerting people not to trust any messages from the fake account.Deshmukh, in the post, said, “The person is trying to obtain money through Google Pay and other payment options. Please don’t respond to his chats on social media account and also don’t accept the request he sends. I have filed an FIR against the person and am trying to stop the fake account on a social networking site account,” added the post.When contacted, Deskmukh said, “As soon as I started getting messages from friends about someone trying to extort money from the said account, I checked and found it to be fake. I approached the police and registered a case. The fake social networking site account has been blocked by the police,” added Deskmukh.Ajay Landge, senior police inspector, Panvel city police station, confirmed about a case being registered under Sections of the Indian penal code and relevant section of the Information Technology Act, 2000.An officer from Panvel city police said, “Investigation is going on and we are taking the help of the cyber department. We regularly create awareness about such fake accounts. People should be alert and verify with the concerned person before making any transaction and getting cheated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fake-social-media-account-of-panvel-civic-chief-blocked-case-registered-101611947118389.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||At 14.8°Celsius, Mumbai records this season’s lowest temperature||At 14.8 degrees Celsius, Mumbai recorded its lowest temperature of the season on Friday morning. Cold north-western winds brought chill to the city, forecast by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has revealed.IMD’s Santacruz station, which is indicative of temperatures in Mumbai and the suburbs, recorded a minimum temperature of 14.8 degree Celsius, down from 15.2 degree Celsius on Thursday and 2.7 degrees below normal. The Colaba station, which is indicative of south Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature at 17.5 degree Celsius, which is 0.2 degree Celsius below normal and 0.1 degree Celsius below Thursday’s minimum temperature. “Mumbai Santacruz recorded lowest min temperature of this season today (Friday) morning from Dec 2020. [There was] Good chill in air and a pleasant morning again, with first time in this season, the Santacruz Met Observatory recorded below 15°C. No large change expected in next 24 hrs. Thereafter gradual rise [of temperature is expected] (sic),” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), IMD, on Twitter. Prior to this, the city had recorded the season’s lowest minimum temperature at 15 degrees Celsius on December 29 last year. Last season, the city’s lowest minimum temperature was 11.4 degrees Celsius, recorded on January 14, 2020.Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures increased slightly, but remained well below normal. At Santacruz, the maximum temperature was 30.5 degrees Celsius, which was 1.1 degrees Celsius below normal. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 29.5 degrees Celsius – 0.8 degrees below normal. The air quality also improved marginally on Thursday, though it remained in the ‘poor’ category. An overall air quality index (AQI) — the air quality indicator— of 290 was measured in the city, as compared to Wednesday’s 293 (poor).“Due to calm wind conditions prevailing in Mumbai and the surrounding regions, continental air coming into the region is not getting dispersed. This condition is leading to poor AQI in Mumbai. With current calm weather conditions, local emission with continental pollution is likely to keep AQI in poor-very poor categories for Mumbai in the next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in Mumbai. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 locations, Malad had the worst it quality with an AQI of 334, followed by Andheri at 314 with an AQI of 313.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-14-8-celsius-mumbai-records-this-season-s-lowest-temperature-101611947058660.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||HC appoints mediator for Maharashtra min Dhananjay Munde, his ex-partner to resolve disputes||The Bombay high court (HC) has allowed Maharashtra social justice minister Dhananjay Munde to explore the option of mediation to settle the dispute between him and a woman, with whom he had a relationship, after they both informed the court through consent terms that they were willing to settle their differences amicably.The court referred them to former chief justice of Madras HC Vijaya Tahilramani for mediating the dispute. The bench also continued to provide interim relief to the minister and asked the woman to restrain from posting private pictures and videos with Munde on social media till the mediation process is completed.While accepting the proposal of mediation justice Menon said, “The mediator is requested to fix a preliminary meeting at her earliest convenience.”On Thursday, a bench of justice AK Menon, while hearing Munde’s interim application in a defamation suit filed by him last year against the woman, was informed by the counsels for both the parties that they had decided to refer their disputes for mediation. Munde had sought an order to restrain the woman from posting his private pictures and videos on her social media accounts and thus safeguard his right to privacy. His counsels had informed the court on December 16, 2020, that he apprehended that further materials may be published and hence, sought ex parte (without hearing the other side) protection. While accepting Munde’s contentions, justice Menon passed an interim order of injunction against the woman, restraining her from “distributing or publishing any private photo, private video or private audio-recording of the plaintiff or containing the plaintiff in any print, electronic or social media platform including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or WhatsApp,” till February 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-appoints-mediator-for-maharashtra-min-dhananjay-munde-his-ex-partner-to-resolve-disputes-101611946939424.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Notices to jeans washing units in Ambernath for violating environment norms||In a joint drive against jeans washing units causing pollution in Waldhuni river, the Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) served notices to five jeans washing units located at different places in Ambernath on Wednesday.As per the officials, these jeans washing units operate illegally, violating all the environment norms by discharging untreated effluents into the nearby water bodies.Dheeraj Chavan, additional chief officer, AMC, said, “There have been complaints regarding the jeans washing units discharging effluents into the water body, causing pollution. As per the information received by us, we visited the five locations and found these units operating without any permission and also violating the environment norms.”The locations where the jeans washing units were found are Forest naka, Palegaon petrol pump and Loknagari, Mahalakshmi Nagar.“After serving the closure notices to these units, if they are not closed in 24 hours, we will register a case against them with the police station. We have already started serving the notices to them under the Maharashtra Municipal Council Act,” added Chavan.Meanwhile, the MPCB officials collected water samples from the water bodies that will be tested to study the pollution caused and the source of it.“In November, we had asked the civic bodies to act upon illegal activities causing environmental damages. Meanwhile, the MPCB is also cracking down on industries causing pollution,” said Sanjay Bhosale, deputy regional officer, MPCB.The illegally operating jeans washing units in Ulhasnagar that were once removed shut down by the civic body have slowly shifted to nearby Kalyan and Ambernath since the last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/notices-to-jeans-washing-units-in-ambernath-for-violating-environment-norms-101611946938370.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||CM unveils first train for Metro-2A, 7; says MVA working faster than BJP||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Friday unveiled the first indigenously-built metro train for Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E). Thackeray also inaugurated the Charkop depot, an operation and control centre for the two lines and a receiving substation at the depot; a branding manual, and a common mobility card designed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). The CM said that compared to its predecessor, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is completing works at a faster pace. The driverless-enabled Metro rake that Thackeray unveiled on Friday had earlier been unveiled in Bengaluru by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Maharashtra’s urban development minister Eknath Shinde, who had visited Bharat Earth Movers Limited’s (BEML) manufacturing unit earlier. Shinde on Friday said, “The two Metros will be operational in the next four months. Work on rest of the lines is also in progress.” The trial runs for the two Metros are expected to begin in March and commercial operations are expected to start from May 2021, officials said. “The coming years are very important for Mumbai. With the Metro network, the coastal road, the Goregaon-Mulund Link Road, the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link and the Samruddhi Corridor, commute in Mumbai will be different,” Thackeray said at the unveiling on Friday. “I am not saying that the previous government did not undertake works, but we are completing works at a faster pace,” he said. Previously, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which led the previous state government, had criticised the MVA government for staying the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) works. Metropolitan commissioner of MMRDA RA Rajeev said this was “the first Make-in-India train” and was at par with international metro trains. He said that 120 kms of metro network will be completed by 2022. At the event held at Charkop depot, seven women train operators and controllers welcomed the dignitaries. HT had earlier reported that Maha Mumbai Metro Operation Corporation Limited (MMMOCL), which will handle the operations of all Metros, has already trained 18 women operators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-unveils-first-train-for-metro-2a-7-says-mva-working-faster-than-bjp-101611946878763.html
30-01-2021||Lucknow||'Can't display list of top 10 criminals in public for surveillance purpose': HC||The Allahabad High Court on Friday directed the Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP) to forthwith remove the names/identities of top-10 criminals, along with their criminal antecedents, from the flysheet board from all the police stations in the state as the same is violative of Article 21 of the Constitution.The court, however, held that there is nothing wrong in preparing a list of top criminals in a district for surveillance.The court directed the Director-General of Police to ensure that a circular in the light of the judgment is sent to all the police heads of the districts to ensure strict compliance with the order.The court held that the action of police officers in disclosing the identity of criminals in police stations in the public gaze is absolutely unwarranted and uncalled for as well as violative of Article 21 of the Constitution.The bench comprising Justices Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal passed the order while allowing three petitions filed by Jeeshan alias Jaanu, Balveer Singh Yadav and Doodh Nath Yadav.Also read: ‘Have full confidence’ - PM Netanyahu messages PM Modi after blast near embassyHowever, the court said that the benefit of the judgment will not be given to any “claimed offenders and fugitives in law”.The three petitioners were aggrieved by the publication of their names in the list of top 10 criminals displayed at various police stations in the districts of Prayagraj and Kanpur Nagar.“In the above backdrop, it is apparent that neither socially nor politically it is desirable to curtail human dignity, which is infringed when the names of accused persons are displayed on the flysheet board of the police station concerned or anywhere else without there being any proclamation issued against them under Section 82 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Thus, this practice of putting the names on the flysheet board is derogatory to the concept of human dignity and privacy,” the court stated.The court held that there was nothing wrong in selecting top 10 criminals in a district for surveillance and observed, “The circular of DG, Police, UP dated 6.7.2020, envisaging a criteria to select top-10 criminals in a district and each police station is in exercise of power to maintain surveillance, to which no illegality could be attached. I also hold the circular dated 6.7.2020 to be lawful and valid. However, there is nothing in the circular which enables the police to disclose the identity of an accused and his criminal antecedents in public gaze.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cant-display-list-of-top-10-criminals-in-public-for-surveillance-purpose-hc-101611946501455.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Media can’t disclose survivors’ identity even indirectly, says Bombay HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) last week issued additional restraints on print and electronic media to ensure that the identity of rape or child abuse survivors is not disclosed indirectly by publishing details of their parents, address or name of school. Acting in a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the mother of a rape survivor from Ahmednagar, the division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar restrained the media from also publishing the names of parents of the survivors, their residential or office addresses, name of the educational institute where the survivor studies, or the survivor’s relationship with the accused, in case they are related. The bench issued the guidelines after noticing that although Section 228 (A) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had provisions to penalise those disclosing the identities of rape survivors directly or indirectly and detailed guidelines were laid down by the Supreme Court (SC) in Nipun Saxena’s case in 2019, the identity of the petitioner was brought before HC. The petitioner had brought newspaper cuttings to HC’s notice to point out how her name and detailed address, along with full particulars of the accused, were given out by local newspapers, while reporting the incident of kidnapping and rape of her daughter in 2011. The petitioner had also pointed out recent newspaper reports regarding an offence registered by Ahmednagar police against an assistant police inspector for raping his sister-in-law. While reporting the incident, the newspapers had given details of the locality and residential address of the accused, revealing the identity of the survivor. The court, therefore, found it necessary to issue further directions to ensure that identities of survivors of rape and child sexual abuse are not indirectly disclosed by anyone, especially the print and electronic media. Besides, the court has also directed the lower courts conducting trials in rape and cases under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, to conceal the name of the survivor, by referring to them with some abbreviations or letters such as “X”, while framing charges, recording statements or evidences of the survivor or of any other witness. “The name, place of residence, age, occupation shall be kept in a sealed cover and in the name column, they can be referred in the same manner described while framing charge, keeping the address column, occupation column blank,” said the bench. It has also directed police to avoid naming rape survivors under the Pocso Act and instead refer to them as “X” in remand reports forwarded to the jurisdictional magistrates or special courts. Section 228A and the Nipun Saxena case Section 228A of IPC prohibits printing or publishing the name or any matter which may reveal the identities of a rape accused and survivor and prescribes punishment of imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years and fine for revealing the identities. The section also forbids printing or publishing any matter relating to the trials in rape cases and prescribes the same punishment for doing so. In Nipun Saxena’s case, the Supreme Court (SC) declared that “no person can print or publish in print, electronic, social media, etc. the name of victims in rape and Pocso Act cases or even in a remote manner disclose any facts which can lead to the victim being identified and which should make their identity known to the public at large.” In the same case, SC has also restrained the police from putting first information reports (FIRs) in rape and Pocso cases in public domain and mask the name of the victims whenever documents relating to these cases are required to be made public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/media-can-t-disclose-survivors-identity-even-indirectly-says-bombay-hc-101611946698556.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gym trainer robs mobile using toy gun, arrested||Oshiwara police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old gym trainer for allegedly robbing a mobile phone worth ₹85,000 from a shopkeeper using a toy gun to threaten the victim.According to police, the incident occurred around 6pm on Thursday, when Khan visited a mobile store at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri (West). He removed a toy gun from his pocket and threatened the shop owner, Jagdish Jetu, and snatched his mobile phone and fled from the spot on his bike.The shopkeeper immediately rushed to Oshiwara police station and reported the incident.The accused Danish Khan was identified after scrutinising the CCTV footage installed outside the shop.The accused was picked at night from his residence and the stolen phone was recovered. During the search, police also recovered around ₹50,000 cash from Khan, said senior inspector Sanjay Bendale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gym-trainer-robs-mobile-using-toy-gun-arrested-101611946519295.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Inching closer to Hindutva, Raj Thackeray to visit Ayodhya in March||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray seems to be adopting Hindutva hardline to revive his political fortunes as he is set to visit Ayodhya in March. Thackeray will visit the Ram temple in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. This was decided in a party meeting held at Bandra in Mumbai. “Rajsaheb will visit Ayodhya between March 1 and 9 to seek the blessings of Lord Ram. He will also visit the Hanuman temple there. He will be accompanied by his party colleagues,” said senior MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar.After his 2019 electoral debacle where he was able to win just one Assembly seat while his rival and cousin Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray became the chief minister of Maharashtra, Raj Thackeray has taken up the Hindutva hardline and is also becoming close to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A year ago, Thackeray unveiled a saffron flag for his party. Even as the lockdown restrictions were being eased, he advocated for reopening of temples which were closed due to Covid-19 pandemic.“Raj wants to fashion himself as a Hindutva leader and become close to the BJP. Since the current Shiv Sena no longer advocates stringent Hindutva line like its founder Bal Thackeray, Raj wants to fill that vacuum,” said political analyst Hemant Desai. “Even the BJP would like to have Raj at their side as he can split Shiv Sena votes and benefit them,” he added. Desai also pointed out that Raj did not criticise the BJP even in the farmers’ agitation. The Shiv Sena, however, taunted Thackeray saying it was ready to guide him in his visit to Ayodhya. “If Raj Thackeray feels like going to Ayodhya, he should do so. We will guide him,” said Sena MP Sanjay Raut.The Supreme Court in 2019 awarded the disputed site on which the mosque was demolished in 1992 to build Ram Mandir. In August this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had performed the ground-breaking ceremony where the grand temple is being built.After he floated MNS in 2006, Thackeray adopted sons of the soil agenda and launched a violent campaign against north Indians, accusing them of stealing jobs of the locals. His party workers resorted to attacks on north Indian youths appearing for railway recruitment examinations as well as migrant labourers in Mumbai and other parts of the state. He reaped political benefit as the MNS got 13 MLAs in 2009 Assembly elections, but the tally came down to one in 2014 polls. Ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he campaigned against the BJP and bitterly criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but did not see any reversal in his fortunes. However, a year after formation of the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government, he seems to be moving closer to the BJP. BJP leaders have said they are open for alliance, provided Thackeray gives up his opposition to north Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-inching-closer-to-hindutva-raj-thackeray-to-visit-ayodhya-in-march-101611946518188.html
30-01-2021||Kolkata||Amit Shah’s two-day Bengal tour postponed in wake of explosion in Delhi||The two-day tour of Union home minister Amit Shah to poll-bound West Bengal was postponed at the last minute on Friday, BJP leaders have confirmed.“Shah is not arriving today or on Saturday. His trip has been postponed. The next dates would be informed later on,” said Dilip Ghosh, Bharatiya Janata Party’s president in Bengal.A senior BJP leader said that the decision was taken after an explosion took place near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi on Friday evening, prompting authorities to scale up the security and sound a high alert in the national capital.Shah was scheduled to land in Kolkata around 11 pm on Friday. He was scheduled to camp in the state over the weekend to bolster the party’s campaign in the poll-bound eastern state.Speculations were rife that a few political leaders would join the BJP during Shah’s visit.“The rallies would however continue. Only Shah is not coming,” said a senior BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/amit-shah-s-two-day-bengal-tour-postponed-in-wake-of-explosion-in-delhi-101611946296162.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Mock survey in Navi Mumbai planned from Feb 8-13||The NMMC commissioner has planned to carry a mock survey with residents in each of the wards to study their preparedness and shortcomings for the Swachh Survekshan 2021.Abhijit Bangar has ordered the survey to be conducted from February 8 to 13 while the city will be ready for the actual survey by February 7.In a recent meeting, Bangar took stock of the status of garbage segregation at the point of origin. He also asked for strict implementation of the policy of garbage treatment within the society premises where more than 50kg of garbage is generated.Bangar said, “I will personally be inspecting and reviewing the work under Swachh from February 1 to 5. Time-bound targets will be given to the officials for completion of the pending work. I have ordered ward offices to levy fine against use of banned plastic materials. We will also be forming a special team at the headquarter level to tackle the issue.”The beautification work in the city will be completed by January 31 with special stress being given to such work in villages and slums.Bangar added, “We will send out a message in the village and slum areas that the garbage should be handed over only after the garbage collection vehicles arrive. Public and community toilets should be cleaned regularly and not just as per the set time table to ensure their cleanliness at all times. Housing societies and developers should be encouraged to make use of treated sewage water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-mock-survey-in-navi-mumbai-planned-from-feb-813-101611946398181.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University issues guidelines for online exams||Panjab University has issued a set of instructions for students appearing in online semester examinations starting from February 15. The university has said that admit cards will be made available from February 8.The question papers will be available both on ugexam.puchd.ac.in and pgexam.puchd.ac.in and will have to be downloaded directly from the homepage of the above websites without logging in.It will be the students’ responsibility to download the question papers and the same will not be forwarded to them by the authorities. The students will have to ensure that they have downloaded the correct question paper.For submission of answer sheets for regular students of colleges, departments, regional centres appearing in both morning and evening slots, the students are required to either email or upload the answer sheets on the email ID or portal given, or submit the hard copy of the answer sheets in person to the college. Submission of the answer sheets through both ways is not permitted. Online submission to be done within 90minThe deadline for submission of answer sheets conducted in the morning slot through physical mode of submission is 3pm and for evening slot, 7pm on the day of the examination. If the student has opted for online mode of submission of the answer sheet, it should be done within 90 minutes of the completion of the paper.Meanwhile, for University School of Open Learning (USOL) and private students appearing in both morning and evening slots, submitting the answer sheet through email is not permitted. For the morning slot, the students are required to submit the hard copy of the answer sheets through speed post or registered post by 3pm on the same day of examination.Uploading the answer sheets is not allowed for the morning slot. For the evening slot, students are required to upload the answer sheets on the link provided on the portals ugexam.puchd.ac.in and pgexam.puchd.ac.in within the next 90 minutes of completing the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-issues-guidelines-for-online-exams-101611946339321.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress raises questions over fundraising for Ram temple||The Congress has raised questions over collection of donations for Ram temple in Ayodhya by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), saying there is a possibility of misappropriation of the funds. The BJP, on the other hand, said the Congress should not poke their nose in the issue as the drive has been accepted by the common people.Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that though the donation collection for the Ram temple is being done through Ram Mandir Trust, BJP and RSS workers are collecting donations by going door-to-door and there was a possibility of use of the funds for the party. “In the past, the funds collected have been misused by the organisations related to Sangh parivar. There are many cases of misappropriation registered in various parts of the country. The state government should examine that the funds collected by BJP and RSS reach the trust,” said Sawant.“Nirmohi Akhara, which has been fighting for the Ram temple for the past several years, has accused the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) of pilfering ₹1,400 crore collected for the temple in Ayodhya. The All India Hindu Mahasabha (AIHM) had also accused the VHP of misappropriating ₹1,400 crore and several quintals of gold in 2015,” he said. He added, “Neither has the Sangh Parivar given any reply to the allegations nor has the BJP government investigated it. The AIHM had lodged a complaint with the Prime Minister’s office on August 4, 2017 related to this.” The Congress leader further said that the AIHM has opposed BJP’s fund raising for the temple saying it was just a political and money-making programme.The BJP has alleged that the Congress’s accusation is out of jealousy because of the response to the donation programme. “The fundraising is being done transparently. The receipts are being given to the donors on the spot. Even poor people have been responding to the drive because of the confidence they have in the organisations collecting it,” said BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye. Citing that the Congress’s leadership is out on bail in the National Herald case, he said, “We will not divert the donation collected for Ram temple like funds were diverted to the National Herald.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-raises-questions-over-fundraising-for-ram-temple-101611946338096.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCPA reopens on Feb 3; concerts, plays, stand-up, screenings on list||The curtain is up and the doors are open again. The National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) is reopening on February 3, after a Covid-19 pandemic-induced break that began in end-March. On the programme in February is an array of live performances ranging from plays and recitals to concerts, stand-up comedy and screenings of documentaries and notable theatrical performances from around the world. The opening concert will be a performance by the Symphony Orchestra of India. Also on February 3, there will be a digital broadcast of an event titled A Homage to Abbaji - Ustad Allarakha, a performance led by his son Zakir Hussain that was first presented at the NCPA in February 2019, to mark the tabla maestro’s 100th birth anniversary. “There is no substitute for live performances. With ever-evolving lockdown rules and travel restrictions, the focus will be on curating high-quality performances featuring local artistes and concerts by our resident musicians of the SOI Chamber Orchestra,” NCPA chairperson Khushroo N Suntook told HT. “We are prioritising safety with protocols designed in adherence with rules laid down by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai. We’ve made sure that all venues, green rooms and washrooms are sanitised and will have temperature checks upon entry, for the safety of audiences.” Meanwhile, the NCPA will continue to engage with audiences through its digital offerings too. Over the past 10 months, the NCPA@home digital broadcast series offered curated archival performances from across genres. “It was rolled out within days of the lockdown announcement,” Suntook says. “What started as a way of keeping members culturally engaged went on to reach new audiences beyond India and form a virtual community of connoisseurs.” For the February schedule and tickets to the live events, go to ncpamumbai.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncpa-reopens-on-feb-3-concerts-plays-stand-up-screenings-on-list-101611946279255.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy: Punjab lose to Baroda in semis||Punjab’s unbeaten run in the ongoing Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy came to an end after they lost to Baroda in the semi-finals played at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium, Ahmedabad, on Friday. Baroda beat Punjab by 25 runs and will take on Tamil Nadu in the finals on Sunday.Baroda captain Kedar Devdhar and Kartik Kakade stitched a match-winning 93-run partnership to fashion their team’s victory. While Devdhar scored 49-ball 64 runs, Kakade made 53 runs off 41 deliveries.Upon winning the toss, Punjab chose to field. Baroda scored 160 runs for the loss of three wickets. Punjab were sloppy on the field and gave away too many runs. Siddharth Kaul dropped Devdhar’s catch on leg-spinner Mayank Markande’s bowling and Baroda captain made most of it.Punjab lost their in-form openers Abhishek Sharma and Prabhsimran Singh early in the innings. Baroda pacers bowled with speed and great line. Punjab batsmen struggled to go for big shots. Prabhsimran and Anmolpreet Singh made 15 runs each. Gurkeerat Singh’s knock of 39 runs was the only good one in the Punjab batting line-up.The fact that Punjab captain Mandeep Singh injured his shoulder while fielding also dented Punjab’s chances. He came out to bat at number six in pain and scored an unbeaten 41 off 23 balls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/syed-mushtaq-ali-t20-trophy-punjab-lose-to-baroda-in-semis-101611946277502.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||In race for cleanest city title, Navi Mumbai civic body puts up dustbins, works on feedback||With Swachh Survekshan 2021 barely a few days away, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is now focussing more on the residents’ feedback section to win the title of the cleanest city in Maharashtra for the sixth consecutive year.From installing dustbins every 200m, and beautifying gardens and roads, to mapping the public toilets in the city, the corporation is going out of its way to impress the residents.Of the total 6,000 marks for the survey, the residents’ feedback section has been allotted 1,800 marks (it was only 1,500 last year). Ever since the government of India started conducting this survey, Navi Mumbai has retained the tag of ‘cleanest city of Maharashtra’. In an effort to give an impressive look to the city, the NMMC is now cleaning and painting the walls and road dividers. They have also replaced broken dustbins with new ones and have ensured that dustbins are placed every 200m. Roads are being swept twice a day in the residential and commercial areas.The NMMC also initiated creek clean-up drives at several places.Babasaheb Rajale, deputy municipal commissioner of NMMC (solid waste management), said, “The central government officials will randomly call residents and ask if the roads are swept in Navi Mumbai properly or if the public toilets can be located on maps, among others. We are doing all this but if the residents are not aware, they will not give positive replies.“NMMC eyes the tag of cleanest city in India, not only in Maharashtra. Last year, Navi Mumbai was declared the third cleanest city in India. And for the past five consecutive years, Navi Mumbai has retained the tag of the cleanest city of Maharashtra.”The NMMC is distributing pamphlets in the housing societies mentioning all the initiatives they are undertaking. “Awareness is also made through public announcements in vehicles and playing a jingle made by Bollywood singer Shankar Mahadevan, the brand ambassador of Swachh Navi Mumbai,” he said.The NMMC has also upgraded nearly 50 gardens and also installed open air gyms in 60 of them. Around 100 gardens in NMMC have composting pit while the defunct toilets and fountains have been repaired.According to Rajale, almost all the housing societies in the city are now segregating dry waste from the wet ones before handing those to the waste collection vehicles. The NMMC stopped collecting waste from those societies that did not segregate during the lockdown as a punitive measure.Certain places in Navi Mumbai fall in the jurisdictions of other agencies such as Cidco and MIDC. The NMMC is also conducting meetings with these agencies to ensure measures from their end.Hemant Sharma, an activist from Vashi, said, “As far as cleanliness is concerned, the NMMC is doing an impressive work. But the scenario may not be the same in slums and gaonthan areas. For example, many of those people are still not segregating their wastes. The NMMC should pay due attention to those areas so that they can achieve the desired results.”Another official from the solid waste management department said, “Our officials are regularly visiting those places and instructing the residents to segregate wastes. Our regular waste collecting vehicles cannot enter certain areas due to narrow roads. Therefore, we have arranged smaller vehicles and handcarts for those areas. The slums and gaonthan areas are also being swept twice a day.”HOW NMMC KEEPS NAVI MUMBAI CLEAN:Fine of ₹200 per flat imposed on a daily basis for not segregating dry waste from wet ones.Door-to-door campaign started so that every household segregates wastes before handing them to society sweepers.Agencies roped in for collecting and disposing of e-wastes in a scientific way. Such wastes collected at public places and disposed of free of cost.Wall-painting drive started to create awareness among the people. Road dividers are cleaned and colourful flowers planted. Parks and gardens modernised. Open air gyms and playing instruments installed in many of them.Dustbins have been installed every 200m even though the government standard is one every 500m.Public toilets cleaned, water connection provided. City roads cleaned twice a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-race-for-cleanest-city-title-navi-mumbai-civic-body-puts-up-dustbins-works-on-feedback-101611946218297.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbaiites can now track BEST bus, see schedule on mobile phones||Passengers will now be able to track Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses and get estimated time of arrival (ETA) of buses on the ‘BEST pravas’ mobile application. This will be possible as the BEST on Friday inaugurated its new command control room (CCR) with intelligent transport management system (ITMS) at its Wadala bus depot. The dedicated BEST bus control system was inaugurated through video conferencing by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Using ITMS, BEST management will be able to keep a track of bus movements through vehicle tracking, bus schedule as well as of drivers and conductors operating the buses. “The control centre will also provide information for passengers coming from outside Mumbai. During the lockdown, BEST buses were used to transport essential services workers. The employees of BEST have contributed the best and Mumbai will be grateful for that,” said Thackeray. The ITMS includes a mobile application which will provide information regarding the buses which will arrive in the next 10 to 15 minutes, capacity of buses and number of buses plying. The management will update and sync the system with its present mobile application ‘BEST pravas’.In addition, information regarding the buses, routes will also be displayed at bus stops along with ETA of buses. The control room will be manned by 16 staffers to monitor buses on a regular basis. “Sixteen staffers will be present in the control room with computers and phones. Live location and speed of the BEST buses can be tracked through global positioning system (GPS),” said Surendrakumar Bagde, general manager, BEST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-can-now-track-best-bus-see-schedule-on-mobile-phones-101611946158689.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University gets new DUI||Professor VR Sinha from the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, has been appointed as the dean of university instructions (DUI) with effect from February 1 for a period of one year.“He was posted as dean research for a period of nine months and has more than 25 years of teaching experience, with over 100 research papers to his credit. He has around 18 students under his guidance for PhD,” the university release stated.The university also announced the appointment of professor Rajesh Gill of the department of sociology as dean research from February 1 for a period of one year or till she attains the age of 60 years, whichever is earlier.“She has more than 33 years of teaching experience and has published 95 research articles on various themes. She has to her credit six books and 14 PhD research guidance. She has served as a member of the syndicate and the senate for many years. She also remained president of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association for three terms in a row,” an official statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-gets-new-dui-101611945738624.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||Schools to reopen for students of classes 6-8||Schools across the state will reopen for students in classes 6 to 8 from February 1 — nearly 11 months after they were closed across the country amid Covid-19 outbreak in March last year. Students are required to produce a medical well-being certificate and a parental consent letter for school visits as per the SOP(standard operating procedure) issued by the education department on Friday.In a directive shared with all district education officers on Friday, the directorate of education said that the state government had decided to reopen schools for students in classes 6 to 8, while taking cognisance of the importance of learning and classroom lessons for students. Both government and private schools will be allowed to conduct classes of three-hour duration from 10am till 1.30 pm for students in these classes, as per the directive. Voluntary visits to schools for doubt-clearing sessions were allowed from September, followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. In mid-November, the Haryana government decided to shut schools till November 30, over concerns of a spike in Covid-19 cases among students. Government and private schools reopened on December 14 for students of classes 10 and 12 and on December 21 for classes 9 and 11. Prior to visiting the school, students need to get a basic health check-up done from the nearest primary health centre (PHC) or any other health facility and get a health clearance stating that they do not exhibit any Covid-19 symptoms and are healthy. Students need to produce the health clearance letter before visiting the school. This check-up should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to visiting the school. Along with the health clearance, students need to bring a written proof of parental consent. “The idea behind the health clearance is to ensure that students coming to school do not have a cold, cough or fever and are healthy. Written consent from students will also be sought prior to visits,” said Kalpna Singh, deputy district education officer. The department said that free health check-ups at PHCs and other facilities will be coordinated by the district administration in consultation with the chief medical officer to avoid any inconvenience to students and no tests will be conducted on the school campus. The directive also mentioned that cooked meals will not be provided in schools and the delivery of dry ration to students’ houses will continue for now.Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that the school had received the order pertaining to school reopening on Friday evening and would apprise students about the development. “Students in classes 9 to 12 have been visiting the school regularly for sessions. From February 1, students in 6 to 8 will also join us. We will reach out to all students, inform them about the requirements, and ensure that adequate measures are taken for physical distancing in classes,” said Raghav. Most private schools said that they were likely to continue with online classes for students in these classes. They said that feedback from parents will be taken before arriving at any decision pertaining to school visits. Aparna Erry, principal of the DAV Public School in Sector 14, said that while the school had started calling students in classes 9 to 12 for sessions, online classes were continuing for all other classes. “As always, we will seek feedback from parents. Based on their feedback, we will make a decision. For now, students seem to be comfortable with online classes,” said Erry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-to-reopen-for-students-of-classes-68-101611945737450.html
30-01-2021||Other||AAP reiterates support to protesting farmers, party MPs stage sit-in outside Parliament||New Delhi Three days after protests against the contentious farm laws passed by the Central government turned violent in the city, the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) reiterated their support to the farmers who are demanding that the laws be repealed.Kejriwal on Friday morning deployed deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and urban development minister Satyendar Jain to visit the agitating farmers at Delhi’s borders and ensure, once again, that they get access to water and sanitation facilities.At the same time, a bunch of AAP MPs, led by Sanjay Singh, held a sit-in protest at the Parliament demanding the farm laws be withdrawn. The AAP was also among the opposition parties which boycotted the President’s address in the Parliament on Friday morning over the same issue. Later in the day, Singh also represented the AAP by participating in the Kisan Mahapanchayat rally held in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar area. In his first tweet on the matter ever since violence rocked the Capital on Republic Day (Tuesday), Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Kejriwal on Friday assured farmers that he continues to support their demands, which he said are “justified”.Responding to a tweet from an unverified account, purportedly of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, Kejriwal said in Hindi: “Rakesh ji, we are fully with the farmers. Your demands are valid. It is completely wrong to discredit the farmers’ movement, calling the farmers as traitors and making false cases against the farmer leaders who have been agitating peacefully for so many days.”The number of farmers participating in the sit-in swelled overnight at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Ghazipur after a video of an appeal made by Tikait, in which he said he would not leave the venue, went viral.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia who reached Ghazipur at around 11.25am oversaw the arrangements made by the city administration and met Tikait.“Yesterday (Thursday), chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to Tikait, who told him that the UP government had removed all arrangements for water from the Ghazipur protest site. Kejriwal assured him that the Delhi government would get the matter sorted. So, today, mobile toilets have once again been installed here and water facility has also been provided by us,” said Sisodia, while talking to reporters during his visit.He, however, refused to get on the stage where Tikait was seated saying he did not want to mar the sanctity of the ongoing “non-political movement” of the farmers.Welcoming Sisodia, Tikait briefly addressed the protestors and rebutted questions raised by reporters on allowing politicians to participate in their movement.“It is in such tough times that one aandolankari (protester) comes to help another aandolankari. Kejriwal is also an aadolankari and we respect aandolankaaris. They are guests, how can we turn them away,” said Tikait referring to Kejriwal’s life prior to politics as an RTI activist and anti-corruption crusader. Sisodia, who is also a senior AAP leader, reiterated that the AAP stands in support of the farmers. “The farmers who have been giving food to the entire nation are being called traitors. They (farmers) are being abused and called violent. It is for the first time in India’s history that the Sikh community, known for their hardcore nationalism, are being called traitors by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Central government,” he said.The deputy chief minister questioned the BJP-led Central government for not withdrawing the three farm laws till now even as the farmers had been protesting for more than two months against it.“The BJP and the Central government will have to answer what kind of pressure they are facing from a few big private businessmen that they are refusing to hear the voices of crores of farmers and the public in general,” Sisodia said.At Singhu border, minister Satyendar Jain and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said they have not been allowed by the Delhi Police to station water tankers for the farmers.Chadha is also the co-incharge of AAP’s Punjab unit. Punjab, where AAP is the principal opposition, is scheduled to go to polls in early 2022.On Thursday, Kejriwal had announced that the AAP will fight Assembly elections in six states over the next two years. These include Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab.From Singhu, Chadha said, “The BJP government is not letting us set up even the basic facilities for the protesting farmers here. Jain, other AAP MLAs and me are here to provide water facility to the farmers. If there is any specific order by the Central government that water should not be provided to the farmers then they should show us the order. They cannot stop us. Delhi government will ensure that sanitation and water facilities are set up at Singhu border today [Friday].”At the Parliament, the AAP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh and Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann alleged that the party MPs were not being allowed to enter the Parliament.“We have not been allowed entry into the Parliament. They shut the door on us because we were vehemently opposing the three farm laws. The BJP has ensured that only political parties which support their decisions are allowed entry into the Parliament. We will continue our sit-in here outside the door of the Parliament,” said Mann.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-reiterates-support-to-protesting-farmers-party-mps-stage-sit-in-outside-parliament-101611945678586.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Locals march with tricolour in Chandni Chowk amid heavy police presence||A group of people, claiming to be local residents, on Friday afternoon took out a parade in Chandni Chowk holding a big tricolour and shouting slogans against the farmers who are protesting against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. The protestors, according to local police, did not have permission to carry out the parade, prompting heavy police deployment in the area for about 2-3 hours. “A group of 50-100 people with no masks or social distancing held on to a life-size tricolour and made two rounds starting from the Gauri Shankar mandir to the Town Hall. In their third and last round, they stopped at the fountain. Someone then spread a rumour that the group had entered the gurdwara, prompting heavy police deployment in the area,” said a resident of the area, who did not wish to be named. A senior police official said the group was later dispersed after the DCP and a battery of police personnel in full riot gear carried out a march across the Chandni Chowk area. “The counter protests, followed by the heavy police deployment, led to a lot of confusion and fear among the locals in the area,” said a member of the market association in the area, on condition of anonymity.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said around 10-20 people from Chandni Chowk had gathered with a tricolor for carrying out a march. “We called in adequate number of policemen and the group was dispersed. There was no violence reported. No one was detained or arrested,” Alphonse said.The DCP said sufficient police presence is being maintained in the area to ensure law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/locals-march-with-tricolour-in-chandni-chowk-amid-heavy-police-presence-101611945678012.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Forensic teams visit Ghazipur as part of Jan 26 violence probe||Forensic teams visited the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Ghazipur on Friday afternoon to collect forensic samples, as part of their probe into the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26. The police also released a notice appealing to citizens, including media personnel, to submit videos and any other information related to the Republic Day violence.Senior police officers, who asked not to be named, said the law enforcement agency’s special cell (anti-terror unit), which is probing the alleged conspiracy behind Tuesday’s violence, has issued notices to several farmer leaders and other protesters, including Punjab actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned activist Lakha Sidhana.A second police officer, who asked not to be named, said they also visited the protest sites at Delhi’s borders on Friday, but found neither Sidhu nor Sidhana.Apart from the incidents of violence and rioting, the two are being probed on charges of sedition under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly conspiring to trigger violence in the national capital on Republic Day and “create an international embarrassment for the government on Republic Day,” as per the Delhi Police FIR.Meanwhile, the police have arrested a 22-year-old farmer for robbing a police officer of a wireless set during the tractor rally at Nangloi on Tuesday.“The suspect, Ajay Rathee, robbed the wireless set from a constable deployed in a Vajra van (a special police vehicle) at Nangloi Chowk. We recovered the device and arrested him based on intelligence inputs,” said A Koan, deputy commissioner of police, in a press release.The officer said Rathee, a resident of Rohtak in Haryana, was found to be involved in three previous criminal cases registered in Delhi — one under the Arms Act and two under the Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forensic-teams-visit-ghazipur-as-part-of-jan-26-violence-probe-101611945677475.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Not deterred by violence, more will join us, say farmer protesters at Singhu||As the dust settled after the violence at Singhu border — where a group of locals claiming to be residents of nearby neighbourhoods clashed with protesters on Friday, leaving at least 15 farmers and five police officers injured — leaders of the agitation said that more protesters will join their stir in the coming days in a press conference.“When there is police protection and the roads are closed, how did the mob manage to reach the stage? Farmers are not scared of blood or bullets. We are farmers who feed the people of this country as well as protect its borders. We send our sons to the border. The ones who tell us about the tricolour should know that it is our sons who come home wrapped in the tricolour,” said Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union. Farmers have also announced that on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday, they will observe Sadhbhavna Diwas, along with observing a hunger strike from 9am to 5pm. During a press conference on Friday, farmer leaders also said that more people would be joining the protest in the coming days. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said, “This is the turning point of our agitation, which has been going on for 65 days. They have shut off the internet so that we can’t share our truths with the country.” President of Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab Darshan Pal, who has been served a notice by Delhi police for the Republic Day violence, said, “Internet should be restored across protest sites, otherwise people will start agitating against this as well. Today, we just saw farmers arriving in Ghazipur. In a couple of days, more protesters will arrive at Tikri, Singhu, and Shahjahanpur border from Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan.” The farmer leader added that around 800 trolleys from Mohali and 1,000 vehicles from Ludhiana were already on their way. “There are attempts being made to intimidate or threaten us by incidents like the ones at Ghazipur or Singhu. But these will only cause more anguish among farmers and thousands will join the agitation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-deterred-by-violence-more-will-join-us-say-farmer-protesters-atsinghu-101611945619675.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Metro trains between Model Town-Vishwavidyalaya to not operate from 11:30 pm on Saturday till 8am on Sunday||Trains between Model Town and Vishwavidyalaya Metro station on the Yellow line will not operate from 11:30 pm on Saturday till 8am on Sunday due to maintenance works, Delhi Metro rail corporation (DMRC) said on Friday. “To undertake planned track maintenance work on up-line (towards Samaypur Badli), train services will not be available between Model Town and Vishwavidyalaya section from 11:30pm on Saturday till 8am on Sunday. Normal train services will remain available from Samaypur Badli to Model Town and Vishwavidyalaya to Huda City Centre during this period as per routine time table in the above sections. Announcements regarding the same will also be made at the stations and inside the trains on Yellow Line during this period,” read a statement issued by the DMRC on Friday. A senior metro official said very few commuters will be affected by this minor disruption as the footfall during the early morning hours on Sunday and late night on Saturday is usually very low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-trains-between-model-town-vishwavidyalaya-to-not-operate-from-11-30-pm-on-saturday-till-8am-on-sunday-101611945620277.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Border closure, Beating Retreat hit traffic movement in city||Closure of several borders points of the city, coupled with traffic restrictions for the Beating Retreat ceremony, led to chaos on the city’s roads on Friday, with long traffic jams being reported from various parts.Commuters took to social media to express their displeasure as they waited in bumper-to-bumper traffic in many arterial roads, with no sign of traffic police officers to direct them through diversions. On Friday, Singhu, Saboli and Ghazipur borders remained closed for traffic movement. In a traffic advisory, Delhi traffic police on Friday warned commuters that traffic was expected to stay heavy on the Ghazipur border because of intensifying farmers’ protests at the Uttar Pradesh gate in Ghaziabad. “The Ghazipur border is closed for traffic from both sides. Traffic is diverted from road number-56, Akshardham and Nizammudin Khatta, please avoid National Highway- 9 and National Highway-24. Commuters are requested to take alternate routes via Chilla, DND (Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway), Apsara, Bhopura and Loni borders,” the traffic advisory read. The closure led to massive traffic snarls on the Noida Link Road, Ashram crossing, Vikas Marg, ITO intersection, Sarai Kale Khan, Barapullah, Pragati Maidan, Bhairon Marg, Chanakya Puri, Sarojini Nagar, Moto Bagh and Lajpat Nagar. The traffic situation in central and east Delhi was made worse by diversions enforced because of the Beating Retreat ceremony. Vehicular movement was restricted on Rajpath between Vijay Chowk and C-hexagon, Rafi Marg between Sunehri Masjid roundabout and Krishi Bhawan roundabout, the advisory said. Traffic was also not allowed on the Raisina Road from Krishi Bhawan roundabout towards Vijay Chowk, beyond Dara Shikoh Road roundabout, Krishna Menon Marg and Sunehri Masjid roundabouts towards Vijay Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/border-closure-beating-retreat-hit-traffic-movement-in-city-101611945619030.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees another cold day; air quality still ‘very poor’||Delhi continued to experience cold day conditions with the minimum temperature on Friday touching 4 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees below normal, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The 4 degrees Celsius was recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city. The maximum temperature at Safdarjung was 20.8 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the temperature will rise briefly on Saturday before dipping again and remaining below normal till February 1. “The minimum temperature likely to be around 3-4 degrees Celsius till February 1. After that, there is a possibility of the mercury rising slightly,” Srivastava said. With calm winds and low temperature, the air quality has also deteriorated. On Friday, the overall air quality index (AQI) for Delhi was 387, in the ”very poor” category. On Thursday, the AQI was 357, also in the ”very poor” zone. IMD has forecasted a significant but brief improvement in AQI on Saturday.Union ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said surface winds on Friday were slow and were blowing from the south-west side of Delhi. The wind speed is likely to improve on Saturday.“An improvement in ventilation index is forecasted for the next two days, AQI is likely to marginally improve to the middle or lower end of the “very poor” category on Saturday. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate towards the middle end of the “very poor” category on January 31 and February 1,” the Safar forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-another-cold-day-air-quality-still-very-poor-101611945617592.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Guard held after inmate flees from juvenile home in Chandigarh||The security guard of the juvenile justice home in Sector 25 was arrested after an inmate escaped on Friday morning.The accused, identified as Anubhav Drivedi of Maloya, was held after he failed to provide a satisfactory reply with regards to the inmate’s absence when he escaped.Shyam Lal, the superintendent of the Observation-cum-Special Home, Sector 25, had lodged a complaint with the police after he found one of the inmates missing on January 29 at breakfast.The 20-year-old inmate, who is still absconding, was a Maloya resident. On checking the CCTV cameras, the inmate was seen escaping from the premises of the home by jumping the wall.The superintendent said the security guard on duty was not present at the post where he was deployed from where the inmate escaped.The inmate was a minor when he was held for attempt to murder in February 2017, which was later converted into a murder case after the victim had succumbed to injuries. Police have now registered a case under Sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guard-held-after-inmate-flees-from-juvenile-home-in-chandigarh-101611945618289.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||Barricades put up at Sirhaul toll plaza lead to traffic snarl||Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway witnessed a four-kilometre-long traffic jam on Friday evening owing to the barricades put up by the Delhi Police at the Sirhaul toll plaza in the light of the farmers’ protest. The barricading started around 5pm, during peak traffic hours, resulting in commuters taking nearly 30 minutes to cross the four-kilometre stretch. The barricades were removed around 7pm, when the pile-up of vehicles had almost reached IFFCO Chowk. Heavy congestion, however, persisted until 8.30pm in the evening.The barricading, however, was only done on the carriageway carrying traffic from Manesar towards Delhi while the opposite carriageway remained free of any major congestion.At 5.44 pm, Gurugram traffic police also took to Twitter to alert commuters regarding the congestion. “Traffic congestion has been reported on NH-48 near Sarhol (Sirhaul) toll towards Delhi due to barricading by Delhi police. @TrafficGGM is on the spot to facilitate the traffic. Inconvenience caused is highly regretted (sic),” a tweet by Gurugram traffic police read.Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP (South West) Delhi Police, said that the barricades were set up due to the ongoing farmers’ protest.“Barricades were set up at the Rajokri border as a precautionary measure. The practice will continue until the situation returns to normalcy,” said Singh.Nearly four lakh vehicles cross the Sirhaul toll on weekdays daily.For several commuters travelling along the stretch, the congestion caused a major delay.“Crossing the expressway on Fridays always takes longer than usual. However, the congestion today was nearly double. Even the service lanes were equally congested. Right from IFFCO Chowk till the Rajokri flyover, there was heavy congestion due to the barricades put up by Delhi Police,” said Srishti Sharma, a resident of Dwarka in Delhi.As part of the Republic Day security arrangements, Delhi Police officials had set up barricades ahead of the Sirhaul toll on Monday evening as well, resulting in a three-kilometre-long congestion stretching till the Atlas Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/barricades-put-up-at-sirhaul-toll-plaza-lead-to-traffic-snarl-101611945560526.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Dog park to come up in Chandigarh’s Sector 42||With more funds in its kitty from the UT administration, the municipal corporation (MC) has revived its plan to create a dog park in the city.The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the MC on Friday approved the creation of the park within the Mango Park in Sector 42, at an estimated cost of ₹49 lakh, to facilitate pet dogs in the city.Last year in the wake of the pandemic-induced financial crisis, the MC had put the plans for the park on hold. Recently, the administration released ₹172 crore to the MC, promising additional funds in the coming fiscal.The park will come up on 1.5-acre land within the Sector 42-park. It is to be north India’s first dog park, and was mooted by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore.Pet dog population on the riseAs per the 2019 animal census of the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department, there are around 11,100 pet dogs in Chandigarh, up from 9,800 as per the 2012 census.Figures collected from the MC reveal that it has so far registered around 8,000 pets ever since the bylaws came into force in 2010.Though the city has 1,800 small and big neighbourhood parks, pet dogs are not allowed there. Hence, the dog park was planned as an exclusive park for them.The park’s concept, based on one in Hyderabad, incorporates a number of facilities like a swimming pool and swings meant for pets, equipment to train pets and a veterinary doctor for vaccination, besides a facility for pet dog registration.Depending on the success of the first dog park, the MC will plan more in other sectors of the city.Other projects approved by F&CCA ₹1,627-crore draft budget proposal for 2021-22 has been approved. Capital expenditure will be ₹443 crore and ₹1,184 crore will be under the revenue head.Provision of ATM machines and setting up of a pollution check centre at both MC petrol pump sites in Industrial Area, Phase 2 and Sector 51A.Providing and fixing 50mm thick PCC tiles in passage of EWS Colony near houses 6364 to 6573 in Sector 56, at an estimated cost of ₹44.54 lakh.Amendments in the terms and conditions of the Night Food Street, Sector 14.Regarding the fixation of rent of commercial shops of 13 villages transferred to the MC, the members were of the view that a sub-committee may be constituted to conduct a survey and the final decision may be taken in this regard after their study report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dog-park-to-come-up-in-chandigarh-s-sector-42-101611945560065.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmer leader Tikait’s emotional appeal leads to fresh mobilisation in Haryana||In a quick turnaround of events, farmers’ mobilisation in Haryana seemed to be heading towards reinvigoration on Friday as the ripples of protesting farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional outburst continued to be felt across the state. Amid reports of the protests petering out at various places, following incidents of violence in Delhi on Republic Day, Tikait’s emotional speech gave a fresh impetus to the ongoing agitation, especially among the Jat farmers of the state, said protesters. Farmers from the Jat community seemed to be throwing their weight behind Tikait after his breakdown in front of television cameras, where he lashed out at the ruling party and appealed to farmers to not give up. Mintu Ram, a farmer from Bhiwani in Haryana, who recently returned from the protest site at Shahjahanpur after nearly a month, said that fresh mobilisation was taking place in villages in Haryana in support of the ongoing agitation. “We returned from Shahjahanpur ahead of Republic Day. Since then, a lot has happened. There was uncertainty over the last two days but the developments at Ghazipur have changed the sentiments,” said Ram. He said that panchayats and gatherings were taking place in various villages to mobilise people in favour of renewing the agitation. “In nearly 15 villages in my neighbourhood, tractors are going around making announcements, asking people to join forces at protest sites.” He said that the movement was gaining strength since people realised that attempts were being made to crush the agitation and the safety of farmers was under threat. “People from different villages are coming out in large numbers and proceeding towards Ghazipur and other protest sites. I will also return to the Shahjahanpur border. Many people from my village will be heading out to join protests by tomorrow (Saturday),” said Ram. Prempal Singh, a farmer from Daultabad, said that while it temporarily seemed that the movement had suffered a setback after what transpired on Republic Day, the tide was once again turning in favour of farmers. “The farmers from Haryana were not involved in the ruckus that happened on Republic Day. It was a conspiracy by mischievous people who wanted to divide the movement. When Tikait refused to surrender, people realised that they had no reason to fear. They can see that attempts are being made to discredit the protests and are mobilising in support,” said Singh. Deepak Sehrawat, a resident of Dhankot village, said that while people from the Jat community were in support of the farmers’ agitation, the support had increased since Thursday night. “Various WhatsApp groups are buzzing with updates pertaining to the farmers’ agitation and particularly what transpired at Ghazipur. Jats, especially, are more vocal about their support and will mobilise after Tikait’s appeal,” said Sehrawat. He said that the events that unfolded at Ghazipur had given momentum to the protests. Protestors who were earlier camping at various sites said that they were unsure about the protests following the violence that erupted on Republic Day but were motivated by Tikait’s speech. His tears became a spark for the revival of the protests, they said.Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said that farmers of his Khap had vacated the sites on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Sangwari Chowk in Rewari and Masani village near Dharuhera on Thursday morning and had returned to their base camp at Shahjahanpur. “Later we went to our respective villages after calling off the protest but we received calls from BKU leaders requesting for our support and asked us to hold panchayat in this regard in our villages on Friday and to motivate villagers to join the protest again,” he said. There are 50 villages in Rewari belt dominated by Jats who have decided to support Tikait and to scale up the protests at all possible sites. Ramkishan Mahlawat, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Bawal, said that more than 500 villagers from Bawal had joined the protest on Friday evening at Shahjahanpur and more than 500 others — who had gone to Jind in Haryana, where villagers had blocked the Jind-Chandigarh route near Khandela village — were also returning to the base camp. “Our aim is to increase the strength at the Haryana–Rajasthan border and to block the National Highway-48 to create pressure on the government as they are trying to vacate the sites with the help of villagers. However, we will not move an inch from here now,” he said. More than 50 protestors will head towards Rajghat, where they will sit on hunger strike for a day. They have written to Delhi police commissioner seeking permission but haven’t received any reply. Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat, who had announced on Thursday that his organisation would vacate the Shahjahanpur protest site in wake of the Republic Day violence, returned to the site a day after. Jat, along with other prominent leaders of the area, reached Bawal on Friday evening and had decided to support Tikait at Ghazipur on Saturday. “We will follow instructions passed by BKU leader and will guide our farmers accordingly,” he said. Meanwhile, the Rewari Police said that it had increased the police deployment at the Rajasthan-Haryana border again including eight companies of paramilitary forces. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said, “We had reduced deployment of forces on Thursday but with the return of farmers on the site, we have again deployed teams all day and night. Villagers from Rajasthan have already joined the protest site on Friday.” He added that farmers from different districts of Haryana were also joining in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmer-leader-tikait-s-emotional-appeal-leads-to-fresh-mobilisation-in-haryana-101611945558680.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||Citizens’ group ask for immediate steps to help locals living near Bandhwari landfill||Members of Citizens for Clean Air — a civil society group — wrote to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday, drawing attention to allegations of groundwater contamination in Bandhwari and nearby villages, about 20 kilometres outside the city. They have requested that some “immediate steps” must be taken in the light of the public health concerns faced by villagers living in the vicinity of the Bandhwari landfill, which is alleged to have polluted the area’s underlying aquifer. “We have to consider the fact that these people were living in an otherwise clean area enjoying the serenity of a village. Their natural habitat got spoiled beyond recovery to accommodate the dirt of the city dwellers — the dumping of mixed solid municipal waste at the landfill site for the past several years. And their environment including their drinking water sources have been destroyed. Already there are reports of higher incidence of cancer and other ailments in these areas,” states the civil society group’s representation to the CPCB.Until these issues are solved, it has been recommended that nearby villages be provided with “adequate supply of piped water of potable standard, as early as possible.” CFCA’s representation also requests that “reports on the groundwater contamination in the area around the Bandhwari Village may be made public and the villagers should be made aware of its deleterious effects on people, domestic animals and their agricultural products so that they could adopt whatever methods possible to reduce these adverse effects.” Shiv Das Meena, chairperson, CPCB — to whom the letter is addressed — could not be reached for comment despite multiple attempts. The letter has also been copied to S Narayan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board(HSPCB), who did not respond to requests for comment on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/citizens-group-ask-for-immediate-steps-to-help-locals-living-near-bandhwari-landfill-101611945558093.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||MCG to sign agreements with NGOs and RWAs conducting plantation drives||To prevent poorly implemented plantation drives, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to sign binding agreements with NGOs and residents’ welfare associations(RWAs), which procure saplings from its four nurseries in the city. Officials in the MCG’s horticulture department said that a formal memorandum of understanding (MoU), which will be made mandatory during the upcoming monsoon season, will ensure the survival of saplings by holding third parties responsible for the same for a period of three years. Devendra Bhadana, executive engineer (horticulture), MCG, said, “Every year, several hundred NGOs and RWAs approach us to give them saplings for monsoon plantation. Over the years, these drives have seen little success. People plant saplings and then forget about it. We have decided that, going forward, groups which take saplings from us in bulk will have to sign an MoU first. This will make them responsible for maintaining the saplings for three years.” Bhadana also added that any group found to be violating these terms of agreement may be debarred from procuring saplings in subsequent years. Officials also said that formalising these transactions would help in surveying plantation work during post-monsoon months. “Right now, this is quite hard because there is no proper record of who has got how many saplings, or where they are planted. We distribute saplings widely because the aim is to plant as much as possible, but we cannot afford any more wastage. We have to become stricter,” said another executive engineer in the MCG’s horticulture department, seeking anonymity. These persisting issues were also identified in a recent audit of plantation drives conducted by the district administration’s Gurujal society, which is responsible for implementing the Centre’s Jal Shakti Abhiyan in Gurugram. A key component of the scheme, in addition to increasing groundwater security, is afforestation. Gurujal’s audit notes that there were multiple loopholes in the MCG’s plantation drives last year, in which a total of 60,800 saplings were planted across the city.These loopholes include “multiple registrations from single RWA”, “non-availability of a proper record of plant distribution” and “no limitation on plant distribution to single entity,” among others, as per Gurujal’s audit report. “Due to these issues, we have only been able to conduct post-plantation surveys for about 17,000 saplings, which were planted by RWAs, where the plants were also geo-tagged. Among these, we found that nearly 87 percent of the saplings survived,” said a spokesperson for Gurujal. Shubhi Kesarwani, programme manager, could not be reached for comment as she is presently overseas. For the remaining 44,000 odd saplings which were distributed to RWAs and NGOs last year, MCG officials said they are yet to conduct a survey to ascertain the survival rate. “We may not be able to carry it out because of lack of data and records. During the next season though, all saplings will be geo-tagged. The Gurujal team will be monitoring the entire process as well,” said Bhadana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-sign-agreements-with-ngos-and-rwas-conducting-plantation-drives-101611945498598.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||Forest department demolishes 14 illegal structures on Aravalli land||The forest department on Friday carried out a demolition drive in Manesar village against 14 illegal constructions built on Aravalli land. This was done after directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in December, ordering that all such establishments built on forest land should be razed by January 31. Department officials said they will be submitting an action taken report before the court next week.Karam Bir Malik, forest range officer (Gurugram), who supervised Friday’s demolition drive, said, “Orders have been given by the court in two cases recently — one filed by plaintiff Sonia Ghosh and the other by Ram Avtar Yadav, the former sarpanch of the Manesar panchayat. In these cases, the NGT has been extremely clear that any illegal construction in Aravalli forests are to be removed. Since these 14 structures were found to be built on gair mumkin pahad land, which is legally a forest land, we had no choice but to carry out demolition.” Officials confirmed that all 14 structures demolished on Friday were razed in totality. “Not just the boundary wall, but the entire structures have been pulled down. Some of the owners were also present at the site, but there was no interference or any other law and order issue,” said Afzal Khan, forest range officer, Sohna, who was also present at Friday’s demolition drive. As per a recent forest department survey, there are at least 100 such farmhouses built illegally on Aravalli land in Gurugram, concentrated in areas like Gwal Pahari, Gairatpur Bas, Sohna and Manesar. Department officials, including district forest officer, Jai Kumar, confirmed that a slew of demolition drives are likely to take place in other parts of the district early next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/forest-department-demolishes-14-illegal-structures-on-aravalli-land-101611945498031.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||Small vaccine sessions continue, only 372 get Covid jabs||Continuing with the small session sizes for vaccination, the district health department on Friday gave Covid vaccine jabs to 372 health care workers. Out of the 850 scheduled to get the shots for the day, only 43% tuned up for inoculation making it the lowest ever footfall since the vaccination drive started from January 16. On Friday, vaccination took place at 28 session sites, of which Covishield was administered at 24 sites and Covaxin at four sites. The district health department had decided to reduce the number of session sites after having covered almost 59% of the registered health care workers. Over 37,000 health care workers from public and private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics are registered on Co-WIN platform as vaccine beneficiaries. Of them, at least 21,791 had been given the Covid-19 vaccine shots by Friday. Throughout Friday, inoculation for Covaxin remained low, with only 17 health care workers getting the jab from the Bharat biotech manufactured vaccine, against a target of 100. For Covishield, out of 750 people at least 355 reached the vaccination sites.Officials said that on Saturday too, the session size will continue to remain small as teams have been deployed to hold pulse polio drive from January 31 to February 2.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Covid-19 vaccination drive will be on halt till the polio drive gets over. The strategy for Covid-19 vaccine post February 2 is yet to be prepared. It is likely that the session size for vaccination will remain small as the footfall has been declining. Out of 37,000 health care workers, we have already inoculated at least 21,791 workers, which is over 59% of the overall target.”According to Yadav, session sites can be expanded if the inoculation of the other front line workers — like staff from police department, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and revenue department — are included. According to senior officials in the state health department, the process of inoculation of front line workers is likely to commence from February. Dr Ashok Singla, chief medical officer, MCG, said, “A list of 7,000 employees, which includes sanitation workers and firemen, have been prepared for Covid-19 vaccination. The staff had no trouble is getting themselves registered for vaccination, but the actual response will only be seen once their vaccination starts.” Likewise, the revenue department has prepared a list of 400 employees, while the police force estimates that almost 14,000 of its personnel, including other staff members, will be covered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/small-vaccine-sessions-continue-only-372-get-covid-jabs-101611945497502.html
30-01-2021||Other||Mumbai: After 15 years, Kisan Rail special train leaves for Delhi||The first Kisan Rail special train, on Thursday, left Dahanu Road railway station for Adarsh Nagar, New Delhi, with 60 ton of chikoos, after 15 years. In 1996, it was the last time that the special train with chikoos left for Delhi from Dahanu railhead. The new train left Dahanu at 2.15am and will reach Delhi railhead on Friday, late night at around 11.45pm.Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, Western Railway (WR), said, “Kisan Rail will help the chikoo farmers to transport their produce at cheaper rates. The farmer will now get a good price for their agro-produce. From Dahanu, six coaches were made available to load the chikoos, while two coaches were loaded at Udvada, and 16 coaches were loaded at Valsad for Delhi,” said the official. Achyut Patil, a chikoo farmer from Bordi, in Palghar, said, “Around 100-ton chikoos are produced at Dahanu. Earlier we transported them by trucks to New Delhi, but it cost us a lot. Now with the Kisan Rail, our transportation cost will be reduced.” Now we have learnt that the Kisan Rail will run twice a week from Dahanu, he added.As per WR figures, from March 23, 2020, till January 27, 2021, around 2.39 lakh tonnes of perishable commodities, including fish, milk, medicines and other commodities were transported through 847 special parcel trains, and for the first time, chikoos were permitted to be transported in the special Kisan Rail train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-after-15-years-kisan-rail-special-train-leaves-for-delhi-101611945439482.html
30-01-2021||Gurugram||Ragpicker held for the murder of an auto-rickshaw driver||The police on Thursday night arrested a 33-year-old man from Sector 104 for allegedly murdering an auto-rickshaw driver on January 21 by smashing his head and hiding his body in a tank. The police said the suspect, Suhag Hussain alias Raheem, who hails from Goalpara in Assam, lives in a slum in Dhamwapur in Sector 104 and works as a ragpicker. Last month, he allegedly had an argument with the auto-rickshaw driver, Sonu. He allegedly wanted to take revenge on him and invited Sonu for drinks and dinner near a liquor shop in Sector 33. He then allegedly killed him with sticks and stones and threw the body in a tank in a vacant plot. The police said the murder came to light when passersby reported a foul smell coming from the vacant plot. The locals went to the tank and discovered the body. One of the passersby called the police control room (PCR). A murder case was registered at Sadar police station against unidentified person. The police identified the body and informed his family members on January 23, said officials. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they called in forensic experts, dog squad, and crime team to visit the spot and collect samples. “Samples were taken, pictures were clicked and family members were called in. We scanned all his call details and questioned his friends and family members, following which, we identified the suspect and arrested him based on his call detail records and location,” he said. Sangwan said the deceased lived with his mother in Sector 33. He used to ferry passengers in his auto-rickshaw between Huda City Centre Metro station and Badshahpur. His younger brother Satish (25), who also drives an auto-rickshaw between Subhash Chowk and the same Metro station, had complained to the police after his brother did not return home on the night of the alleged murder, said the police. The family alleged that he had no personal enmity with anyone and had never had any dispute with anyone except for Hussain. “We had no clue that Hussain could be behind the murder as, when he lived in our neighbourhood, he had most of his meals with us at our house. He was my brother’s best friend but after an altercation, he vacated his room and shifted to another area,” said Satish Kumar, the brother of the deceased. The suspect was sent to judicial custody on Friday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ragpicker-held-for-the-murder-of-an-auto-rickshaw-driver-101611945439887.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn lifts curbs on social gatherings||The Chandigarh administration on Friday decided to remove restrictions on the number of people that can gather at a social event. However, standard operating procedures issued by the Centre will be followed strictly.The decision was taken in the Covid-19 review meeting presided over by administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday. The new guidelines will come into effect from February 1 and will remain in force till February 28.The central government in its latest guidelines removed the cap on the number of people who could be part of social, cultural, religious, political or sports gatherings, which until now was limited to a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 people. The states and union territories were given freedom to prepare their own SOPs in this regard.The order to the effect, issued by UT adviser Manoj Parida, stated that the new guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) would be applicable to Chandigarh. MHA guidelines also allow cinema halls and theatres to operate at higher seating capacity than the current 50%. Also, everyone can use swimming pools, instead of just sportspersons. Revised SOPs will be issued for both cinemas and swimming pools by the central government.“Chandigarh being a union territory will follow the cental government directions. Even though capping has been removed, strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol will be maintained,” said Parida.As per the new guidelines, the administration will take all necessary measures to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and ensure wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. The administration will demarcate containment zones, if required, at micro level, taking into consideration the guidelines prescribed by the ministry of health and family welfare.Badnore appealed to the citizens to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. He also directed the administration to move the Centre to introduce a scheme for providing ₹50 lakh compensation in the event of the death of any employee engaged in Covid duty. Presently, the grant is available only for health employees, and not frontline workers from other departments.Colleges to reopen on February 11During the review meeting, Badnore also announced that colleges will open for physical classes from February 11.Earlier, physical classes had started in November last year for final-year students only. Officials said that details will be announced soon. However, it’s confirmed that online teaching, which has been going on since the lockdown was imposed, will continue. Meanwhile, classroom teaching will resume for Classes 6 to 8 in schools from February 1. However, many private schools are likely to start the classes later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-lifts-curbs-on-social-gatherings-101611945438139.html
30-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator for regularising constructions outside lal dora||In response to large scale violations outside the lal dora in villages, the Chandigarh administration is mulling to regularise such illegal construction.In a high-powered meeting, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed senior officials to work on regularisation of such construction. The lal dora (red line) separates village habitation from adjacent agricultural land.A senior UT official privy to the development said, “The administrator stated that since there is a lot of construction outside the lal dora area, the administration should formulate a scheme to regularise these.” UT home secretary Arun Gupta has been asked to prepare a note on the regularisation of such constructions.A detailed discussion on this subject will be held during the meeting of the administrator’s advisory council or its sub-committees. The contentious issue has elicited strong views from supporters and detractors of the plan.Political parties and village residents have been consistently asking for the extension of lal dora and regularisation of constructions outside it. Architects and city’s heritage conservationists are demanding that these illegal constructions should be removed to protect the city’s character.The UT urban planning department too has consistently flagged the large-scale illegal construction and colonisation in villages of Chandigarh. It has repeatedly written to MC commissioner, deputy commissioner-cum-estate officer and land acquisition officer (LAO) to take immediate action to stop illegal construction.In one such letter, highlighting the problem, the urban planning department stated, “Illegal constructions are mushrooming against the notified Chandigarh Master Plan – 2031, which had strongly recommended for planned development of the peri-urban areas of Chandigarh.”The department has also warned of “serious consequences” to allowing such unplanned construction, stating that these will change the character of the planned city.“Most city villages and semi-urban areas, which include Kishangarh-Manimajra, Hallomajra, Maloya, areas around Bapu Dham near Sukhna Choe, Khuda Ali Sher, Kaimbwala, etc have unauthorised constructions, which have taken the form of colonies in recent months with land mafia becoming active,” said a senior UT official, adding, “While earlier, the violators used to just renting out spaces in illegal constructions, recently, sale of smaller plots has also come to light.” Unauthorised construction picked up pace after the city’s villages were transferred to the municipal corporation, said the official.Significantly, the constructions are also in violation of the Punjab New Capital (Periphery) Control Act, 1952, which is applicable to areas outside a village’s inhabited area.Regularisation scheme for CHBThe administrator directed Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) to examine the demand of residents for one-time regularisation of additional construction on the pattern of Delhi Development Authority. Residents have been long demanding regularisation of construction beyond the original and stipulated CHB regulations. The CHB has also come under criticism for issuing notices against such construction. Recently, local BJP leaders had staged protests outside the CHB office after notices on illegal constructions were issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administrator-for-regularising-constructions-outside-lal-dora-101611945378031.html
30-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal IPS officer who arrested BJP workers for 'goli maaro' slogan quits||Humayun Kabir, superintendent of police of Chandannagar in Hooghly district, on Friday resigned from service citing personal reasons, said officials at the state secretariat.Kabir was supposed to retire in April when the assembly polls will be held in Bengal. He recently made headlines by ordering the arrest of three BJP workers who allegedly raised the controversial “Goli maaro” (shoot them) slogan at a rally on January 20. The slogan was heard at a roadshow led by BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari who left the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in December.The ruling party faced criticism because no action was taken against its workers who raised the same slogan in Kolkata a day before the BJP rally at Chandannagar.Last year in January, Union minister Anurag Thakur and his followers raised the slogan during the Shaheen Bagh blockade in south Delhi. It triggered a controversy. The slogan says traitors in the country should be shot.Kabir is only the first Indian Police Service (IPS) officer to resign in Bengal in recent years. He was promoted to the rank of inspector general in December.Since Kabir’s wife Anindita Kabir joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in November last year, his resignation immediately triggered speculations that he may join politics. The officer, however, ruled it out.Also read: Tikri simmers after ‘locals’ demand farmers’ eviction“I resigned because I cannot find time for other work. I am associated with many social welfare organisations. I have no plans to join politics. What my wife did is her decision. All individuals have choices,” Kabir told the local media at Chandannagar.Kabir’s association with several NGOs is well known. The saffron camp targeted him several times in the past. A Rightist organization criticised him in December last year for saying at a non-government programme that he will stand by Muslims during hours of peril.Kabir will be working till January 31. The government on Friday put Gaurav Sharma, joint commissioner of Kolkata Police, in charge of Chandannagar police district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-ips-officer-who-arrested-bjp-workers-for-goli-maaro-slogan-quits-101611944534012.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC relies on maternal instinct of a woman to convict her daughter’s rapist||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on January 25 has held that a mother has divine powers to understand her children, confirmed the conviction for rape of a child in conflict with the law. The court held that as the victim who was only four and a half years old at the time of the offence, was unable to explain what the child in conflict with the law, had done to her, the incriminating statement of the mother was sufficient to believe that her daughter was raped. As the convict had been in detention for more than three years, the bench commuted the punishment for the offence of rape from ten years of rigorous imprisonment to five years. Since the convict was a few months shy of turning 21 years of age at the time of passing of the judgement, the court directed that he be sent to a special home for children in conflict with the law and be provided reformative services including educational and skilled development services till he attains the age of 21. A bench of justice Vibha Kankanwadi while hearing an appeal against the conviction of a 20-year-old man by a special court in Jalna for offences punishable under various sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC) for raping a four-and-a-half-year-old in 2017, was informed by advocate RV Gore that the man was 17-years-old and a child in conflict with the law at the time of the offence but was convicted as an adult, hence the appeal was filed seeking reduction of his sentence to be in line with that of a minor. The special court had sentenced the child in conflict with the law to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and to pay fine of ₹10,000 and in case of default undergo rigorous imprisonment for two years for the offence punishable under Section 376(2)(i) read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code. Further, he has been sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for a term of 10 years and to pay fine of ₹10,000/-, in default of payment of fine, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for two years for the offence punishable under section 6 read with section 18 of the Pocso Act. The offence had occurred on August 11, 2017, when the child in conflict with the law had induced the minor and her sister with chocolates and taken them to his house which was adjacent to the house of the minors. In his house, he ravished one of the minors. The mother of the two minors was alerted by the cries of the younger daughter and when she knocked on the door of the child in conflict with the law, he opened the door and ran away. The mother then brought the two daughters back home and found the sticky substance on the private part and thighs of the elder daughter. While the daughter was unable to explain exactly what the child in conflict with the law had done to her, she realized that an attempt was made by the accused to rape her daughter. The mother and father of the two minors then complained with the police and the child in conflict with the law came to be arrested and tried and convicted based on the statement of the mother. Gore sought a reduction in the sentence based on the fact that there was no penetrative sexual assault and as the victim merely told her mother that something happened and started crying in pain cannot be the ground for the sentence meted out by the special court.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the deposition of the minor may have been influenced by the court environment and hence while recording her evidence she may not have given proper answers. The court also held that what the girl could convey to her mother immediately after the incident could not have been conveyed to somebody else and hence the statement of the mother would have a bearing before the special court.“The relationship of a mother and a daughter would always be of confidence and the mother would be having her skill to extract about the things which have happened with her child. It will not be an exaggeration, if it can be observed that the mother has that divine power to understand the feelings like happiness or sorrows of the child and many times, she understands it without being conveyed in words. She understands the mood of the child from his or her appearance and/ or actions also. She can understand the agony that the child undergoes and she would be the first person to offer security to the child. The child also after getting that security would open up and would convey what he or she wanted or went through,” observed the court.While setting aside the conviction under section 6 of Pocso Act, the court said that as the child in conflict with the law had been in detention for three years and as it was a case of attempt to rape it was commuting the conviction under IPC to five years. Further, the court held that as the man was not 21-years-old he should be kept in the Yerwada special home till he attained the age of 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-relies-on-maternal-instinct-of-a-woman-to-convict-her-daughter-s-rapist-101611945258612.html
30-01-2021||Delhi||Tikri simmers after ‘locals’ demand farmers’ eviction||At least 100 people on Friday gathered near the Tikri border where farmers are protesting against the three contentious farm laws and demanded the removal of protesters from the main Rohtak Road, which has been blocked for the last two months.Tension prevailed when the counter-protesters tried to cross the barricades to go near the farmers but before the situation could escalate, the police managed to push them back. The farmers said it was a “conspiracy” to defame and undermine the movement.On Friday, violence was reported during a similar counter-protest at Singhu border.Pintu Kumar, a resident of the nearby Baba Haridas Nagar at Tikri Border, said that these protesters “broke our trust” and “insulted” the national flag on January 26, when the farmers took out a tractor rally.“These people cannot be farmers, as a Kisan will never attack a Jawan. These are anti-social elements. We initially supported them and gave them food as well but they have broken our trust by resorting to violence on Republic Day,” Kumar said, who was leading the protest.Another member of the group, Ravindra Kumar Chaudhary, said, “For the last two months, we have been tolerating whatever these protesters were doing on the pretext of agitation against farm laws. Whatever they did on January 26 is unacceptable. We will not tolerate the insult of our national flag.”Police did not let the counter-protesters to move towards the site where farmers are sitting.“After the violence during the Republic Day rally, we enhanced the deployment here. More police personnel along with teams of RAF (Rapid Action Force) were deployed at Tikri to handle any untoward incident,” a police official, deployed at the site said, requesting anonymity.The police have placed barricades to stop locals as well as the farmers from clashing with each other. They also appealed to the people to maintain peace.The number of farmer protesters at Tikri increased on Friday when groups of Haryana and Punjab joined them.Maninder Pal Singh, a farmer from Muktsar in Punjab, said the protest will continue to gain strength and more people will join the protest in coming days. “We will not relent unless our demands are met... Today’s protests by so-called locals was a conspiracy by the central government to defame our movement,” Singh said.Kushvinder Singh Mann, another farmer who has come from Bhatinda said locals have no problem with the agitation. “Those who protested against our movement today are connected to the ruling party at the centre. They want to disrupt our movement. We have never caused any inconvenience to any local resident here. We will ensure that no one faces a problem because of us,” Mann said.Sudesh Goyat, a farmer and a member of the Kisan Morcha at Tikri Border, said, “Mahapanchayats (meetings) were organised on Thursday in many Haryana villages where it was decided to carry on the agitation. As a result, over 100 tractors reached here today to be the part of this historic movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tikri-simmers-after-locals-demand-farmers-eviction-101611944050988.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Eight hookah joints raided in Pune for illegal tobacco sale||The anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of the city crime branch on Wednesday carried out raids at eight locations where various banned tobacco flavours of hookah were being illegally sold in the market. The team seized banned tobacco flavours material estimated to be worth ₹7.06 lakh. The raid was carried out by inspector Prakash Khandekar and his staff. The joints raided are located in Koregaon Park, Camp, Salisbury Park, Swargate and Chatuhshrungi areas. According to the statement released by the crime branch, joints named “Smokes Chocolate”, “Little Goa” and “Kalandar” in Koregaon Park, “Sheesha Den” in Pune Camp, “Essential Smoke Store” in Salisbury Park, “Smoker World Shop” at Parihar chowk, “Dishma Enterprises” and “Lal Deval Society” were raided. The crime branch officials stated that the hookah flavours banned under law were being sold openly at the sites and eight offences have been registered against the accused under the Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 (COTPA Act). Addl CP (crime) Ashok Morale said, “We have seized different hookah flavours and other material banned as per the law and cases have been lodged against the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eight-hookah-joints-raided-in-pune-for-illegal-tobacco-sale-101611940397229.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Pune civic body undertakes anti-encroachment drive on NIBM road||An anti-encroachment drive was carried out from Hotel Farmhouse till NIBM chowk on Friday morning. According to the anti- encroachment squad officials, the action was taken following complaints from residents about illegal construction on footpaths by mobile shop owners, cigarette vending kiosks and other outlets. Shopkeepers who encroached upon the space in front of their enterprise were challaned ₹5,000 each and their goods were confiscated. The crackdown began at 8 am when the shops were closed amidst presence of police bandobast. Two bulldozers were put to service to clear the encroachment along the road. The drive continued till noon before the squad reached Kausarbaug area and took action against violators as the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act. Sarika Patil, a resident of Kubera Park Society said, “New mobile shops have occupied much of the road space for their commercial activities. Temporary advertisement materials have been put up on the road.” PMC anti-encroachment squad chief Madhav Jagtap could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-undertakes-anti-encroachment-drive-on-nibm-road-101611939557112.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Pune police, crime branch arrest 466 persons in combing operation||In a major combing operation across the city, the crime branch and police have arrested 466 persons in multiple raids and recovered a large amount of cash from the accused. The action took place on January 28 between 7 pm and 11 pm after orders were issued by the Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta. A raid was carried out at one of the most infamous matka dens operational in camp in Modikhana. The anti-vehicle theft and anti-dacoity cell in a joint operation under inspectors Shilpa Chavan and Mahendra Jagtap and supervision of DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh and additional commissioner (crime) Ashok Morale carried out the raid and arrested 63 persons. Gambling equipment, mobiles and cash worth over ₹2 lakh has been seized and a case under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Gambling Act has been lodged against the accused. Morale said that the crime branch had received a tip-off that one person was running a major gambling den following which teams were formed. “The accused were caught red-handed and an FIR has been lodged against them,” he said. The operation carried out in all five zones saw 2,036 persons being questioned and 705 criminals held. The crime branch filed 480 cases as a preventive measure. The combing operation included seizure of firearms and arrest of criminals under arms act which includes action under Section 122 and also action against externed criminals under Section 142 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-crime-branch-arrest-466-persons-in-combing-operation-101611937937013.html
30-01-2021||Pune||CFR in Pune goes past 4%; 471 new Covid cases||On Friday, the district reported its highest case fatality rate (CFR) of 4.5%, due to Covid-19, since May 2020. According to the state health department, on May 28, the district had reported a 4.4% CFR, which had been going down since. Of the 21 deaths reported within 24 hours, 17 are from Pune city, three from Pune rural and one from PCMC. This takes the death toll due to Covid-19 to 7,985 in the district. The case fatality rate is the number of deaths reported for every 100 new cases of the infection within the same time period. The district also reported 471 new cases within 24 hours on Friday, taking the final count of Covid-19 cases to 3.87 lakh, of which 3.66 lakh have recovered. A total of 1,32,44 are still active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Of the 471 cases, the city reported 197, PCMC reported 89 and 185 were reported from Pune rural. The department reported that 2, 613 patients were discharged on Friday taking the final count of such cases to 19.25 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.28%. Also, 2,771 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to 20.21 lakh. In addition, 56 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,237. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.53%. Currently, 1,95,127 people are in home quarantine and 2,771 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cfr-in-pune-goes-past-4-101611936677600.html
30-01-2021||Pune||87% of targeted beneficiaries vaccinated on Friday, zero AEFI reported||The district has seen a growing positive response to the Covid-19 vaccination, as 87% of the targeted beneficiaries got vaccinated on Friday - 88% in Pune city; 99% from PCMC and 83% from Pune rural. There has been zero adverse effects following incidents (AEFI) reported on Friday at any of the 46 vaccination sites. With more sites opening up for the Covid-19 vaccination, more healthcare workers are being vaccinated in the district. On Friday, a total of 4,108 beneficiaries got vaccinated of a targeted 4,700. Of these, 1,232 got vaccinated in Pune city, of a targeted number of 1,400, at 14 sites. This took the percentage to 88%. In PCMC, 889 got vaccinated, of a targeted number of 900, which took the percentage to 99% and in Pune rural 1,987 got vaccinated of a targeted number of 2,400 beneficiaries, which took the average up to 83%. In Pune circle, Satara district reported about 110% of the targeted beneficiaries got vaccinated, which is 1,759 beneficiaries of the 1,600 targeted got vaccinated. In Solapur 75% of the targeted beneficiaries, 1,490 got vaccinated. One AEFI was reported from a Solapur hospital. With fewer AEFI incidents being reported and technical glitches sorted in the CoWin app, and walk-in vaccinations allowed for registration, more health care workers are getting vaccinated. The first phase includes vaccination of HCW and the frontline workers in the nationwide Covid19 vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/87-of-targeted-beneficiaries-vaccinated-on-friday-zero-aefi-reported-101611936676979.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Shirole proposes recreational centres on tekdis around city||Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole has proposed a small recreation centre on tekdis surrounding the city on the lines of the Van Vihar, created by the forest department in Pachgaon, Parvati. “There are many small hills around Pune city and it is necessary to save these hills to preserve the environment there and thereby to preserve the environment of the city,” said Shirole, MLA and corporator for ward 14 (Deccan Gymkhana – Model Colony). “We have many morning walkers who are regulars to the tekdi and some of them also take care of the trees and animals in the hills. Thus, to help support them, preserve and maintain hills, we have proposed a garden on the lines of Pachgaon, Parvati created by the forest department of the state government. It is necessary to implement a forest project on the hills from Chaturshringi to Symbiosis College,” he said. According to Shirole, minister of state for forests Dattatraya Bharne has approved the project in principle during the recent district planning and development council (DPDC) meeting and said that funds would be sanctioned for it soon. He has also forwarded a letter to the forest department and taken in suggestions from residents and regular tekdi walkers. “We went to meet Shirole to discuss the project. It seems good on paper and we have mentioned that there should be no construction or structure of any kind. Although, it is in nascent stage, we will wait to see what the state minister proposes,” said Madhukar Natu, a tekdi lover who has been planting trees on the Hanuman tekdi for 15 years. The proposed ideas are the enhancement of existing infrastructure, repairs to existing values, PVC tanks, adding infrastructure like an alternate source of water for watering plants, beautification, jogging tracks, stairs at strategic locations to increase accessibility for senior citizens, resting areas around bigger trees, map of the tekdi, regular rounds by forest guards and financial provision for sustaining and maintenance of the forest gardens. According to Shirole, “The Central and state governments have undertaken various initiatives and campaigns to promote the environment. In addition, the hills and the surrounding forests should be given a boost. Strong funds should be provided for this. This project will create a beautiful area among the hills in Pune.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shirole-proposes-recreational-centres-on-tekdis-around-city-101611936497061.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Hazare puts off proposed hunger strike after Centre agrees to look into his demands||Anti-corruption activist Anna Hazare, on Friday, put his proposed indefinite fast on hold, a day before it was to begin, to press for implementation of the Swaminathan commission recommendations regarding agriculture pricing, statutory status and autonomy for the central agriculture price commission. Hazare announced that he was not going ahead with the proposed strike on Saturday, after meeting former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union Minister of State for Agriculture, Kailash Choudhary, at his native place, Ralegan Siddhi, where both assured the crusader that a committe will look into his demands. Both, Fadnavis and Choudhary, held a marathon discussion with Hazare and assured him that a high power committee will decide on the demands the crusader has put forward. “Today, the agriculture minister handed over a letter about the committee, which will take a call on 15 demands that I have put forward. In the light of the letter, I have decided to put on hold my proposed strike. I am confident, once the government takes a call on these demands, it will positively impact the lives of farmers,” said Hazare, during the press conference. Earlier in the day, Choudhary handed him a letter assuring him of the formation of a committee, and the likely members on it. “After discussing it with Anna, we requested the Centre to announce a high-power committee. As a result of this, the Union Minister of State for Agriculture, Kailash Choudhary, handed Anna a letter and announced that a committee under the chairmanship of Union Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar with other members from NITI Aayog and names recommended by Anna, will be formed,” said Fadnavis. According to Fadnavis, the committee will act within six months on the demands made by the crusader. There were other demands also made by Hazare about strengthening Lokpal, which according to Fadnavis, will be looked into. “Our efforts will be to decide on all the demands made by Hazare within six months. We are confident that Hazare’s recommendations will help farmers in the future,” said Choudhary. The committee, according to Choudhary, will take a decision on every demand from Hazare. “I am glad that Hazare has agreed to put on hold his agitation,” Choudhary said. Earlier on Friday, BJP leader Girish Mahajan held talks with Hazare at Ralegan Siddhi, though the latter was firm on going ahead with agitation. Last week, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had also met Hazare though the activist was unfazed at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hazare-puts-off-proposed-hunger-strike-after-centre-agrees-to-look-into-his-demands-101611935236948.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Post record Covid cases, no major announcements for health sector in Pune||Though the city was in the grip of Covid-19 for almost a year, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) draft budget for the financial year 2021-22 does not mention any major reforms in the health department. It is the first budget presented by the current commissioner Vikram Kumar who took charge when the city reported record cases of the virus infection. The commissioner did mention about the health policy which would fill in the gaps in the current health budget which is being drafted. After announcing the budget, Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner said, “A health policy is being prepared to find the gaps in the health system and improve it. Also, through the medical college, a tertiary care centre would also be started. The college will help 100 residents graduate as doctors each year, besides experts pursuing MD (Doctor of Medicine) and MS (Master of Surgery). We will eventually start a nursing college too. So, it will be wrong to say that there is no focus on health. The policy is expected to be prepared by February end.”The budget set aside ₹574.03 crore for the health department of which 223.95 crore is capital provision and revenue provision. Dr Ashish Bharati, PMC health chief said, “The budget allocated for health was around ₹350 crore last year which has been upgraded to ₹570 crore. The health policy is now being drafted and we will decide how to go ahead with this. Due to Covid-19, most of our hospitals were upgraded with ventilators and ICU beds without any planning as per the situation. We spend close to ₹100 crore only on Covid and related infrastructure in 2020-21.” On Friday, although no major announcements were made, the commissioner reiterated that the PMC’s first medical college Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College would start admitting students in the coming academic year. He said in his budget speech that the first batch would include 100 students. The budget also mentioned that most of the ongoing financial year, 2020-21, was spent in contact tracing, isolation and treatment of Covid patients and preventing the spread of the infection. The budget also mentions the preparations of beds and ventilators for the treatment of patients in case there is a surge in the numbers due to a second wave. The commissioner also focused on the health policy which would play a larger role to reform the health infrastructure of the city. However, since its inception, there has been only one meeting along with the stakeholders in the past two months. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee and who would also be the consultant for the policy, said, “The draft has been prepared and hopefully by next month we will have it ready. Before that we will have a meeting with the civic body and put forward the draft to ensure that all their needs are met. This is just the preliminary draft and so it would not be wise to disclose any information, but the draft is for a longer run and it covers the financial and the HR needs of the health infrastructure right from primary, secondary to tertiary care too. The stakeholders would also be included like private hospitals, NGOs and other professional organisations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/post-record-covid-cases-no-major-announcements-for-pmc-health-sector-101611933676861.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Pune commissioner bats for PPP in civic projects||Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar underscores the need for public-private partnership in development projects in the city. He has proposed major projects like roads, gardens, electric buses, affordable housing, toilet cleaning on public-private partnership (PPP) model in the draft budget for the year 2021-22. “We need to go for more PPP models along with CSR (corporate social responsibility) for various projects in the city. It is clear that no one comes forwards for charity, but look for benefits. We need to take care that while introducing any project on this model, it should benefit citizens and the civic body,” Kumar said. The civic chief proposed to develop a garden at Kharadi on PPP model, and announced the redevelopment of Saras Baug without disturbing heritage structures. The commissioner said, “PMC standing committee had already given nod to develop roads on the PPP model. In the next financial year, PMC would develop some roads on PPP model by issuing the credit note. Due to fund constraint, the civic body is unable to develop all roads at one go. With private developers’ assistance, PMC would develop infrastructure in a timely manner. PMC had allocated ₹200 crore for road development on PPP model in the next financial year.” The commissioner in his budget speech said that PMC is planning to procure electric buses for Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) and is looking at the PPP option also. Special purpose vehicle for river beautification Like Ahmedabad city, PMC has planned to carry out river beautification in the city for 44 km stretch of Mula-Mutha. With PMC general body already given nod for the project, the commissioner said that the river rejuvenation and river beautification projects would get executed at the same time. While PMC has formed special purpose vehicle (SPV) for Smart city, Metro and river beautification, it has appointed a trust for medical college. Commissioner said that all these mechanisms would help for speedy decision and fast execution of projects. The commissioner has proposed 11 percentage hike in property tax, besides planning new scheme for regular taxpayers. Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena have opposed the tax hike. Commissioner said, “For last six years, there has been no hike in property tax. We would table the facts and request the standing committee members to approve the tax hike.” Metro likely to be operational by August 2021 The civic chief in his draft budget speech said that the Metro’s commercial operations may start by August 2021. The work is in progress on PCMC to Swargate and Vanaz to Ramwadi lines, and trial runs are on. 100 seats at new medical college, 400-bed hospital The municipal commissioner announced that admissions to 100 seats in the new medical college would start by the upcoming academic year. PMC will also build a 400-bed hospital that will be attached to the medical college. New projects - Aquarium at Rajiv Gandhi zoo at Katraj - Flyover at Vishrantwadi - Pedestrian bridge from COEP college to COEP hostel - Development of 20 roads in the city with “VVIP” facilities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-commissioner-bats-for-ppp-in-civic-projects-101611931996746.html
30-01-2021||Pune||Pune commissioner presents ₹7,650 crore draft budget for 2021-22||Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Friday presented ₹7,650 crore draft budget for the year 2021-22.Though the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) could collect only ₹3,285 crore revenue till January 15 this year, the civic chief has presented an optimistic budget and inflated draft budget from ₹6,229 crore of 2020-21 to ₹7,650 crore for 2021-22.Speaking to the media after presenting the budget, the commissioner said, “The newly merged 23 villages are seeing major developments and will generate record revenue from building permission and property tax department. PMC would get ₹2,356 crore from property tax, ₹1,985 crore as Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation from the state government and ₹1,000 crore from building permission office. Considering all these income sources, it would be wrong to claim that the budget is inflated.”The civic chief said that though development works were hit in 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic, this year will see a lot of progress in the sector. “PMC would execute river rejuvenation and beautification projects. A total of 44 km river front stretch would be developed and the civic body would soon form a special purpose vehicle to execute the plan,” he said.The municipal commissioner presented the draft budget to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne. The standing committee would study the administration’s budget and present the final budget for the year 2021-22.Blaming the civic chief for releasing an inflated budget, civic activist Vivek Velankar said, “The municipal commissioner has neglected the ground reality while preparing the budget. PMC hardly received ₹3,000 crore revenue till now despite its nod to execute the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters. The final budget amount will further inflate as elected members would also add some components.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-commissioner-presents-rs-7-650-crore-draft-budget-for-202122-101611925156420.html
30-01-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena, Congress fixing began even before assembly polls, alleges BJP leader||Former state minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sambhaji Patil Nilangekar has stirred controversy by saying that Shiv Sena and Congress indulged in a 'fixing' for Latur rural constituency during 2019 Assembly polls.Talking to mediapersons in his hometown Latur, Nilangekar said the deal was 'cheating' with the electorate and local people who would not forgive the betrayal. He also alleged that the two parties were working on tacit deals even before the assbly polls which became clear when Shiv Sena ditched BJP and formed government with Congress and NCP later.Also Read: Maharashtra home minister warns of action over post against BJP MP Raksha KhadseThe disclosure by Nilangekar has also put the BJP leadership in state in an embarassing position as it also means BJP took help of local Congress leaders to win an assembly seat.In his interaction with media, Nilangekar alleged that the fixing was done to help Congress' Dhiraj Deshmukh to win from Latur rural constituency in exchange of help by local Congress leaders to ensure victory of BJP candidate Abhimanyu Pawar in Ausa, a traditional Congress seat in the same district.Dhiraj Deshmukh is youngest son of former chief minister late Vilasrao Deshmukh and brother of state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh. Pawar was personal assistant of then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.In 2019 elections, BJP left the Latur rural seat to Shiv Sena as part of the seat sharing pact between the two parties (BJP and Sena contested in an alliance). Shiv Sena fielded a weak candidate making it easier for Dhiraj to win the seat, according to Nilangekar.“We had scored well in the 2014 elections by polling 93000 votes and it was a favorable seat for BJP. Despite it, it was given to Sena as part 'fixing' for a Mumbai seat. Dhiraj Deshmukh won against NOTA option which saw 28000 votes and Sena candidate was thrown to third position,” he said.According to his aides, the adjustment was done for the neighboring Ausa constituency which was held by Congress’s Basavraj Patil for years till then. The leaders say that Congress's local leadership tacitly helped BJP candidate (Pawar) to win Ausa, assumed to be a Congress stronghold.During the 2019 elections there were reports that local Shiv Sena leaders and workers too were upset over their candidate Sachin Deshmukh.The workers had put up posts on social media saying their candidate had gone missing. Sena workers had also stormed the local party office protesting against the candidature. NOTA winning more votes than Sena candidate was believably the anger expressed through the voting machine.BJP sought to play down the allegations.“I think whatever Nilangekar has said has been misquoted by the media. I am sure he is a loyal party leader and would not cross the framework of party discipline. No party leader will resort to any irresponsible statement,” said leader of opposition Pravin Darekar.BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil chose to keep mum on the issue. "I have not heard the statement as yet. I will speak about it after taking information about it," he said.Nilangekar said that to help Congress’s Dhiraj Deshmukh to win, Shiv Sena was hellbent on contesting Latur rural seat though it was with the BJP.Congress leader Amit Deshmukh said Nilangekar should seek clarification from the state BJP leadership on what happened."Shiv Sena and BJP fought the elections in alliance and the candidates were finalised by them. His allegations are to seek attention of the people. He should clarify which BJP leader was involved in the fixing,"Deshmukh sais.Shiv Sena's former MP and leader from Marathwada Chandrakant Khaire said, "The allegations are baseless as Sena fought the election with full fervor. The allegations are out of the old rivalry between Deshmukhs and Nilangekars. As part of the alliance candidate, Sena supported Nilangekar in Nilanga despite our differences with him."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjpleader-accuses-party-shiv-sena-of-seat-fixing-with-congress-in-2019-101611920416919.html
