31-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP, NCP, Sena leaders come together for Sanjay Raut’s daughter’s engagement||Senior leaders from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena on Sunday once again came together under one roof, for the engagement of Purvashi Raut, daughter of senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut at a five-star hotel in Santacruz.On January 23, political leaders from different parties had gathered for the unveiling of Sena founder, Bal Thackeray’s statue in Mumbai.Chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray along with his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya were present at the occasion. NCP chief Sharad Pawar along with his wife Pratibha, NCP member of Parliament (MP) Supriya Sula and her husband Sadanand were also present.Shiv Sangram Party leader and BJP-backed member of Legislative Council (MLC) Vinayak Mete, NCP minister Nawab Malik, NCP MP Shrinivas Patil and other leaders were also at the event. Sena leaders including Arvind Sawant, Anil Desai, Diwakar Raote, Gajanan Kirtikar, etc were also present.Raut’s daughter Purvashi, a jewellery designer, got engaged to Malhar Narvekar, son of Rajesh Narvekar, a civil servant, who is currently the Thane collector. Malhar is a qualified IT engineer and runs a business. Purvashi along with her younger sister Vidhita were also producers of the biopic on Bal Thackeray, that was produced under the banner Rauters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bjp-ncp-sena-leaders-come-together-for-sanjay-raut-s-daughter-s-engagement-101612117645644.html
31-01-2021||Other||Delhi allows cinema halls to operate at full capacity, opens swimming pools||New Delhi: The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday allowed cinema halls to operate at full capacity, while also permitting swimming pools to open for all. The order came four days after the Union ministry of home affairs had further relaxed Covid-19 restrictions for the country on Wednesday. The restriction on social or any form of gatherings, including weddings, where only 50 guests are allowed, however, will continue. In an order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, the DDMA reiterated all the guidelines and standard operating procedures notified by the Central government for the opening of facilities and activities, including trade exhibitions and sports events.“The situation of Covid-19 has been reviewed and considering that the number of active and new cases of Covid-19 have been declining steadily during the last two months, it has been decided that guidelines of the MHA order dated January 27, along with SOPs issued by the ministry of information and broadcasting for cinema halls and theatres, ministry of youth affairs and sports for operation of swimming pools, and for opening up of stadiums for sports events and department of commerce and government of India for holding trade exhibitions shall be applied mutatis mutandis in NCT of Delhi,” read the DDMA’s order issued on Sunday.All of these activities will be allowed from Monday (February 1) till February 28 until further orders.Delhi recorded 140 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday as the city’s positivity rate slipped to 0.23%, authorities said. According to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department, the fresh cases came after 60,695 tests having been conducted for detection of the virus.With this, the total number of cases for Covid-19 in the national capital has touched 635,096, while the death toll hit 10,853, with four more people succumbing to the infection on Sunday. The number of active cases in the national capital dropped to 1,361 from 1,436 on Sunday.Starting Monday, cinema halls and theatres in Delhi will be able to function with 100% seating capacity, instead of 50% which was allowed till January 31.The multiplexes have been asked to follow staggered show timings to avoid crowding and longer intermissions have been recommended so that the audience seated in different rows of the auditorium can move in a staggered manner. However, cinema halls located inside containment zones will continue to stay shut. Apart from physical distancing of at least 6 feet in the common areas, the SOPs also recommend digital booking of tickets be encouraged and contact number of ticket-holder be noted at the time of booking to facilitate contact tracing. Only asymptomatic people are to be allowed entry inside halls, the order stated. Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Limited, India’s largest film exhibition company, welcomed the decision of allowing cinema halls to operate at 100% capacity and said the move will boost the multiplex industry.“India has done well to control the spread of Covid-19, along with the large scale roll out of the vaccination drive. This move will give confidence to film producers to release their much awaited movies. It will also improve the sentiment of the audience who, we now hope, will return to the cinemas to watch their choicest movies in the company of their loved ones. PVR continues to keep safety and hygiene as paramount and abide by all SOPs as laid down by the government at its cinemas,” said Dutta.For swimming pools, the SoP states that alternate lanes of the pool will have to be used from both directions to maintain physical distancing of swimmers to the extent feasible. It also mandated CCTV monitoring to check crowding of pools and the visitors gallery, while stating that swimming pool should ensure adequate and regular water filtration and chlorination as per the standards laid down by WHO.The Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which maintains and operates a number of sports complexes, stadiums and swimming pools in the city, said it will soon start re-applying for the pre-requisite licences to open its facilities. “Once we formally received the government’s SOPs, we will take a decision. We will have to apply for licence from the municipal corporations and Sports Authority of India. We will then also have to apply to Delhi police’s licencing department to renew our permit,” said a senior DDA official. However, the DDMA maintained status quo on the restriction on public gatherings. A senior DDMA member said number of guests for weddings will continue to be 50 in Delhi for now and that for funerals will be 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-allows-cinema-halls-to-operate-at-full-capacity-opens-swimming-pools-101612117466298.html
31-01-2021||Other||Hotels in Mumbai struggle to survive post Covid lockdown due to low occupancy||MumbaiSix months after hotels in Mumbai were allowed to reopen, most of them are still struggling to stay afloat as they are running at approximately 40% occupancy. The reason — negligible international tourists, meagre inter-state travellers as well as lack of corporate clients.This is according to the figures released by HVS-Anarock, a hospitality consulting firm, which pointed out that the current occupancy is from leisure travel and local businessmen. “There are hardly any international tourists. Currently, the occupants consist of tourists on short vacations within motorable distances and within short flight distances from their home town,” said Mandeep Lamba, president (South Asia), HVS-Anarock.According to experts, a hotel needs to have at least 50% occupancy to sustain itself.After being shut for more than four months, the state government allowed hotels to reopen from July 8, 2020, under various conditions.The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), an apex body of hoteliers, said that hotels are running into huge losses due to lack of occupancy. “Many hotels have cut their tariffs to one third to woo consumers. In addition, many have not even opened their establishments as the losses are too heavy to bear,” said Dilip Datwani, spokesperson, HRAWI. “Since even outstation trains are not travelling at full capacity, we have lost those patrons also,” he added.Radisson Blu Mumbai International Airport Hotel has currently opened 96 rooms for their patrons. “We see full booking during the weekends but the response during weekdays is not very encouraging,” said Pankaj Saxena, general manager, Radisson Blu Mumbai International Airport Hotel.Kamlesh Barot, who manages Empresa Hotel at Andheri, listed a variety of things for the low occupancy. “Though the Central government has asked for easing restrictions at the airport, the situation is very chaotic. Tourists from other states are afraid they will be tested and forced to quarantine, thus spoiling their vacations,” said Barot. “The corporate sector, which offers some of the biggest clientele, is working at meagre capacity and most businesses are holding online meetings. This has hurt the hotels,” he added.Mumbai hotels are now attempting to woo local guests with staycations and are offering slashed tariffs, food festivals and customised menus for the same.Lamba of HVS-Anarock pointed out that despite poor business, the situation in India is better than in other countries. “There are hardly any hotel occupancies in other countries as they were not able to control the spread of Covid-19 as we did. Besides, things will improve as the vaccine rolls out,” said Lamba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hotels-in-mumbai-struggle-to-survive-post-covid-lockdown-due-to-low-occupancy-101612117346641.html
31-01-2021||City||'If you want good governance, give good journalism': Tripura CM tells media||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said that if good governance is expected from him, he would need good journalism in return. He said this on Sunday at a programme organised by Tripura Journalists' Union held at Agartala Press Club."There is a relationship between good governance and good journalism. Those who are running the government, need to keep in mind that they came to power through people. Party is just a platform. Similarly, people are the main power of journalists. If they think whatever their media will broadcast or publish, people will believe it, this will not happen," said Deb in his speech.Also read: GST revenue collection for January almost touched ₹1.20 lakh crore"If you want good governance from me, I will require good journalism," he said.Lauding journalists for their contribution to the state, primarily during the Covid-19 pandemic, through their factual reporting and donation, Deb said that the journalists should remember that their wrong reporting will cause harm to people.He added that the news report should be sourced by concerned officials and if an official quote is not available, or they refuse to speak, that should also be mentioned in the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/if-you-want-good-governance-give-good-journalism-tripura-cm-tells-media-101612117113313.html
31-01-2021||Other||30, including freelance journalist, arrested for violence at Singhu||New Delhi: At least 30 people arrested in connection to the violence at Singhu border in connection to the farmer’s protest on Friday and an independent journalist who was taken in custody on Saturday from the same place for allegedly disrupting a public servant on duty, were sent to judicial custody, their lawyers said.Duty Magistrate Akhil Malik at the Tihar jail complex sent independent journalist, Mandeep Puniya, to 14 days judicial after he was produced by the police, his counsel Sarim Naved confirmed. He said that the judge also sought the reply of the Investigating officer (IO) in a bail plea moved by Punia.“Mandeep was sent to judicial custody for 14 days by the Duty Magistrate,” Naved said. He said that Puniya’s bail application would be heard on Monday at the Rohini Court Complex.Puniya, through his counsel, has contended that he was detained last night without any information to his family members. He said that it was only when the fellow journalists that the information about the FIR were given to them.The bail plea has said that there was a delay of seven hours in the registration of the FIR and the case was registered at 1.21 AM even when the incident took place at 6.44 PM. The petition said a differential treatment was given to Puniya because he was not carrying a press ID card.Advocate Harpreet Singh Hora, counsel for the farmers arrested during the violence at the Singhu border on Friday, said that a total of 33 accused persons have been produced before the duty magistrate at the Tihar jail complex on Saturday after which they were sent to judicial custody.Advocate Hora also said that their team shall contest these cases on behalf of the farmers who are missing, arrested falsely or are injured. He also stated that there are relatives approaching them to figure out the whereabouts of their missing kin.“Our main priority at this stage is to locate all the missing persons who have been either detained or arrested. We are tracing them at various police stations and see that they are not assaulted by the police. Some reports of assault by police have also been received and we are taking proper legal recourse in these cases,” he said.Despite multiple barricades and at least 1,000 personnel of Delhi Police and paramilitary forces at the Singhu border, a mob of 200 people managed to reach near the main stage of the protest on Friday and attacked the farmers with sticks, besides pelting them with stones, leading to clashes.Videos on social media — none of which could be verified independently —showed a group of men pelting stones while police personnel stood next to them and watched. One video showed a masked man throwing stones. Another showed some police personnel in anti-riot gear standing and watching during the stone-pelting.Delhi police had on Friday night released a statement saying they had arrested 44 persons for Friday’s violence, including a 22-year-old protesting farmer, who had allegedly stabbed a police inspector with a sword on his left palm. Police in their statement did not specify how many of the 44 people were farmers or locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30-including-freelance-journalist-arrested-for-violence-at-singhu-101612117224767.html
31-01-2021||Other||Tenant thrashes residents in Tulip Orange society over parking||GurugramBadshahpur police on Sunday registered a complaint against 12 people, including a tenant of Tulip Orange Society, for allegedly thrashing three residents of the gated society in Sector 70 on Sunday evening. Police said the incident took place around 5pm over a parking issue. An FIR had not been lodged in the case, at the time of filing of this copy, with police stating that they are still investigating the matter.In the police complaint submitted to the Badshahpur police station, a copy of which is with the Hindustan Times, the Tulip Orange resident welfare association (RWA) has stated that a resident, who was living on rent in the society since 2018, had been parking five to eight cars within the society premises illegally, which blocked the pathway for other residents and had been causing them difficulties.The complaint further stated that around 5pm on Sunday, the tenant, identified first threatened and then thrashed the president of the RWA Padma Achuthan Binu and two other residents, when they objected to the illegal parking. “The incident happened when the RWA president,Padma Achuthan Binu, had objected to the illegal parking and asked the tenant to move the cars. The tenant started beating up the president and was soon joined by around 10 other men. Some of the men were carrying guns and revolvers and threatened kill Binu and the others,” stated the complaint filed with the police.The complaint further said that the accused also allegedly misbehaved with some female residents of the society and passed lewd comments, made obscene gestures and made their videos, without their consent. It also stated that the accused were threatening residents in the presence of police.As per the RWA, two residents suffered minor injuries in the squabble, with the third suffering a fracture on his left leg..“The three residents have been taken to the civil hospital by the police for a medical check-up. The residents of the society and the tenant are all present at the Badshahpur police station. We are trying to register an FIR in the matter,” said Sruthi Jain, joint secretary, Tulip Orange society.Subhash Boken, Gurugram police spokesperson said that police is investigating the case. “No case has been filed yet. We are recording statement of all persons, including the president of the RWA Padma Achuthan Binu and the residents, “ he said.“A tenant in Tulip Orange had been parking 5 to 8 cars inside the society premises forcibly. On objections being raised to this, he along with 8-10 others attacked the RWA president and two other residents. He also used fire arms to threaten the president and others.A police team arrived at the scene and upon checking multiple fire arms were recovered from his residence,” said Cdr Atul Kumar Rohatgi, general secretary, Tulip Orange RWA.The police said two revolvers and two rifles had been recovered from the tenant’s apartment during a search and they were yet to ascertain whether the firearms were licenced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tenant-thrashes-residents-in-tulip-orange-society-over-parking-101612116444723.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||MCG to review status of proposals approved in 2020 house meetings||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to review the status of proposals approved last year during the special meeting scheduled for February 4.Originally Thursday’s meeting, which will be held at the PWD rest house in Civil Lines, was to review all proposals approved in MCG house meetings since November 2017. However, Mayor Madhu Azad said they realised that this would take a lot of time and result in rushed and improper scrutiny.“The idea behind holding such a meeting in the first place was to ascertain if MCG officials were taking the house meeting seriously. There is no point for us to put agendas forward, deliberate them in great length, only for it to remain on documents. We want to check and identify officials who may not be forwarding some agendas to the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) for final approval or not implementing them within Gurugram, and subsequently initiate disciplinary action against them,” said Azad, adding that the officials would also be directed to expedite work on approved agendas that had seen little to no progress.Some of the key proposals approved last year included exchanging MCG revenue roads with the land of private builders amounting to the same monetary value; forming a committee to review the existing drainage system on Golf Course Road (GCR), sectors 27 and 28; developing a city forest in Sikanderpur; building a prefabricated boundary wall to preserve civic land against encroachers; constructing dispensaries in every municipal ward; and providing financial assistance to condominiums and residential societies for setting up compost plants within their respective areas. According to MCG officials, although many there had been some action taken on many of these proposals, the Covid-19 had put the brakes on others. “Most agendas approved in the February 2020 house meeting had been taken before the emergence of the pandemic. Things on-ground have changed since then. The MCG’s resources have largely been focussed on preventing the virus from spreading and its financial condition has also taken a hit. Hence, there has been little to no progress on these agendas,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter. The official, however, added that most agendas floated and subsequently approved in the house meetings following the national lockdown were conceptualised keeping Covid-19 in mind and hence, have had seen more progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-review-status-of-proposals-approved-in-2020-house-meetings-101612116144677.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Schools to reopen for classes 6 to 8 from February 1||Schools in the state will reopen for students in classes 6 to 8 for the first time since March on Monday. While most private schools said they were likely to continue with online classes, government schools, on the other hand, said were expecting a good turnout since students had not visited the school for nearly 11 months. As per the SOP (standard operating procedure) for reopening of schools, students need to produce a written consent letter from parents and a health clearance. Classes will take place for the duration of nearly 3 hours starting from 10 am. School across the country were shut in March last year amid the outbreak of Covid-19. Voluntary visits to schools for doubt-clearing sessions were allowed from September, followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that students had been informed about the required documents for school visits through WhatsApp groups. “Necessary directions regarding the health clearance have been conveyed to students. Since the strength of students on campus will increase significantly, maintaining physical distancing will be crucial. There will be no prayer or recess sessions,” said Sharma, adding that physical distancing within the classroom might be a challenge. Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that the school was expecting students to turn up in good numbers since students had no interaction with teachers or their peers in the past 11 months. “We hope to see students since physical classes had not been taking place for a very long time. Students who have difficulty in catching up with lessons online will be able to get their doubts cleared more freely now,” said Raghav. Many private schools said that they’d wait for the situation to stabilise further before calling students. Aparna Erry, principal, DAV Public School, Sector 14, said that the school would call students based on feedback from parents. “For now, only students in classes 9 to 12 are visiting the school. For other classes, we will take feedback from parents,” said Erry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-6-to-8-from-february-1-101612116145107.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers renew protest at Haryana border despite opposition from locals||Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur near Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border said that the number of protesting farmers at the site was swelling amid support from villages in Bawal and other parts of Rajasthan and Haryana. Farmers from Bawal, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Hanumangarh and Ganganagar renewed their agitation on Sunday even though some locals from Haryana raised concerns against the blocking of the route. Sinu Jaisinghpuria, a resident of Jaisinghpur Khera, said that petrol pump owners along with villages had approached the protesting farmers to share their grievances. “People are incurring losses due to the blockade. Due to the increased movement of vehicles passing through the village, there have been accidents too. People share the concerns of the farmers but there was no headway,” said Jaisinghpuria.. Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, said that around 50 people had reached the protest site for discussions. “Some petrol pump owners came here in the morning. They said that they were not against farmers but were facing financial losses due to the protest. We told them that the Haryana government had barricaded the routes,” said Sohlot. In a video shared on Twitter, Yogendra Yadav, head of Swaraj India, said that attempts were being made to create a disturbance at the protest site as had been the case at other places on the Delhi-Haryana border. “There are many petrol pumps on this stretch in Haryana. The owners of these petrol pumps are facing issues. Their workers are being portrayed as locals,” said Yadav. He said that the protesting farmers were ready to engage with people who had genuine concerns. “If locals have issues, they can reach out to us. Others shouldn’t play games under the garb of nationalism,” said Yadav. He said that the situation had changed for the better with the government on the back foot now. Yadav said the protest at Shahjahanpur was swelling with farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, and Bawal. “People from Haryana are strengthening the protest here as well as in other protest sites in Delhi now. People from Bawal also arrived here and joined the agitation,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-renew-protest-at-haryana-border-despite-opposition-from-locals-101612116084745.html
31-01-2021||Other||Gurugram: Health department to begin survey to detect cases of leprosy||After suspending active disease surveillance for leprosy — a bacterial ailment which continues to be reported from some clusters in Gurugram — the health department will conduct a door-to-door survey this week in the district’s vulnerable neighbourhoods. While officials said they do not anticipate a gross increase in the incidence of leprosy, they said that the likelihood of undetected cases remains high. “There are currently 20 active patients under treatment for two kinds of leprosy, but they have either self-reported their symptoms or were already in treatment before March 2020. ASHA workers usually conduct routine surveillance for leprosy, but since they were busy with contact-tracing of Covid-19 patients in May and June of last year, we had to suspend our campaign to actively detect new cases,” said Dr Vinit Yadav, district leprosy officer, Gurugram.A total of 148 cases of leprosy have been reported from the district since 2018, of which 20 cases are active patients. The majority of these were detected either prior to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, while a few self-reported their symptoms. “However, in case of self-reporting, many times the patients have already suffered irreversible damage to their skin and limbs. The incubation period for the disease can take up to five years. This is why active surveillance needs to resume urgently so that clinical interventions can be made in time,” said Dr Yadav.A total of 120 ASHA workers will, over the next two weeks, survey nearly 27,000 individual households for the disease, in those areas where leprosy has been previously detected over the past three years. The health department has also enrolled male volunteers to assist ASHA workers in certain cases, such as when male patients need to be undressed for screening. “We have completed the training programme for medical officers, who will brief healthcare workers on Monday. The door-to-door survey will begin within this week itself,” Yadav added.As per a centrally revamped scheme to increase surveillance for the disease — which was declared to be statistically eradicated in 2011 — workers will be provided an incentive of ₹200 for each household surveyed, while the incentive for detecting individual cases is ₹600 per diagnosis. Informal housing clusters, which suffer from poor infrastructure and sanitation, are the most vulnerable.“We assume that 5 percent of any given population is at risk, particularly in slum clusters. Of the current group of active leprosy patients, 15 are from slum areas in urban Gurugram, while the rest are from similar settlements in Farrukhnagar and Sohna,” said Dr Yadav. He added that, starting this year, all neighbourhoods with a low incidence of leprosy (equal to one case per 10,000 people) will be surveyed annually, while half-yearly surveys will be conducted in areas with a higher incidence of the disease, i.e. those areas with more than one notified case per 10,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-health-department-to-begin-survey-to-detect-cases-of-leprosy-101612116024731.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Businessman cheats private bank with fake gold for ₹8-lakh loan||A Gurugram based catering businessman managed to fool a private bank to issue ₹8-lakh worth loans against fake jewellery, said police on Sunday. Police suspect the man bought the cooperation of the jeweller that the bank relied on for ascertaining purity of gold. Both suspects -- catering businessman Shashi Kumar and an unnamed city jeweller-- were on the runs, said police.Police said Kumar, a resident of Bhiwani, approached the Sohna Road branch of IDBI Bank in March last year for a gold loan. He tried to mortgage four gold bangles that he claimed weighed 134 grams and was 22 carat pure. The bank then, as per norms, got the gold tested by the jeweller and then sanctioned a ₹3.70 lakh loan.A month later, Kumar approached the same branch and wished to mortgage another four bangles. Again the bank had its purity tested by the same jeweller and then sanctioned ₹4.25 lakh. In August, Kumar repaid the principal and interest and got back his gold.In the second week of January this year, Kumar attempted to get a ₹2-lakh loan from the same bank’s Manesar branch. Each branch had its own jeweller and this time, the Manesar branch’s authorised jeweller found that bangles were fake. KK Rao, Gurugram commissioner of police, said, “It was found that from inside the bangles were not of gold but some other metal on which gold was plated and placed with a fake hallmark (certification of purity).”When this was brought to the notice bank officials, they investigated Kumar’s previous loans and found discrepancies.Dhanesh Chaudhary, regional head of IDBI Bank, in his complaint filed on Sunday with the sector 50 police station said Kumar in connivance with the city-based jeweller, cheated the bank of ₹8.65 lakh. “Had the jeweller done his job properly, the bank would not have financed the fraudster and could have been saved from the loss,” said the complainant. On the basis of the complaint a case was registered against the accused and jeweller under section 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of IPC. “We are conducting raids to arrest the suspect,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-businessman-cheats-private-bank-with-fake-gold-for-8-lakh-loan-101612116025220.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad: Gang dupes many using ‘magic’ pen, four arrested||The Faridabad police have arrested four members of a gang from Delhi for allegedly duping several people of lakhs of rupees by using ‘magic’ pens on the pretext of offering extended warranty on their cars. According to the police, the suspects posing as officials of private automobile companies used to offer their pens to the customers for filling up the cheques. However, the ‘magic’ ink would later disappear and the gang would fill in amounts in lakh and withdraw the same from the persons’ accounts, said the police. The suspects were identified as Pawan alias Gaurav Sharma of Jahangirpuri in Delhi, presently living on rent in Sector 15 of Gurugram; Rahul Kumar of Hapur who was living on rent in Delhi’s Kailash Colony; Balbir Singh alias Ballu alias Ankit of Delhi and Amit Saxena alias Mona of Harsh Vihar in Delhi. The police said the suspects used to make calls to the people who had bought new cars in the past three years after taking their details from the agents. OP Singh, Faridabad police commissioner, said that the suspects used to offer extended warranty on their cars. “They used to visit the customers’ residences and offices and ask them to pay ₹1,100 for extended car warranty which was a nominal amount and people easily fell prey to their tricks. They used to offer their pens to the victims and later they would use heat to remove the amount section and filled lakhs instead of ₹1,100 and duped them,” he said. The gang members operated from different areas of Delhi and called up people everyday and made at least 10 calls each, said the police. The incident came to fore when a Faridabad’s Sector 15 resident approached police and lodged a complaint that he was duped of ₹1.90 lakh on January 16. Singh said the suspects also used to divert the calls of the victims to their own phone numbers before presenting cheques in the banks, and if the manager or bank executive called to confirm the cheque then the call was received by them confirming the amount. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, including Section 420 (cheating), was registered at cyber police station, said the police. Basant Kumar, inspector at the cyber police station, said that they had formed a team, and based on technical surveillance, call detail records and human intelligence, arrested the suspects from different parts of Delhi on January 27. The team has recovered ₹1 lakh, four mobile phones, and four magic pens, among others, from their possession, Kumar said. “The gang members had duped more than 50 people in Delhi-NCR. In another case, the gang had duped a Sector 28 resident of ₹3.40 lakh after he paid a cheque of ₹1,050 on October 29 last year,” he said. “After receiving the cheque, they used to put the negotiable instrument in front of a bulb. The heat evaporated the ink and they later filled in huge amounts,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-gang-dupes-many-using-magic-pen-four-arrested-101612115964666.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Rewari villagers start patrol to prevent protesters from returning||Local villagers of Rewari belt have started night patrolling on the Delhi-Jaipur highway from Sangwari Chowk in Rewari to Masani village near Dharuhera to ensure that protesters do not return to the vacated sites. The villagers are also keeping a check on their base camp at Shahjahanpur to ensure that protestors do not move towards Rewari and set up camps there. On January 27, panchayats of 20 villages in Rewari held a meeting and gave an ultimatum to protesting farmers at Masani, asking them to vacate by January 28. Capt (retd) Lala Ram, sarpanch of Masani village, said that villagers of Rajasthan are supporting the farmers and are providing them with food and shelter. “Although we are ready to support them but cannot allow them to return to the earlier sites due to the losses we have already suffered. The protesters have damaged our field. We are working to improve them and make them ready for cultivation. We are yet not over with the cleaning part and it will take another week or so. As such, we want to be vigilant and do not want them to occupy the space again,” he said. The villagers were unhappy with the way the protestors had vacated the sites without cleaning up. Teams have been formed which are patrolling between 7pm and 5am everyday. “We have asked the youth to take charge of the patrolling team but not to indulge in any kind of violence. They have been asked to inform us if they find any protestors. Further, dhaba owners have been asked not to entertain or give space to protestors to set up their tents,” he said. Meanwhile, more than 1,000 farmers from different parts of Haryana reached Shahjahanpur on Sunday and renewed their protest. They have taken over langars and tents, which were left by the farmers who returned home on January 27. Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said they had started a silent protest in Delhi. He added that some of them, along with other leaders including Rampal Jat, leader of Kisan Mahapanchayat, were detained by Delhi police on Saturday. “We were picked by Daryaganj Police from Rajghat and were let off late at night. Though, we had written to Delhi police commissioner but we did not get any permission,” he said. Sitting on the main carriageway at Shahajahanpur, farmer leaders addressing the gathering, stated that they would not be moving from this site. They also mentioned that they will ensure that more and more farmers join the protest from villages across Rajasthan and Haryana. Nehra said they are planning to visit the local villages in order to rally support. They need at least 3,000 more protesters at the site to show their strength, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rewari-villagers-start-patrol-to-prevent-protesters-from-returning-101612115904745.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Bhondsi Jail starts video conferencing facility for inmates||The Haryana prison department has started a video conferencing facility for Bhondsi jail inmates to help connect with their family members, said officials. The initiative, which was introduced last week, was taken after physical meetings were discontinued since March for the 2,500 inmates of the jail due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Since then only calls were allowed from two landline numbers. K Selvaraj, director-general (prisons), said that the inmates were missing their family members. “Therefore, we decided to launch video conferencing to ensure they can see each other virtually. It is important to keep their morale high. In this way, they can feel connected with their family members,” he said. Harinder Singh, jail superintendent of Bhondsi jail, said that this unique initiative was launched with India Vision Foundation. “The inmates were depressed since they were not able to meet and see their family members. We had restricted the meetings due to the Covid-19 pandemic so that we could protect inmates from SARS-CoV-2 virus that was rapidly spreading. Through the service, inmates can also talk to their relatives online through video conferencing, while staying at jail,” he said. Singh said first three video calls for 10 minutes each will be free of cost. After that, they will be charged ₹2.50 per minute. “An inmate can make a 10-minute call everyday to registered mobile numbers and those who wish to make normal calls can do so for 50 paisa per minute. There is a PCO inside the jail used by inmates. However, the video call will add another value to the services provided to inmates,” he said. Officers said, initially they have set up 15 video conferencing sets for the inmates and will add more depending on the demand. Singh said the inmates can use the facility between 7am and 6pm and the sets have been donated by India Vision Foundation. An in-house software developed by the inmates called ‘Phoenix’ has been connected to the set up for the video conferencing. Monica Dhawan, director of India Vision Foundation, said that the new project will help the mental well-being of the inmates . “During Covid-19, meetings were restricted due to which inmates were depressed. This video calling facility will help them to connect with their families and will also save the travel time and the expense of their family members,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bhondsi-jail-starts-video-conferencing-facility-for-inmates-101612115905263.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Education department to start helpline for students||The state higher education department will be initiating a helpline to connect teachers to college students who do not have necessary devices for accessing learning material, officials said. In a directive shared with colleges earlier last week, the higher education department said that colleges were trying to engage with students using various digital tools. However, it has come to the notice of the department that many students did not have access to electronic tools for e-content. To bridge the gap, the department plans to initiate a helpline for college students as part of its project called “Gyan Ganga: Samvaad.” The helpline will allow students to connect with teachers for clarifying doubts and other subject queries. The directive, undersigned by Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, stated that the helpline will provide students with an opportunity to interact with experts of their respective subjects in arts, sciences, and commerce streams. Verma said that the service will be available from 9am till 6pm in English and Hindi, and calls will be recorded for monitoring and evaluation. Ramesh Garg, the principal of Government Girls College, Sector 14, said that a meeting was conducted on Wednesday to discuss the implementation of the initiative. “We will have to fix the timings for interactions with different teachers on different days in accordance with their teaching schedule. The schedule for these sessions will be prepared after discussion with faculty members. A plan will be chalked out before the helpline is made functional,” said Garg. Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that the project was aimed at reaching out to students who did not have adequate digital devices needed for online learning. Yadav said that deliberations would take place before the helpline is made functional. “Even today, there are some students who are facing challenges in accessing online learning. The helpline seeks to bridge the gap with faculty and these students. Currently, various issues are being discussed. Once finalised, we will be able to start work,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/education-department-to-start-helpline-for-students-101612115844673.html
31-01-2021||Noida||Over 500 trees felled, stolen from Gram Sabha land in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department, with the help of police, has launched an investigation after receiving complaints that more than 500 well grown trees were felled and smuggled from the Gram Sabha land in Uncha Ameerpur village. The forest department had planted these trees in 2012 and handed over them to the Gram Sabha in 2015, officials said. Avnish Singh, a local resident who informed the forest department about the incident recently, said that the trees had grown well in the past nine years. “Three days ago some local people visited the spot and found that a number of trees have been felled and smuggled. It appears that some smugglers stole these trees at night,” he said.On Saturday, a team of forest department and Jarcha police conducted an inspection of the spot after getting the information. According to the forest department, a total of 534 trees of different species were illegally felled and timber stolen. “The species included arjun, neem, kanji, and babul to count a few. We have lodged a complaint at Jarcha police station. The plantation was carried out by the forest department on the Gram Sabha’s land and maintained it till 2015,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar.The area of land on which the illegal felling took place is around 10 bigha, Srivastava said, adding that a playground was already proposed on the land for which permission was sought from the forest department to fell the plantation. “However, the incident happened before the forest department could act,” he said. Shripal Singh, station house officer, Jarcha police station, said that around 10,000 trees were planted in the area nine years ago. “It appears that some wood gatherers used to roam around in the area and pick dry wood. Gradually, they started cutting branches of the trees and then felling them. We have registered a case under sections 4 and 10 of the Forest Act. We are investigating the case and will arrest the people involved in the crime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-500-trees-felled-stolen-from-gram-sabha-land-in-greater-noida-101612115784723.html
31-01-2021||Noida||Tikait’s call for water draws people to UP Gate protest site||Ghaziabad: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal last week has been doing wonders for the farmers’ agitation at the UP Gate protest site as the gathering swelled further on Sunday, with several people bringing food and water for him. The office bearers of the BKU said that ever since his appeal, the only water Tikait has been consuming is that which has been brought to him by the people coming to support the protest.It was on the evening of January 28 that Tikait, while he was approached by the Ghaziabad police and administration officials with a notice to vacate the UP Gate site, broke down in tears in front of supporters and media persons, appealing that he wants people to come and offer him water and food.Following this, he said he won’t vacate the protest site and had also alleged that the Ghaziabad administration had stopped the water supply and snapped the electricity supply.Ever since, thousands of people from different areas in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and even Karnataka have arrived with water. “I had come to UP Gate with my two children and have been here for the past two days. I was touched by his appeal and have come to support him. The agitation is gaining strength and the government will have to consider the demands of farmers,” said Rajeshwari Meena, a resident of Dausa in Rajasthan.“We are protesting that crops should not be locked in lockers (referred to as godowns of corporate). We will not allow the pagdi (turban) of farmers and ‘roti’ (food) of the poor to be locked up. Roti cannot be allowed to be a part of business. If this happens, the common man will suffer. Camera aur kalam pe bandook ka pehra hai (guns are curbing the pen and the camera), and this is why the message is still not going to the common man,” Tikait, the national spokesperson of the BKU, said. Since January 28, people have brought water for Tikait from their homes and even from the Golden Temple at Amritsar in Punjab. Some came from as far as Karnataka on Sunday, bringing in water from river Kaveri.He said this water will be sent to be flowed in river Ganga.“The water coming in from other rivers, homes and water bodies will be collected and sent to Ganga. This water will be flowed in the river which will eventually flow out into the sea. It will help farmers during the rains and will help him irrigate his fields. This will also cement our bond with the almighty,” Tikait added. On January 26, the UP Gate protest site had an estimated crowd of 800-1,000 at the site, even as many left in apprehension of police action, after the incidents of violence on Republic Day in the national Capital. “On Sunday, there was an estimated gathering of more than 15,000-20,000 at the site and more people will arrive soon. His appeal for water and food to be brought from homes touched hearts and people are turning out in large numbers at UP Gate. More prominently, the appeal has gone down well with women who are also coming and even urging their family members to reach UP Gate,” said Rajbir Singh, Uttar Pradesh vice-president of the BKU.He said Tikait was pained when the Ghaziabad administration had allegedly stopped the water- being supplied through tankers, in order to pressurise farmers to vacate the site.Earlier, Ajay Shankar Pandey, the Ghaziabad district magistrate, had said that the water supply was not stopped but some water tankers were deployed elsewhere after the gathering at UP Gate decreased. He had further added that electricity was not snapped but there was some fault which had led to a power outage. The electricity and water supply was restored later. Pandey did not respond to calls on Sunday. “Since that day, Tikait is only consuming water given to him by the people and hasn’t had bottled-water or water brought in by tankers,” Singh added. Farmers at the UP Gate site have been camping there since November 28, 2020 demanding repeal of three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tikaits-call-for-water-draws-people-to-up-gate-protest-site-101612115724665.html
31-01-2021||Noida||Noida authority clears sector 123 plot of 100 tonnes garbage||The Noida Authority has removed over 100 tonne waste illegally dumped in a 25-acre plot near sector 123.About 25 trucks transported the waste to the authority’s two remediation centres for segregation and disposal, officials informed.The officials stated that they will repair the boundary wall around the plot, which belongs to it, to prevent further dumping. The area is home to residential colonies and high rises. Residents, many of who had been raising the issue with the authority since the last two months, however, are apprehensive on whether the authority can ensure that the area remains waste-free.“Even earlier the plot had been cleaned but rag pickers and neighbouring industries would dump waste there, including chemicals. Some people would also set it afire,” said Dinesh Singh, resident of Home-121, a high rise in sector 121 that is adjacent to the said plot.According to the residents, the plot was gated last year but the walls were partially brought down and the gate removed to pave way for heavy vehicles.“The electricity department had some work there, but was never rebuilt after it was done,” said Singh,Adwitiya Sharma, an employee works with the water department, cycles in this area daily. “The stench is almost unbearable and I often change my routes to avoid this place,” he said The Noida Authority said it will do all it can to prevent a repeat.“We have already started cleaning the plot and will begin constructing the boundary wall from Monday. We will keep an eye on illegal dumping here ensure that the issue doesn’t persist,” said Avinash Tripathi, Officer on special duty (health) Noida authority.He added that there was only one designated waste dumping yard at sector 145 that the authority manages as per norms.“About 22 to 25 truckloads of garbage was recovered from the site and the plot is being soiled using three earthmoving machines. The issue is that neighbouring Ghaziabad doesn’t have an authorised dumping ground and so people from there dump it here,” said SC Mishra, project engineer (Health), Noida authority.Noida generates about 550 to 600 tonnes of garbage every day, that goes to two different material recovery plants and finally to its dumping yard in sector 145, about 20 km from the sector 123 plot.“We have a successful waste management system, but due to the diversity in the city many are still unaware of proper waste management rules. We still are getting around 80 per cent waste as segregated. But such illegal dumping parallel continues that we are working on to act against,” said Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-clears-sector-123-plot-of-100-tonnes-garbage-101612115725244.html
31-01-2021||Noida||Release those arrested after Republic Day violence in Delhi: Tikait||Ghaziabad: Leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) at the UP Gate protest site said Sunday that the government should consider the release of the 84 persons arrested in connection with incidents of violence that unfolded on Republic Day in Delhi, and that this will pave the way for a “good environment” for talks with the government.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 30, during an all-party meeting ahead of the budget session on February 1, has said that the government stands by the offer to the farmers by agriculture minister Naresh Tomar, made during the last meeting between the government and farmer representatives.Rakesh Tikait, who has emerged as the face of the farmers’ agitation at the UP Gate protest site, on January 30 had appealed to the government to hold talks. “If the government comes to us with a clean heart then talks will proceed smoothly. We wish that the prime minister raises the ‘jai Jawan, jai kisan’ slogan and releases the 84 arrested persons. This will create a good environment for talks. We do not wish to proceed to Delhi and will continue with our peaceful protest here,” Rakesh told media persons at UP Gate.A day after THE tractor rally called by farmers on Republic Day spiralled out of control the farmer leaders had decided to postpone their proposed February 1 march to the Parliament.In connection with the incidents on Republic Day, the Delhi Police have filed various FIRs, some of them against farmers’ leaders. In the evening on Republic Day, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer groups, had said that the protest was hijacked by people not connected to them. They had dissociated themselves from the protesters who had attacked the police and indulged in violence during the day.SUKHBIR SINGH BADAL MEETS TIKAITEver since the emotional appeal made by Rakesh on January 28 at UP Gate, leaders from various opposition parties have been flocking to UP Gate to meet him and extend support.On Sunday, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, whose party pulled out of the ruling National Democratic Alliance in September last year over the issue of farm laws, visited UP Gate and extended support to the farmers. Badal also met Rakesh and hailed his efforts in taking up the fight of farmers.“I have come to congratulate Chaudhary Rakesh Tikait who is fighting for the farmers. My father, Prakash Singh Badal, and Tikait’s father, Chaudhary Mahendra Singh Tikait, had fought together for the cause of farmers. I and my party extend our support to him (Rakesh) and all farmers. The prime minister should listen to the demands of the farmers,” Badal told reporters. “Farmers of the entire country are fighting collectively, and I request all parties to keep aside their political differences and fight for farmers till the farm laws are taken back,” he added. Earlier, Delhi’s deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party leader Manish Sisodia, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary, UP Congress committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda had met Rakesh Tikait at UP Gate, while many others have spoken to him over the phone and extended help and support. On January 30, Rakesh was joined by Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Singh Chautala. ROADS BLOCKEDThe officials of the Ghaziabad traffic police on Sunday said that traffic on the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) was stopped after multi-layered barricades were put up by the Delhi Police. “The Delhi Police have closed the DME by putting up barricades and commuters in Ghaziabad can move to Delhi through the Kaushambi-Anand Vihar border or from Sector 62 in Noida. Since the DME is shut, there is hardly any movement inside the jurisdiction of Ghaziabad district,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). It is for the first time at the UP Gate border that the barricades have barbed fencing; concrete-mix has also poured between the cement slab barriers to fortify the barricading. The Ghazipur to Vaishali road has also been blocked similarly, with no commuter movement. When approached, there was no official response but a Delhi Police officer, who did not want to be named, said, “Security has been tightened in view of violence on Republic Day.” The Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway is also heavily barricaded and has been occupied by protesting farmers since December 3, 2020. The protesters have complained that the internet connectivity at the UP Gate has been affected. “Barricading and stoppage of internet connectivity are pressure tactics, but farmers’ position is now gaining strength after the emotional appeal by Rakesh Tikait. It is due to this resurgence that the prime minister on Saturday spoke on the issue of talks (during the all-party meeting),” said Anil Tyagi, a farmer from Muradnagar’s Asalat Nagar village in Ghaziabad. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/release-those-arrested-after-republic-day-violence-in-delhi-tikait-101612115664724.html
31-01-2021||Other||Noida: JAL allowed to finish stuck housing project in Sector 128||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has allowed the Jaiprakash Associates Limited (JAL) to finish a stuck housing project in Noida Sector 128 as a contractor, following demands from the homebuyers. UP-Rera officials said that JAL will complete the Jaypee Greens Night Court project and deliver the flats in the next 15 months. The real estate regulator took the decision in its meeting held on January 27.This is the second such case where the regulator made the promoter a contractor to seek a solution to the plight of apartment owners. On September 19 last year, following orders of UP-Rera, JAL started construction at its stuck Kalypso Court project in Sector 128. “The authority is very serious to make sure that the projects are delivered and the homebuyers get benefited,” said Rajive Kumar, chairman of UP-Rera.Jaypee Greens Night Court has eight towers having 310 units. The work on the project is stalled since 2014, the officials said, adding that only 60% work was done by the promoter.According to the Rera officials, a fund of ₹145.5 crore is required to finish the remaining construction work of this project. While ₹103.35 crore has to be contributed by the homebuyers, the promoter will pay ₹40.85 crore to finish the project.As per the terms, the promoter will pay ₹10 crore upfront and start the work at the site in the next two weeks, the officials said.“This is a good move that the apartment buyers and the promoter have agreed to complete the remaining work mutually,” said Balvinder Kumar, member of UP-Rera. Many homebuyers want that the promoter completes the remaining work because a new developer may further delay the project. “If a new developer steps in, then it may take long time to finish the already delayed realty project. Also, the quality of the construction may be an issue,” said Sachin Kumar, a homebuyer of Jaypee Greens Night Court. JAL said that it would finish and deliver the project in stipulated time. “We will follow the instructions of Rera and deliver as per the schedule,” said a JAL spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-jal-allowed-to-finish-stuck-housing-project-in-sector-128-101612115604680.html
31-01-2021||Noida||Man killed, friend injured as car overturns in Noida||Noida: A 24-year-old man died while his friend was injured when their car lost balance, hit a divider and overturned in Noida’s Sector 52 on Saturday around 8:30 pm. Police said the two were returning to Delhi from Noida when the accident took place, near Sai Temple. The deceased was identified as Aditya Vidhoori and the injured victim is Manoj Kumar, 26. Police said it appears the vehicle was allegedly speeding which led to the accident. Prabhat Dixit, in-charge of the Sector 24 police station, said the two had visited Noida for some work. “In the evening they were returning to Delhi from Sector 76 side. Vidhoori was from Jasola in Delhi while Kumar is from Uttam Nagar. The two were travelling in a Maruti Swift Dzire. When they reached near the Sai Temple, their car hit the divider and overturned. Vidhoori, at the driving seat, received critical injuries,” he said. A police team reached the spot after getting information from a passerby. Since the car had turned turtle, the two were trapped inside the damaged vehicle. They were rushed to the district hospital in Sector 30 where doctors declared Vidhoori dead. Kumar received minor injuries and is out of danger. The accident also halted traffic for some time. Later, the police team called a crane and removed the vehicle from the spot. “The body was sent for a post-mortem and a medical report is awaited. We have informed the victim’s family. Police have not received any complaint in this regard yet,” Dixit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-killed-friend-injured-as-car-overturns-in-noida-101612115544668.html
31-01-2021||Bhopal||MP govt offices to be cleaned with cow urine phenyl only, states an order||Madhya Pradesh government offices will now be cleaned with phenyl made of cow urine only, a state government order made public on Sunday said.The state's General Administration Department (GAD) released an order on Saturday saying that all government offices have to replace chemically-made phenyl with cow urine phenyl to clean the premises, said Niwas Sharma, secretary, general administration department (GAD).The decision of using Gau Phenyl was taken in the first ‘cow cabinet’ held in November for the protection and promotion of cows in the state.Animal husbandry department minister Prem Singh Patel said the decision was taken to promote the setting up of bottling plant of cow urine and to set up factories of cow phenyl.Also read: GST revenue collection for January almost touched ₹1.20 lakh crore - Govt“We generated the demand before the production. Now, people will not leave the non-milking cows abandoned. This will improve the condition of cows in Madhya Pradesh,” he added.However, Congress leaders blamed the state government for promoting the phenyl manufactured by private companies.Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhary said, “The government comes up with this decision without setting up any infrastructure. If the state government really wants to promote by-products of cows to improve the condition of stray cows, they should have at least started some factories in the state. Now, the demand will be fulfilled by a private company of Uttarakhand.”BJP spokesperson Rahul Kothari said, “This is a vague thinking of Congress leaders. Why would anyone set up a factory without any demand? The state government has taken a good decision and other states will follow suit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-offices-to-be-cleaned-with-cow-urine-phenyl-only-states-an-order-101612114744417.html
31-01-2021||Noida||Three persons arrested for posting derogatory comments on social media||Greater Noida: Surajpur police on Sunday arrested three from the Dalit community for allegedly abusing upper caste people on social media.Police said they took suo moto (without formal complaint) cognizance of the matter after some people tweeted to the Noida Police.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police Noida Central, said a case was registered against Aligarh residents 20-year-old Akash Lal and 22-year-old Karan, and 23-year-old Bunty from Sambhal, under section 66 of the Information and Technology Act. All live on rent in Knowledge Park area.“Sub-inspector Ram Chander Singh later filed a complaint in the matter. Police investigation showed that the members of two communities had engaged with each other on an Instagram post. The three suspects then recorded an objectionable video and posted on the social networking site,” he said. Police also seized a mobile phone allegedly used in making the objectionable video. “The suspects alleged that some upper caste people too had also posted objectionable videos against them. The police are investigating the matter from all angles. If we find evidence, an FIR will be registered against them as well,” said Chander. The three suspects were produced in court and sent to 14-dayjudicial custody.Two held in 12-year-old’s rape case in Dankaur  Police on Sunday arrested two suspects in the rape of a 12-year-old girl in Dankaur. One of the suspects is the maternal aunt to the girl, said police. The alleged incident took place on Saturday. The girl had been staying with her aunt for the last seven years. The woman worked on the farm of the prime suspect, a 40-year-old man, eight kilometers from their home.Vrinda Shukla, DCP for women safety, GB Nagar, said that the woman took the victim to the farm for work. “The the woman left the girl with the man and he raped her. The man threatened the girl if she were to report the matter,” she said. She, however, returned home and narrated the incident to her other family members. Police said they suspect the woman conspired with the man in the crime.On Sunday, the two were arrested and a case was registered under sections 376 (rape), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and also relevant sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. They were produced in court and sent to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-persons-arrested-for-posting-derogatory-comments-on-social-media-101612115424673.html
31-01-2021||Noida||Three dead in hit-and-run case on NH-9||Three persons, including a traffic constable, were killed on Sunday afternoon after a mini truck mowed them down near the Vijay Nagar bypass road on National Highway-9. Police said the driver fled with the vehicle.“Those injured were rushed to hospital and three of them were declared dead there, Our teams are trying to trace the driver on the basis of the vehicle’s registration number,” said Abhay Kumar Mishra, circle officer (city 1). He said that an FIR was lodged at Vijay Nagar police station. Police identified the dead as Lal Kuan resident Hari Om Sharma (50), Vijay Nagar resident Reema Kumar (42) and Aligarh resident traffic policeman Manoj Kumar (25). They said that all the other five injured were women and also include one woman constable, Bala Rani, who is currently posted at sector-58 police station in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-dead-in-hit-and-run-case-on-nh9-101612115244646.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Three Pune wrestlers killed in accident near Karad||Three persons from Pune were killed while eight others injured in a road accident on Pune-Bengaluru highway near Karad. The deceased, according to the police, were wrestlers who were returning to Pune from Kolhapur.The accident happened when two cars collided with each other at Narayangaon near Karad, said highway police officials. The two vehicles collided when overtaking each other.“The three who died are residents of Katraj in Pune. Among the injured, five have sustained moderate injuries while three have suffered serious wounds. They have all been hospitalised,” said Balasaheb Bharne, police inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-pune-wrestlers-killed-in-accident-near-karad-101612115004702.html
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s govt schools to reopen for Classes 6 to 8 on Feb 1||In the next step towards phased reopening of schools, the education department has allowed city’s government schools to resume offline classes for Classes 6 to 8 from Monday.Online classes will also continue for students who choose not to attend school in person. Attendance won’t be compulsory and parental permission in written will be required for students who do attend offline classes. Schools will function from 9am to 2pm and school heads will be responsible for ensuring that all Covid protocols are followed.Earlier, students of Class 9 onwards were allowed to attend school from November 1, 2020. While attendance had stayed on the lower side in the beginning, many government schools in the periphery of the city are reporting over 50% attendance now.Private schools to stay closedWhile the education department has allowed both private and government schools to reopen, the former won’t be starting classes for now. “We will reach out to parents and start classes only if they are willing to send their wards to school,” said HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools Association, Chandigarh.Mamik, who is also the chairman of Vivek High School, Sector 38, said they hadn’t started classes for Class 9 onwards either in line with parents’ concerns and students were visiting schools only to clear their doubts. Director of Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, Atul Khanna added, “We won’t start classes yet. With the way things are going, it’s unlikely that we’ll resume offline classes before the next academic session.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-govt-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-6-to-8-on-feb-1-101612112064485.html
31-01-2021||City||Daughter-in-law, granddaughter of former Chhattisgarh minister killed; 2 held||The daughter-in-law and a granddaughter of a former Chhattisgarh minister were killed by some relatives at their residence in Raipur. According to the police, the duo was reportedly killed over a property dispute.Superintendent of Police (SP) Raipur, Ajay Yadav, said two suspects, who are relatives of the family, have been detained in connection to the murder and an investigation is going on.“The main suspect is still at large and we have launched a hunt for him. On Sunday, we took two suspects in custody and an interrogation is going on,” Yadav said, adding that the motive behind the murder was some property dispute.Also read: GST revenue collection for January almost touched ₹1.20 lakh crore - GovtOn Saturday night, the bodies of Neha Dhritlahre (30) and her daughter Ananya (9) were found stuffed in a bed-box in a room at their Shankar Nagar residence.Neha was the wife of Tarun Dhritlahre, the son of late DP Dhritlahre who was a minister in Ajit Jogi-led Congress government (2000-2003).“Tarun’s brothers-in-law are involved in the murder. The dispute was over a piece of land which belonged to Tarun’s aunt. She had given the land to him but Tarun’s sisters and their husbands were also expecting a share in it. A few days ago, the brothers-in-law, along with another person, planned the murder to eliminate Neha who was opposed to the sharing of land,” said Yadav.The police claimed that Tarun was not in Raipur when the incident took place.“On Saturday night when Neha’s brother reached the house and found that her sister was not opening the door, he called the other relatives and broke the main door of the house. Subsequently, when they found the bodies, Tarun called the police,” said a police officer.The police said that the woman and her daughter were strangled to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daughterinlaw-granddaughter-of-former-chhattisgarh-minister-killed-2-held-101612111325808.html
31-01-2021||Jaipur||Congress wins Rajasthan municipal polls in neck-to-neck fight with BJP||Continuing its winning spree in municipal polls in Rajasthan, Congress on Sunday won the municipal polls in a neck-to-neck fight with the BJP and independents in formation of municipal boards in several municipal bodies. The Congress has won 1,197 municipal wards, BJP has bagged 1,140 municipal wards while independents/others have secured 634 wards out of total 3,034 municipal wards.While the NCP has won 46 wards, the RLP has 13 wards, CPM has won 3 and the BSP has won 1.While the BJP has a majority/lead of wards in 24 municipal bodies, the Congress has a majority/lead of wards in 23 municipal bodies. There are 41 municipal boards in which independents hold key.However, the BJP has won a majority in the Ajmer Municipal Corporation which was the only municipal corporation where municipal polls were held in the current polls.The Congress has maintained its winning spree in the current municipal polls after ensuring lead over the BJP in municipal polls in November and December 2020. However, the party had lagged in the recent panchayat polls but is maintaining a lead over the BJP in municipal polls.Meanwhile, the NCP surprised everyone by winning an absolute majority in Nokha municipality of Bikaner and being the biggest party in Tonk's Niwai municipality.Also read: GST revenue collection for January almost touched ₹1.20 lakh crore - GovtFor the first time, the NCP will form its municipal boards in Rajasthan.Elections were held for 3,035 municipal wards of the 90 municipal bodies, including one municipal corporation, nine municipal councils and 80 municipalities.The BJP won in the Ajmer Municipal Corporation (AMC) polls whereby it won 48 wards. The Congress won 18 wards, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) won one ward and the independents won 13. The Congress failed to dethrone the BJP from the AMC. BJP and Congress workers also locked horns during the results in AMC polls where mild stone-pelting was also reported in a municipal ward.The BJP has regained its hold over Jhalawar municipal council and Jhalarapatan municipality of former chief minister Vasundhra Raje's constituency Jhalarapatan which was earlier won by the Congress in the last municipal polls five years ago. The BJP won 25, the Congress 17 and the independents won 3 out of 45 wards in Jhalawar while the BJP won 20, the Congress won 14 and the independent bagged one out of 35 wards in Jhalarapatan municipality.The Congress and the BJP have already started herding their winning corporators for the chairperson and deputy chairperson of the municipal boards.The performance of Gehlot's cabinet ministers remained a mixed bag. There was a tie between the Congress and the BJP with victory on 14 wards each in Lakshmangarh municipality of PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasara's home constituency. The board formation would depend on 12 independents in 40 ward municipal board.However, Congress's defeat in Ajmer municipal corporation was a setback for state health minister, Dr Raghu Sharma, is an MLA from Ajmer's Kektri assembly constituency, however, Congress' triumph in his home assembly constituency Kekri ensured his dominance. Congress won 21 wards out of 40 wards of Kekri municipality to bring a respite to Dr Raghu Sharma. Here, the BJP won 17 wards and the independents bagged two.While in Bikaner's Deshnok municipality, the Congress won 11 wards and BJP won 10 wards out of total 25 wards.However, the Congress has won a majority with victory on 15 wards out of 25 wards in Nainwa municipality of Bundi district from where the minister of state for youth affairs and sports, Ashok Chandana, is an MLA. Although the Congress has won 28 wards out of total 60 in Bundi municipal council, the BJP has won 24 here and 8 independents are holding key.The Congress lagged in Nawa municipality of Nagaur district from where party's deputy whip Mahendra Chaudhary is MLA. Here, the Congress could win just 10 wards while the BJP won 13 wards and independents two of total 25 wards.The Congress is behind the BJP in minority affairs minister Saleh Mohammad's Pokran municipality where the party could only win nine wards whereas the BJP won 10 and the independent candidate bagged 6 wards.The NCP remained a surprise winner in the municipal boards in the state where the party won in Nokha municipality of Bikaner district. Here, the NCP won in 28 wards and the BJP in 15 wards while independents won two out of total 45 wards. Here, Narayan Jhanwar, son of ex-Congress candidate from Nokha assembly constituency Kanhaiyyalal Jhanwar in last polls, contested on NCP symbol.The result was similar in Niwai municipality of Tonk district where the NCP won 17 wards, the BJP won 9 wards, the Congress won 8 and independents bagged one out of the total 35 wards. Here, Congress MLA from Niwai, Prashant Bairwa from Sachin Pilot camp, could not ensure victory to the ruling party.Commenting on NCP's municipal feat, senior political analyst and veteran journalist, Prakash Bhandari said that "the NCP managed its win but this is certainly not a vote to the NCP as it won on the shoulders of Congress supporters who either did not get a Congress ticket or strategically fielded themselves from the NCP to prevent defeat".Meanwhile, the Congress and the BJP have claimed their triumph in the municipal polls.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted on municipal polls results, "The municipal results of 90 municipal bodies are pleasant. Congratulations to all the winning Congress candidates and Congress leaders for ensuring victory of the party. I also express gratitude to the voters. The voting percentage and number of wards won by Congress is more and Congress will be able to form its municipal boards in most places".PCC chief Dotasara on municipal polls results said, "the BJP and its leaders always say that the Congress government will not be able to complete its term in Rajasthan but the party should do self-evaluation after municipal polls results today"."The BJP had formed its municipal boards in 60 municipal bodies in 2015 and the Congress in 25 but now the BJP is likely to form just 30 boards in current polls which is half from 2015. The Congress will form its boards in 50 bodies which will be double from 2015," said Dotasara.Also read: Delhi Police tracking owners of tractors that took wrong route on R-DayThe BJP contradicted ruling party's claim as state president Satish Punia alleged that CM Gehlot and the party are misleading people by making false claims of their victory in the municipal polls."The Congress has lost the poll in Ajmer Municipal corporation and 8 out of 9 municipal councils while it has got a majority in only 19 municipal boards out of 90 municipal boards whose results were declared today," he said.Punia also asserted that the Congress state government has employed all means of conspiracy, including delimitation and bogus voting, to win the elections.As per the state election commission of Rajasthan, nearly 22.84 lakh voters cast their votes for municipal bodies on 28 January in which voter turnout was 76.52 per cent.The 20 districts where municipal polls were held are Ajmer, Banswara, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Bundi, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Rajsamad, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.As per the municipal poll results in these 90 municipal bodies five years ago, 60 were won by the BJP, 25 by the Congress and 5 by independent candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/congress-wins-rajasthan-municipal-polls-in-neck-to-neck-fight-with-bjp-101612110608750.html
31-01-2021||Other||Pune records warmest January in a decade||PUNE Last month was the warmest January in the city in a decade as per the weather department. The city recorded 12.3 degrees Celsius as the lowest minimum temperature reported in the month of January.Usually, January is expected to report the lowest night temperature during the winter season. But this season due to various weather systems over Maharashtra and central India, Pune city has experienced less cool days.DS Pai, head, Long Range Forecast (LRF) and Climate Services and Research, India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that there are several factors for the rise in temperature.“We have seen cloudy weather in Pune city in January. With cloudy weather, there is an increase in night temperature. Also, there were many weather systems that resulted in an increase in night temperature. Fringe areas of the city have reported normal temperature, but in the city, night temperature observed was above normal. So due to urbanisation also, we have seen a rise in temperature,” said Pai.January 2021 has also unexpectedly reported record break rainfall in Pune. As per the weather department, the city reported 32.5-millimetre rainfall which was the highest reported rainfall since 1948. Rainfall and the cloudy weather, Pai added, were another reason that maintained that rise in night temperature.“Due to cloudy weather, the heat is trapped which results in an increase in minimum temperature. We observed cloudy skies all throughout the month along with other weather systems. All of these were contributing factors to the rise in minimum temperature,” he said.Anupam Kashyapi, head, weather forecasting department, IMD, Pune, said that though the northern parts experienced a good winter, the same was not the case over central India which includes Maharashtra.“Winter in Maharashtra is caused due to the cooler winds that come to the state from the northern side, but Maharashtra this season was dominated by westerly, southwesterly, southerly wind pattern which prevented northerly wind to penetrate in the state keeping the temperature warmer,” said Kashyapi.He also added that this season, Pune city did not experience any cold waves and the night temperature was warmer than normal.“There have been no instances of cold waves in Pune city this season. Only isolated parts of Vidarbha in Maharashtra have reported cold waves, but overall, January was warmer,” added Kashyapi.Speaking about the summer season, DS Pai said that the weather department will issue a forecast by the end of February. “Right now it is too early to predict the summer season, but by the end of February, IMD will publish its overall forecast for March, April and May,” he said.Year--Lowest minimum temperature in Jan in Pune*2021--12.3°C*2020-8.2°C*2019--7.6°C*2018--9.6°C*2017-7.4°C*2016--7.3°C*2015--7°C*2014--7.1°C*2013--7.5°C*2012--6.6°C*2011--5.3°C*1935 (all time record)--1.7°C||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-records-warmest-january-in-a-decade-101612110745028.html
31-01-2021||Other||Pulse polio drive: On Day 1, 77% kids vaccinated in Pune city||PUNE At least 77 per cent of kids from Pune city got vaccinated under the central government’s pulse polio drive on the first day (Sunday).The drive will continue for four days where the remaining kids would be covered through the door to door immunisation programme.Within the city out of the targeted three lakh kids under the age of five who are eligible to get vaccinated, 235,817 got vaccinated. In addition to this, 6,147 kids above the age of five were also vaccinated against polio. In the rural parts of the district out of the targeted 4.81 lakh kids under the age of five, 4.63 lakh or 96.3 per cent of the kids got vaccinated. Also, 5,463 kids above the age of five were inoculated on Sunday.Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said, “We vaccinated about 95 per cent of the kids last year which has been almost the same this year. In fact last year we vaccinated over 101 per cent of the kids by the end of the five days drive as we also cover kids of migrant labourers who work at the sugar factories.”“This year despite the change in date and with such a short span of time available with us we were able to cover a good number as we sent out SMSes through ASHA workers. The remaining kids would be covered in the next four days,” he said.A senior officer at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) incharge of the immunisation said, “I do not remember the percentage of vaccination last year, but it was almost the same. Now the remaining kids would be covered through the door to door programme in fact more than 100 per cent of the targeted kids would be covered. The pandemic did not affect the turnout at the pulse polio drive.”Every year the national pulse polio drive starts from January 17 which was postponed this year as the first phase of the national Covid-19 drive kick-started from January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pulse-polio-drive-on-day-1-77-kids-vaccinated-in-pune-city-101612110744493.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Swargate to Katraj BRT route inspection done, PMPML says ready to start service||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has almost completed the civic work on the Swargate to Katraj Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) route making way for the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) to resume bus service on the route soon. On January 29, a joint inspection of the route was carried out by PMC and PMPML officials. PMC’s executive engineer Amar Shinde said, “Yesterday, we visited the site with PMPML officials and gave them a demo of the facilities they had asked for. The major work has been completed. The minor work which is in the process will be over in a day or two. There is no problem to open the corridor.” Shriniwas Kandul, chief engineer from PMC’s electrical department said, “Doors of the bus stops have been put in place. Signal synchronization has been done and barricades have been closed. Major work has been completed.” From the last two months, the issue of starting the BRT route was in discussion. In 2020, Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol announced to start the bus service by January 1, 2021, whereas due to the lack of necessary safety arrangements and infrastructure PMPML had denied starting the bus service. “We had conducted an inspection of the BRT corridor as per basic safety arrangements and we asked the PMC to start the bus service. Now, in the next couple of days, we are going to have trial runs on this route so that our buses will run and know exactly how it works. After the trial runs and checking all the safety arrangements as per our demands we will immediately start the bus service for the public,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director. In the past, PMC has missed several deadlines on 5.5 km BRT corridor on Satara road which has seen a revamp. BOX Deadlines missed earlier: May 31, 2018 August 1, 2018 December, 2018 March, 2019 January 1, 2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/swargate-to-katraj-brt-route-inspection-done-pmpml-says-ready-to-start-service-101612107984906.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Barricaded entrance ramp road gate causing inconvenience to passengers at railway station||The main entrance gate through the ramp at the Pune railway station has been closed causing inconvenience to passengers to board trains. As the entrance has been closed by barricades, a huge traffic congestion builds outside the Pune railway station main chowk. Demand has been made to the railway authorities to open the main entrance with the rising passengers in the facility. Due to the countrywide lockdown, passenger train operations were stopped last year, however at least half of the trains have begun normal functioning in the unlock process. “Last week, when I had gone to drop my parents off to board the Goa express in the evening it was like a massive traffic jam outside the Pune railway station entrance gate. Long queues of PMPML buses, private cabs, auto-rickshaws standing in the chowk, and huge congestion. For some time, we feared that the train will be missed, but luckily, we somehow managed to enter the station premises just 10 minutes before the train arrival. I think the main reason behind these traffic jams is the closed entrance through the ramp road of the station. If it is opened then passengers will get a big relief,” said Vinay Puranik, a citizen. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, around 200 train operations were undertaken daily at the Pune railway station with more than two lakh passengers using the facility. After the unlock process started, train operations resumed back from May 2020, and slowly the number of train operations started increasing. Currently, a total of 80 train operations are carried out from the Pune station daily, with roughly 30,000 passengers using the facility. The Pune railway administration has made an entrance for the boarding passengers from the front side of the station, where the main entrance gate with a ramp road is currently closed. So, passengers are required to enter the station premises from two small entry gates for vehicles. The arriving passengers need to leave the station from the second exit gate which is on the other side of the station towards the Raja Bahadur Mill Road. “From the last couple of months, the number of train operations has increased and with it the traffic jam outside and passengers struggling to get an entry inside. The entrance gate of the ramp road which is currently barricaded and closed by the railways needs to be opened so that passengers coming to board the trains will easily get inside. I have seen several passengers who have missed the train due to this mismanagement and traffic jam.” said Suresh Jagtap, president of Pune station’s auto-rickshaw union. Pune divisional railway manager (DRM) Renu Sharma said, “The ramp road entry gate is currently closed as the number of train operations are less as of now. We will take a review of train operations and passenger entry points and if required the entrance gate from the ramp road will be opened up for passenger entry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/barricaded-entrance-ramp-road-gate-causing-inconvenience-to-passengers-at-railway-station-101612107984303.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Residents concerned about water pollution in Pavana river; officials promise action||Concerns about massive water pollution in the Pavana river has come to the fore after citizens noticed huge amount of foam in the water which comes from the Pavana river at the Keju Devi Temple boat club in Chinchwad.A few days ago, a large amount of fish were also found dead in the same area. The nearby residents said that the water pollution issue keeps cropping up every few months.Sanjay Kulkarni, executive engineer, environment from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, “We were not aware about the current problem till now and I will send officials to check the status after you have provided us information.”“There are a few commercial laundries in that area who have in the past also been served notices by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). These laundries tend to discharge waste water in the river due to which various issues of water pollution keep on occurring at this place,” added Kulkarni.The Pavana river water after passing from Keju Devi temple goes to Chinchwad at Morya Gosavi temple, Chinchwad Phata, Dapodi and then meets Mula river at Sangvi. The river covers a distance of 60km.Along with water use for drinking purposes, the water has been also used by citizens for bathing or washing clothes who stay near the river banks.“So far we have not heard any cases where human beings suffered health issues after drinking the water, but PCMC cannot ignore marine biodiversity which is getting damaged. Also, animals who drink water directly from the water are harmed,” said Piyush Patil, a resident of the area near Keju Devi Temple.Social activist Madhav Patil of the organisation Angolichi Goli, said, “The water pollution issues have been raised in front of PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar and mayor Usha Dhore, but problems of water pollution go unheard every time. No concrete steps are being taken by the PCMC to stop water pollution.”In 2018, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) listed it among the five most heavily polluted rivers of Maharashtra.Untreated sewage, garbage, accumulation of silt and discharge of untreated waste were listed as the major causes of pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-concerned-about-water-pollution-in-pavana-river-officials-promise-action-101612107925902.html
31-01-2021||Other||PMC to set up pet clinic in city, but unwilling to disclose location||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is in the process to finalise the pet clinic project, but hesitant to reveal the location considering the past experiences when residents have opposed such projects.The concept is new in the corporation limits and the civic says it will take help of private players to run the clinic which will treat stray dogs. Rubal Agrawal, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said, “We are working on the project. It will be finalized in the coming 15 days.” Dr Prakash Wagh, veterinary superintendent, PMC, said, “At present, we don’t have a clinic in city limits to treat stray dogs. So, we have decided to start one. We will finalize the plan soon, but we will not reveal any information such as place and other details right now. In the past, we faced opposition from residents while setting up such projects in their areas.” Earlier, the civic body had proposed the idea to set up a dog park and reserved a place in Mundhwa area. The first proposal came before standing committee in 2008 when it was headed by Shiv Sena member Shyam Deshpande. He had allocated ₹1 crore for a dog park. However, the project wasn’t taken up due to opposition from local residents. After four years, two corporators Kishor Vitkar and Sheetal Sawant had put a proposal before the standing committee to make provision for special space to keep all stray dogs under one roof which was sanctioned in December 2012. While the administration had finalized land in Mundhwa, local corporators from the area had taken objection and the proposal could not see the light of the day. Shivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer, construction department, said, “The clinic will be ground plus three-storied building structure along with parking facility for ambulance and OPD. We will require around ₹5 crore for the clinic.”“We don’t know the location right now. The plan is ready, but the place is yet to be finalized. Earlier, it was near to Naidu Hospital. However, it did not work out as the area has been finalized to set up late Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College,” he said. Besides the pet clinic, the civic body had faced problems while setting up garbage processing plants and biogas plants as local people and corporators had raised objections. In Ambegaon Budruk and Sus area, local residents had conducted agitation and demanded to close down such plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-set-up-pet-clinic-in-city-but-unwilling-to-disclose-location-101612107924356.html
31-01-2021||Pune||More schools reopen today as Classes 5-8 resume offline lectures||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is more prepared for school reopening this time as classes 5th to 8th resume offline school today. Around 36 per cent of schools in PMC limits have now reopened as per officials. Schools in Pune rural and in most parts of Maharashtra reopened on January 27 for classes five to eight. There are a total of 786 schools in PMC limits including private as well as PMC run schools. Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner with the PMC said that schools will reopen with all precautionary measures in place and with only 50 per cent attendance for the safety of the children. “Of the 786 schools, we have inspected 348 schools and we have given permission to 283 schools to reopen from Monday. The inspection of these schools was done by PMC officials and all schools were checked for safety measures and sanitization. The teaching and non-teaching staff has also undergone Covid tests to ensure that the students are safe,” said Jagtap. He added that for students to attend school, consent from parents is a must. “For classes nine to 12, we have seen that parents were initially reluctant. However, as schools reopened, parents’ consent increased. We are hoping to see a similar trend,” said Jagtap. Officials noted that during the course of the coming week, more schools will be granted permission to reopen. In January, Pune district reported a 10.1 per cent turnout of students which was the lowest in the state and only 68.4 per cent of schools were reopened in the district as opposed to 95.9 per cent across Maharashtra. Anupama More, a parent from Pune city said that though she is a little fearful, she will send her child to the school. “My son is a student of class six and last year he spent it indoors. He is very happy that schools are reopening. Though there are precautions that are to be taken, I am looking forward to sending him back to school for offline education,” said More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-schools-reopen-today-as-classes-5-8-resume-offline-lectures-101612107924950.html
31-01-2021||Other||Historic importance: Polish consul general restores plaque at Panchgani school where orphan girls studied during World War II||PUNE Ludmila Jakutowicz from Poland is in her 90s and through social networks keeps in touch with her alma mater in Panchgani. During World War II she and 40 other orphan girls studied at the St Joseph’s Convent School, Panchgani.The plaque that hangs out in the verandah of the school reads, “This plate is given by the grateful Poles whose children, being exiled from their country, were given education in this convent in an atmosphere of friendliness and cordiality: Panchgani 11th November 1945.” The plaque itself, sadly, was in need of repairs.“We were around 40 girls who studied here and when we completed our education, we put up a plaque in the school to express our gratitude,” says Ludmila via social media.On Sunday, the Consul General of the Republic of Poland in Mumbai, Damian Irzyk, was on a special mission to Panchgani, where he visited the St Joseph’s Convent School and restored the plaque, which is of historic value for Poland and India.“I am in touch with Jakutowicz and she expressed sadness of not being able to visit her alma mater during her trip to Kolhapur in 2019. She also told me about the sorry state of the plaque over the years, and so I thought of visiting the convent to see what could be done,” said Irzyk.“This plaque is of extreme importance and carries a lot of sentiments for Poles who were in India during their exile in 1945. We could not restore it earlier due to the Covid pandemic,” said Irzyk“Many poles living in East Poland were imprisoned and had to leave their homes when the Red Army (Soviet Union) attacked Poland. It was during the during World War II when Hitler attacked the Soviet Union, that many of the war prisoners were released and they travelled overland to Persia (Iran), while around 5,000 made their way to India, where the Mumbai Consulate which was set up in 1939, was organising humanitarian aid and had a convoy of 15 to 20 lorries going to Gujarat and beyond as far a Turkmenistan with basic amenities,” recalls Ludmila.“It was decided by the then Consul General Eugeniusz Banasinski and his wife Kira Banasinska, that instead of getting empty trucks, children be brought back, mostly orphans to camps set up in Balachadi. Of these 500 to 600 children were transferred to Pune and Kolhapur where a small town by the name of Valivade was set up near Kolhapur,” she said.“It was for secondary education, that many of us were transferred to Kolhapur at Valivade camp and sent to St. Joseph’s Convent School, the only Catholic school in Panchgani then. I remember the beautiful colourful flowers blooming across the tabletop, the breeze and also the kindness the teachers showed us then,” recalls Ludmila.Irzyk said, “I want to preserve this memory and keep the historically value safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/historic-importance-polish-consul-general-restores-plaque-at-panchgani-school-where-orphan-girls-studied-during-world-war-ii-101612107865540.html
31-01-2021||Other||Pune city reports 10 Covid deaths on Sunday||PUNE At least ten deaths due to Covid were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Sunday, while no deaths were reported in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural.The district reported 474 new cases in 24 hours, according to the state health department.This took the progressive cases to 3.88 lakh out of which 3.66 lakh recovered, 8,008 were declared dead and 13,872 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The city reported 197 new cases taking the final toll to 198,599 and ten deaths which took the death toll to 4,524. PCMC reported 95 new cases taking the total count to 97,126 and the death toll stood at 1,316 and Pune rural reported 182 new cases which took the caseload to 92,794 and the death toll to 2,127.The department reported that 1, 670 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.29 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.19%. Also, 2,585 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.26 lakh. In addition, 40 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,323. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.52 %. Out of 1,46,17,168 laboratory samples 20,26,399 have been tested positive (13.86%) for Covid-19 until January 31. Currently, 190,232 people are in home quarantine and 2,294 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-city-reports-10-covid-deaths-on-sunday-101612107866043.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Body of missing 11-year-old found in Kothrud||The Pune police discovered the body of a 11-year-old boy who was reported missing on Friday night from his home in Kelewadi area of Kothrud.The 11-year-old boy, a Class 5 student at a school in Gokahlenagar, had left home at 4:30pm on Friday and told his parents that he was heading out to play with his friends, according to the complaint. However, his parents had approached the police as the child failed to reach home even after late hours of the night.Additional commissioner of police Ashok Morale along with deputy commissioner of police Pournima Gaikwad were questioning multiple people to identify suspects in the case.“We had deployed the dog squad and made teams that were tracking him. We went through the forest area, chambers, and all possible spots to find him once we suspected foul play,” said senior police inspector Meghshyam Dange of Kothrud police station.The boy’s body was found with injuries on his back and back of the head that were visibly caused by a blunt object, according to the officials who found him.“We were following leads since that night. We were searching near his house when we realised that a small lane connected the slum area with an open ground near Garware college. The open ground has a compound that is almost seven feet high and is partially concrete and partially made of tin sheets. There was a gaping hole in the tin sheet which was used to throw garbage towards the other side. We forced open a nearby gate and searched inside the compound to find colours matching the description of his clothes provided by his parents,” said police sub-inspector Bhairavnath Shelke of Kothrud police station, who found the body.The police suspect that the boy was coaxed into going to the spot and then killed there with a blunt object. The body was sent to Sassoon General Hospital for post-mortem after which it was handed over to his parents.The child lived with his parents and an elder brother and a sister. The mother worked as a cleaning supervisor while the father did odd jobs at construction sites whenever available, according to their neighbours.“The family had moved here at the beginning of 2020. Then, the lockdown happened. In September, they had moved to a room adjacent to the one they had moved into initially. The child had gotten along well with the children in the colony. We barely saw him get in an argument. His parents used to have occasional fights,” said a woman who lives in the house next to the boy’s family, but did not wish to be named.A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/body-of-missing-11-year-old-found-in-kothrud-101612107864346.html
31-01-2021||Other||Two arrested for assaulting Pimpri-Chinchwad traffic cop||PUNE The police have arrested two people for allegedly assaulting a traffic police official with an iron rod, at Talegaon-Chakan chowk, on Saturday.The injured official has been identified as constable Ravindra Namdev Karvande (30), working with the Chakan traffic division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.He has sustained injuries at the back of his head and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Chakan.The two arrested men have been identified as Rohit Babu Salvi (20), and Harshdeep Bahrat Kamble (22), both residents of Kalyan, Thane.The arrest was made by a team led by senior police inspector Shankar Babar of Unit 3, Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch.The two were transporting a container and passing through the chowk where the injured official was deployed for traffic duty, according to crime branch officials.Earlier on Saturday, the policeman had stopped their container to manage traffic and asked them to move it backwards. The action had led to an altercation between the two and Karvande, according to the police. The two had come back around 2:30pm on a two-wheeler to where Karvande was deployed and hit him in the head with an iron rod before fleeing.The police tracked their move using CCTV cameras from the chowk to Mahalunge and arrested them.A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to public servant), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-for-assaulting-pimpri-chinchwad-traffic-cop-101612107864997.html
31-01-2021||Other||No flights in or out of Lohegaon airport between April 26 and May 9; might affect vaccine dispatch||PUNE No flights will operate in, or out, of Pune for 14 days between April 26 and May 9, due to work on the resurfacing of the runway at the Lohegaon airport.This work has been going on since October 2020. Currently, flight movement is restricted between 8 am and 8 pm. This will now be increased to a total lockdown for these 14 days. This has affected passengers who have already booked tickets for the said period in view of the summer vacation, but is also likely to affect the dispatch of the Covid-19 vaccine from the city, even as the country is currently undergoing India’s biggest vaccination drive. The Pune airport’s official Twitter handle tweeted on Sunday, “As per information received from IAF, due to runway resurfacing works, Pune Airport will have no flight operations for 14 days from 26th April 2021 till 09 May 2021”. Confirming the news, airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “We have got this communication from the Indian Air Force and there will be no flights operating at night-time as well, as the runway is not available. If the Air Force changes its decision, this could be changed as well, as the runway belongs to the Air Force.” This has also raised questions on the dispatch of the Covishield vaccines which is being mass produced by Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune. Singh added, “At this time I cannot comment if this would affect the vaccine dispatch as we do not book the slots so many days in advance. The runway repair work was being planned almost a year ago, but for the vaccine dispatch we get the orders only a few hours or a day before the vaccine has to be dispatched; after which the cargo flight is booked.” SII’s executive director Suresh Jadhav said, “We were informed about this development, but mostly the vaccine goes from Mumbai international airport for transportation to various countries. With regards to the vaccine being transported within the country, we will have to send the vaccines to Mumbai airport or use our vans via roadways. As of now the government of India has not placed the purchase orders for the second lot, so whenever the order comes, if the dispatch has to happen before April 26, then it (transportation) would be taken care of from Pune itself, otherwise Mumbai airport. Sending it by road will be a huge task and add a minimum of five hours more.” Passengers not impressedWhile the runway repair work was being considered for over a year before it started, passengers and airlines were informed about the renewed schedule only a day before it began. The repair work started in October last year and will now go on for almost a year. During a media interaction earlier, the airport director had said that the repair work would not affect the daily passenger movement as all flights would be accommodated during the day timings, between 8 am and 8 pm. Angry passengers stormed the airport Twitter handle questioning why airlines continued to book tickets for the same period, if no flight operations were going to happen. One user tweeted, “If pune airport ll close in this period so why airlines are booking tickets in this period from pune or for pune...” Another user wrote, “@CMOMaharashtra what are you doing. when new airport will start in pune. such trouble causing people inconvenience.” Air India’s Bhopal-Pune flight from Mar 28Air India will soon start its Bhopal-Pune flight from March 28, which was earlier called off due to the pandemic last year. Currently, it will operate four days a week - Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday - and booking for the same has resumed. This flight will be a Delhi-Pune flight via Bhopal, which would facilitate travellers who earlier had the option of connecting flights. The Air India flight will save time for those willing to travel to Bhopal directly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-flights-in-or-out-of-lohegaon-airport-between-april-26-and-may-9-might-affect-vaccine-dispatch-101612107804371.html
31-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal kids mistake crude bomb for ball, suffer injuries in explosion||By Sreyasi PalAt least three children were injured when they started playing with a crude country-made bomb mistaking it to be a ball at Murshidabad district in south Bengal on Sunday morning.While one of the victims, a boy, sustained minor injuries as he was standing at a distance, two girls, aged 8 and 11 years, were admitted to a hospital with splinter injuries. Their conditions were stated to be stable when the reports last came in.Locals said that a few village children were playing in a field close to the village school. The two girls spotted a ball-like object lying on the ground and picked it up. They started playing with it which led to the explosion.Also read: Why is India called the world’s pharmacy? Here are 160 million reasons“An investigation has been initiated,” said Y Raghuvamshi, superintendent of police, Jangipur police district.A senior district official said that names of some of the miscreants involved in bomb-making cropped up during the investigation. Raids are being conducted to nab them.With the state assembly elections around the corner, political parties have already registered their apprehension before the Election Commission of India saying that political violence could shoot up in the state.The ECI has already directed the state administration to submit regular reports of incidents of violence, seizures of arms and ammunitions and implementation of non-bailable arrest warrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-kids-mistake-crude-bomb-for-ball-suffer-injuries-in-explosion-101612104415922.html
31-01-2021||Other||Purandar farmers start meeting politicos to explain opposition to new airport site||PUNE Despite an assurance given by Sanjay Jagtap, the MLA from Purandar, villagers opposing land acquisition for the new site selected for the proposed international airport there, have intensified the fight against the project. Representatives of seven villages have constituted an anti-airport coordination committee to continue planned and organised opposition against the international airport on their lands. The members of the coordination committee have begun meeting various political leaders to gather support for their cause. The land owners have also decided meet legal experts to explore the option of approaching the courts. Representatives from the coordination committee on Friday met Supriya Sule, member of Parliament from Baramati constituency, to request the cancelling of the new proposed site for the airport. When contacted, Sule said, she cannot comment at the moment. Landowners from Rajouri, Naygaon, Pandeshwar, Rise, Pise, Rajuri, and Pimpri in Purandar taluka held a meeting on January 26 to discuss the strategy to oppose the airport project on their lands. Jagtap had attended the meeting and had tried to reassure the villagers that no land will be acquired without the consent of the villagers. “He said that we would see when the centre approves the new site. There is no talk of withdrawal of the proposal. We want to be ready for what comes next,” said Santosh Kolte, a resident of Rajouri village and a member of the coordination committee. “In his speech Sanjay Jagtap mostly spoke about how the airport will be beneficial for the villages. He said the lands will not be taken without our consent, but we are not satisfied with what he said. So through the coordination committee we are meeting political leaders to make them aware of our cause and also legal experts to be prepared for the fight in court,” said Kiran Salunkhe, a resident of Pimpri. Despite repeated attempts, the Maharashtra Airport Development Company and district administration did not respond to questions on the future of the project in light of the opposition from villagers to the newly proposed site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purandar-farmers-start-meeting-politicos-to-explain-opposition-to-new-airport-site-101612105044187.html
31-01-2021||Other||Pune educational sector has a close eye on budget allocations||PUNE The Union budget for the year 2021-22 will be announced on Monday, February 1. In earlier budgets, 2020 and 2019, fund allocations found its way to various institutions in the city, largely for research works. The recipients have been the several city-based national institutions, like the Center for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). In the 2020 union budget, ₹8,000 crore was allocated to a national mission on quantum technologies and applications (QTA) for a period of five years. However, in the last one year, largely due the Covid-19 pandemic, this project has not moved forward and currently is with the centre’s Department of Science and Technology (DST). According to a source in the DST, on condition of anonymity, “The project is nearly ready for its implementation. In the last one year due to the Covid-19 pandemic the process was a bit delayed. Now the detailed project report is ready. The five-year plan of expenditure is worked on and will be sent to the cabinet for approval.”This QTA mission is one of India’s biggest projects in the field of science and technology. It will develop quantum computers, quantum encryption, make communications more secure and also enable new associated technologies to come to the country. When contacted, C-DAC director general Hemant Darbari refused to comment on budget allocations – received and expected. “We hope, this year, the budget allocation will be much higher due to the roll out of the national education policy and the re-vamp of the whole education sector. The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is the only public university which gets its funding from the state government. The other higher education institutions in Pune are all self-financed,” said Vidya Yeravdekar, pro-chancellor, Symbiosis International (deemed university) and principal, Symbiosis. Real estate mattersTalking about expectations from this year’s union budget, Suhas Merchant, president of Credai Pune said, “Amendment to section 80IBA is needed to revise the affordable housing definition to allow upto 90 sqm in metros and 120 sqm elsewhere. Waving of the minimum alternate tax (MAT) an give extension of the time limit to March 31, 2023 is needed. Also, amendment to Section 80C, to increase the limit for repayment of a housing loan principal amount, or alternatively, introducing another section for deduction with respect to principal repayment is needed.”Adding to a long list of real estate expectations, Merchant said, “Changes needs to be done in Section 24 (B) for increasing interest deduction for home buyers. Increase of the safe harbour limit by 20 per cent under section 43 CA may be extended till the effect of the pandemic on the economy is withdrawn.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-educational-sector-has-a-close-eye-on-budget-allocations-101612104384173.html
31-01-2021||Patna||Passport applicants in Bihar drop by half as Covid-19 hits movement abroad||While there were fewer people seeking mobility using rails and roads during Covid-19 period and subsequent lockdowns, those aspiring to migrate outside the country from Bihar also felt the impact of the pandemic. This is reflected in fewer numbers of passports applicants issued from the Regional Passport Office (RPO) in Patna, as compared to last year.The numbers also point towards the reluctance in people of Bihar to migrate outside the country during the pandemic. The applications from Gopalganj and Siwan, which account for the maximum number of people migrating from Bihar to Gulf countries for work, fell drastically during the Covid period.According to the figures procured from the RPO, Patna, three districts — Patna, Gopalganj and Siwan — that topped the chart with respect to the number of applications among the 39 districts for the past few years, witnessed almost half the number of passport seekers. The RPO figures have counted Bagaha and Bettiah in West Champaran as two separate districts, taking the count to 39, though the administrative districts are 38.“While the highest number of applicants, 20,448, was from Siwan district, 19,423 applications were received from Patna, while 16,831 from Gopalganj,” said regional passport officer, PM Sahai.Also read: Budget 2021 - What can the railway sector expect?He said while 19,536 passports were issued from Patna district, 19,057 from Siwan and third highest of 15,716 from Gopalganj. The total number of passports issued in 2020 was 1,67,722.The least number of passports (460) was issued from Sheikhpura, followed by 559 in Sheohar and 588 in Lakhisarai. While there were passport seekers in March when the lockdown was imposed, in April, across Bihar, just one person had applied for the passport from Patna. However, from May people started applying for the passport. All through 2020, barring April, May and July, the number of applicants from January to December in Patna was in four digits. While in Siwan and Gopalganj, except April to August, the applicants were in four digits.An official in the RPO said the situation had normalised around the New Year and people were applying large numbers.According to Bihar Economic Survey 2019-20, “on an average, the number of passports issued from RPO, Patna, is more than 3 lakh per year,” indicating that during 2020, about half the numbers were applied by the applicants and issued by the RPO.The survey further stated that during 2018-19, the highest number of passports (41,700) were issued from Siwan, followed by 34,200 from Gopalganj and 34,000 from Patna.The survey indicated that Bihar accounted for 15 per cent of emigration clearance, which is second highest after Andhra Pradesh (31 per cent) from 2011-16, adding that another indicator of international migration is the number of passport application received and issued by the RPO.“The highest number of applications for the passport (3,48,300) was received in 2018-19, while the highest number of passports (3,57,600) were issued in 2015-16, followed by 2017-18 (3,39,100),” said the survey.Labour resource minister Jibesh Kumar could not be contacted despite several attempts, he was busy attending BJP’s training camp at Madhubani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/passport-applicants-in-bihar-drop-by-half-as-covid-19-hits-movement-abroad-101612100856823.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||DU set to reopen: Students get ready for a ‘safe welcome’||It’s finally time to believe the good news that Delhi University students had been eagerly waiting for! DU colleges have conducted mock drills to make students comfortable, and get into the groove of reopening the campus — on February 1 — albeit in a regulated and phased manner. As part of phase one of reopening, only final year students with lab work have been allowed to enter the college premises. “During the recently conducted mock drill at my college, it was so reassuring to see the arrangements that were made,” says Ashu Chaurasia, a final year student of Hindi (Hons) at PGDAV (Evening) College. She recently visited the college and library, and shares her first-hand experience: “There was thermal checking before we entered the college, and sanitisers were placed everywhere in the college premises. Social distancing was maintained among the students, at least till the time I saw. But the best feel was to be back in the college and see a few of our teachers in front of us and not virtually! My friends and I exchanged pleasantries, while maintaining distance, with even the guard bhaiya, librarian and other familiar faces on college campus. The good part is that every student present was masked up, and that made me confident about going back to attending college in offline mode!”Students of other colleges, which are yet to announce the dates of their reopening or even mock drill, are battling #FOMO as they hear from their friends about mock drills and become further restless to return to the campus. “It’ll be very exciting to work in the lab after a whole year, and that’s why I’m looking forward to my college’s mock drill,” says Akshay Panwar, a final year student of Chemistry (Hons) at Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, adding, “Online classes are good in Covid times, but they can’t replace physical classes. It’ll be so good if I get to visit the lab once again, and will surely help us in academics. And finally we’ll get a chance to enjoy college life once again, for whatever time is left for us before we say our goodbyes to college. And there is no fear to be back on campus, but we should remember that corona has not gone completely so everything needs to be done under Covid-19 guidelines.” Carefully measuring the pros and cons of switching from online campus life to offline campus life, Pooja Santosh, a final year Chemistry (Hons) student at Hindu College, says, “I’m quite excited that labs will be reopening after almost a whole year! But there are a lot of safety issues with the same. I’m from Kerala, and it’s not going to be easy for me to reach Delhi and arrange an accommodation to stay for only a few months that are left for my graduation to complete. Moreover, due to pandemic, most hostels aren’t reopening. So I haven’t been able to decide yet how to choose an offline mode to attend college yet. And the truth is that campus is never going to be the same again. That is the saddest fact for final years students like me!” There’s also a worry that once all colleges reopen, Covid guidelines might not be adhered completely. A few PhD students at DU, who have been using labs for last couple of months, say following protocols is the responsibility of students. “PhD students have been going to the lab even before December, and all this while we have been following all the protocols including attending the lab in batches in order to maintain social distancing. Moreover, we always have our face masks on, and there are never more than three people in one lab at any given point. All students use sanitisers and take all necessary precautions as prescribed by the university. If we’ve had a successful run so far, everything will be smooth henceforth as well provided each one behaves responsibly,” says Hitesh Sehrawat, a PhD student of Department of Chemistry, DU.There are also students who feel mock drills were a perfectly safe excuse to meet classmates while following social distancing rules! “The mock drills that the colleges are arranging seem to give us a basic idea about how the labs will work keeping in mind social distancing and other precautions. I just hope it doesn’t get too humid wearing a mask in the Chemistry lab, although I must admit the idea of being back on campus is too exciting to think about any of that! It’ll be great to catch up with a few of my classmates after such a long time. All of last year just zoomed past so I feel it’s better to have something than nothing,” says Amrutha Devan, a second year student of Physics (Hons) from Hindu College.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-set-to-reopen-students-get-ready-for-a-safe-welcome-101612099122548.html
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University announces ‘NOVATE+ 2021’ to promote academia-MSME projects||Chitkara University has recently launched the fourth edition of its flagship-event ‘NOVATE+ 2021’, which will help MSMEs collaborate with universities for technical problem-solving. With funding a funding of ₹30 lakhs, ‘NOVATE+ 2021’ is driven by Chitkara University Research and Innovation Network (CURIN) to promote applied research and is being anchored by Chitkara University NewGen IEDC, Chitkara University TEC and Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC). Through this competition, a funding of ₹25 lakh will be awarded to up to 10 project proposals. A cash prize of ₹5 lakh will be awarded for best project implementation. With an upsurge in technology and knowledge-centric enterprises and the nation-wide focus on creating self-reliant solutions to technical challenges, the Indian entrepreneurial ecosystem has entered a new phase of growth.This phase has been dominated by MSMEs solving real-world problems by offering novel solutions.NOVATE+ was conceptualised to channelise the knowledge and energy of the youth towards becoming active partners in the economic development process, inculcate a culture of innovation-driven entrepreneurship and act as an institutional mechanism for providing various services on all aspects of enterprise building to the budding science and technology entrepreneurs.Novate+ in its current and earlier editions has thrived under the patronage and guidance of experts from the National Science & Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB), department of science and technology (DST), New Generation Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centres (NewGen IEDCs, Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), Ahmedabad, and FICCI and CURIN. Dr Madhu Chitkara, pro-chancellor, during the launch ceremony, said, “I am proud to share that NOVATE+ in its fourth edition has now emerged as the biggest and most vibrant platform in the region where innovative project ideas from all over the country are showcased and evaluated and receive project funding for developing minimum viable products (MVPs). The third edition of NOVATE+, organised on the theme of finding innovative solutions to Covid-19 challenges, attracted over 300 entries from different parts of the country. A funding of ₹1 crore was sanctioned. This year, I wish to see a large number of MSME and academia teams coming forward to make our industry, academia and nation strong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-announces-novate-2021-to-promote-academia-msme-projects-101612097366610.html
31-01-2021||Dehradun||Senior Cong leaders push for Harish Rawat's name for CM, infighting intensifies||Weeks after Congress national general secretary and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat urged the party's central leadership to declare the chief ministerial candidate for the upcoming state assembly elections in 2022, the issue has intensified with some senior party leaders pushing for his name for the top post.The debate on declaring the CM face of the party for the upcoming assembly elections started after Rawat, a few weeks ago, asked the central leadership to do so to "bring clarity and end confusion among the party workers in the state."The state leadership, including state unit head Pritam Singh and leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh, who were clearly rattled by the move, tried to play it down in the public and said that the party would fight the elections under a "collective leadership." However, many senior party leaders who are believed to be from Rawat's camp, including Rajya Sabha member from Almora, Pradeep Tamta and senior MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal, have been pushing for his name for the CM face in an attempt to keep the issue burning.Kunjwal, a senior MLA from Jageshwar constituency in Almora, said, "The only candidate for the CM in Congress for 2022 is Harish Rawat as he is the widely accepted leader in the state with no other leader close to his public outreach."Also read: Why is India called the world’s pharmacy? Here are 160 million reasonsSimilarly, Rajya Sabha MP Tamta on Saturday, while speaking to some local media persons, too insisted on declaring Rawat as the CM candidate and said, "Rawat is the only national leader from Uttarakhand Congress. No other leader comes close to his stature in the state.""There is an anti-BJP sentiment in the public and to capitalise on that and defeat the BJP, it is important to declare the party's CM face for 2022," he said.With Rawat's name is being pushed by his close aides in the party, political experts say that as a very well-seasoned politician, Rawat is cleverly playing his cards before the elections.SMA Kazmi, who has been keeping an eye on the state politics for last two decades, said, "This whole game started about three months ago when party leaders and MLAs close to Rawat held a press conference in Haldwani declaring him as the only face for the CM post if the party wins 2022 elections.""Also, the ground reality is that he is the only leader in the party who has a statewide public outreach. He also knows that if the party wins, the only name that would come forward for the CM will be his. But he wants to make that clear well before the polls are held," said Kazmi.He also claimed that by pushing his name for the CM candidate, Rawat is trying to play two cards at once."First, by doing so he wants to steer the elections by himself which would give him an upper hand in giving tickets to the candidates of his choice. Secondly, he would be able to clear the tussle for the CM post if the party wins, saying, as the elections were fought under him, he would be the CM," he said.Also read: Budget 2021 - What can the railway sector expect?Another political expert and professor of police science in Garhwal Central University, MM Semwal, said, "Rawat is a very seasoned politician. He knows when and how to play his cards to maintain his upper hand in the party.""Despite losing the 2017 assembly elections and the 2019 general elections badly, his popularity in the state has not decreased. In fact, he has become more active in state politics and often holds various political events or keeps making statements to be in the limelight. This CM face tactic is also the same and he knows that he will be becoming the CM if the party wins," said Semwal.Party state in-charge Devendra Yadav couldn't be contacted despite several attempts.State unit head Pritam Singh, however, tried to play it down by saying that, "As the party's central leadership had said, the elections would be fought under a collective leadership to overthrow the BJP government in 2022."Leader of Opposition, Hridayesh, said, "Congress had never declared the CM candidate before the elections. It did once in 2017, in the case of Rawat, when the party lost badly and confined to just 11 seats."The state BJP leadership, however, took a jibe on the infighting in Congress.Bansidhar Bhagat, party state president, said, "The Congress is not able to put its house in order and dreaming of winning the elections which is just laughable. The public of the state has seen the works done under both PM Modi and CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and are happy with it. We will again come to power in 2022."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/senior-cong-leaders-push-for-harish-rawat-s-name-for-cm-infighting-intensifies-101612094487281.html
31-01-2021||Other||₹211.87 crore waived during property tax amnesty scheme; ₹1,370 crore tax collected||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has claimed to have made a record ₹1,370 crore in tax collection in 2020.Of this, ₹211.87 crore has been waived during the property tax amnesty scheme. Now, the corporation has set a target of ₹2,356 crore in property tax collection for 2021, with its total outstanding in arrears at ₹5,000 crore.Agsint the Covid-19 background, the PMC announced the tax amnesty scheme in December 2020. The PMC extended the scheme twice after that. The corporation also announced that it would provide a loan facility, from cooperative banks, to aid defaulters in paying the outstanding dues.However, so far, only one defaulter from Hadapsar availed of the loan facility and cleared his outstanding tax dues of ₹12 lakh.During the amnesty scheme, the PMC was expecting ₹700 crore tax from 2,43,814 defaulters. However, the PMC collected ₹487.92 crore from 1,49,771 property tax defaulters. This has been the third amnesty scheme last the 10 years. Vilas Kanade, joint municipal commissioner, property tax department, said, “In the amnesty scheme, the corporation visited 2,43,814 properties. The corporation sealed 458 properties, which have ₹37.63 crore in outstanding taxes. Given the Covid-19 scenario, we can say that we got satisfactory responses.”On Friday, the municipal commissioner tabled a draft budget-2021-22 of ₹7,650 crore, in which corporation has set a target of ₹2,356 crore for the property tax department.On the new property tax target Kanade said, “We are positive. We will use all the possible ways which have been mentioned in corporation law.”On the amnesty schemes, Qaneez Sukhrani, secretary, Nagrik Chetna Manch, said, “Currently, PMC charges for services it is not rendering which are in direct contravention of the Fundamental Rights guaranteed under Right to Life Article-21 of the Constitution of India. Services related to basic amenities such as distribution of water, scientific disposal of municipal waste, good quality roads, footpaths, cycle tracks, street lights for visibility, quality public transport, are plainly lacking. PMC should have to roll out amnesty and waiver of property tax in comparison to budget income target figures. One side, regular taxpayers are paying taxes to the PMC, other side, PMC is waiving taxes of defaulters. It should be stopped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-211-87-crore-waived-during-property-tax-amnesty-scheme-rs-1-370-crore-tax-collected-101612092443729.html
31-01-2021||Bhopal||MP plans to rent out vacant mandi space for subsidised retail shops for farmers||The Madhya Pradesh government plans to enlist the private sector to develop shopping complexes, medical clinics, petrol pumps, and fertilizer and seed centers in the government-run markets where farmers used to sell their produce, a senior official said.The Madhya Pradesh state agricultural marketing board suffered a dip in revenue to ₹132 crore in the three months ended December 2020 from ₹256 crore, earned in the same period the previous year, after the Centre, in September, passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, that allowed the sale of agricultural produce outside government-run mandis (markets).The mandis record highest revenue during harvest months of April to June and from October to December. There are 259 such mandis and 298 sub-mandis in Madhya Pradesh.“The tax on sale of produce in agriculture markets has been reduced and, according to the new farm law, farmers are free to sell their crop outside the government-run markets, so, there is no chance of revival of 259 mandis in the future,” said a board official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity .He said the state government planned to enlist private entities and offer them land in the markets to develop retail shopping complexes, petrol pumps, fertilizer and seed centers and so on. “Similarly, the government will give some area to NGOs (non-government organizations) to run medical clinics for farmers,” he said.Another official, who also requested anonymity, said the objective is to motivate farmers to keep coming to the mandis. “Services to farmers such as seed centres will be provided at subsidised rates through a smart card, to be issued to the farmers by the welfare and agriculture development department,” the second official said.On the proposal to allow petrol pumps inside mandis, the officials said it would be a viable option because most agricultural markets are either located on the highways or are close by and with licenses to new petrol pumps, they would help the government earn revenue.Reacting to the proposal, MP Mandi Board Association president BB Faujdar said: “The government is heading towards the privatisation of Mandis. This plan might be feasible for category A mandis, which are bigger in size, but what about small grain mandis which are running on government land on lease or on rent? This means the government will close small mandis in the state.”Farmers are not enthused by the plan. “It is a good thing that the government is thinking about revamping the mandis but this is foolish to assume that farmers will go to the mandis for shopping. Farmers have no problem in selling their crops in mandis, but it’s the traders who don’t want to come to the mandis to purchase crops. I don’t think this plan will work,” said Bhagwan Meena, a farmers’ leader from Sehore.Madhya Pradesh Congress committee spokesperson Ajay Singh Yadav said the government was trying to privatise the mandis.“This model is not to revive the mandis, but this is the first step towards their privatization. We will oppose this move,” said Yadav.Farmers’ welfare and agricultural development minister Kamal Patel said: “If farmers are getting benefit from the new farm law, we have made a plan of inviting businessmen to revive mandis in MP. We are renting space, not whole mandis. Retail shops will be opened in the mandis and farmers will get everything from a needle to a tractor at subsidized rates like the army men, who purchase things from the army canteens at much lower rates,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-plans-to-rent-out-vacant-mandi-space-for-subsidised-retail-shops-for-farmers-101612090853235.html
31-01-2021||Pune||YourSpace: Residents list out ways to control fuel price rise||The prices of petrol and diesel for January 29 in the city were 92.52 and 81.72 per litre respectively. The rise in fuel prices has started to spark discontent in the city. Here are the reactions of persons from various fields. They have also expressed their point of view on what should be done to control the prices. Politicians are mum over the issueAs a dealer we don’t have to face the burn if prices of petrol and diesel soar, but consumers have to think about it. They need to analyse how much they have been paying for fuel and the reasons behind it. Our observation is that no political party is willing to speak about it. For consumers, it is an essential commodity and they have to buy it at the present cost. There is no alternative. With about 70% businesses resuming under the Covid unlock process, the usage of fuel is going to increase, and so is the expenditure.Sagar RukariFocus on fuel alternativesThe prices of fuel have been fluctuating. The market rates will remain stable till transportation cost does not change. Rise in transportation rates will see charges of essential items going north. Presently, traders don’t have to bear the cost as it passes on to farmers and consumers. The present situation of overdependence on fuel should make us focus more on alternatives, such as CNG and e-vehicles. Rohan UrsalBring fuel under GST When crude oil prices were low a few years back, the government did not pass on the relief to consumers. Instead, they hiked excise duty. Now the excise duty is about ₹32 per litre and the state government is 24% VAT. Many transporters are running business by sustaining losses. It has been our long- standing demand that the government should bring petrol and diesel under GST. By doing this, there will be regularised prices of these commodities and a uniform rate throughout the nation. The authorities should take immediate steps to provide GST cover to fuel.Baba Shinde Transporters have to bear lossesBecause of the price rise of petrol and diesel, goods transporters have to sustain losses. Tempo and truck transporters are facing financial burden. Central government should bring petrol and diesel under GST. It is a good solution for such price fluctuations.Ram KadamGovernment should waive off taxesWe are facing a difficult situation in terms of business. We can’t dare to increase fares out of fear of losing customers. The rise in diesel prices is hurting business which has slowly started to stabilise after the lockdown. We do not have any idea to which level these prices will reach. Union and state governments should waive off taxes to provide relief to operators and consumers. It will become difficult for bus and car operators to pay loans to banks if the situation continues. Either banks should give relief or governments should waive off taxes.Prasanna Patwardhan India collects huge tax on fuelIn 2013, excise duty on petrol was ₹9. Now, it is ₹32.98 per litre on petrol and ₹31.83 for diesel. In May 2020, the Centre increased these charges almost by ₹13 per litre. The state government collects 24% tax on diesel and 26% on petrol. The state is also collecting cess under various heads. If the central and state governments really want to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel, they should bring these products under GST. Yet, no effort is made by both governments to do that. After adding refinement charges, freight cost and dealer commission, ideally the price of petrol and diesel should be around ₹36-39 per litre. Why then are we paying so much? Remaining are all taxes imposed by the Union and state governments. In India, we have the highest taxation of 69% on petrol and diesel. Vivek Velankar Fuel price rise affects everythingProfit margin has reduced because of the rise in petrol and diesel prices. I cannot increase rates as it will have an adverse effect on number of customers. After lockdown my business had just begun to normalise, but price hike is making it difficult to break even. The price of petrol and diesel affects everything. If fuel costs continue to rise, eventually prices of everything will increase. How the common people are supposed to survive? We are already facing financial issues because of the lockdown. Government should take necessary steps to control fuel prices.Deepak KhamkarState government should provide tax reliefWe have started to face the burns of the fuel price hike. Transport and manufacturing costs have increased by about 10%. As a trader, I cannot increase prices of goods as it will disappoint customers. So, we are bearing the additional cost from our profit margins. We are currently on wait and watch situation. If fuel prices continue to soar, then we will have no option but to increase prices. As the Centre levies uniform excise duty across states, the state government should give tax relief. Sanjiv Phadtare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/yourspace-residents-list-out-ways-to-control-fuel-price-rise-101612090223622.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Jayant Narlikar: The art of intertwining science into the literature||Around 30 years ago, Dr Jayant Narlikar wrote a science fiction story Athenscha Plague (The plague in Athens) to which many have related now in the ongoing pandemic era. The story included in his book ‘Antaralatale Bhasmasur’ (Demons in the Space) highlighted the threat of a deadly virus posing an existential crisis before the human race. The virus, as the story explains, originated from an asteroid and wreaked havoc in Athens in ancient times. In another novel ‘Vaman Parat Na Aala’ (Vaman did not return) Narlikar has tried to portray the aftermaths of the rise of a super-intelligent robot. As the world tends to rely more upon artificial intelligence, this fictional story by Narlikar in the ‘80s shows how he always thought ahead of time. Many say the selection of Narlikar as president of the 94th Marathi Sahitya Sammelan (All India Marathi literary meet) to be held in Nashik from 26th to 28th March was an idea whose time had come. “We are living in the Covid-19 era and it is the need of the hour to have a scientific approach. Dr Narlikar has propagated scientific temper and made science writing popular amongst readers through simple but accurate science writing,” said Milind Joshi chief secretary, Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad, Pune. “This is why we proposed his name as the president of the literary meet. He is the first science writer who will be presiding over the Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, his selection was unopposed,” Joshi added. Narlikar, a well-known astrophysicist and emeritus professor at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (Iucaa) has received many national and international awards and honorary doctorates. Narlikar is internationally known for his work in cosmology, for championing models alternative to the popularly believed big bang model. Apart from his scientific research, Narlikar has been well-known as a science communicator through his books, articles, and radio/TV programmes. He is also known for his science fiction stories in Marathi. In 2014, the Sahitya Akademi, the premier literary body in India selected his autobiography ‘Chaar Nagaratle Majhe Vishwa’ for its highest prize in regional language (Marathi) writing. Narlikar has written exponentially in Marathi. “I want to spread different forms of science through various tools, and literature is an important one,” said Dr Narlikar when he was announced as the president. Pune based publishing house Rajhans publication has published most of his science literary work and is planning to publish few more science fiction books before the meet. Sadanand Borse, editor, Rajhans publication credited Dr Narlikar in making science literature popular. “It wasn’t the case that there were no science fiction writers before him but through his simple yet engaging writing style, he built the foundation of this literature. Even his nonfiction books like Akashashi Jadale Nate, Ganit ani Vidyan are in a unique style. In the literary meet we will have a special stall for his books only,” said Borse. Srushtividynayn Gatha, Akashashi Jadale Nate, Ganit Aani Vidnayn – Yugayuganchi Jugalbandi are some of the famous science books authored by Narlikar. Preshit, Vaman Parat na Ala, Antaralatil Sfot, Virus, Abhyaranya are his popular science fiction novels. “He has introduced advanced technology through writing and most importantly a humanitarian approach. On the international level, he has promoted the disarmaments of the nation. His vision about advancement in science and technology is clear and it reflects through his writings. I grew up reading his books and articles and it has shaped my point of view. I remember I had just cleared the 12th exam and written to him in Iucaa about a meteor shower and he sent me a written reply. I was really thrilled as a boy,” said Raj Kulkarni, poet, and writer. “Aakashashi Jadale Nate” is one of his important books. Through this book, he emphasized on astronomy rather than astrology. He has tried to give scientific vision through his writings. He has questioned the traditional beliefs and pride in our society. He has done an ideal job as a scientist that is to raise questions and to take follow-up of those questions. Apart from his writing, his work in IUCAA is important. He has built a fine institution and has reached lakhs of students through the organisation,” said Atul Deulgaonkar, journalist and writer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jayant-narlikar-the-art-of-intertwining-science-into-the-literature-101612089623662.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Parents’ association: Education department “wilfully” siding with private schools||The parents’ association of Pune has alleged that the education minister and the Maharashtra education department are intentionally safeguarding the interest of private schools under the ambit of judicial processes. In a press conference held on Saturday, the association has demanded that private schools overcharging fees and denying online education should have strict consequences. Imran Khan, secretary of the parents’ association of Pune said the stay granted by the high court is against the government resolution. “The HC decision of no coercive steps is not directed to schools who are inflicting punishments of harassment and expulsion of students for the fees which is mentioned in the GR of the education department dated November 26. In most of the cases it has been confirmed by the reports of the education department itself that the schools have violated the existing norms from the previous academic years of procedure and the department is falsely and wilfully helping them by misinterpreting the HC’s stay order,” said Khan. In another notification by the education department, a crucial part was omitted which stated that action will be taken against schools, which are overcharging fees and pressuring parents to pay the fee. “That is why we feel that the education department has been misleading and misinforming parents and working for the interest of private schools,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-association-education-department-wilfully-siding-with-private-schools-101612089566600.html
31-01-2021||Other||75-year-old duped of ₹2 lakh in KYC fraud||PUNE A senior citizen from Kondhwa Khurd was duped of ₹2lakh by a caller who claimed to be a bank employee and asked for confidential credit card details.The complainant has been identified as Vitthal Kaveri (75), according to the police.“He is a retired professional. The caller told him that KYC details had to be updated for his bank account and coaxed the information out of him,” said inspector (crime) Shabbir Sayyed of Kondhwa police station.The 75-year-old had received a call on October 30, 2020, in the morning while he was at home. After he shared the details with the caller, transactions worth ₹1,52,000 were made using his credit card while ₹86,300 was transferred from his bank account, according to the police.The man approached the cyber police who investigated the matter and forwarded the case to the local police station.A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 669 (C) and 66(D) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station against the unidentified caller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/75yearold-duped-of-rs-2-lakh-in-kyc-fraud-101612089565390.html
31-01-2021||Other||Five remanded to police custody for murder of 30-year-old man||PUNE A local court on Saturday remanded five people to Pune police custody for murder of a 30-year-old man.The deceased man has been identified as Suresh Raju Rekunta (30), a resident of Sainikwadi, Wadgaon Sheri.The five arrested have been identified as Dhanraj Shankar Ghule (24), Sumit Sunil Ghule (38), Samad Attar Ansari (21), Dheeraj Shankar Ghule (21) and Vaibhav Vishnu Randive (20), all residents of Malwadi, Manjari-Budrukh.The five have been remanded to police custody until February 3.“Rekunta was a regular visitor at a bar owned by one of the accused. He got involved in a fight over free alcohol at the bar on the night of January 25. The murder was committed after the scuffle. We found the body yesterday (Friday), registered a case and arrested them,” said inspector (crime) Digambar Shinde of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case.The fight between the accused and the now-deceased took place at 10:30pm at Hotel Kolavari D, according to a complaint lodged by the deceased’s friend Shankar Jagle (24), a resident of Malwadia, Manjari Budrukh.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-remanded-to-police-custody-for-murder-of-30-year-old-man-101612089565855.html
31-01-2021||Pune||PMC plans children traffic plaza at Yerawada||After the successful launch of children traffic plaza at Bremen chowk in Aundh, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned a similar plaza at Yerawada to spread traffic awareness among the young. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “In developing countries, the authorities take steps to introduce social awareness among kids from childhood. We are also planning to do the same and help bring more traffic sense among kids. If kids learn traffic rules from childhood, they will follow road safety rules in future and commit less violations.” The traffic police have urged PMC to build another traffic plaza in the city. Kumar said, “The traffic plaza at Bremen chowk is on a 400 metre x 18 metre area. The proposed new site at Yerawada will have more space.” According to the commissioner, schools around the proposed area can visit the spot as part of an educational exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-plans-children-traffic-plaza-at-yerawada-101612089563623.html
31-01-2021||Pune||PMC fines property owner ₹4,000 for wasting water||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), for possibly the first time, imposed a fine on a Sadashiv peth resident after it was found that water was overflowing from a water tank at his house. The civic body imposed ₹4,000 fine against Om Properties located at 1995 Sadashiv peth on Thursday. PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “It could be the first case taken by the civic body against wastage of potable water. Residents should take steps to conserve water and alert PMC on such cases. PMC would initiate more actions on water wastage.” Pawasksar said, “The property that was fined is located at Sadashiv peth near Bharat Natya Mandir. Neighbours filed a complaint with regional ward office as water was overflowing the entire night. After receiving a complaint, the ward office found that the tank was overflowing. The ward office requested the water department to take action for wastage of water.” After the complaint, Pawaskar instructed the water department staff to visit the spot and issue a notice and impose a fine. “We immediately imposed a fine of ₹4,000 against the property owner,” Pawaskar said. Pawaskar has appealed to citizens to contact the ward offices or the PMC office if they found potable water getting misused or wasted. He said, “While demanding enough water supply, it is also the responsibility of citizens to use water judiciously.” During the inspection, PMC officials cut off water supply at the property after it found that the pipeline connection was illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-fines-property-owner-rs-4-000-for-wasting-water-101612089564196.html
31-01-2021||Other||Vaccine to be available for common people within five months: Tope||PUNE The vaccination process for common people is likely to commence in the next four to five months amid administration preparing for phase two in which frontline staff will be given jabs from the first week of February.The second phase of immunisation includes police personnel and solid waste management workers as well as municipal staff.Rajesh Tope, health minister, said that the second phase will be a small one and will conclude early post which vaccination for those above 50 years and also people with co-morbidities will initiate.“I am confident that common citizens will start getting vaccination within next four to five months,” said Tope on Saturday while speaking to reporters.“The drive for healthcare workers will conclude within 45 days while the second phase for frontline workers will also be a small one,” he said.At least six lakh frontline workers have registered till January 26 for the second phase of Covid vaccination drive across Maharashtra for which registration deadline ends on January 31.In Pune, over 85,000 frontline workers have registered till last week on Co-Win app.Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, said, “The registration for frontline workers has started a few days ago and will continue since the registration for healthcare workers is still on. The same session sites which are being used for healthcare workers will be used for the frontline workers.”“We have not yet got any instructions about increasing the session sites for the frontline workers so we will continue with the same sites and the same process which we have been using for the healthcare workers which is walk-in vaccination and via Co-Win app,” he saidOn Friday, the health ministry has asked all states and Union Territories (UTs) to initiate vaccination of frontline workers against Covid-19 from the first week of February.The vaccination drive of healthcare providers that began on January 16 will continue simultaneously, the ministry said in a letter to states and Union Territories.In the letter, Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, health ministry, said, “The database of frontline workers is being updated by states and UTs in collaboration with the respective line ministries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-to-be-available-for-common-people-within-five-months-tope-101612089505454.html
31-01-2021||Other||20.98% inoculation reported in Pune district||PUNE Till January 24, Pune district reported 10.38 per cent inoculation which increased to 20.98 per cent as of Friday (January 29), according to civic officials.There was no vaccination drive on Saturday.Pune city witnessed a better turnout for inoculation this week as compared to the previous period. Till the weekend, the vaccination sites in PMC reported an average of 80 per cent turnout every day. On Monday, the inoculation was 5.4 per cent that touched 14.28 per cent till Friday.Dr Ashish Bharati, chief, health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that the turnout was good this week as all beneficiaries were invited.“We sent messages and called beneficiaries for inoculation. Also, on spot vaccination drive was given a go-ahead which helped increase the number of beneficiaries,” said Dr Bharati.He added that on Friday, the turnout was 88 per cent in PMC limits. Centres like Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and other centres in the city overshoot the target by recording 186 per cent innoculation.“Vaccination drive will resume from Monday,” said Dr Bharati.Health department officials are hopeful that the first dose of inoculation of healthcare workers will be over by mid-February.Pune rural witnessed 89 per cent vaccination and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 99 per cent inoculation this week.PCMC also reported an increase with the on-spot vaccination. On Monday, the inoculation was 12.40 per cent. The number of beneficiaries has doubled till weekend with 24.50 per cent as per the health authorities.Vaccination drive (till Jan 30)Pune Rural--26.68%PMC--14.28%PCMC--24.37%Pune district--20.98%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2098-inoculation-reported-in-pune-district-101612089506007.html
31-01-2021||Other||PMC reports 11 Covid deaths in 24 hours||PUNE The district on Saturday reported 455 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, according to the state health department.Also, 11 deaths due to Covid were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), while no deaths were reported in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural.PMC has so far reported 1,98,402 Covid cases and 4,514 deaths, whereas PCMC has reported 97,031 cases and a total of 1,316 deaths due to the virus. Pune rural has reported 92,612 total cases and 2,127 deaths.The progressive positive cases in the district stand at 3,88,045 lakh out of this, 3,66,545 patients have recovered while 7,996 have been reported dead. At present, there are 13,504 active cases.As per the state health department, 1,535 patients were discharged on Saturday in the state taking the total to 19,27,335 and the recovery rate is 95.23%.Across Maharashtra, 2,630 new cases of Covid were diagnosed and 50 deaths were reported on Saturday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.52%.Out of 1,45,59,160 laboratory samples, 20,23,814 have been tested positive. Currently, 1,91,975 people are in home quarantine and 2,324 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-reports-11-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-101612089504854.html
31-01-2021||Pune||PMC plans to revamp 20 roads across city||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is planning to revamp 20 roads across the city and tag them as “VVIP roads” with modern facilities. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “These roads would have all facilities related to road safety. It would have dividers with trees, footpaths, bicycle tracks, jogging areas or walkways, sitting areas, zebra crossing, street lighting and road furniture.” According to Kumar, in the first phase, PMC would choose 20 roads and revamp it in a way that later it could be applied on other streets. A PMC official on anonymity said, “There are many wide roads in the city, but its width gets narrowed after it is dug up for various reasons. Even footpath construction is carried out on them repeatedly. Citizens are fed up with the civic body’s approach to spend money on building roads followed by digging activities on the stretch. By considering this, the road department has decided to build 20 roads in such a way that there would be no maintenance on these roads for at least a few years.” PMC has decided to call these roads as “VVIP roads” and it will be picked as per usage by pedestrians, commuters and vehicle-users. The civic administration will also take steps for regular maintenance of these roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-plans-to-revamp-20-roads-across-city-101612089503596.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Govt trying to defame farmers’ movement: Arundhati Roy||Booker Prize winner Arundhati Roy said on Saturday that the central government was trying to defame the farmers’ protests in the national capital and demanded that the three farm laws passed by the government be withdrawn with immediate effect. Roy was addressing a gathering of 500 persons at the second edition of Elgar Parishad conclave held at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch. The conclave was organised by Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan, an umbrella organisation of 250 Dalit organisations. “Lakhs of farmers are suffering due to the unjust laws and it has been their demand that the three new laws be withdrawn by the government immediately. The farmers have been peacefully protesting for the past two months, but concerted efforts are being taken by the Centre to defame their agitation,” she said. Roy said, “Though Peshwai has gone, Brahmanwad (privileged section of society controlling all resources) still exists and the current Prime Minister Narendra Modi ruling the country with the Vaishyas (business class) is a part of that strategy. In the coming days, this structure has to be replaced with a democracy where all communities have to be brought on one platform. Fissiparous tendencies are trying to divide the society into casteist lines, and we need to overcome such assaults by unifying all the castes under one umbrella,” she said. Taking a dig at the Centre, Roy said “At a time when the country is going through a crisis during Covid-19 where lakhs of jobs have been lost a few industrialists like Adani and Ambani have become filthy rich at the expense of the central government. The industrialists and the media are functioning according to the directions of PM Modi and nobody dares to speak against the prime minister. On the other hand, PM himself has not gone before the media during the last seven years.” Condemning the action against intellectuals in Bhima Koregaon case, she said, “Today, one has to be careful about every comma and word you speak or write as police cases are lodged at the slightest of pretext.” According to Roy, the corporate media has defamed Elgar Parishad as a hidden hub of terrorists, jihadists and urban Naxals. “Bhima Koregaon is a prime example of colonialism still in progress. Peshwai has gone but Brahmanwad is still there. The Dalit Bahujan political set up faces an existential challenge like never before. Currently, the corporate and political elite control over India is strengthening its hold in the name of Hindu Rashtra. Holding Elgar is the need of the hour for the fight against capitalism, casteist patriarchy,” she said. Former IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan said, “The central government which is trying to become fascist is bewakoof (foolish) as it is branding dissenting intellectuals as urban Naxals, addressing JNU students as “Tukde Tukde” gang, Sikhs as Khalistanis and Muslim as jihadis. It is branding them in its narrative in the same vein. Today we have not become citizens. We are still a praja and afraid of the king. We should reject Chanakyan brand of politics. The situation in India today is that the executive is not afraid of the judiciary anymore. No government wants to give its power to the people. They have made citizens as praja and in turn beneficiaries of the government.” He cautioned the activists and said, “We started with Islamic terrorism and later every Muslim became a suspect as a terrorist in the public eye. Similarly, the fight against Brahmanwad must not turn into hatred against Brahmins.” Amongst the others who addressed the gathering were Dr Payal Tadvi’s mother Parveen, journalist Prashant Kanojia, student leader Sharjeel Usmani, former IG SM Mushrif, former high court judge BG Kolse Patil and activist Bunt Singh. The event saw revolutionary songs performed by Samta Kala Manch and other Ambedkarite organisations. Elgar Parishad was held for the first time to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon of 1818. The very next day, violent clashes took place in Bhima Koregaon village which is located 35 km from Pune city. According to the Dalit narrative, the 1818 battle is the victory over casteism as the British army comprising a large contingent of Dalit Mahar soldiers defeated the forces of Peshwas at Bhima Koregaon. Later, “Vijaystambh”, an obelisk structure, was erected by the British at Perne village as a memorial for soldiers killed in the Bhima Koregaon battle on January 1, 1818. The violence during the bi-centenary celebrations of Koregaon Bhima battle, on January 1, 2018, claimed two lives and left several injured when lakhs of Ambedkarites had gathered to pay their tributes in memory of the soldiers who died during the battle. On January 2, 2018, Anita Sawale, a Dalit political worker lodged an FIR against Hindutva leaders Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote at Pimpri police station accusing them of instigating violence at Koregaon Bhima. The case was later transferred to Shikrapur police station which comes under the jurisdiction of Pune rural police. Bhide was not arrested by the police for lack of evidence while Ekbote was arrested on March 14 after his anticipatory bail was rejected by the Supreme Court. He was later released on April 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/govt-trying-to-defame-farmers-movement-arundhati-roy-101612089504219.html
31-01-2021||Lucknow||Kunwar Singh administered oath as acting chairman of UP legislative council||Kunwar Manvendra Singh was Sunday administered the oath of office as the acting chairman of Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council.The oath was administered by Governor Anandiben Patel at a function held at Raj Bhavan, officials said.The tenure of incumbent chairman Ramesh Yadav ended on January 30.Singh was among the 10 BJP and two Samajwadi Party candidates who were elected unopposed to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council on January 21.Those elected also included Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, former IAS officer A K Sharma and state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh.Kunwar Manvendra Singh was earlier the acting chairman of UP Legislative Council from May 2002 to August 2004.Mahesh Kumar Gupta, the Additional Chief Secretary to Governor, and other officials were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kunwar-singh-administered-oath-as-acting-chairman-of-up-legislative-council-101612082377689.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||DU’s young guns give gift of knowledge to the needy||Walking through a maze of written word and sniffing the smell of old paper is an experience that one can only get in a library! To ensure no one misses out on this, a group of Delhi University (DU) students are striving to set up libraries for the underprivileged, across the city. Along with the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Library Committee, these youngsters have been raising funds for the project for a few years. “The first few libraries were set in two slum clusters of Delhi, namely Baljeet Nagar and Sangam Park in 2005-06. Both the localities have a majority of migrant workers, who are unable to provide their children with a space that’s peaceful and conducive to study,” says Harish Kumar, a student of DU’s Faculty of Law. What motivated the youngsters to take up this heart-warming gesture is the presence of “youth in these areas” and the consciousness that “they, too, deserve a chance at education”. Sarvesh Rai, a student of BA (Prog) at School of Open Learning, DU, says, “These libraries were established to provide an alternative environment to the youth in particular, and people in general... Through these libraries, we’re also promoting the ideals of forgotten heroes of our freedom movement as well as progressive understanding of social issues such as inequality and female oppression. The idea is to not only to make a library for visitors to be able to read books, but to enrich their lives by exposing them to literature and the wonderful history of our nation!” Students from Ambedkar University Delhi, and Jamia Millia Islamia have also contributed for this initiative. “The success and support we’ve received has motivated us to expand in other areas of Delhi such as Badarpur, Jahangirpuri, and Okhla Industrial Area, jahan aisi libraries ki sakht zarurat hai,” says Prithvi Raj, a student of MA (Hons) Hindi, adding, “Hum toh in fact chahte hain ki puri Delhi me aisi libraries khulein. But hope we get people to contribute generously for this cause.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dus-young-guns-give-gift-of-knowledge-to-the-needy-101612086930745.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 effect! Hindu College to miss Damdami Mai puja?||The most famous tree in Delhi University aka Virgin Tree at Hindu College is the site for the annual Damdami Mai puja every Valentine’s Day (February 14). Students from the boys’ hostels on campus flock around it, believing the popular myth that worshipping the tree on V-Day will help them fall in love within six months and lose their virginity in one year. Some students raised objections to this “misogynistic” practice, and even tried to halt it. But what the protestors couldn’t do, apparently Covid-19 has done! Since DU hasn’t reopened completely and the hostel at Hindu College remains closed the event, which is organised by the boys’ hostel core committee, is likely to get skipped this year. “Since the hostel is closed, elections to the hostel core committee positions could not be held. And without a committee, organising an event on campus seems impossible, especially when the college isn’t opening for everyone at the moment. Plus, it’ll be hard for the outstation hostellers to return and organise the event,” says Ajay Deswal, a B Com (Hons) student at Hindu College. Many are dejected at just the thought of missing out on this much awaited ritual. “Hindu College is known for this puja! There have been many concerns raised about the event being misogynistic and the objectification attached to this tradition has also been a heated topic of discussion. Last year, a poster of actors Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh was put up and worshipped as Damdami Mai and Love Guru, after much chaos. As a hosteller, it’s fun to see all these preparations when on campus,” says Iba, a second-year student at Hindu College. Even freshers were pumped to attend this tradition as part of the annual Valentine’s Day celebrations on campus. “February is the most happening month for DU students. There is so much our seniors have told us about Damdami Mai-Love Guru puja, and how couples propose in Valentine’s week. I was looking forward to experiencing it myself; a more inclusive version of it. Par kismat mein hi nahi hai shayad... I really hope the seniors come up with a digital alternative to celebrate the event,” says a first-year student on condition of anonymity. Away from the controversy associated with this tradition, the final year students were looking forward to mark their last V-day celebrations on campus. “When we had joined, humne kaafi kuchh suna tha about this puja and aarti that happens. People say you will get a girlfriend within months, or will lose your virginity! But all this doesn’t matter. It’s more about simply keeping with our legacy, albeit modified. I unfortunately missed the previous year celebrations, and was hoping to see them in person at least this one time. Plus, I’m in Vivre (film and photography society) so I could have taken some photos just for memory. But that doesn’t seem possible now,” says Dhruv Barak, a student of Philosophy (Hons) at the college.But some students feel that the celebrations might still happen, except on a smaller scale. “You never know, some hostellers might still try to assemble in small numbers to celebrate it, in order to not break the tradition...,” says Pooja Santosh, a second-year student of the college. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-effect-hindu-college-to-miss-damdami-mai-puja-101612085133009.html
31-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand increases MGNREGA work to 150 days from 100, bans single-use plastic||The Uttarakhand government has increased the number of working days guaranteed per year to the poor under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) programme from 100 to 150 on Saturday.The decision was cleared in the state cabinet meeting led by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat at his official residence in Dehradun. 15 other decisions were taken by the cabinet including a complete ban on single-use plastic, introduction of a new state excise policy and reopening schools for classes 6-12 from February 8."About 20,000 families involved in MGNREGA would now be provided work for total 150 days instead of 100," said state urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik, giving a glimpse of the number of lives likely to be impacted by the decision to increase days of employment under MGNREGA."The wages for the additional days worth ₹18.09 crore would be fully paid by the state government," Kaushik added.The cabinet minister also informed that the cabinet also approved a complete ban on single-use plastics in the state with fines ranging from ₹100 to ₹2 lakh for violating the ban."Under the ban, no person, neither himself nor through anybody else, would be allowed to deliberately or mistakenly be allowed to use, store or carry single-use plastic including plastic bags of any size, shape, thickness or colour having or not having a handle," said Kaushik.The minister informed that, however, bio-compostable plastic bags over 50 microns thick, used to transport bio-waste, urban solid waste and dangerous waste, would be allowed."All single-use cutlery made of plastic, thermocol or styrofoam would be banned in any occasion in the state along with single use plastic packaging for food items. Also, nobody would be allowed to throw any plastic in public places," said Kaushik adding "Those items, where the use of the aforementioned three materials could not be banned, the manufacturer has to ensure it collects them for disposal."He also said that there would be a fine for the violators of the ban."The manufacturer of single use plastic would be fined ₹2 lakh, seller would be fined ₹1 lakh and any person using it would be fined ₹100. If the offender is found in violation for the second time, then the fine would be doubled," said Kaushik.The cabinet also approved a new state excise policy during the meeting."Under that, from the coming new financial year, the liquor shops would be allotted through e-tenders instead of existing lottery system and for a period of two years instead of one year," said Kaushik.He said, "Also, the application fee for the tenders has been hiked to ₹50,000 from ₹40,000. The country liquor shops would be allowed to sell beer. The government would also reshape the slab for revenue for the shops under the new policy."Also Read: Uttarakhand reported 80 adverse events post Covid vaccination, most are minorAmong the other important decisions, the state government decided to open the schools for classes 6-12 from February 8."The schools for classes 10 and 12 were already opened and now those for 6,7,8,9 and 11 would be opened. The SOP for it would be soon issued by the education department," he said.The cabinet also approved the implementation of cyber crisis management plan to counter cyber attacks and cyber terrorism on the directions of Centre in the state.It also approved a land of 75 acres in Nainital to be given to NDRF for opening their state office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-increases-mgnrega-work-to-150-days-from-100-bans-single-use-plastic-101612084036594.html
31-01-2021||Lucknow||UP CM administers polio doses at immunisation programme launch in state||At the launch of the 'Polio National Immunization Day' at Veerangana Avanti Bai Women's Hospital in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday administered polio doses to children.According to a tweet by the UP CM Office, pulse polio drops will be administered to over 3.40 crore kids in UP below the age of five from today, for which 1.1 lakh booths have been set up in the state."1.1 lakh booths have been set up in the state to provide polio drops to 3.40 crore children from 0-5 years of age. Not only this, 59,000 teams of Asha workers and Anganwadi workers will contribute to providing door-to-door polio drops available for children: UP CM@myogiadityanath (roughly translated from Hindi)," tweeted the CM's office."Today, 'Polio National Immunization Day' is being celebrated all over the country," Adityanath tweeted on his own Twitter handle."Let us all connect with the national polio vaccination campaign to make the society aware of polio," he added.On Saturday, President Ram Nath Kovind had launched the first round of the Pulse Polio Programme for 2021 by administering polio drops to children less than five years of age at the Rashtrapati Bhawan.Earlier, in an official release, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said that around 17 crore children of less than 5 years of age will be given polio drops as part of the drive of the Central government to sustain the polio-free status of the country,The countrywide drive will be supported by about 24 lakh volunteers, 1.5 lakh supervisors, and many Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), and Rotary, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-administers-polio-doses-at-immunisation-programme-launch-in-state-101612083903026.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BNMC to make institutional deliveries compulsory||The Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) here in Maharashtra has decided not to allow deliveries of pregnant women at home due to lack of adequate health facilities there, an official said on Sunday.It has been observed that many a times deliveries at home in slums and rural areas lead to death of the pregnant woman and the child, the civic body's health officer Dr K R Kharat said.Around 12,000 to 13,000 deliveries are recorded in Bhiwandi town in a year, of which 3,000 to 4,000 are non- institutional, he said.These deliveries at home are carried out by midwives, and women and children do not get proper health facilities, he noted.Hence, Bhiwandi Nizammpur Municipal Commissioner Dr Pankaj Ashiya has decided to compulsorily implement the 'Arogya Sakhi' programme and make it mandatory for deliveries to be conducted at government or civic hospitals, he said.Also read| Three-day polio vaccination drive to begin from todayPresently, there are 15 civic-run health centres in the Bhiwandi Nizampur municipal limits, he said.The Arogya Sakhi programme trains women health entrepreneurs (Arogya Sakhis) from communities in resource- poor rural areas to provide home-based preventive care, perform diagnostic tests and screen for high risk factors and ensure early referral during antenatal and infancy period.Kharat said the civic body will soon appoint 20 'Arogya Sakhis' in every health centre of BNMC for implementation of the programme of institutional deliveries.These sakhis will move around the slums and other areas and ensure that women are taken to health centres for check-up and delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bnmc-to-make-institutional-deliveries-compulsory-101612070162085.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains to open to public from Feb 1: All you need to know||In a major relief for commuters, the local train services in Mumbai will resume for everyone from Monday. The announcement in this regard was made by Union railways minister Piyush Goyal on Friday after the Maharashtra government proposed to resume the services for all commuters."My dear Mumbai citizens, for the convenience of all of you, the Mumbai local train will be started from February 1," Goyal said on Twitter.Travel by local trains, lifeline for millions of people living in Mumbai and surrounding satellite towns, was severely restricted after the coronavirus outbreak in March 2020.Here is everything you need to know about the resumption of local train services in Mumbai:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-time-slots-no-general-public-during-peak-hours-mumbai-locals-to-open-to-all-from-feb-1-101612077683095.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Jan 26 violence was conspiracy by BJP, Tricolour was insulted that day: Sisodia||Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said the violence that took place on January 26 was a conspiracy by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), adding that the Tricolour was insulted on that day."BJP orchestrated the violence and attacks during Republic Day violence and tried to pin blame on farmers. Not only the BJP, PM Modi's credibility has been dented due to lies over farm laws," Sisodia said while addressing a press conference.The press conference was about a video showing Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal speaking in favour of the farm laws. The video, which was posted by the BJP, was doctored, claimed Sisodia."Yesterday BJP and its spokesperson posted a doctored video of Arvind Kejriwal ji stating benefits of farm laws. I was furious over it but also felt sad for BJP that it had to post distorted video clip of Arvind ji to establish credibility of the laws," Sisodia added.He said that not only the BJP, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi's credibility has been dented due to lies over the farm laws.The video of Kejriwal’s interview with a news channel on farm laws has been widely shared on social media.In the video, Kejriwal can be heard saying that this is the best reform in agriculture in the last 70 years, which will give the farmers the best price for their produce as they will be able to sell their crops anywhere.Kejriwal can also be heard saying that farmers will not lose their land, MSP or their mandis (marketplace).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jan-26-violence-was-conspiracy-by-bjp-tricolour-was-insulted-that-day-sisodia-101612075421106.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi records maximum cold wave days in January in 13 years: IMD||Delhi recorded seven "cold wave" days in January, the maximum in the month since 2008, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to four degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum temperature is two degrees Celsius or less."The number of cold wave days in January this year was the maximum since 2008, when 12 such days were recorded," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre here, said.Only one "cold wave" day each was recorded in 2020 and 2019.The city had recorded six "cold wave" days in January 2013.Srivastava said only one western disturbance affected the plains of northwest India this January, leading to more cloudless nights and therefore, more "cold wave" days.Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, warming the ground. The minimum temperature falls in the absence of a cloud cover.A cold wave swept the national capital on Sunday morning, with the minimum temperature dipping to 3.1 degrees Celsius. This is the fourth "cold wave" day in Delhi in a week.The minimum temperature settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius in the national capital on Tuesday and Thursday respectively due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barreling through the plains, the IMD said.Cold wave conditions prevailed in Delhi on Friday too with the minimum temperature settling at four degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum temperature of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-maximum-cold-wave-days-in-january-in-13-years-imd-101612075233238.html
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farm union leaders backtracked under pressure of radicals: Central minister||Faced with one of the most tenacious farmers’ agitations in decades, the Narendra Modi government is not inclined to repeal the contentious agri reform laws at the centre of raging protests that have lately spilled beyond Punjab and Haryana to the Jatland of Uttar Pradesh. This intent was underlined on Saturday by Union minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, the sole representative of Punjab in the central cabinet who was part of three-member ministerial team that held 11 rounds of negotiations with farmers in the past two months without any breakthrough. In an exclusive interview with Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak, the first-time Hoshiarpur MP spoke about the government’s approach to stem the farmers’ ire and blunt the opposition’s attack, and the political repercussion of the agitation for the BJP in Punjab and beyond. Excerpts: After the breakdown of their negotiations with the Centre, farmer unions remain unrelenting in their protests against the three farm laws. What is the way forward on the logjam? At the eleventh and last rounds of talks, the Centre offered to suspend the laws for one-and-a-half years and constitute a committee with representatives of farmers to deliberate on the laws before their implementation. That is the best offer the government could make. These laws were enacted because it is in the interest of farmers and best for them. But the message that the farm unions conveyed was that these are against the farmers. Unfortunately, they succeeded in that and it became a movement. Their propaganda is that the farmers’ land will be snatched by corporates. The laws have nothing like that. It is all for the farmers’ welfare by opening additional mandis and modernising cultivation techniques. The government agreed to amend the provisions about which the unions voiced their concerns. Also, the bills on electricity and pollution were taken off. All this was put on the table after talks with them (unions). In the meetings, they agreed to certain proposals and promised to revert the next day. But when they went back, they came under pressure from people with radical views. They scared the union leaders and forced them to backtrack and demand the repeal of laws. They (radical elements) are now being identified. Short of repeal and other than putting the laws on hold, what are the other options before the government? What can be a better option when the government has offered to suspend the laws itself for 18 months? But the unions want nothing but repeal? They should not be so obstinate. They will have to find a way out of what has been offered in the last round of negotiations and come forward to talk to the government. If they are sticking to this (demand for repeal), they may have a different agenda on their mind. What is that agenda? They can tell that. I don’t know. We are willing to amend and suspend, what else do they want? So, you are ruling out the repeal? This is what was conveyed in the last talks by agriculture minister (Narendra) Tomar sahib. Why are we stuck on the repeal? Whatever is there in it (laws) against the kisan, we are ready to change that. Demanding this (repeal) is rubbish. This law is for the entire country, and not only some farmers of two or three states. If someone gets violent or gathers crowds by telling lies, how can the government yield to such antics and repeal Acts passed by an elected Parliament? There are a lot of people who appreciate these laws. But now that protests are swelling beyond Punjab and Haryana, is the Centre open to reconsidering its position and calling farmer leaders for talks? Only the agriculture minister can tell that. But it was made clear to the unions in the last round of talks that this (suspension of laws) is the maximum we can give… nothing beyond that. That was the best the Centre could offer. They should have responded to it. Almost the entire opposition has rallied behind the unions’ demand for repeal. It was a considered opinion of the government that we are ready to amend or delete any clause/provision in the farm laws that is seen against the interest of farmers. But why are they insisting for repeal of entire laws? These were enacted in keeping with interests of the whole country, not Punjab and Haryana alone. The opposition (to the laws) is in these two states, not in the whole country. Why can’t these laws be repealed? Then we should shut down Parliament and ask farmers, with raising of hands, what to do and what not to do. It is a prerogative of Parliament. Nobody can dictate. Whatever is against the interest of farmers in the Act, we are ready to delete that. But they are interested in repeal of the Act. This is not just for Punjab and Haryana farmers; it is for entire country. It is in the interest of the other farmers. Is there is a likelihood of talks again? Right now, talks are deadlocked. If the unions come forward with any proposal based on our last offer, the government can discuss that. Political parties which have been supporting these reforms want to derive political benefit out of this situation. Several union leaders have been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) after the Republic Day violence. Hasn’t that complicated the way to any future talks? The storming of Red Fort by unruly farmers has been roundly condemned by all. Farm unions violated their pact with Delhi Police. Ultimately, they will have to see what is right and what is wrong. We can’t compromise with the country’s interests and that of the state. They have to understand their responsibility. Agitation doesn’t mean gathering crowds by raising emotional slogans and falsehoods. Handling them is also their responsibility. The union leaders brought lakhs of tractors to Delhi and created chaos. They should have taken the moral responsibility for whatever happened and suspended their agitation. Itna bada gunah kiya hai unho ne (They have committed a big crime). In Punjab, there is a groundswell of support for the farmers’ agitation. Since you represent the state in the Union cabinet, what role do you see for yourself to resolve the issue?I have been espousing Punjab’s interests in the Centre. The package the government offered was the result of a lot of discussions and requests. The farmers’ sentiments are on the top of my mind. The opposition has closed its ranks in mounting pressure on the government to repeal the laws. All these parties were votaries of these farm reforms in the past. They were part of the Congress manifesto. Manmohan Singh, as Prime Minister of the UPA government, had supported these reforms in Parliament. The Shiromani Akali Dal spoke in favour of the reforms for two or three months after our government brought an ordinance last year. Even Parkash Singh Badal publicly endorsed it. Where are the moral values of these political parties? BJP leaders in Punjab are facing an intense and sustained backlash from farmers. Has that hurt the party politically? In politics, there are gheraoes and protests. That doesn’t mean we stop doing the right things. Our party will reach out to people and share its views. Everything can’t be linked with votes. Vote dalenge ya nahin… party ka ya hoga….We have to see the interest of farmers, the country and the state. There are dogged protests even in your home turf of Hoshiarpur. Hoten hain protest. Kya kar sakte hain. I can only place my views before the government and people. Aur kya kar sakte hain (What else can I do?). There are apprehensions that the protests may spiral into a law and order problem. What is your sense of what lies ahead? A lot of people are trying to vitiate the atmosphere. Some are projecting it as a Sikh versus Hindu issue, others as a Delhi versus Punjab face-off. That is unfortunate. The governments are worried whenever there is a serious agitation. That is why we are offering to amend and suspend the laws despite there being no flaws in it. What worries you about the agitation? My worry is that this will impede Punjab’s development. No outside corporate will come and invest in the state if you boycott and raise a bogey against them. Is the Centre open to farmers’ demand for a legal guarantee for minimum support price? The MSP has been going on since 1965. It is 100% procurement in Punjab and Haryana. The PDS Act clearly says that the government shall procure at MSP. Then why do they want a legislation? There is no logic or rationale. The opposition parties allege that the Narendra Modi government is being arrogant and insensitive in dealing with the farmers’ demands? They are lying. These reforms have been the agenda of the Congress for 20 years. Listen to their speeches in Parliament and read their manifestoes. We held 11 long rounds of talks with the unions. Is this arrogance? All their suggestions were considered for possible solutions. But, when they went back to the protest sites, they changed their mind because they are being dictated by other forces they are scared of. Now, they are disowning them. But, one of them is Deep Sidhu, who is said to be affiliated with the BJP? He may have been with the BJP at some point of time, but he was disowned many months ago by our Gurdaspur MP. The opposition alleges the Modi government’s complicity in the Republic Day violence to discredit the farmers’ stir.That is an irresponsible charge. Ask anyone lodged in jail for a criminal case, he will blame someone else for implicating him. What is your sense on the political fallout of the farmers’ agitation for the Modi government? The BJP is the world’s largest party and knows how to manage things. When following the right path, we need not bother whether this will get us less votes or more votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-union-leaders-backtracked-under-pressure-of-radicals-central-minister-101612074083786.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena slams Centre for imposing 'BJP's democrazy'||Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi on Sunday attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and said that "farmers beaten up, journalists jailed, protests discredited" is 'BJP's democrazy'."Farmers being beaten up, honest journalists being jailed, genuine protests being discredited, arrogance of those in positions of power at its peak. This isn't democracy but BJP's democrazy," tweeted Chaturvedi on Sunday.Earlier the Shiv Sena leader had slammed the Centre for failing to resolve the farmers' issue and accused the Central government of not taking adequate measures to prevent the January 26 violence during the Kisan tractor rally."This is the failure of the government to have not resolved the issue sooner, allowed it to fester for months and despite having constant inputs from various agencies about how things could go out of control not been prepared with adequate measures to stop this" the Rajya Sabha MP had tweeted on January 26 reacting to the Republic Day violence.On January 26, during the tractor rally, a group of farmers deviated from the assigned route, broke through barriers, clashed with security personnel in several parts of Delhi. They also vandalised property and even entered the Red Fort, where they hoisted their flags.Over 25 FIRs have been registered in connection with the January 26 violence under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sections of IPC dealing with sedition.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-slams-centre-for-imposing-bjp-s-democrazy-101612069163078.html
31-01-2021||Bhopal||Target to administer polio drops to 1 crore and 11 lakh children: MP CM||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday launched the state’s Pulse Polio Programme in Bhopal by administering polio drops to children less than five years of age. He told news agency ANI, “Our target is to administer the polio drops to 1 crore and 11 lakh children.”President Ram Nath Kovind had on Saturday kicked off the three-day pulse polio programme for 2021 by administering polio drops to children at the Rashtrapati Bhawan. The launch came on the eve of the Polio National Immunization Day, which is observed on January 31 and is popularly known as Polio Ravivar.“Around 17 crore children of less than 5 years of age will be given polio drops as part of the drive of Government of India to sustain polio free status of the country. The countrywide drive will be supported by about 24 lakh volunteers, 1.5 lakh supervisors and many Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), WHO, UNICEF, Rotary etc.,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement.Healthcare workers will be visiting as many as two crore households across the nation to ensure that no child is left without the protection of the polio vaccine, the ministry said.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was also present at the event. Recalling how the vaccination plan came into force, he said. “The strategy of Pulse Polio Immunization Programme was conceived in December 1993 and it was rolled out from 2nd October, 1994 when the first child was immunized against Polio as part of this programme. Almost 12 lakh children were immunized in a single day at around 4000 centres. In 1995 seeing the visible impact of the Pulse Polio Programme in Delhi, this was replicated at the national level. A year later, several countries of South East Asia region of WHO emulated the strategy and implemented similar programs. Even in Africa, Mr. Nelson Mandela launched ‘Kick Polio out of Africa’ campaign”“Before the start of the program, India had 60% caseload of Polio worldwide. With the last case of Polio reported in Howrah on 13th January, 2011, the country has been free of Polio for a decade now,” Vardhan added.The Union minister stressed on the need to ensure that all vaccines under the programme reach every last child of our country. “In order to close gaps that might have emerged during the Covid-19 pandemic, another phase of Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI 3.0) has been planned in 250 high risk districts of the country during February and March 2021. In addition to this, guidance for conduction of Sub-National Immunization days for polio and sensitive surveillance of vaccine preventable diseases during pandemic has also been issued to States,” he said.Uttar Pradesh chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will also start the polio immunisation campaign 2021 on Sunday from Lucknow's Dufferin hospital, according to an official statement. "Children up to 5 years of age will be administered the polio drops. Around 3.40 crore children will be administered polio drops across Uttar Pradesh tomorrow," according to the statement cited by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/target-to-administer-polio-drops-to-1-crore-and-11-lakh-children-mp-cm-101612067807436.html
31-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reported 80 adverse events post Covid vaccination, most are minor||Uttarakhand has reported over 80 cases of adverse events following immunisation in the first month of the Covid vaccination drive till Friday, however, most of these were minor adverse events, said officials."There have been no major adverse events after vaccination in the state apart from one woman who was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. Vaccination process has largely been smooth in the state. A total of 84 such events have been reported from the state," said Dr Tripti Bahuguna, senior health official who manages adverse events following immunisation.She further said that most healthcare workers have experienced difficulties like mild fever, local irritation and body ache, "Which means that the vaccine is working in the body."According to the state health department’s records, maximum 21 adverse events have been reported from Pauri Garhwal district followed by 16 in Dehradun and Udham Singh Nagar district each. Almora (3), Bageshwar (6), Chamoli (2), Champawat (3), Haridwar (2), Nainital (5), Pithoragarh (1), Rudraprayag (4), Tehri Garhwal (1) and Uttarkashi (4) were other districts to report adverse events so far. Except one severe case in Haridwar, all other events were categorised as minor.Also Read: Uttarakhand cancels winter break for Class 10, 12 students"The woman admitted at AIIMS had experienced low blood pressure and complained of blurry vision, but apart from that, her condition was stable. She had been admitted in the hospital for monitoring purposes," Dr Bahuguna said.On Friday, eight adverse events were reported from the state following immunisation.Till now, 25,818 of around 88,000 healthcare workers in the state have been vaccinated and the pace will be further increased in the coming days, said an official. The state has so far vaccinated 29.33 % of its healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-reported-80-adverse-events-post-covid-vaccination-most-are-minor-101612060604671.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||‘Man tried to set fire to my office in Inderpuri’, says Raghav Chadha; cops start probe||Delhi legislator and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Saturday said that an unidentified person allegedly tried to set fire to his office in Inderpuri on the evening of January 26, an incident which he said was captured on CCTV cameras.The police said they have received a complaint into the matter, and have started an investigation.On December 24, a group of men had attacked the Jhandewalan office of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), of which Chadha is the vice-chairperson.The January 26 incident allegedly took place around 11.30pm. Chadha said the CCTV camera footage shows the person setting fire to the wall of his office building, pouring kerosene on it and then walking away.The AAP’s Rajendra Nagar MLA said that he had filed a police complaint.“The earlier brazen attack at Delhi Jal Board and more particularly the present incident of attempting to set ablaze his party office, begs a serious question that if the life, liberty and offices/property of legislators/ are attacked and threatened in this fashion and are put in constant fear harm then what would be the plight of a common man,” said Chadha in a statement.The statement also read, “There have been earlier instances wherein almost similar modus operandi was adopted by the assailants which raises a doubt whether there is any correlation with the present incident. Hence the present incident cannot be viewed in isolation, and this too appears to be a well-designed conspiracy of his political opponents to execute their political designs in order to obliterate him from discharging his public duties.Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (west) said: “We have received a complaint and we are taking legal action. We are investigating the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-tried-to-set-fire-to-my-office-in-inderpuri-says-raghav-chadha-101612052861767.html
31-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan launches health insurance scheme, 1.10 crore families to benefit||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday launched Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojana to provide free treatment to the poor of the state at government as well as private hospitals.The scheme is aimed to benefit 1.10 crore families in the state and the beneficiary family will be able to get free treatment of up to ₹5 lakh every year.Addressing media persons, Gehlot said the scheme will cover two-thirds of the total population of the state.The Chief Minister said the scheme is estimated to cost ₹1800 crore annually and the state government will bear 80 per cent of the cost which amounts to ₹1400 crore. The remaining ₹400 crore will be provided by the Central Government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-launches-health-insurance-scheme-1-10-crore-families-to-benefit-101612053093662.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Leopard sighting triggers panic in Delhi locality, wildlife teams rush in||Delhi’s forest department has issued an alert after a CCTV camera captured a leopard in outer Delhi’s Najafgarh on January 27, officials said on Saturday.Deputy conservator of forests (north division) Navneet Srivastava said that after first being spotted on January 27, the leopard was again seen on January 28 and January 29 near the Najafgarh drain.Kamal Preet, Delhi’s chief wildlife warden, confirmed that the leopard was spotted on a CCTV camera. “Teams from the west and the north division are jointly handling the operation. We also have former wildlife inspectors, who have been appointed as consultants, who are also helping the teams from the headquarters. Coordinated efforts are being made to capture the animal at the earliest,” she said.Uncontrolled urbanisation near forest areas is intensifying conflict between humans and animals.Srivastava said: “The last spotting was on January 29 near the Najafgarh drain. This means that the animal has moved away from the main Najafgarh city. We have issued alerts around Ghummanhera and Jharod Kalan and other nearby villages asking people not to step out after dark and also to keep their pets inside.”He said that cages have been placed and round-the-clock patrolling is being conducted by the forest department teams to capture the animal. “Once the animal has been captured, we will discuss the possibility of moving it either to the Delhi Zoo or to the Asola Wildlife Sanctuary. In case we don’t have space or facility to move the leopard within the city, we will look at options in other cities. However, that decision will need to be taken by higher authorities,” Srivastava said.Delhi cabinet minister and Najafgarh legislator Kailash Gahlot wrote a letter to the forest department, urging teams to ensure the quick capture of the animal for the safety of the residents of the area.“On the matter of a leopard sighting at Najafgarh, the forest department officials have been asked to capture the animal as soon as possible. People are requested to not panic and alert the authorities if they spot the leopard. Leopard is a protected wildlife animal so residents are requested to refrain from attacking it,” Gahlot said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/leopard-sighting-triggers-panic-in-delhi-locality-wildlife-teams-rush-in-101612043164401.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Border internet cut, more arrests made||Authorities on Saturday arrested over 20 people in connection with the violence that broke out in the national capital during a farmers’ rally on Republic Day, while mobile internet services were suspended for two days at key border points near Delhi where thousands of protesters have been camping since November-end as a part of their ongoing movement against three agricultural laws.It was for the second time in a week that internet services were suspended at Singhu and Tikri borders connecting Delhi to Haryana and the Ghazipur border connecting Delhi to Uttar Pradesh. The fresh decision to snap the services between 11pm on January 29 and 11pm on January 31 came after the Delhi Police’s request to the Union home ministry.As investigation into the violent protests gathered pace, Delhi Police officials raided several locations in Punjab and identified a person suspected to have hoisted a farmers’ union flag and a religious flag at Red Fort on Tuesday, people aware of the developments said.Police say the farmers deviated from the routes agreed upon, entered parts of central and New Delhi areas, resorted to vandalism and attacked police personnel. At least 38 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered and 84 people arrested --- 22 of them on Saturday --- in connection with the violence.On Tuesday too, internet services were suspended, albeit temporarily, when violence broke out during a tractor rally by farmers who want the government to repeal the laws that they say will hurt their livelihood. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured in the clashes that broke out in several places, including the historic Red Fort and the ITO intersection.This was also the third time that mobile internet services were suspended in Delhi in the past 14 months. On December 19, 2019, the government snapped the internet connections during protests against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, or CAA.Kultar Singh, a farmer at Tikri, said the government was attempting to “derail” the movement and “break” the farmers’ communication channels by suspending internet services. “Our brothers are coming to join us from parts of Haryana and Punjab. To ensure that we are not able to communicate with them, the government blocked internet services. But they will not succeed. This government is terrified. So they are resorting to these tactics,” Singh said.The move came in the backdrop of a group of people, who said they were local residents, entering the protest site at Singhu, triggering clashes with the demonstrators on Friday. On the same day, tension spiralled at Tikri after farmers and locals almost came to blows even as the number of protesters swelled in Ghazipur.Meanwhile, Delhi Police teams conducted raids across Punjab to arrest those involved in the Republic Day violence.A Delhi Police officer, who did not want to be named, said a police team was in Jalandhar to trace a man named Jugraj Singh. The officer identified Singh as the person who hoisted two flags at the Red Fort – a flag of a farmers’ union and a religious flag -- on Tuesday. “He is a farmer and also a school dropout. He is currently on the run. We have met his family and the local police there. He hasn’t returned home,” the officer said.Officials who requested anonymity said police teams were also conducting raids in Ludhiana, Moga and Tarn Taran.A second officer said police were also looking at those caught on tape during the protests. “We have taken the assistance of Punjab police while conducting raids and arresting such suspects,” the second official said. He added that the special cell (police’s anti-terror unit) was separately probing the role of prominent faces of the protest because they believe the violence was planned.“Our first task is to arrest those who indulged in violence on the road. The second will be to probe how the ring leaders had got them to indulge the violence on Republic Day. Look out circulars (LOC) have already been issued against farm leaders to ensure that they do not flee. The investigation has just started,” the second officer added.A forensic team also visited Red Fort to collect samples of the alleged damage to the Archaeological Survey of India-protected structure and evidence related to the protesters assaulting police personnel inside the monument.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/border-internet-cut-more-arrests-made-101612042437803.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||No more institutional quarantine for UK returnees to Delhi||Passengers flying in to Delhi from the United Kingdom (UK) will no longer have to complete a mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival, an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) – the nodal body that decides on implementation of Covid-19 guidelines in the Capital — said.The seven-day institutional quarantine rule for UK fliers, even if they tested negative for Covid-19 on arrival, was introduced on January 8, when the Central government resumed flight operations between India and the UK after a temporary suspension since December 22 in the light of a new strain of Covid-19 which had emerged there.The new DDMA order, which was issued on Friday, cites “low positivity rate” among UK returnees as the reason for the relaxation. Fliers, however, will have to continue adhering to a seven-day home quarantine rule, government officials said.“As a matter of abundant precaution in view of the increased transmissibility of the new variant, DDMA orders dated January 8 and (another on) January 12 mandated compulsory institutional quarantine for a period of seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine for those travellers who are found negative in RT-PCR test at airport,” said the DDMA order, which HT has seen.The order was signed by Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev, who also heads the executive committee of the DDMA. The DDMA is chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal. Its vice-chairperson is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.The order further said, “The situation has now been reviewed and considering the low positivity rate of UK returnees it has been decided that the aforesaid additional measure of compulsory institutional quarantine of travellers tested negative may not be required furthermore… Strict surveillance (has) to be kept on persons who test negative in the airport and (are) kept in home quarantine.”Two senior DDMA officials, who did not wish to be identified, however, clarified that the seven-day home quarantine rule for those who tested negative on arrival would still continue and they will be monitored by district surveillance teams.Travellers who test Covid-19 positive on arriving from the UK are isolated in special wards set up at the government’s Lok Nayak hospital and four other private hospitals. Their contacts are further traced and isolated in similar wards on testing positive for Covid-19. Their swab samples (both UK returnees and their contacts who test positive) are sent for further examination to determine the strain of the virus with which they were infected.In Delhi, so far 13 Covid-19 patients were found infected with the UK strain. All of them had returned from the UK and none of them were cases of local transmission, said a senior official in the government’s health department.“Surveillance of people who have returned from the UK should be scaled up,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He further said, “The UK variant is spreading fast across several countries. It is replacing the old variant. Initially, it was found to be more transmissible. Now, several research groups based in the UK have said that it is likely to cause more deaths too. Fortunately, vaccines have been found to be effective against it. But we cannot let our guards down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-more-institutional-quarantine-for-uk-returnees-to-delhi-101612041982047.html
31-01-2021||Other||Day after Mumbai woke up to season’s coldest morning, mercury rises||The temperatures in Mumbai soared on Saturday after almost a week of cold conditions.The Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), which is indicative of the temperature in suburbs and Mumbai, recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius, which was 1.5 degrees below normal. On Friday, Mumbai recorded the lowest minimum temperature of the season at 14.8 degrees Celsius.The Colaba weather station, which is indicative of the temperature in south Mumbai, recorded a minimum temperature of 19 degrees Celsius, up from Friday’s 17.5 degree Celsius but 0.5 degrees Celsius below normal.KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), IMD, had anticipated rise in temperature after Friday. “Mumbai Santacruz recorded lowest min temperature of this season today morning from Dec 2020. No large change expected in next 24 hrs. Thereafter gradual rise (of temperature is expected),” he had tweeted on Friday.Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures, too, increased slightly on Saturday. At Santacruz, the maximum temperature was 32.9 degrees Celsius, 1.3 degrees above normal and up from Friday’s 30.5 degrees Celsius. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 31.4 degrees Celsius, which was 1.1 degrees above normal and up from Friday’s 29.5 degrees Celsius.On Saturday, the air quality improved marginally from Friday’s 290, but continued to remain in the poor category. An overall air quality index (AQI) — an air quality indicator— of 286 was measured.The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.Of the 10 locations, Malad had the worst it quality with an AQI of 329, followed by Andheri with AQI of 323 and Mazagaon with an AQI of 311, all in the very poor category.“Air quality of Mumbai is in the poor category due to the presence of calm wind conditions prevailing in the city and the surrounding regions. Local pollution is not getting dispersed and leading to poor AQI in Mumbai. With current calm weather condition, local emission with continental pollution to keep the AQI from poor to very poor for Mumbai in the next two days,” according to a short range forecast by SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-mumbai-woke-up-to-season-s-coldest-morning-mercury-rises-101612038922407.html
31-01-2021||Other||Mumbai reported an average of 22 divorce petitions daily||The city reported an average of 22 divorce petitions a day over the past decade (2011-2020), data revealed. Last year, despite the family court at Bandra remaining closed for about six months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, a daily average of 19 divorce petitions was recorded. According to the statistics compiled from the family court, in the year 2011, the total number of divorce petitions filed stood at 7,515. The figure has to an extent remained constant in the next nine years. In 2019, 7,727 divorce petitions were filed before the family court. Between 2011 and 2019, the numbers fluctuated between 7,500 and 8,300. Last year, the figure, however, dwindled to 5,059 petitions, as the family court remained closed from March to August owing to the Covid-19 lockdown.Though there is no official data available, lawyers and marriage counsellors said the court grants decree of divorce in around 85℅ of petitions.Experts said divorce petitions are being filed more by men than women and the core issues between spouses are the rising standards of expectations from each other, lack of time for the partner and lack of communication between the couple. According to experts, this is because both the husband and wife are busy with their respective professional and career commitments, and lack of communication leading to conflicts between them.“In the current scenario, the key reasons for breaking of marriages are increased expectations from each other. The expectations of women are to a large extent centred around companionship, helping with household or domestic chores, greater degree of freedom and understanding, because women are now stepping out of their houses frequently. However, men do not seem to have not moved on with women. They continue to expect women to fulfil the traditional goals,” said Shubhada Maitra, dean, school of social work at Tata Institute of Social Sciences.Maitra said women are now getting more career-oriented and have professional commitments, and at the same time they also have to look at their domestic chores.“So, women bear double brunt, by working as an earning member of the family and at the same time also taking care of the household chores,” Maitra said, adding that, this is one of the major reasons of conflict between couples.She also said that the dynamics of marriage has changed.“Women are educated and also prefer either not to marry or they marry late –most often after the age of 25 -26 – as compared to earlier times, when they used to get married at the age of 20-22 years. If one gets married early, the young mind can be moulded. Women have their own personalities and expectations and when they are not fulfilled, they want to end the marriage,” Maitra added.Marriage counsellor Ajitkumar Bidwe, who worked with the family court in Mumbai for about 25 years, said earlier marriages used to break more because of excessive interference by parents from either side.“Now, mostly couples are independent and there is hardly any parental interference in their decision making. But that also means that there is no one else in their daily lives to sort out their issues.”He cited an example of a two doctors who got married in 2012.“The couple approached me for counselling. The woman was from Punjab and the man was born and brought up in Mumbai. It was an arranged marriage. The couple had issues because the woman’s mother would decide minutest of things, such as the colour of the bed sheet in the couple’s bedroom. These issues escalated to a level where the couple decided to file for divorce by mutual consent,” said Bidwe.The situation has now changed with women getting more and more independent and joint families becoming nuclear ones. The society has undergone changes as people are now more career-oriented than family oriented, he added.“Recently, I came across a case where both husband and wife held MBA degrees and earned about Rs2.5 lakh a month. After their marriage in 2017, they also booked a flat. Two years later, they came to me for counselling. After listening to them I realised that the two did not have time for each other. They didn’t even speak properly for about a year and mostly, they used to exchange messages through chits stuck on the refrigerator. Eventually, they drifted apart and then started living separately,” Bidwe added.According to him, Spouses must spare at least an hour of quality time for each other everyday and in between keep the line of communication between them alive, no matter how busy they are.“The couples should at least have the dinner together,” said Bidwe.Dr Madhuri Singh, consulting psychiatrist associated with Nanavati Hospital, feels that the prime reason for marriages breaking is the rising expectation.“The expectations have changed over a period of time. For instance, the space that the couples give each other today has increased today. The problem starts brewing when this freedom is misused by one of them,” said Dr Singh, adding that today people are spending more time on their own.“They spend more time with their friends and are engaged in their respective digital worlds. Further, their professional commitments compelled them to spend more time outside and in this process they don’t even miss the other spouse. Thus, they are habituated to live without the other partner and are too busy in their own professional circles. Here, cracks start developing in their relationships,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-reported-an-average-of-22-divorce-petitions-daily-101612038442268.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to vaccinate frontline workers from February first week||Following instructions from the Centre, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start vaccinating frontline workers from the first week of February, along with healthcare workers (HCWs). This is in line with the Maharashtra government’s decision on Saturday to begin vaccination of frontline workers from February 1. The state has 580,000 frontline workers, including police personnel and sanitation workers, who have enrolled on the centralised CoWIN app. District administrations have been directed to increase the number of vaccination centres from 239 on Friday, as per the requirement. The state government has been assured by the Centre of an adequate supply of doses. To facilitate the entire process, BMC will start more vaccination centres at peripheral hospitals and other Covid-19 jumbo centres to attain its daily target of 10,000 inoculations. In Mumbai, around 200,000 frontline workers have registered on CoWIN.Initially, BMC had decided to begin the second phase after February 14. Now, BMC will conduct a dry run for the second phase on February 1. “The central government has instructed us to start inoculating frontline workers along with HCWs for to complete the mass immunisation programme in the city faster,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. “We had a meeting on Saturday where the decision to start the second phase from the first week [of February] has been taken.” In the city, 125,000 HCWs have registered on the CoWIN app. Over the past 10 days of the vaccination drive, which started on January 16, the BMC had set a target to vaccinate 48,791 HCWs, of which 39,690 or 81% HCWs have taken the first jab. “We have received instructions from the central government to initiate the second phase at the earliest. But as we have a large number, we wanted to finish the first phase before starting with the second phase,” said a senior health officer from BMC. ‘Daily target will be increased to 10K’ To facilitate the immunisation process for both categories, BMC has decided to increase their daily target to 10,000 vaccinations. To meet the new target, BMC will include four peripheral hospitals of the 16 hospitals in the initial phase and two more jumbo centres will be added. “We have plans to start vaccination centres at Bhabha (Kurla), MW Desai (Malad), Bhagwati (Borivli) and VD Savarkar (Mulund) peripheral hospitals. Initially, we will start two vaccination units at each of these centres, which can be increased further. At present, we have finalised Bhabha hospital,” said Dr Sheela Jagtap, city immunisation officer, BMC. When the immunisation programme started, the city had 10 vaccination centres, including the state-run JJ hospital. This week, the civic body added two more centres—-SevenHills hospital and NESCO jumbo centre at Goregaon. Kakani held an inspection at the two facilities to evaluate the infrastructure, following which a decision has been taken to add 13 more vaccination units at the two places. “At present, there are five vaccination units at SevenHills, which will be increased to 15 units by next week. Also, the NESCO jumbo centre, which has two units, will be increased to 5 units. Then later, we will increase it to 10 units,” said Kakani. The BMC will start two more vaccination centres at the two Covid-19 jumbo centres situated at Dahisar and Mulund. “Jumbo centres have good infrastructure and get a large number of patients. Also, they are more localised, which can attract more beneficiaries,” said Dr Jagtap. ‘Don’t get over dependent on technology’ The technical glitch in the CoWIN app at the beginning of the mass inoculation programme led to the civic body struggling to meet half of its target. As a result, doctors have cautioned the civic body to not be totally reliant on the app, but instead also focus on walk-ins to vaccination centres, which will boost the overall turnout. “If the app shortlists 500 HCWs and sends out messages, only 50% actually turn up for vaccination. As the pressure on the civic body will only further increase (inoculation FWs and HCWs), they need to be more open and approachable to techniques like walk-ins,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president, Association of Medical Consultants (AMC). Doctors have also suggested that private hospitals be included in the mass vaccination programme. “To vaccinate 200 million people in the city, only government infrastructure won’t suffice. They need to include private hospitals , which will bring vaccination to the door steps of the public,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-vaccinate-frontline-workers-from-february-first-week-101612037723440.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||39,690 health workers got Covid-19 vaccine shots in first 10 days in Mumbai||After 10 days of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has vaccinated 39,690 healthcare workers (HCW)s. On Saturday, a record number of HCWs — 6,351— were vaccinated in Mumbai and the turnout was 80% of the projected target of 7,923. BMC officials expect the turnout to remain high over the weekend since HCWs prefer to be vaccinated on weekends, making use of their weekly off days, which are usually either Saturday or Sunday. According to its calculations, BMC has vaccinated an average of 3,969 HCWs daily. At present, there are 12 vaccination centres in the city. The highest number of beneficiaries have been vaccinated at Bhabha Hospital in Bandra, which has handled 6,210 beneficiaries. The second-highest numbers are at KEM Hospital in Parel, where 5,865 beneficiaries have been vaccinated. Sir JJ Hospital has seen the fewest beneficiaries followed by the NESCO Covid-19 Jumbo centre, which became operational as a vaccination centre two days ago. Sir JJ Hospital is the only centre administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Other centres in the city are administering Covishield, which has been developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said on Friday, “At the current pace, we can vaccinate daily between 15,000-25,000 beneficiaries. This can be augmented to 50,000 in the coming days. In the third phase, when general public will be vaccinated, our capacity might have to go up further.” To that end, BMC plans to enrol private hospitals for the vaccination drive and is awaiting guidelines from the Centre and state government on this issue. Meanwhile, BMC has started the process of shortlisting private medical institutions in the city that would be interested in acquiring the permissions necessary for the vaccination process. Civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had on January 16 said, “We can vaccinate even up to 1 lakh beneficiaries once private institutions are allowed to vaccinate citizens.” In the first phase of the vaccination drive, BMC aims to vaccinate 130,000 HCWs . In the second phase, which is likely to begin by mid-February, frontline workers (including police and civic officials, clean-up workers and fire brigade officials) will be vaccinated. BMC on Friday said after citizens who are above 50 and have comorbidities would be vaccinated in the third phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/39690-health-workers-got-covid-19-vaccine-shots-in-first-10-days-in-maharashtra-101612037542865.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM help sought over Kalyan park project affecting Waldhuni river||The city park project in Kalyan has hit a roadblock with an environmental activist from Ambernath writing to the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to cancel the project as it encroaches on the Waldhuni river.The project, which is inching ahead, has been opposed by the greens for a long time to conserve the Waldhuni river that falls along this project at Gauripada, Kalyan (W).Sudhakar Jhore, 54, activist has raised concerns over the adverse effect of the project on the river. He said, “We want a proper survey to be conducted on how the project is affecting the river. The project has led to shrinking of the river banks and this will further lead to flooding in several parts as the water won’t have enough space to seep in. The government should stop this project.“Instead of undertaking such projects, the civic bodies should first look into the conservation of the water body, which they have failed to do. The river is already subjected to rampant pollution from industries and it has turned into a nullah. There is no plan to clean it by the stakeholders.”The Waldhuni river flows from the hills of Kashivli village of Ambernath taluka, further to Bohonali village, Kakole village and to the historic Lord Shiv temple in Ambernath. It also crosses different parts of the Ulhasnagar and Kalyan cities.“In June 2015, the urban development department of Maharashtra government, in a notification, asked the local civic bodies to look after the Waldhuni river. However, the civic bodies did not take up any conservation of the river,” added Jhore.Earlier, during the 2019 floods that hit several parts of Kalyan city, the entire city park project land was submerged under water. This led to concerns among the residents and activists about the sustainability of the project.Shashikant Dayma, founder of Waldhuni Biradari NGO, said, “The construction of the park is on the river bed, which will definitely affect the water body. When there is high tide, the water won’t be able to flow with speed and this will lead to flooding in the nearby areas. We are not against the development but it should not be at the stake of killing our rivers.”The idea of having a park in the city came in 2010, though the construction began in early 2019 when the fund of ₹114Cr was available under Smart City Scheme of the central government.Balchandra Nemade, deputy engineer of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, said, “Following the floods in 2005, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had appointed the Maharashtra Engineering Research Institute (MERI) to conduct a study. The institute conducted the survey of 11.80m-long Waldhuni river and its premises and submitted a report to the authority in 2007. Based on that survey, we have initiated the works as per the permissible limits. The civic body has made sure that all the environmental norms are followed while carrying out the project.”Meanwhile, the 40 per cent of the work on retaining wall on banks of Waldhuri river has been completed while 20 per cent of the work on the compound wall is complete. Land filling across the plot is on the verge of completion.The city park is slated to have landscapes, garden, water plant and auditoriums, botanical garden, drive-in cinema, light and sound show, wind and water cafe, jogging track, playground, cultural gallery, exhibition court, green corridor, children’s play garden, toy train, shopping street, eatery lane, tennis court, swimming pool, basketball court, skating ring and farm land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-help-sought-over-kalyan-park-project-affecting-waldhuni-river-101612036522679.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Out of biz for 10 months, Mumbai school bus owners demand monthly allowance||Schools bus owners from Mumbai, who have been out of business since the past 10 months as schools are shut in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, have now demanded that the state government grant them a monthly stipend to take care of maintenance costs for the buses.Recently, the School Bus Owners’ Association (SBOA) wrote to the state government urging authorities to allow reopening of schools in the city. Owners said that since almost everything else has started in the unlock phase, schools can be allowed to open too. “We have been urging the government to allow reopening of schools like it was allowed in other parts of the state. If schools do not start, the government should give us a monthly allowance of ₹35,000 to maintain buses,” said Anil Garg, president of SBOA. There are nearly 50,000 school buses and around 150,000 bus staffers in the city. While schools in several parts of the state have reopened on for Class 9 to 12 on November 23 and for Class 5 to 8 from January 27, those in cities like Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane are yet to reopen as local authorities have still not permitted the reopening. Bus owners said with business remaining shut for 10 months, they were facing a tough time in retaining their staff and maintaining buses. “Rallies, political meetings and elections are allowed, but schools are still asked to remain shut which is unfair,” said Garg. Officials from the state education department said the decision pertaining to reopening of schools will have to be taken by the civic body and the state government. “Once permissions are granted, buses can ply with the standard operating procedures set by the department from time to time,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/out-of-biz-for-10-months-mumbai-school-bus-owners-demand-monthly-allowance-101612035621983.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai cops to write to bike makers about flaw that is leading to thefts||The Navi Mumbai police are planning to write to the Royal Enfield Bullet bike manufacturers to alert them about the recent modus operandi of the theft of these two-wheelers.The commissioner of police, Bipin Kumar Singh, said that with some minor alteration in the model, the thefts could be avoided and they would be conveying the same to the company.“A bike that costs more than ₹2 lakh is stolen in a matter of a few seconds by investing in an ignition switch that costs around ₹500. The gang that we busted recently stole 62 Bullets across the state and Goa in a matter of four months just by using an ignition switch,” Singh said.Read more: Navi Mumbai crime branch recovers 44 stolen bikes; catch 3The wire that connects the engine to the starter of the bike has a jointer in between which hangs outside from the left side. The accused used to remove the jointer and plug the ignition switch.“Ideally, the wire that has a jointer should stay hidden or should be locked inside a separate box to avoid such thefts. We will bring this to their notice,” Singh said.Besides, police also plan to look for institutes that research on automation and write about this flaw to them as well. Once the bike is started, the accused replaces the ignition switch of the bike from the original one to the one he used to steal and then sells it further with forged papers and fake number plate.Royal Enfield was contacted via email but no response has been received yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-cops-to-write-to-bike-makers-about-flaw-that-is-leading-to-thefts-101612035562198.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Vice-chancellors seek Governor’s nod to start physical classes||Vice-chancellors of all the universities in Maharashtra want to start physical classes without any delay. The demand was made in a meeting called by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is also the chancellor of all the universities in the state. The governor also voiced the same opinion and said that allowing physical classes for schools and not allowing college and universities is contradictory.Koshyari had called a video conference meeting of all the vice-chancellors to review annual audit, filling up vacant posts and preparations of the universities for starting physical classes.As all the universities and higher education institutions are ready to start physical classes, but they are unable to do so without permission from the state government, all the vice-chancellors demanded permission from the governor to start physical classes at colleges, stated a release issued by Raj Bhavan on Friday. Even students are demanding resumption of physical classes. “I came to know through newspapers about reopening of Class 5 to 8 in schools across the state; hence not allowing physical classes at colleges and universities looks contradictory. Universities have already started their academic year and their online lectures are also going on. Since the Covid-19 pandemic has come under control, universities should consider resuming physical classes. They can conduct classes in shifts,” the governor said in the meeting.He said the universities should take initiative about resuming classes in view of the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for restarting colleges.The state government is yet to decide on reopening colleges in the state that are shut for over 10 months. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, all the educational institutions were shut in March last year. The state government has recently allowed Class 5 to 12 in schools to reopen.Minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vice-chancellors-seek-governor-s-nod-to-start-physical-classes-101612035442057.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra distance education universities see drop in admissions||A staggered admission process that has lasted over six months and unemployment due to the economic slowdown over the past 11 months has led to a significant impact on those who want to continue their studies through distance education. The Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), the distance learning wing of University of Mumbai (MU), recently recorded a drop in admissions for the July session of the 2020-21 academic year. IDOL’s admission process has been delayed, and the University Grants Commission (UGC) finally allowed IDOL to begin the process in October 2020. One reason for the delay was that the summer 2020 exams could only be held in September and October, when they were conducted online across state public universities. From 67,000 students enrolled in the 2019-20 academic year, the number has come down to 58,500 admissions for the 2020-2021 academic year. “Confusion over the status of summer 2020 examinations followed by delay in conducting admissions for the new academic year together seemed to have discouraged some students from opting for distance education this year,” said an IDOL official. Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) received more pre-admission registrations for their July session compared to last year. However, the eventual confirmed admissions were lower — from 543,000 students for the July 2019-20 session, IGNOU has 508,000 students for the July 2020-21 session. Admissions for the January session is currently in process across distance learning universities. “There has been a slight dip in admissions for the July session this year compared to the July session in the last academic year. While there can’t be one specific reason for this drop, we have received inquiries and emails from interested candidates who have shared that their current financial status is discouraging them from opting for a degree this year,” said a senior official from IGNOU. “We hope the situation changes for good soon,” he added. Several sectors have been hit by the economic slowdown, leading to job losses as well as loss of regular income. Several education institutes had to introduce the option of fee payment in instalments to their students in order to ensure that students don’t drop out of completing their education due to lack of funds. “With no job in hand, most youngsters are currently focussed on finding a job first, and not thinking about pursuing education. This could be one reason for the drop in admissions in distance education universities,” said the official from IDOL. As per information shared by the admissions department of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU), 620,000 and 627,000 students enrolled in 2018-19 and 2019-20 academic years, respectively. However, for the 2020-21 academic year, the enrolment stands at 572,000. “Distance education is mostly opted for by those who have a job and wish to continue their undergraduate or postgraduate degree in a way that does not hamper their work schedule. However, the fact that classes across colleges and universities have been online since last year, there’s a good chance that students opted for regular colleges over distance education this time round,” said Prof Ashoke Vibhakar, a faculty member of YCMOU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-distance-education-universities-see-drop-in-admissions-101612035202181.html
31-01-2021||Other||Boards round the corner, mobile internet ban leaves Haryana students high and dry||With the Haryana government banning mobile internet in 17 districts of the state in view of the farmers’ agitation, students are on the receiving end as the move has disrupted their online classes.While initially, the government had suspended mobile internet in Sonepat, Jhajjar and Palwal, it further extended the ban to 14 other districts on Friday. A government release on late Saturday evening conveyed that the ban will be in place till the evening of January 31. Apart from the three districts mentioned earlier, the ban has been imposed in Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Rewari and Sirsa.Nikita Dhaka, a Class 12 (commerce) student from Rohtak, said, “Our final exams are just over a month away. We have already lost precious time due to the pandemic outbreak and now this mobile internet ban has further added to our woes. The government has no concern for us, it seems.” She says that she used to take online tests every evening to evaluate her progress, but now her study plans have gone awry.Ankit Takshak, a Class 12 (non-medical) student from Bhiwani, said his school teachers had been sending assignments and question banks to the class through Whatsapp but now they are unable to do so. “I am neither able to attend online classes nor get assignments from my teachers. Does the government not have a better plan to tackle the agitation? Do they have to make us suffer after forcing our parents to protest on the state border in the biting cold? It seems they have made up their minds to destroy the future of farmers as well as schoolchildren,” said Takshak.He added that the government’s decision of banning mobile internet will only affect children coming from economically weaker sections as parents of such children won’t be able to afford WiFi connections. Yachika Sihag, an IAS aspirant from Hisar, said she paid ₹2 lakh for year-long online coaching for UPSC exams but is now unable to attend those due to the ban. “The government has been asking people to go digital but with frequent bans, how is one supposed to do that. The government has IT cells, administration, police and other agencies to maintain law and order. Why do they have to ban the internet and create hurdles for people? I hope the internet services are restored soon,” she said.Pawan Kumar, a parent from Rohtak, said there is no facility of WiFi connection in their village and so his daughter, who studies in Class 10, has been unable to take classes since Friday. “Board exams are around the corner and the government is creating trouble for students by banning internet services. Instead of hearing farmers’ problems, the government has created problems for our children too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boards-round-the-corner-mobile-internet-ban-leaves-haryana-students-high-and-dry-101612035081984.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants probate of unattested will||The Bombay high court (HC) has recently granted probate of an un-attested will, observing that the testamentary court cannot allow the wishes of a deceased to be defeated or thwarted due to some technicality.The single judge bench of justice BP Colabawalla was hearing a testamentary petition filed by a city resident seeking probate of a will left behind by his deceased relative.Probate is a court process by which a will is proved valid or invalid.On October 14 last year, the HC had struck down a caveat filed with respect to the will, and directed its testamentary department to grant for probate of the will if it was otherwise found in order.However, on December 20, HC’s testamentary registrar raised an objection as to the validity of the will on the grounds that it was signed only by the testator — the deceased woman, and not by two attesting witnesses, as required by section 63(c) of the Indian Succession Act, 1925.The matter was then referred back to the testamentary court where advocate Shyam Kapadia, who represented the petitioner, submitted that the objection raised by the testamentary registrar was a highly technical one and urged the court to not allow the will and last wishes of the deceased to be defeated on a hyper technical ground. Kapadia pointed out that the will was executed on November 11, 2008 and was registered with the joint sub-registrar, Mumbai City Division 1, on the same day in the presence of both the attesting witnesses. He further pointed out that both the witnesses had filed affidavits stating that they were present in the office of the joint sub-registrar and witnessed the testator signing the will and that both of them have signed registration page of the will.Justice Colabawalla accepted the contention and said the law on the subject is quite clear that when a court deals with a will, the court must approach it as a court of conscience. “It is for the court to be satisfied that the document put forward is the last will and testament of the deceased, and if the court finds that the wishes of the deceased are likely to be defeated or thwarted merely by reason of some technicality, the court, as a court of conscience, would not permit such things to happen.” The bench further said the objection raised by the testamentary registrar was a technical one, considering that the attesting witnesses had filed affidavits stating that they were very much present at the time when the deceased executed the will.“I therefore find that the objection taken by the testamentary department that the signatures of the attesting witnesses do not appear on the will and hence (the will) is invalid, is a hyper technical one,” the judge added and directed the department to grant probate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-probate-of-unattested-will-101612034901955.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||List steps to identify Group-A, B posts for those with disability, Bombay HC asks state||Rejecting the state government’s plea for vacating stay on filling some promotional posts in Maharashtra, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the chief secretary to file an affidavit setting out steps taken and proposed to be taken to identify promotional posts in various state departments which can be held by persons with benchmark disabilities.The division bench of justice Amjad Sayed and justice Madhav Jamdar further directed that the affidavit shall set out what exercise has been carried out and proposed to be carried out, including the data and statistics that has been collated so far to identify the posts and the outer limit within which the exercise would be completed.The court was hearing a bunch of petitions filed through advocates Vinod Sangvikar, Sugandh Deshmukh and Mahendra Shingade, by persons with disabilities complaining about denial of reservation-in-promotion to Group-A and Group-B posts.Acting on their petitions, HC has in November 2020 stayed the process for finalising promotions to Group-A and Group-B posts in some departments after noticing that the right to reservation in promotion of the physically challenged persons was recognised by the Supreme Court, and a proposal for working out modalities for providing such reservation was already placed before the state cabinet for approval.Though HC has earlier refused to vacate the stay on January 15 this year by observing that the promotion process cannot be allowed without securing the rights of the petitioners, the general administration department had renewed the plea claiming that the Apex court had subsequently thought it fit to place the matter of reservation-in-promotion for persons with benchmark disabilities for review before a larger bench.The argument, however, failed to impress upon the court. On Thursday, the division bench again refused to vacate the stay on finalising promotions saying that the state government had not set out any positive steps taken so far to secure the rights of persons with disabilities.But, HC allowed the state to grant promotions to officers who are due to retire on or before February 28 this year and whose promotions got stuck due to HC’s interim orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/list-steps-to-identify-group-a-b-posts-for-those-with-disability-bombay-hc-asks-state-101612034661922.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||New farm laws will affect MSP, APMC system: NCP chief Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said that the three new farm laws will adversely affect the minimum support price (MSP) and agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) or mandi system.Pawar, who participated in a virtual all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of the Budget session of parliament, said he was concerned about the amended Essential Commodities Act. “I am also concerned about the amended Essential Commodities Act. According to the act the Govt will intervene for price control only if rates of horticultural produce are increased by 100% and that of non-perishable items increase by 50%. Stock piling limits have been removed on food grain, pulses, onion, potato, oilseeds etc. It may lead to apprehensions that Corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stock pile and sell at higher prices to consumers,” he wrote in a series of tweets on Saturday.He further said, “Reform is a continuous process and no one would argue against the reforms in the APMCs or Mandi System, a positive argument on the same does not mean that it is done to weaken or demolish the system.”In Saturday’s meeting, issues related to the Budget session, farmers’ agitation, women’s bill were discussed among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-farm-laws-will-affect-msp-apmc-system-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-101612034242008.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kirit Somaiya’s son questioned in extortion case||Neil Kirit Somaiya, son of former Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Kirit Somaiya, was questioned by the Mumbai Police on Saturday in connection with an extortion case filed in January 2020.“In the extortion case, a private contractor is the complainant who alleged that three accused had extorted around ₹1.5 lakh from him. The accused were arrested by Mulund police but are out on bail now. The case has merits. During probe, investigators felt Neil Somaiya’s statement is required in the case, hence he was questioned and his statement was recorded,” said Prashant Kadam, deputy commissioner of police, zone 7. Kadam, however, refused to comment on whether Neil had any role in the alleged extortion case. So far Neil has not been named as an accused in the case. After questioning and recording his statement, police allowed him to leave.Kirit Somaiya said there is no evidence against his son and refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-kirit-somaiya-s-son-questioned-in-extortion-case-101612033942071.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena asks Anna Hazare to clear his stance on farm laws||The Shiv Sena has taunted noted social activist Anna Hazare’s decision to cancel his proposed fast over farm reforms due to the intervention of top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and asked him to make public his views on the three farm laws which the farmers are currently agitating against. “Anna first announced his intention to fast and then cancelled it due to assurances from BJP leaders. That is ok. But what are his views on the farm laws? Does he support the farmers at Singhu border who are protesting against these farm laws? We want to know on whose side Anna is? Anna should at least clarify his stance to Maharashtra,” the Sena said in an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana.Hazare had announced his intent to hold an indefinite fast at his hometown Ralegan Siddhi in Ahmednagar to press demands for implementation of the Swaminathan commission recommendations regarding agriculture pricing, statutory status and autonomy for the central agriculture price commission. However, he called off his fast after former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union minister for agriculture Kailash Choudhary assured him of forming a high-level committee to consider his demands. The editorial claimed that Hazare was selective in his agitation. It claimed that he had protested in Delhi against the then Manmohan Singh-led Congress Government, which was fully exploited by the BJP. In contrast, he was not agitating against the seven-year-old Narendra Modi government. “Can agitations only be done against Congress government? Is there a Ram Rajya now?” the editorial stated.It further called upon Hazare to join the farmers’ agitation as it would strengthen their movement, instead of negotiating with BJP leaders in his village. It said the movement needs a veteran soldier like Hazare who has fought wars and undertaken various such agitations.In response, Hazare took potshots at Sena, saying that the party forgot that its own minister had to quit due to corruption. “Your minister indulged in corruption and you backed him. We had to agitate and he was removed. For us, BJP, Shiv Sena and Congress do not matter; what matter are the country and society,” he said. He further said he had launched six agitations after the BJP government took over which included two in Delhi itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-asks-anna-hazare-to-clear-his-stance-on-farm-laws-101612033701987.html
31-01-2021||Mumbai||RSS insulted tricolour in past, says Prakash Ambedkar; asks President to condemn them||Following President Ram Nath Kovind’s assertion that the insult to the tricolour was unfortunate, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar has said it was the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) which had insulted the tricolour in the past.Ambedkar tweeted ‘Respected President, I want to remind you with great regret that the RSS which made you the President was forced by Sardar Patel in 1949 to give in writing that they will not insult the tricolour and will unfurl the tricolour in their headquarters.”He further said that despite unfurling the national flag, they made sure that they are hoisted their organisational flag at the same height, which exposed their intent.“Have you forgotten that incident,” said Ambedkar. “The farmers during their agitation had unfurled the Sikh and their flag 15 feet below the tricolour. Then how come our national flag was insulted,” questioned Ambedkar.He said if the President still feels it was an insult, he should also condemn the RSS for observing August 15 1947 as black day.Kovind in his address at the Budget session of the Parliament had condemned the manner in which the farmers ran amok at the Red Fort on the Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rss-insulted-tricolour-in-past-says-prakash-ambedkar-asks-president-to-condemn-them-101612033221867.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Day after clashes at Delhi borders, farmers, police step up vigil||New Delhi: As the number of protesters at three of Delhi borders continued to surge on Saturday, the police worked through the day to seal and isolate the agitation spots, even as farmer leader Rakesh Tikait warned of a response if “even one more” stone was pelt at any of the farmers.“I want to tell the government that the stone-pelting must stop now. From Sunday, the khap panchayats of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will be here. If there is even a single stone pelted after this, volunteers of the khap panchayats will catch them and treat them appropriately,” Tikait said on Saturday, as the crowd at Ghazipur border cheered on.Tikait’s was seemingly referring to stones pelt at farmers at Singhu border on Friday afternoon, allegedly by “local residents”. The incident led to clashes in which 15 farmers and six police personnel were injured and ended in the arrest of 44 people.In a similar incident at the Tikri agitation on Friday, a group claiming to be locals protested against the blockade, which they said was affecting their businesses and daily lives. Farmer bodies have dismissed these groups as people “propped up by the Centre”.But these clashes have led to the police sealing the borders in a way that has disrupted the farmers’ regular movement, and restricted their access to food, water, and toilets.At Singhu, the police on Saturday broke up the road behind the main protest site, a day after they had razed inner lanes that farmers and residents used for their commutes.But the worst affected at Singhu was the first stage, where Friday’s clashes broke out.The primary protest site at Singhu border, which stretches for over 10km, is divided into two parts, the first of which is occupied by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC). The second, larger, stage around 500 metres away houses protesters of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), and is behind the police barricades.“We cannot walk to the Guru Tegh Bahadur Memorial a few hundred metres away, or use the toilets in that area. We are forced to relieve ourselves in the fields. Now, we have to make multiple trips to a spot about two kilometres away to bring water, whereas earlier we just used pipes to get water from Delhi Jal Board (DJB) tankers. The barricades have been placed only to cut off our supplies,” said Gursahib Singh, 25, a farmer from Theh Naushera village in Tarn Taran district in Punjab.Hussandeep Singh, 23, a farmer from Amritsar who has been serving as a volunteer at the KMSC stage, said, “Except for a narrow lane, our stage has been cut off from the main protest site. We worry that the single lane too will be cut off soon. If that happens, we will be completely isolated and vulnerable to attacks like the one on Friday,” he said.The barricades have also made it difficult for farmers reach the main stage to access vital supplies.On Saturday, the area remained tense. Around 3.40 pm, volunteers said they spotted a group of people attempting to march towards the stage area again. “As soon as our volunteers alerted us, we ran towards the spot to see. The group had dispersed by then,” said Major Singh, 65, a farmer from Kasel in Tarn Taran district, who is also a member of KSMC.A senior police officer, refusing to be named, said, “A group had arrived but we made them go back from the first barricade nearly 1.5km away.”Responding to complaints raised by farmers on multiple barricades, the officer said, “We have kept one side open for them and all sympathisers or protesters can travel from that road. That stretch is around 3km long.”Ghazipur cut offThe Ghazipur protest site too has been cut off from the Delhi side, making it difficult members of the public to access the farmers. But the mood here was relatively upbeat, a day after the gathering increased exponentially, after a video of Tikait in tears went viral online. In fact, the crowd, farmers said, had doubled on Saturday.A majority of the protesters gathered in front of the stage from which Tikait spoke, visibly more composed than a couple of days earlier.“People say Rakesh cried. Rakesh Tikait doesn’t cry. What you saw were not tears, they could be the water we use to irrigate fields,” he said.Tikait also used the stage to extend displays of inclusivity. “When I thought of quitting the protests, I remembered my Sikh brothers who fed me here for the last two months. I realised that this was a conspiracy to topple the turbans of Sikh farmers,” he said.While farmers were supposed to observe a day’s fast to mark Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary, this was limited to a few protesters and leaders, while langar continued uninterrupted.“If we don’t eat, how will we be able to fight this government?” said Manjeet Singh, a farmer from Pilibhit, who had organised a langar at Ghazipur border.Tikait, in his speeches, didn’t focus on the fasts either. Instead, he said rations and other necessities were in sufficient supply.“Some BJP office bearers have sent us 2,000 blankets, sugar and potatoes. They requested me not to identify them, so I won’t,” Tikait said, drawing laughs from the gathering.Ghazipur was transformed on Saturday, with several more tents being set up overnight, and the road packed with vehicles for almost a kilometre.Like Friday, political leaders continued to swarm the stage. On Saturday, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala arrived, accompanied by supporters in a large fleet of cars. Chautala resigned from the Haryana Assembly on Wednesday against the farm laws.Singhu and Tikri borders too saw the crowd swell.“More farmers from Haryana and Punjab will reach by Sunday. Khap panchayats are being held in villages across Haryana, and people from every household are arriving at the protest site. Around 2,000 tractors packed with farmers are on their way to Tikri border as well,” said Deepak Deswal, a farmer leader and a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said.Kulwinder Singh, a farmer leader who reached Tikri border from Sirsa on Saturday afternoon, said the police were stopping farmers at many locations in Haryana to discourage them from reaching the protest site. “Many tractors of farmers have been either stopped or diverted by the police at different locations such as Rohtak, Jind, Bahadurgarh in Haryana in order to suppress our movement. But we will not relent as more will join us in the next 24 hours. They cannot stop farmers to reach the protest site,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/day-after-clashes-at-delhi-borders-farmers-police-step-up-vigil-101612031721241.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Hours after blast near Israel embassy, bomb threat call for Tehran flight||Hours after a low-intensity IED blast outside the Israeli embassy in the national capital, a Mahan Air flight to Tehran, scheduled to depart the New Delhi international airport at 12.55 am on Saturday, was delayed by more than eight hours following what officials said was an intelligence alert over a bomb threat.The boarding for the flight was put on hold and all 94 passengers were subjected to security checks again, and their luggage was re-scanned.An officer with knowledge of the developments said that details of all passengers going to Iran and Iraq from India are being verified in detail. Instructions have also been given to obtain details of passengers who recently arrived in India from the two countries and run a detailed background check on them, the officer said.An airport official, who wished not to be named, said an intelligence input was received around 11pm on Friday following which the boarding process for Flight W5 070 was immediately put on hold.Also read: Israel embassy blast probe focuses on 182 who walked blast area“A bomb threat assessment committee was formed and the alert was declared as specific. Bomb detection and disposal squad of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) then scanned the luggage and the aircraft thoroughly. The passengers were again subjected to security check and the flight was declared safe. It finally took off at 8.22am,” an officer said, asking not to be named.Mahan Air did not respond to HT’s request for a comment.Another officer said instructions have been given to minutely scan details of all passengers landing in India from Iran or Iraq. The flight manifests of passengers coming in from these countries are being closely monitored.“After yesterday’s (Friday’s) incident in New Delhi, scrutiny on passengers coming in from selective countries has been increased. In addition to this, details of passengers who had landed in India in the past few weeks are also being obtained to re-verify their credentials,” the officer said.During the initial probe into Friday’s blast that took place outside the Israeli embassy in Lutyens’ Delhi, the police found an envelope that purportedly had names of two recently assassinated Iranian nationals.The low-intensity blast damaged at least three vehicles parked close by. Even though no person was injured, the incident triggered an alert among the security agencies because of the sensitive location. The security of important installations in the national capital was increased immediately after the blast, including Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport.Commenting on the increased security, deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajeev Ranjan said that along with additional deployment, more pickets to check the incoming vehicles and spotters on watchtowers, they have also armed plainclothesmen deployed at the airport to secure the perimeter.The CISF has also increased its presence on the airside of the airport and airlines have also been directed to remain vigilant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hours-after-blast-near-israel-embassy-bomb-threat-call-for-tehran-flight-101612031541155.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Final-year DU students can return to campus in ‘small batches’ from Feb 1||Following directives from the Union ministry of home affairs, which allowed final-year college students to return to campuses in small groups, Delhi University on Saturday announced it would reopen the university on February 1.The decision was taken after a meeting with principals of DU colleges and heads of departments. The University has also made it compulsory for teaching staff to attend in-person classes.“Only final-year students in small batches are allowed to visit their respective colleges/centres/departments for their laboratory/practical/skills library and other related activities as per discretion of the respective principal/director/ head in line with University Grants Commission guidelines and SOPs dated November 5, 2020, and MHA order dated January 27, 2021,” Registrar Vikas Gupta said in a notice on January 29.After research and final-year postgraduate students of Science courses were allowed to return to laboratories in small numbers in November, final-year UG students had been demanding a phased re-entry of Science students because they were losing their credit points due to no practical lessons. Following this, the university had announced earlier this month that it would allow final-year students to return to campus in small batches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/finalyear-du-students-can-return-to-campus-in-small-batches-from-feb-1-101612031361237.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Record 82.7% health workers get Covid-19 jabs in Delhi||Delhi saw the highest number of health care workers receiving the Covid-19 vaccine jabs on Saturday — at 8,774, which is 530 beneficiaries more than the previous high of 8,244 inoculations achieved on Thursday.The number, though a record so far, still only translates to just 82.7% inoculation of the 10,600 people targeted, with the government having increased the number of vaccination centres.The 25 additional vaccination centres started during the last round of immunisation on Thursday are likely to cater to front line workers, according to officials from Delhi’s health department. The Centre had earlier this week said that all states should start vaccinating front line workers from first week of February to drive up vaccination coverage and reduce wastage of doses.“The order from the Centre has come in. However, the protocols are not yet in place. We might no be able to start vaccinating front line workers from Monday onwards, but everyone is working on getting everything ready. It will happen soon,” said another official from Delhi’s health department.According to the data shared by the Delhi government, 43 sites across Delhi were able to complete their target of vaccinating 100 people a day. This included 13 Delhi government hospitals as well.So far, Delhi has vaccinated 56,733 healthcare workers, which is just about one-sixth of the total estimated 300,000 healthcare workers and medical staff in the city. This number translates to almost 73% of the health care workers who have been targeted so far.There are an estimated 600,000 front line workers in Delhi and the government is still completing collection of their data. “Most agencies have already submitted their list of employees, we are about to finalise the list,” said the first health official.The third priority group identified by the centre for receiving the vaccination are those above the age of 50 or those with severe comorbidities. As per the government’s data, there are about 4.2 million people over the age of 50 in the city as per the latest electoral rolls. A list of those who are under the age of 50 but have comorbidities is yet to be finalised, with the Centre still deciding a criteria on who should get the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/record-82-7-health-workers-get-covid-19-jabs-in-delhi-101612031302755.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||AAP says R-Day violence ‘scripted’, BJP hits back||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the Central government imposed a mobile internet shutdown in and around Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, where large groups of farmers have been protesting against three contentious farm laws passed in September last year.The AAP also claimed that the BJP “scripted” the January 26 tractor rally violence and the clash that happened at the Singhu protest site on Friday, while demanding an investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).The BJP was quick to dismiss the allegations as “baseless” and hit back at the AAP calling the party “anarchist”.“The BJP scripted the violence that happened during the tractor rally on January 26 to malign the peaceful protest of farmers. Yesterday, BJP goons attacked the farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders; they were not local residents. Today, they shut down the internet at all the protest sites. They have been calling the protesting farmers anti-national since the Day One of the protest. The NIA should probe the role of BJP leaders involved in the violence,” said the AAP’s spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.AAP’s spokesperson Raghav Chadha added, “The BJP is trying to crush the farmer’s agitation and their role in the January 26 violence stands exposed. Safety and security of the protesting farmers have become a major issue now. It is more concerning because the police in Delhi is also under the BJP government.”Delhi-BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra, however, countered the claims by saying, “The AAP has proved that they are a party of anarchists. The farmers’ protest has been disturbing normal lives and livelihood of people living in the vicinity not for a few days but for around 70 days. It is sad that the AAP leaders can’t see their pain. They are also questioning the police, despite many police officers being injured after violence linked to the farmer protests. Their allegations are baseless. No BJP supporter or worker was involved in any violence or any protest against the farmer groups. It is the supporters of the AAP who are instigating violence and there is ample evidence on public domain that exposes them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-says-r-day-violence-scripted-bjp-hits-back-101612031302090.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||44 held for violence at Singhu, none of them are counter protesters||All 44 people arrested for the violence at Singhu border on Friday are farmers who had been protesting at the site, police said.None of the arrested suspects are from a mob of 200 , who claimed to be locals of the area and who indulged in a clash with protesting farmers on Friday, police officers, who did not wish to be named, claimed.Despite multiple barricades and at least 1,000 personnel of Delhi Police and paramilitary forces at the Singhu border, a mob of 200 people managed to reach near the main stage of the protest on Friday and attacked the farmers with sticks, besides pelting them with stones, leading to Friday afternoon’s clash. There were videos on social media — none of which could be verified independently — that showed a group of men pelting stones while police personnel stood next to them and watched. One video showed a masked man throwing stones. Another showed some police personnel in anti-riot gear standing and watching during the stone-pelting.Despite repeated phone calls and text messages, the special commissioner of police (west zone) Sanjay Singh or additional DCP (outer), Ghanshayam Bansal did not respond to a comment on why no locals were arrested for their involvement in violence.Delhi police had on Friday night released a statement saying they had arrested 44 persons for Friday’s violence, including a 22-year-old protesting farmer, who had allegedly stabbed a police inspector with a sword on his left palm. Police in their statement did not specify how many of the 44 people were farmers or locals.But Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee, said that on Saturday he met all the 44 farmers lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail, including Ranjit Singh — who was arrested for attacking the police inspector.“All the 44 people arrested for yesterday’s violence at Singhu border are farmers. We will be fighting the case of all farmers who have been arrested during the agitation. We have formed a special panel of lawyers to look into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/44-held-for-violence-at-singhu-none-of-them-are-counter-protesters-101612031241764.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Israel embassy blast: Probe focuses on 182 who walked blast area in two hours||Between 3.10pm and 5.10pm on Friday, a total of 61 people had walked on one carriageway of the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road (from the Israel Embassy towards south Delhi).On the other carriageway (from south Delhi towards the embassy), 121 people had trudged during the same time. Police suspect any one of these 182 people may have dropped an explosive device below a tree on the APJ Abdul Kalam Road outside the Israeli embassy.A “low intensity” blast was reported outside the embassy at 5.10pm, which damaged windowpanes of at least three vehicles parked nearby. There were no causalities.As part of their investigations into the “low-intensity explosion” outside the embassy on Friday evening, the Delhi police’s special cell has started tracing all the people who crossed the spot on the road where the explosive was placed. A government official, who did not wish to be named, said that police have narrowed down their search on all 182 people, whose images were acquired from CCTV cameras placed on the road by Delhi police and government. Police have also taken footage from bungalows near the Israel embassy. “We have already identified many of them. We will question everyone in the case,” said an officer.Watch: Elite NSG team at site near Israel embassy in Delhi amid 'terror' suspicionInvestigating officers believe that one of these pedestrians may have kept the explosive device under the tree, as no suspicious vehicle stopped at the spot or near it about an hour before the explosion happened at 5.10 pm.Meanwhile, a cab driver on Friday night approached police claiming that he had dropped two passengers near the embassy before the explosion. Police have said that they verified the cab driver’s claims but found it to be a hoax. The cab driver had reportedly told police that the two passengers had taken multiple rounds of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road before getting down near the embassy. “ It was a false alarm,” one police officer said.On Saturday afternoon, different teams of the crime branch and the NSG visited the spot to trace forensic samples of the explosive device used in the blast. Police have said that the blast was a low-intensity explosion and said that “initial impression suggested a mischievous attempt to create a sensation.”Police have found a cold drink can along with an envelope addressed to the ambassador. Investigating officers have found parts of a detonator that was attached to the can. Meanwhile, police are also collecting the dump cell phone data of people who were close to the crime spot at the time of the attack.“We are collecting dump data of active cell phones from the spot. We have already found more than 7000 cell phone actives near the spot. We are looking at SIM cards that were issued recently or those that are not from India and are registered in other countries,” one police officer said.Delhi police officers said that ammonium nitrate may have been used to trigger the blast. Police teams have collected steel ball bearing from the site.Forensic experts are yet to confirm the nature of the explosive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/israel-embassy-blast-probe-focuses-on-182-who-walked-blast-area-in-two-hours-101612031241168.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers start regrouping at Haryana-Rajasthan border||Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur near Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border said that their counterparts from both the states are mobilising once again at the protest site, after many left for their home towns following the violence in Delhi.Farmers from Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Hanumangarh and Ganganagar are expected to reach the protest site at the border by Monday, protesters said. Protesting leaders said that Tikait’s speech had given a fresh lease of life to the movement that seemed to be flagging temporarily.Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, who is camping at Shahjahanpur, said that around 200 farmers from Jaipur had reached the protest site on Saturday. “Protesters are joining the agitation once again. Today, around 200 people from Jaipur arrived here and took out a Tiranga yatra. The numbers of protesters here is steadily increasing,” said Sohlot.He said that Tikait’s emotional speech gave a fresh impetus to the ongoing agitation, especially among the Jat farmers of the state. “Protesters from Jaipur from the Jat community have also joined us. To a certain extent, the community is now against the government on this issue, following Tikait’s speech,” said Sohlot. He said that support from different places in Haryana was increasing and farmers on around 50 tractors from Bawal are set to join the agitation on Sunday.Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said, “Farmers have defeated the government’s plans of crushing the agitation taking place at Ghazipur under the leadership of Rakesh Tikait. They have decided that they will not give up or get up from the highway till the three laws are rolled back.”Harvinder Singh Gill, a farmer from Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, said, “Farmers from Hanumangarh and Ganganagar have left their villages and should reach in a day or two,” said Gill.He said that while the situation was tense till January 27, things are improving for the better. “Post Republic Day, some people had raised slogans here. But everything is peaceful now. The movement will only gain strength now,” said Gill.Bharatiya Janata Party’s spokesperson for Haryana, Jawahar Yadav, said that if the numbers of protesters are increasing, it is likely due to the support of opposition parties. “Politicians from opposition parties are sharing the stage with Rakesh Tikait. It is becoming evident that these parties are backing the protests,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-start-regrouping-at-haryana-rajasthan-border-101612030762945.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||DTCP carries out demolition drive against illegal vends in Sushant Lok||Department of town and country planning(DTCP) has started demolition drives against illegal encroachments inside commercial markets in private colonies of the city. The department on Friday carried out a large-scale demolition drive in Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok-1 in which several vends, illegal boards and extensions were removed. The department said another such market on the western side of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway (old Gurgaon) will be chosen randomly for carrying out the next round of demolition drive.RS Bhath, district town planner, said several complaints were received from the residents of the area and shopkeepers, who said that large parts of the parking area and corridors in the Vyapar Kendra were encroached upon. This was not only blocking access but was also posing emergency hazard. “Based on the complaints, an inspection was conducted last week, during which it was observed that a number of illegal vends were operating and the walking area was blocked. As such, the enforcement team of DTCP cleared the encroachments,” he said.Bhath further said that commercial areas in private colonies are under the radar of the department and next on the agenda would be a market in Old Gurgaon. Markets in Palam Vihar, Sushant Lok, Sun City, DLF, Nirvana Country and all other private colonies would also be inspected and action would be taken. “We have also received complaints that several open spaces in Vyapar Kendra in Palam Vihar are encroached upon and vends are operating illegally. Also green belts have been usurped. Action would be initiated there as well,” he said.DTCP officials said that, apart from lodging complaints on the CM Window, the city residents can also approach them directly in case of such violations. “Action against illegal constructions has been taken regularly but the markets have recently come under scanner after multiple complaints have been received,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-carries-out-demolition-drive-against-illegal-vends-in-sushant-lok-101612030762350.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination for front-line workers likely to start from February 4||Covid-19 vaccination for front-line workers, including police personnel and the workers of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), is likely to start from February 4 in the district, according to health department officials. It will be held simultaneously with the ongoing inoculation of healthcare workers. Officials said that for front-line workers, vaccination sessions will be set up at their offices or nearby sites for easy access.Front-line workers have been prioritised for Covid-19 vaccination as they are involved in providing essential services or are engaged in public health, sanitation and waste management services. The details of nearly 16,000 of such front-line workers have been uploaded on the Co-WIN platform by Saturday and their number is likely to increase.It comprises nearly 9,000 police staff, over 6,500 municipal workers and at least 450 employees of the revenue department from different blocks, according to official data. Among the municipal workers, there are sanitation staff members, waste collectors, operators, engineers of waste processing plants, vehicle drivers, water tanker operators and cremation ground staffers.“Covid-19 vaccination for front-line workers can start from February 4 in the state,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department. “The Central government on Friday also included employees of Panchayati Raj institutions in the front-line category. It includes gram sachivs and patwaris, among others, who have been directly involved in providing Covid-19 services. Their data collection has already started in the state.”On Friday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare wrote to all states, asking them to initiate simultaneous vaccination of front-line workers and healthcare workers from the first week of February.“The inoculation for these front-line workers will start either from February 4 (Thursday) or February 6 (Saturday),” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.As reported earlier, from Sunday till February 3, the health department has put Covid-19 vaccination on halt for holding the pulse polio drive. However, in the last 15 days, almost 60% (22,372) of the registered 37,000 healthcare workers have been covered through vaccination drives.On Saturday, Covid-19 vaccination took place at 28 sites with a target of inoculating at least 650 healthcare workers. Of these only 581 took the Covid-19 jab. The target included inoculation of 600 workers with Covishield, out of which at least 551 turned up for the vaccination, while for Covaxin, only 30 people took the jab out of the 50.In case of health workers, a majority of vaccination sessions have been conducted at private hospitals considering their high numbers. For front-line workers, the strategy is likely to be revised with more dependency on public sites.“For front-line workers, vaccination drive in government facilities will be conducted on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, as during the other days of the week, healthcare workers are involved in routine immunisation programme,” said Yadav, adding that vaccination sites can be set up within the premises of the government offices where the employees are currently working.“To achieve higher footfall, session sites have to be planned within the office premises or near to it. Even community centres, panchayat bhawans at the block level and urban primary health centres will be used as session sites. The strategy has to be finalised” said Yadav. Arora also said that just like polling booths vaccination sites can be set up at multiple locations to facilitate vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-for-front-line-workers-likely-to-start-from-february-4-101612030702830.html
31-01-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: To succeed one has to continue investing in oneself||I got a call from an acquaintance more than a year back. This was before Covid changed our lives. He said he had quit his job and was now going to pursue his passion, acting, full time. I was very happy for him! I believe that the artist community must support each other in whatever way possible and not pull each down. Even lending an ear goes a long way! He asked if I could help him out in anyway. Since I was not actively working on anything, I told him that I would direct all such work his way, which I felt was right for him. Just as luck would have it, I received a call from a friend who was working on something new and wanted fresh faces. I thought this was serendipity and immediately connected the two of them. Apart from that I had received some generic messages for auditions. I shared all of those too. A few days later I received a call from the friend again, asking for newer actors. I was suddenly reminded of that acquaintance and that I had connected the two of them. I enquired about him and was told that he was supposed to get back, but never did! Surprised, I called him up and asked him point-blank. His tone changed a little and he told me that he didn’t pursue it as the audition was in Mumbai! Now, don’t get me wrong. I fully understand that Mumbai can be daunting. I have been through it and so have lakhs of others. So, without passing any judgement, I simply asked him what his expectations from me were. He said he wanted something right here, in Pune! I was amused because I knew that he did not have any familial or financial obligations in Pune. To understand him and his thought process more, I enquired about all the things he was doing to make himself a better actor. It seems he didn’t understand that question. That is when I realized that I had wasted my time! I do not consider myself successful, but I do humbly accept that I have been offered work in the past few years. But that was after I generated work for myself which required a good many years! I had to generate work because I was aiming to be a director. Actors have to take a different approach. There will be a day when they will be noticed. For some it comes early. But till then one has to continue in investing in oneself! Reading, watching, networking, practising theatre exercises, keeping oneself healthy – physically and mentally. This person only wanted the results that followed after being a successful actor. He did not want to go through the process. I am not even sure if he wanted to act! He just wanted the money, fame and the perks that followed. He was no less than those people who go and stand behind a reporter just so they can be on TV! Well at least most of them don’t leave their jobs to do this. I told him all these things. I thought I was helping him by giving him a reality check. I guess he didn’t need it as he disconnected the call abruptly. I ran into him while grocery shopping a few days back. We exchanged hellos and spoke for a minute. While leaving he asked if I had any work for him. I just smiled and left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-to-succeed-one-has-to-continue-investing-in-oneself-101612005020199.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||FIR filed against Shashi Tharoor and six others for tweet on farmer’s death||The police have filed a case against seven people, including Congress leader Shashi Tharoor and journalist Rajdeep Sardesai, for allegedly “misreporting” and “spreading disharmony” during the clashes between the police and the protesting farmers on Republic Day.The FIR was filed on Thursday night by Gurugram Police on the basis of a complaint by Jharsa resident Pankaj Singh (34), who works with a private company. The police said the complainant has accused Tharoor, Sardesai and five other journalists of spreading “false and misleading information”.Earlier on Thursday, another case was registered against the same set of people in Noida. The allegations levelled were also identical, said the police.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that the police would probe the complaint that the suspects had spread fake news accusing the Delhi police of the murder of a person who was driving tractor during the riot in the Capital on Republic Day. “Gurugram Police has begun an investigation into the matter,” said Goel.On Tuesday, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws.A case under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 124A (sedition), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) and 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Cyber police station of Gurugram.“I filed a complaint with the Gururgam Police on Thursday and attached the social media posts from the suspects Twitter handles. I was deeply aggrieved by widespread riots on Republic Day in the national Capital,” said Singh. “I am a middle-class person with no political affiliation,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fir-filed-against-shashi-tharoor-and-six-others-for-tweet-on-farmer-s-death-101611945557513.html
