14-10-2020||World||Covid-19: Will vaccines be equally effective for older people?||With several vaccine candidates undergoing various stages of human trials in the world, the efficacy of the vaccines among older people is now being questioned and discussed. While most of the trials by major pharma giants include older participants, the tilt is mostly towards young participants. Also, many older participants are at the risk of getting excluded from the trial because of other ailments.Moderna has reported that in its first phase trial, the vaccine candidate produced same results in younger and older population. China’s Sinovac, too, said its vaccines are working with same efficacy in older population as well. But the Pfizer vaccine was reported to have worked doubly better in younger population, indicating that one vaccine may not solve the Covid-19 crisis for all. According to researchers, anti-ageing supplements which reverses the ageing process and thereby improves immunity can be a solution to this problem. “The most exciting and potentially impactful technologies to treat Covid-19 are those that activate the body’s defences against ageing. It may even be possible to reset the age of cells and tissues so currently high-risk individuals can respond to viral infections as though they were young,” a Harvard paper has claimed. In a young person, immune cells recognise the SARS-CoV-2 virus when it first enters the upper respiratory tract. “For the immune system to effectively suppress, then eliminate SARS-CoV-2, it must perform four main tasks: (1) recognize, (2) alert, (3) destroy and (4) clear. Each of these mechanisms are known to be dysfunctional and increasingly heterogeneous in the elderly, but which aspect is most relevant to COVID-19 progression is not known,” the paper said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-will-vaccines-be-equally-effective-for-older-people/story-Bqg7toyZ9AmOdThknnNkDP.html
14-10-2020||World||Greta Thunberg urges EU to do ‘as much as possible’ on climate||Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg on Wednesday urged EU leaders to “do as much as possible” to step up the bloc’s ambitions to reduce carbon output at this week’s summit.“Of course none of what has been proposed or pushed is in line with the science, but we are still demanding them to do as much as possible... to commit to what they had promised to do” in the 2015 Paris Agreement, Thunberg told AFP in an interview.Leaders must agree by the end of this year on their 2030 targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and the European Commission has proposed a goal of slashing them 55 percent compared with 1990 levels -- up from 40 percent under earlier plans.The ultimate aim under Brussels’ timetable would be carbon neutrality by 2050.Now heads of government will have their say, and must hammer out an option palatable to a European Parliament that has already criticised the Commission’s plan as not ambitious enough.On Wednesday, 11 member states including France, Spain and the Netherlands backed reductions of “at least 55 percent” by 2030.But many countries in the EU’s east, notably coal-intensive heavyweight Poland, are reluctant.Climate charities have warned that reductions of 55 or even 60 percent in EU greenhouse output would fall short of what’s needed to keep global warming below the two-degrees-Celsius ceiling agreed in Paris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greta-thunberg-urges-eu-to-do-as-much-as-possible-on-climate/story-nS2B9oMRvp86IfDUaonejJ.html
14-10-2020||World||Federal crackdown aims to curb violent crime spike in New York City||The top federal prosecutor in Brooklyn announced Wednesday that he would put a new priority on firearms and drug cases, seeking stiffer penalties than are being doled out at the state level.Acting US Attorney Seth DuCharme said he was taking action to address a sharp rise in gun violence in New York City. He attributed the uptick to a “permissiveness” that has taken hold amid the coronavirus pandemic and the civil unrest that followed the Minneapolis police killing of George Floyd.The initiative, which will involve more than a dozen federal prosecutors, is aimed at repairing the “protective fabric of our community,” DuCharme said, and making use of tougher federal sentences for criminals caught carrying illegal guns.“The city is not as safe as it once was, and it certainly doesn’t feel as safe,” DuCharme said. “When the threat was al-Qaida and ISIS, that’s where we went, and now the threat is essentially an environment that has permitted — and even encouraged in some instances — people to engage in sometimes seemingly random acts of lethal violence.”DuCharme, who was sworn into office in July, said a team of senior prosecutors in his office agreed “to take a pause on” other cases to help support the office’s expanded violent crime efforts.The characterization of New York as substantially less safe than it used echoes rhetoric President Donald Trump has employed recently on the campaign trail.It has been met with loud denials from many New York City Democrats, who note that overall crime rates in the city have actually dropped slightly during the pandemic, led by substantial reductions in the number of robberies, rapes, grand larcenies and serious assaults.The number of shootings, though, has increased dramatically, with the number of people hit by bullets nearly double what it was through the same point last year. Through Oct. 11, there have been 354 killings in the city — 90 more than there were at the same time last year, according to police.That would put the city on track to have its highest number of homicides since 2011, after several years of record lows, but would still leave New York as one of the safest big cities in the US. David Patton, Executive Director of the Federal Defenders of New York, criticized DuCharme’s initiative as “misguided,” saying that federal prosecutions of firearms offences often involve simple possession of a weapon found in a person’s home rather than the use of a gun to harm someone.“Researchers have shown that these prosecutions do not in fact reduce violent crime. They only exacerbate racial disparities and promote mass incarceration,” he said. “It might make for a good sound bite to bring a case from state court to federal court and add years to a person’s prison sentence, but it only contributes to over-incarceration and racial inequality.”The crackdown comes amid a broader push by Attorney General William Barr to bring federal charges in protest-related violence whenever they can, as in the case of two young Brooklyn attorneys accused of torching an empty NYPD vehicle during a demonstration this summer.In New York, some law enforcement figures have sharply criticized the state’s recent bail reform law, which eliminated cash bail and pretrial detention for most non-violent felonies. DuCharme said that has led to many more defendants in state firearms cases being released from custody following their arrest, compared to before the law changed.“It should be more stressful in New York City to be an armed, violent criminal offender than to be a member of the public,” DuCharme said. “For some reason, that balance has been tilted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/federal-crackdown-aims-to-curb-violent-crime-spike-in-new-york-city/story-zmLEbG1iNYLOFlHgeVAWdN.html
14-10-2020||World||Trump, Biden to hold separate town hall meetings on Thursday||US President Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger Joe Biden, who are chasing each other with rallies and events in key battleground states in the final weeks of campaigning, will hold duelling town hall events on Thursday when they were scheduled to meet for their second debate, which got cancelled.The two events will be aired live at the same time, though from different locations. Both are being held in key battleground states: Trump will be in Miami, Florida for his town hall hosted by NBC News, according to a Wednesday announcement by the network, and Biden will be in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania with ABC News.Trump and Biden were scheduled to meet on Thursday for their second presidential debate, which was to be an in-person town hall but had been turned virtual after the president tested positive for Covid-19. It was cancelled eventually, after Trump pulled out saying he did not want to debate Biden on a computer.The two nominees will take questions from members of the audience at their separate town halls, as they would have, but won’t have the chance, naturally, to attack each other in person.Trump trails Biden by a wide margin in national polls (by 9.8 percentage points in the RealClearPolitics average of polls and by 10.5 points in the FiveThirtyEight average) and in battleground states.With just three weeks to go for elections to close on November 3, the president is making his case with increasing desperation, seeking to reach voters beyond his base, whose solid support for him will not be enough.“Suburban women, will you please like me?” Trump appealed to a key constituency at a rally Tuesday in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, a state that is being called a “tipping point” in the 2020 race for the White House. “I saved your damn neighbourhood, okay?” he added referring to an Obama-era anti-segregation rule he rescinded. Biden, the Democratic nominee, was in Pembroke, Florida, where he sought to peel away older white American supporters of Trump. “You deserve respect and peace of mind, but you’re not getting it because to Donald Trump, you’re expendable. You’re forgettable. You’re ‘virtually nobody’.”“That’s how he sees seniors. That’s how he sees you.”Eight out of 10 Covid-19 deaths reported in the US have been in adults aged 65 years and older, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Biden has made Trump’s handling of Covid-19, that has killed more than 215,000 Americans and infected nearly 8 million, as the key election issue. On Tuesday, he made his case to the most vulnerable. Older white voters have been a key support block for Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-biden-to-hold-separate-town-hall-meetings-on-thursday/story-N9qJjM7M382P4ZuXAcqYLI.html
14-10-2020||World||More Indian-Americans likely to turn out for voting just because of Kamala Harris, reveals survey||Will Joe Biden’s selection of Kamala Harris as his vice presidential nominee impact Indian-Americans? A survey conducted by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in collaboration with YouGov has revealed that at least 45 per cent of Indian-Americans feel that they are more likely to vote because of Indian-origin Kamala Harris. Interestingly, another 40 per cent said that Kamala Harris’ selection does not make any difference. Only 10 per cent, however, said they are unlikely to vote because of Kamala Harris. “In all, the Harris pick does seem to have galvanized a large section of the Indian American community with respect to turning out to vote,” the survey said.“49 percent of respondents indicated that Harris’s nomination made them more enthusiastic about Biden’s candidacy while just 15 percent reported that it made them less enthusiastic,” it said. But why Harris makes Indian-Americans enthusiastic about Biden? Is it only because of her origin?Yes, for at least 26 per cent respondents. About 19 per cent respondents see Harris as a moderate voice, 16 per cent would rally behind Harris because she is a woman.The analysis has based on a nationally representative online survey of 936 Indian American citizens conducted between September 1 and September 20, 2020.“Even though Indian Americans comprise slightly more than 1 percent of the total U.S. population—and less than 1 percent of all registered voters — both major parties are leaving no stone unturned in reaching out to this community,” the study said.Other findings of the surveyIndian Americans remain solidly with the Democratic Party: Despite Trump-Modi ties, there is scant evidence that Democratic voters are defecting toward Trump and the Republican Party. Seventy-two percent of registered Indian American voters plan to vote for Biden and 22 percent intend to vote for Trump in the 2020 November election.India-US relationship not a key factor: Economy and healthcare are the two most important issues influencing the vote choice of Indian Americans.Polarised views: Indian-American voters hold “markedly negative views of the opposing party and divergent positions on several contentious policy issues—from immigration to law enforcement.”Republican Party unwelcoming: “Indian Americans refrain from identifying with the Republican Party due, in part, to a perception that the party is intolerant of minorities and overly influenced by Christian evangelicalism,” the survey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/us-presidential-election/more-indian-americans-likely-to-turn-out-for-voting-just-because-of-kamala-harris-reveals-survey/story-btBYCkplCxMKckbqaeMkcJ.html
14-10-2020||World||First Covid-19 reinfection death: 89-year-old Dutch woman dies in Netherlands, two days after chemotherapy||An 89-year-old Dutch woman on Tuesday died of what is believed to be the first reported case of Covid-19 reinfection, the Netherlands National Institute for Public Health has confirmed. Covid-19 reinfection — second infection after getting fully recovered — has surfaced as a new phenomena as a few sporadic cases have been reported across the world. This is the first death caused by the same, reports claimed.The woman, as reports said, was also being treated for a rare type of white blood cell and cancer and hence her immunity was compromised. The second case occurred two days after her chemotherapy. Also Read: Covid-19 reinfection: Nevada man experienced severe symptoms during second bout of illnessWhen she tested Covid-19 positive for the first time, she had severe fever and cough and was hospitalised for a few days. Then she tested negative twice. But after 59 days, she showed the symptoms again and tested positive. Two weeks later, she died.Medical fraternity is divided over Covid-19 reinfection as studies are being conducted to find out whether these are reinfections or a case of prolonged shedding. It is possible to test negative and then again positive, but not all such cases are Covid-19 reinfections. But in this particular case, researchers found that the strain of the second-time infection was not the same with the first one, hence indicating reinfection. In Nevada, a Covid-19 reinfection case has been documented in a 25-year-old man and the second infection has been said to be worse that the first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-covid-19-reinfection-death-89-year-old-dutch-woman-dies-in-netherlands-two-days-after-chemotherapy/story-jYCxR7UvapaSXt0OzYUTIL.html
14-10-2020||World||Vladimir Putin says Russia approves second Covid-19 vaccine||Russia has granted regulatory approval to a second Covid-19 vaccine, President Vladimir Putin said at a government meeting broadcast on state television on Wednesday.Russia in August became the first country to grant regulatory approval for a Covid-19 vaccine, doing so before large-scale trials were complete, to the concern of some in the global scientific community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vladimir-putin-says-russia-approves-second-covid-19-vaccine/story-n99GSgqxWSPRhhHpxzYrRP.html
14-10-2020||World||Donald Trump, Joe Biden to hold rival TV town halls instead of debate||President Donald Trump will feature in a televised town hall Thursday on NBC News, the network said, setting up a direct scheduling clash with rival Joe Biden who had already planned his own version.The two were originally meant to have been meeting for their second debate on Thursday evening. Instead, they will be simultaneously, but separately, talking to voters in TV studios -- NBC for Trump and ABC for Biden.Trump will be in Miami, the network said, while Biden, who had already booked his appearance last week, will be in Philadelphia.Their scheduled debate had also been designed as a town hall where the two candidates would have fielded questions from voters, but this was upended after Trump contracted the coronavirus.Debate organizers said they wanted to switch the format to a virtual appearance, for safety reasons, and Trump refused, forcing cancellation of the event.NBC News said Wednesday it had received a statement from the clinical director at the National Institutes of Health and lead infectious diseases expert Anthony Fauci that they had “a high degree of confidence” that Trump is now “not shedding infectious virus.”Trump and the NBC host will be socially distanced at the outdoor venue and the audience will wear safety masks, NBC said.Biden has been frequently testing for coronavirus and reporting negative results since Trump’s illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-joe-biden-to-hold-rival-tv-town-halls-instead-of-debate/story-lGMdfejCyvFOEBY9PFlvKN.html
14-10-2020||World||Pressure on UK PM Johnson to impose second national lockdown||The opposition Labour and experts on Wednesday called for another UK-wide lockdown following advice that the new three-tier alert system announced by the government may not effectively suppress the recent surge in new Covid-19 cases.Prime Minister Boris Johnson resisted the calls after Labour leader Keir Starmer demanded the second lockdown. Expert advice by the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) had favoured a short ‘circuit-breaker’ as early as September 21.As the new three-tier system of alerts and curbs came into effect in England on Wednesday, Northern Ireland announced partial lockdown that includes closure of schools and business establishment for a month.Calling for the second lockdown, Starmer said: “We’re at a decisive moment in the fight against coronavirus. The figures are stark and I’m afraid they’re all heading in the wrong direction. The number of Covid cases has quadrupled in the last three weeks.”“Cases may be doubling as quickly as every 7-8 days. There are now more people in hospital with Covid than on 23 March when we went into national lockdown. And while the number of cases is rising more sharply in some areas it is increasing across all regions of the UK and in all age groups.”“If we don’t (have another lockdown), we could sleep-walk into a long and bleak winter. The choice is now for the Prime Minister to make. I urge him to do so”, he added.Johnson responded at Prime Minister’s Question Time in the House of Commons that he did not rule out taking further measures but said the new system with more say to local leaders will be effective in suppressing the virus, which is at different levels in different parts of the UK.As of Tuesday evening, the UK had recorded 17,234 cases – more than three times the day-peaks of April and May – and 143 deaths. Overall, the UK has recorded 57,690 deaths and 634,920 cases, according to figures based on hospitals and care-homes.The UK’s first national lockdown for three weeks was announced on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pressure-on-uk-pm-johnson-to-impose-second-national-lockdown/story-fQnpZc9gaNDh9FcsWxXH0J.html
14-10-2020||World||France appoints first envoy for Indo-Pacific, to focus on cooperation with India||In a sign of France’s greater focus on the Indian Ocean and the increasingly assertive behaviour of China across the region, President Emmanuel Macron has appointed the country’s first ambassador for the Indo-Pacific. Christophe Penot, one of France’s most senior diplomats who till recently was the envoy to Australia, will take over the new position from October 15, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday. “Penot was appointed directly by President Macron. In his new capacity, he’ll pay special attention to cooperation with India as a foremost strategic partner in the region and with a view to implement the 2018 joint vision on the Indo-Pacific adopted by President Macron and Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi,” one of the people cited above said. Also Read: Russia threatens to halt dialogue with EU amid Navalny spatThe move, the people said, also reflects the priority given to the Indo-Pacific in France’s diplomacy and the need for a comprehensive approach to the region. Penot will be based in Paris and is expected to travel widely across the Indo-Pacific to coordinate with France’s partners and to forge new initiatives such as the trilateral dialogue launched with India and Australia last month to enhance cooperation and strengthen multilateralism. Beyond China’s aggressive actions in the Indo-Pacific, there are other reasons for France’s focus on the region – the presence of 1.5 million French citizens on island territories, and the fact that 93% its exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of more than 11 million sq km, the second largest in the world, is in the Indo-Pacific. France also has 8,000 soldiers stationed in the region. France, which signed a defence logistics support agreement with India in 2018, also has plans for more joint patrols and operations with India’s military in the Indian Ocean to protect the interests of both countries and ensure a rules-based order. These activities would have assumed a greater dimension this year if it hadn’t been for the Covid-19 pandemic, the people said. Also Read: China and Russia win seats on UN rights council, Saudis loseFrench officials also believe China’s presence at a string of civilian and military facilities, including Hambantota in Sri Lanka, Gwadar in Pakistan and Djibouti, has security implications for the Indian Ocean. Both Macron and French defence minister Florence Parly have spoken of “Indo-Pacific axis with France, India and Australia as its backbone”. France’s Indo-Pacific policy notes the region is at the heart of its efforts to ensure a stable, multi-polar order based on rule of law and free movement. France also envisages a strong involvement in settling regional crises, ensuring the safety of shipping routes and in fighting terrorism and radicalisation. Last month, Germany became the second major European Union power after France to adopt an Indo-Pacific policy, saying strategic competition for influence was increasing in the region that is “becoming the key to shaping the international order in the 21st century”. Unveiling the policy, German foreign minister Heiko Maas said: “We want to help shape [the international order of tomorrow] so that it is based on rules and international cooperation, not on the law of the strong.” Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said the move to appoint the envoy for the Indo-Pacific was in line with what France had been doing for the past two years to forge closer cooperation in the Indian Ocean, primarily with an eye on the island territories of Reunion and Mayotte. “Among the Europeans, the French were the first to come to the conclusion that they need to be part of the Indo-Pacific. It is clear to the Europeans that real global politics will unfold in the Indian Ocean and this is part of efforts to stay relevant in the region,” he said. “But a key issue will be their approach to China as the Europeans are expected to play a calibrated role as they aren’t coming to the Indo-Pacific solely because they want to side with democratic powers. However, this is a welcome development for India, which needs to coordinate its positions and perspectives on developments in the Indo-Pacific with European powers, especially France and Germany,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-appoints-first-envoy-for-indo-pacific-to-focus-on-cooperation-with-india/story-DQC7xgAfYujyN5fMHRJUJM.html
14-10-2020||World||Pakistan PM’s aide faces criticism for linking India to 2014 Peshawar school attack||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s adviser on national security has faced criticism within his country for claiming that India was linked to the 2014 terrorist assault on an army school in Peshawar, an attack for which the Taliban claimed responsibilty. Moeed Yusuf, special assistant to Khan on national security and strategic policy planning, made the claim during an interview with journalist Karan Thapar for the news portal The Wire. He alleged the mastermind of the assault from Jalalabad in Afghanistan was in touch with “handlers” at the Indian consulate in the same city as the attack was underway. Also read: PPP leader says Pak generals never accepted Constitution, asks govt to improve relations with IndiaYusuf also alleged that Indian intelligence had spent $1 million for the merger of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) with four other militant groups and that India was funnelling money to Baloch activists through think tanks in Afghanistan. However, he offered no evidence to back these claims. Yusuf contended in a tweet that he had “exposed previously unrevealed information about regular Indian state sponsorship of terrorism against Pakistan”. There was no response from Indian officials to Yusuf’s remarks. The Pakistani premier’s aide received praise for the interview but there was considerable criticism for his remarks related to the 2014 attack on the Army Public School (APS) in Peshawar, which resulted in the death of 149 people, including more than 130 children, and forced the former government of prime minister Nawaz Sharif to draw up a National Action Plan to counter terror groups. TTP, whose leader Mullah Fazlullah said it was in retaliation for Pakistan’s military operations in North Waziristan, claimed responsibility for it. Fazlullah, who was killed in a US drone strike in Afghanistan in 2018, had said in a video message at the time: ““We selected the army’s school for the attack because the government is targeting our families and females…we want them to feel the same pain.” Former senator Farhatullah Babar, a senior leader of the opposition Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) tweeted that Yusuf “saying that APS mastermind was in touch with an Indian consulate during attack is a tall claim”. “Proof must be placed before world and Pakistani people. [Yusuf] must not be seen parroting intel narrative without proof. @YusufMoeed credibility at stake,” Babar added. Civil society activist Marvi Sirmed, in a tweet, noted that Yusuf had said he has undeniable solid evidence about the school attack, including “verified tapes of 8 phone calls”, and questioned “why this was hidden from the people of Pakistan for so long?” Several social media users from Peshawar, where the school attack continues to be an emotional issue, were critical of the claim that India was somehow linked to the terrorist incident. They pointed out that they had been told by authorities for years that the Taliban and a former spokesman for the group, Ehsanullah Ehsan, were behind the school attack. They also noted that several local militants were sentenced to death by military courts for the attack. In August 2015, then Pakistan Army chief Raheel Sharif had confirmed the death sentence given by military courts to seven members of TTP and Toheed-wal-Jihad group for supporting and collecting funds for the school attack. In February 2015, the Pakistan Army’s media arm had announced the arrest of TTP member Taj Mohammad, whom it described as one of the “main executors” of the school attack. The convicted attackers were later hanged in November 2015 and April 2017. Yusuf had also contended in the interview that India has sent messages with “a desire for conversation” but refused to give details. He also set conditions for a dialogue with India, including release of political prisoners in Jammu and Kashmir, making Kashmiris a party to talks, and ending restrictions in the region. Indian officials have not responded to these remarks either. People familiar with developments in Islamabad said Yusuf’s move to do an interview with an Indian media outlet came after a go-ahead from the Pakistani military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-pm-s-aide-faces-criticism-for-linking-india-to-2014-peshawar-school-attack/story-RPqBzraKo8ivzWXhJokhTI.html
14-10-2020||World||UK PM Johnson not heading for a full national lockdown yet, says minister||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is not yet heading towards a full national lockdown in England despite calls from the opposition leader for a “circuit breaker” lockdown, Work and Pensions Minister Thérèse Coffey said on Wednesday.“I do not believe that the prime minister wants to set off on a national lockdown, but as ever he is advised by scientists - he takes that decision,” Coffey told Sky.Opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer called on Tuesday for a two to three week “circuit breaker” lockdown to save lives. Starmer said Johnson’s attempt to tackle the virus wasn’t working.Asked if England was heading for a national lockdown in the next two weeks, Coffey said: “I don’t believe that is the case but as I say this will continue to be a decision that the prime minister will lead on.”Coffey said the three-tier system of lockdowns announced on Monday should be given a chance to work.But government scientific advisers said in a paper due to be published on Wednesday that a two-week full lockdown from October 24 could reduce deaths for the rest of the year from about 19,900 to 12,100, The Times reported.The paper by Graham Medley, a member of the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, says that “the optimal time for a break is always now; there are no good epidemiological reasons to delay the break.”If daily deaths reach more than 200, a circuit breaker could reduce the toll for the rest of the year from 80,000 to less than 40,000, The Times said. (Reporting by Alistair Smout and Guy Faulconbridge, editing by Estelle Shirbon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-not-heading-for-a-full-national-lockdown-yet-says-minister/story-X3nyD4YSNZ821F4Umqt34J.html
14-10-2020||World||One American, two Russians blast off to International Space Station||A Russian Soyuz spacecraft carrying a U.S. astronaut and two Russian cosmonauts blasted off from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on Wednesday and successfully reached orbit, live footage broadcast by Russia’s space agency Roscosmos showed. The crew members travelling to the International Space Station (ISS) are Kate Rubins, a NASA microbiologist who in 2016 became the first person to sequence DNA in space, and Russian cosmonauts Sergey Ryzhikov and Sergey Kud-Sverchkov.Watch: Spacecraft launch with NASA, Russia astronauts ahead of 20-year milestoneThe mission is the last scheduled Russian flight carrying a U.S. crew member.Since the space shuttle program ended in 2011, NASA has relied on Russia to ferry its astronauts to the space station, an orbiting laboratory 250 miles above Earth that has housed international crews of astronauts continuously for nearly 20 years.The U.S. space agency in 2014 contracted Elon Musk’s SpaceX and Boeing Co to build competing space capsules in an effort to reclaim NASA’s launch independence.The $8 billion program enabled SpaceX’s first manned trip to the space station in May, marking the first from home soil in nearly a decade.NASA has purchased additional crew seats from Russia as its public-private crew program faced delays, with Rubins’ mission being the most recent.The U.S. is scheduled to begin operational missions on SpaceX’s Crew Dragon capsule.“We have an incredible partnership,” Rubins said in an interview from Russia’s Star City before her flight. “We’ll continue to train crews over here and we’re going to have cosmonauts come to the Johnson Space Center and train.”NASA and Roscosmos have committed to continue the flight-sharing partnership and are in talks to fly Russian astronauts on U.S. vehicles and to fly U.S. astronauts on Russian rockets when needed, a spokesperson for Roscosmos told Reuters.“Of course, mutual flights are of interest for ISS reliability and continuous operations,” the spokesperson said. “This approach (mixed crew flights) will ensure delivery of the crew to the station, should a problem with the partner spacecraft occur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-american-two-russians-blast-off-to-international-space-station/story-xmP6g2VboI8s7aNYbXgTkN.html
14-10-2020||World||Anchorage mayor resigns after allegations to texting sexual messages to underage girl surfaces||Anchorage Mayor Ethan Berkowitz, one of Alaska’s most prominent Democrats, resigned on Tuesday, days after he was accused of texting sexual messages to an underage girl and a local television anchor. Berkowitz, a former state lawmaker elected as Anchorage mayor in 2015, has denied texting the underage girl but acknowledged having a “consensual, inappropriate messaging relationship” with FOX/ABC journalist Maria Athens. “My resignation results from unacceptable personal conduct that has compromised my ability to perform my duties with the focus and trust that is required,” the mayor said in written statement announcing his resignation.“I know that my conduct has done great injury to my family, my staff, to Municipal employees, and to the people of our community, and for that, I am deeply sorry,” Berkowitz said.The unfolding scandal surrounding Berkowitz began when Athens accused Berkowitz, 58, of sending sexual messages and images to at least one underage girl. Athens, 41, included a photo that she said showed was Berkowitz’s bare back, with part of his buttocks exposed.Athens never broadcast her story; she was arrested Friday after getting into an altercation outside of her place of work. Berkowitz on Friday denied the accusations of sending sexual messages to minors, calling Athens “unwell.” On Monday, he admitted that he and Athens had a “major lapse in judgment” years earlier and had engaged in a “consensual, inappropriate messaging relationship.” Berkowitz’s last day in office will be Oct. 23, according to the resignation message. According to municipal rules, the chairman of the Anchorage Assembly will take over as interim mayor until a new mayor is chosen in the city’s regularly scheduled election next April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anchorage-mayor-resigns-after-allegations-to-texting-sexual-messages-to-underage-girl-surfaces/story-ZypPxX7JDubfH4orpqF9gN.html
14-10-2020||World||16 security personnel killed in Taliban attack in Afghanistan’s Baghlan province: Report||As many as 16 Afghan security personnel were killed and more than 10 injured in a Taliban attack, TOLO news reported on Wednesday.Citing sources, it was reported that at least 16 security force members were killed and more than 10 others were wounded in a Taliban attack on security checkpoints in the Gozargah-e-Noor district of Baghlan province.“Clashes are still ongoing close to the police HQ,” the sources added.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/16-security-personnel-killed-in-taliban-attack-in-afghanistan-s-baghlan-province-report/story-xE9HMMmwusTFbI5I6KkYML.html
14-10-2020||World||Justin Trudeau throws darts at Prez Xi to mark 50 years of ties with China||Led by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Canada marked the 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties with China by castigating Beijing for its practice of “coercive diplomacy”.During a press interaction, Trudeau said Canada will “remain absolutely committed to working with our allies to ensure that China’s approach of coercive diplomacy, its arbitrary detention of two Canadian citizens alongside other citizens of other countries around the world is not viewed as a successful tactic by them.” According to local media reports, Trudeau also expressed concern over the protection of human rights in Hong Kong as well that of the Uighur minority in China. Two Canadians, including a former diplomat, remain in prison in China—a retaliatory measure after a senior executive of the Chinese telecom giant Huawei was detained in Vancouver in late 2018 and faces trial and possible extradition to the US in a case related to bank fraud.Trudeau’s words were echoed by Canadian foreign minister François-Philippe Champagne. In a statement issued by Global Affairs Canada, he said, “It is unacceptable that any citizen be arbitrarily detained. Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor must be brought home. This is something for which all Canadians stand united. The use of coercive diplomacy causes Canada to re-examine its approach, with a focus on multilateral cooperation.”As Canada is framing a new Indo-Pacific policy in light of its deteriorating relations with China, Champagne also said that as a “Pacific nation”, its future ties it to “peace, stability and prosperity in the region.” He also said that “Canada will work with partners to hold the Chinese government accountable to its international obligations” and that the “common future of Canada and China depends on the rule of law, respect for rights and freedoms and for people in all their diversity.”These statements come amid a chorus of criticism directed at China from the Canadian leadership. At a recent European think tank event, defence minister Harjit Sajjan had remarked on how NATO needs to monitor Chinese activity, particularly in the South China Sea and called it out for practising “hostage diplomacy.” Earlier this month, Canada’s ambassador to the United Nations Bob Rae said the two Canadians detained by China were “living in terrible conditions”, adding, “This is something which we shall never forget.”Only recently was Canada’s ambassador in China allowed a virtual consular access to the two men, the first time such permission was granted by Beijing since January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-accuses-china-of-coercive-diplomacy-on-50th-year-of-ties/story-bWDtZUANCrTI3XqYqe1TPL.html
14-10-2020||World||Indian Americans solidly with Biden, new poll shows||A new opinion poll has projected that 72% of Indian American respondents will vote for Democrat Joe Biden in the ongoing 2020 presidential election and found that Republican President Donald Trump’s support in the community, at 22%, had not grown as significantly as suggested by a separate poll earlier.The 2020 Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS) was conducted among 936 Indian American citizens between September 1 and September 20, by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Johns Hopkins University and Princeton in partnership with YouGov, a research and analysis firm.It showed Indian-Americans ranked ties between India and the United States as the 11th of 12 factors influencing their voting decision, ahead only of sexism. This would call into question a narrative forwarded by Trump supporters and other Republicans that Indian Americans were gravitating towards the president because of his silence on the change in the status of Kashmir and the Citizenship Amendment Act, which has been criticised by Biden.The poll found that 48% of Indian Americans approved of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s job performance, while 32% disapproved and 20% had no opinion. Republicans in the community had a more favourable view of the prime minister and most Indians said Democrats do a better job of managing US-Indian relations than Republicans, 39% to 18% (22% said they found no difference).Another significant finding is that the selection of Indian-descent senator Kamala Harris as Biden’s running mate will not change voting preferences, but her selection had mobilised Indian Americans to vote. “The big takeaway from these numbers is that there is scant evidence in the survey for the widespread defection of Democratic voters toward Trump,” said the report released on Wednesday. “There is little evidence of a significant evolution in partisan allegiances since 2016. The vast majority (91%) of Indian Americans who voted for Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in 2016 plan to support Biden in 2020.”The survey found that 72% of registered Indian American voters planned to vote for Biden, compared to 22% for Trump. Biden’s support was seen to have slipped in an earlier poll — the 2020 Asian American Voter Survey (AAVS) — to 65% from 77% who had said they had voted for Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, in 2016.Trump’s support in the AAVS, at the same time, had grown from 16% Indian Americans who said they had voted for him in 2016 to 28% who said they will vote for him in 2020, triggering talk of a significant shift in the community towards the president, setting off alarm bells in the Biden campaign and the Democratic party, which had long enjoyed the solid support of India-descent Americans.Milan Vaishnav, one of the authors of the IAAS report who had also moderated the launch of the AAVS findings in September, said changes in Biden and Trump’s support could be the result of the difference in the timing of the two polls — the earlier poll was conducted between July and September the new one in September. “It’s possible that people’s views changed as the campaign progressed. A lot happened this summer,” he added. But he also went on to point to the difference in the sample size of the two polls — the earlier poll was conducted among 260 registered Indian American voters, compared to the nearly 1,000 in the new poll, which had an impact on the margin of error: +/- 6% to IAAS’s 3.2%.The IAAS found Indian Americans “solidly” with the Democratic party, as had the AAVS, reflecting an unchanging landscape. Their findings tracked closely — 56% of the respondents in the new poll self-identified themselves as Democrats, 15% as Republicans and 22% as Independents; corresponding numbers for the earlier poll were 54%, 16% and 24%.Indian Americans, a tiny but prosperous community of 4.16 million people (2.62 million US citizens) are getting unprecedented attention in US elections this time. Their 1.9 million (1.8 million, according to AAVS) registered voters could play a key role in deciding the outcome in battleground states that tend to be won or lost by wafer-thin margins.Both campaigns have wooed the community. Biden rolled out an expansive agenda that promises fixes for immigration problems such as Green Card waiting lines and social issues such as hate crimes; and better India-US ties under a Biden presidency.The Trump campaign and Republicans have sought to build on the president’s relationship with the prime minister and the two public events they addressed jointly in Houston and Ahmedabad to reach into the Indian American community for support, and the president’s silence on Kashmir and the CAA.Neeraj Antani, a Republican member of the Ohio state legislature, had said, referring to the AAVS report, that Trump’s support among Indian Americans was growing because of president’s outreach to the community, his visit to India in February and for “standing with the Prime Minister and neutrality on issues like CA (Citizenship Act) and the abrogation of (Article) 370, as opposed to Vice President Biden’s opposition to those issues.”IAAS found that Indian Americans did not rank India-US relations as a factor important enough to have a bearing on their voting decision; they placed it behind economy, healthcare, racism, taxes, corruption, immigration, environment, income inequality, terrorism and education, and just ahead of sexism. India-US relations was cited among the top three issues by only 4% of the respondents. The earlier poll had found a similar lack of enthusiasm for bilateral relations as an electoral factor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-americans-solidly-with-biden-new-poll-shows/story-lFE3pnBgW4eQXEe2aSWTYN.html
14-10-2020||World||Xi ask young HongKongers to move to China in a bid to dismantle pro-democracy demands||President Xi Jinping called for new measures to encourage young people from Hong Kong to move to China, part of measures to integrate the semi-autonomous territory with the mainland following student-led protests last year.The push is aimed at “deepening integration” between young people in Hong Kong, Macau and Guangdong province to “increase their sense of belonging to the motherland,” the Chinese president said in a Wednesday speech in Shenzhen marking the 40th anniversary of the technology hub becoming a special economic zone.China should “fully utilize the important platform of Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau cooperation to attract more young people from Hong Kong and Macau to study, work and live in the mainland,” he said.Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam was in the audience for the speech in neighboring Shenzhen, whose skyline is visible in parts of the Asian financial center. She canceled her annual policy address scheduled for Wednesday to attend the event, and now plans to give it late next month or earlier after consulting with officials in Beijing.Business groups have expressed concern about Hong Kong’s autonomy from the mainland in the wake of sweeping new national security legislation imposed by Xi in June. The law, meant to subdue protests that turned violent last year, came as the city looks to revive an economy battered by unrest and the pandemic.Shenzhen is a cornerstone of Xi’s Greater Bay Area, which aims to knit together mainland cities with Hong Kong and Macau to establish a regional powerhouse rivaling Silicon Valley. Xi’s address encouraged further overall cooperation with China.“We should also continue to encourage and guide our compatriots in Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan as well as overseas Chinese to play their important roles in investment, entrepreneurship and two-way openness so that they can make new contributions to the development of the special economic zones,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-wants-young-hongkongers-to-move-to-china-deeping-integration-xi-s-trick-to-lure-pro-democratic-hong-kong-youth-towards-china/story-bDZduH2M4B8gmQfzS2YsNL.html
14-10-2020||World||Trump says he feels like ‘Superman’ after coronavirus treatment||US President Donald Trump has said that he felt like a “Superman” after his experimental Covid-19 treatment and boasted about his new immunity to the disease which has claimed the lives of 216,000 Americans.Trump, who tested positive for Covid-19 on October 1 and was admitted to a military hospital. for three nights and four days, declared himself cured after he was treated with an experimental antibody drug cocktail. White House doctors have now cleared him for holding election rallies. Holding his second rally since contracting coronavirus, Trump told a crowd of his supporters packed onto an airport tarmac in Johnstown, Pennsylvania that he felt like “Superman” after the treatment. Trump was briefly forced to pause his re-election campaign after he tested positive for Covid-19 and he returned to the campaign trail from the battleground State of Florida on Monday. Addressing his supporters in Pennsylvania, another battleground State, Trump, 74, thanked the doctors that treated him. “All I know is I took something, whatever the hell it was, I felt good very quickly. I don’t know what it was, antibodies, antibodies. I don’t know. I took it, I said I felt like superman,” Trump said. “Then I said, let me at ‘em. Nah, and I could’ve been here four or five days ago. It’s great, we have great doctors. I want to thank the doctors at Walter Reed and Johns Hopkins, and--great doctors,” he said. Trump said, that “one great thing about being president, if you’re not feeling 100 per cent you have more doctors than you thought existed in the world. I was surrounded with like 14 of them. Where are you from? I’m from this one. Where are you from? I’m from Johns Hopkins, I’m from Walter Reed. But what great, talented people. They did a great job.” Boasting about his new immunity to the disease, Trump said he can kiss everyone in the audience. “And now I’m immune they tell me. I’m immune. I could come down and start kissing everybody. I’ll kiss every guy--man and woman. Man and woman. Look at that guy how handsome he is. I’ll kiss him. Not with a lot of enjoyment but that’s okay,” the president joked. Trump also did an informal poll of the crowd and asked his supporters who has had the virus. “A lot of people, a lot of people,” Trump said, and added those people are now “immune.” Trump said he could have stayed in the basement of the White House or maybe the top floor of the White House. “I could have done that. But I’m the president of the US. I can’t do that. I gotta get out and I have to meet people and I have to see people. And I know it’s risky to do that. But you have to do what you have to do. I’m the president. I can’t sit in the basement and say let’s wait this thing out. I’m not gonna do that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-he-feels-like-superman-after-coronavirus-treatment/story-D5KpIXOw1xlM4LP1MeH8yI.html
14-10-2020||World||China accuses Taiwan of ‘infiltrating and damaging’ nation||China has opened a new front in its pressure campaign against Taiwan with a series of spying allegations and confessions aired on state television, denounced on the democratic island as entrapment and another reason for people to fear visiting China.China views Taiwan as its sovereign territory and has stepped up a campaign to assert its claim, including sending fighter jets near the island.Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen says the island will not provoke but will defend itself.Starting on Sunday evening, .Chinese state television has been showing what it says are detained Taiwanese spies who have been operating in China, and confessing to their crimesChina, under its Thunder-2020 campaign, has cracked hundreds of cases orchestrated by Taiwan’s intelligence forces to “infiltrate and damage” and set up a network of spies, state television said.The Global Times, a widely read Chinese tabloid run by the Communist Party’s official People’s Daily, said on Wednesday the revelations were a warning to “Taiwan separatist forces”.Taiwan says China is framing and entrapping people, and that putting people on television to confess crimes before going to trial is a serious breach of proper legal process, something rights groups have long criticised Beijing for doing.Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Taiwan Premier Su Tseng-chang said China was spreading slander and “creating terror”.Asked about Taiwan’s spying in China - both sides have long accused each other of running espionage networks - Su said Taiwan did not do that anymore and did not need to.“China is an authoritarian country, and always does this kind of infiltration and damage, so it thinks others do it too. They don’t know that Taiwan has been democratic and open for ages.”Taiwan has taken particular umbrage at what it says are obvious inaccuracies in some of China’s accusations, including that one of the accused spies previously worked for a former chairman of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), Cho Jung-tai. Cho says he did not know the man.It has not been possible to reach any of the suspected spies for comment, and unclear if they have been permitted legal representation.China’s Taiwan Affairs Office did not respond to a request for comment.Wang Ting-yu, a senior DPP lawmaker who sits on parliament’s foreign affairs and defence committee, said the cases should serve as a warning to Taiwanese wishing to visit China.“Think of the risks ... any Taiwanese person, no matter their political positions of beliefs or party background, is simply a tool.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-accuses-taiwan-of-infiltrating-and-damaging-nation/story-hupBncKVFqbRDba8zfinSM.html
14-10-2020||World||US Supreme Court says Trump administration can end census field operations early||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that the Trump administration can end census field operations early, in a blow to efforts to make sure minorities and hard-to-enumerate communities are properly counted in the crucial once-a-decade tally.The decision was not a total loss for plaintiffs in a lawsuit challenging the administration’s decision to end the count early. They managed to get nearly two extra weeks of counting people as the case made its way through the courts.However, the ruling increased the chances of the Trump administration retaining control of the process that decides how many congressional seats each state gets — and by extension how much voting power each state has.The Supreme Court justices’ ruling came as the nation’s largest association of statisticians, and even the U.S. Census Bureau’s own census takers and partners, have been raising questions about the quality of the data being gathered — numbers that are used to determine how much federal funding and how many congressional seats are allotted to states.After the Supreme Court’s decision, the Census Bureau said field operations would end on Thursday.At issue was a request by the Trump administration that the Supreme Court suspend a lower court’s order extending the 2020 census through the end of October following delays caused by the pandemic. The Trump administration argued that the head count needed to end immediately to give the bureau time to meet a year-end deadline. Congress requires the bureau to turn in by Dec. 31 the figures used to decide the states’ congressional seats — a process known as apportionment.By sticking to the deadline, the Trump administration would end up controlling the numbers used for the apportionment, no matter who wins next month’s presidential election.In a statement, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called the Supreme Court’s decision “regrettable and disappointing,” and said the administration’s actions “threaten to politically and financially exclude many in America’s most vulnerable communities from our democracy.”Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor dissented from the high court’s decision, saying “respondents will suffer substantial injury if the Bureau is permitted to sacrifice accuracy for expediency.”The Supreme Court ruling came in response to a lawsuit by a coalition of local governments and civil rights groups, arguing that minorities and others in hard-to-count communities would be missed if the census ended early. They said the schedule was cut short to accommodate a July order from President Donald Trump that would exclude people in the country illegally from being counted in the numbers used for apportionment.Opponents of the order said it followed the strategy of the late Republican redistricting guru, Thomas Hofeller, who had advocated using voting-age citizens instead of the total population when it came to drawing legislative seats since that would favor Republicans and non-Hispanic whites.Last month, U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California sided with the plaintiffs and issued an injunction suspending a Sept. 30 deadline for finishing the 2020 census and a Dec. 31 deadline for submitting the apportionment numbers. That caused the deadlines to revert back to a previous Census Bureau plan that had field operations ending Oct. 31 and the reporting of apportionment figures at the end of April 2021.When the Census Bureau, and the Commerce Department, which oversees the statistical agency, picked an Oct. 5 end date, Koh struck that down too, accusing officials of “lurching from one hasty, unexplained plan to the next ... and undermining the credibility of the Census Bureau and the 2020 Census.”An appellate court panel upheld Koh’s order allowing the census to continue through October but struck down the part that suspended the Dec. 31 deadline for turning in apportionment numbers. The panel of three appellate judges said that just because the year-end deadline is impossible to meet doesn’t mean the court should require the Census Bureau to miss it.The plaintiffs said the ruling against them was not a total loss, as millions more people were counted during the extra two weeks.“Every day has mattered, and the Supreme Court’s order staying the preliminary injunction does not erase the tremendous progress that has been made as a result of the district court’s rulings,” said Melissa Sherry, one of the attorneys for the coalition.Besides deciding how many congressional seats each state gets, the census helps determine how $1.5 trillion in federal funding is distributed each year.San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo said that his city lost $200 million in federal funding over the decade following the 2010 census, and he feared it would lose more this time around. The California city was one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit.“A census count delayed is justice denied,” Liccardo said.With plans for the count hampered by the pandemic, the Census Bureau in April had proposed extending the deadline for finishing the count from the end of July to the end of October, and pushing the apportionment deadline from Dec. 31 to next April. The proposal to extend the apportionment deadline passed the Democratic-controlled House, but the Republican-controlled Senate didn’t take up the request. Then, in late July and early August, bureau officials shortened the count schedule by a month so that it would finish at the end of September.The Senate Republicans’ inaction coincided with Trump’s order directing the Census Bureau to have the apportionment count exclude people who are in the country illegally. The order was later ruled unlawful by a panel of three district judges in New York, but the Trump administration appealed that case to the Supreme Court.The Supreme Court decision comes as a report by the the American Statistical Association has found that a shortened schedule, dropped quality control procedures, pending lawsuits and the outside politicization of some parts of the 2020 census have raised questions about the quality of the nation’s head count that need to be answered if the final numbers are going to be trusted.The Census Bureau says it has counted 99.9% of households nationwide, though some regions of the country such as parts of Mississippi and hurricane-battered Louisiana fall well below that.As the Census Bureau winds down field operations over the next several days, there will be a push to get communities in those two states counted, said Kristen Clarke, president and executive director of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, one of the litigants in the lawsuit.“That said, the Supreme Court’s order will result in irreversible damage to the 2020 Census,” Clarke said.___Follow Mike Schneider on Twitter at https://twitter.com/MikeSchneiderAP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-says-trump-administration-can-end-census-field-operations-early/story-rRTEFZmb0XrEsjIeYvULVM.html
14-10-2020||World||US Supreme Court nominee Barrett says she is ‘not on a mission’ to destroy Obamacare||President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Amy Coney Barrett, said on Tuesday she gave no commitments to the White House on how she would rule on Obamacare or election-related cases and declined to say if she believed landmark rulings legalizing abortion and gay marriage were properly decided.During 11 hours of questioning on the second day of her Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing, Barrett opted not to say whether she would step aside from taking part in a major Obamacare case to be argued on Nov. 10 or in any disputes arising from the Nov. 3 election - as Democrats have requested. The marathon session gave the conservative US appellate judge a chance to respond to Democrats who oppose her because they fear she will cast a decisive vote in striking down the 2010 healthcare law formally called the Affordable Care Act and its protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Also Read: Amy Coney Barrett cites ‘Ginsburg rule’ that Ginsburg didn’t follow“I am not here on a mission to destroy the Affordable Care Act,” Barrett said. “I’m just here to apply the law and adhere to the rule of law.”While Democrats were persistent in their questioning, the hearing retained a respectful tone and Barrett remained even-tempered while nimbly sidestepping questions on her views on abortion, LGBT rights, gun control and voting rights. In the Obamacare case, Trump and Republican-led states are seeking to invalidate the law. Barrett said the case centered on a different legal issue from two previous Supreme Court rulings that upheld Obamacare that she has criticized. Senator Kamala Harris, who is Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden’s running mate, was not satisfied with Barrett’s answers, saying Americans were fearful that Obamacare would be overturned in the middle of a deadly pandemic.“Republicans are scrambling to confirm this nominee as fast as possible because they need one more Trump judge on the bench before Nov. 10 to win and strike down the entire Affordable Care Act,” said Harris, a Judiciary Committee member. Also Read: Amy Coney Barrett bats away tough Democratic confirmation probingThe law, signed by Trump’s Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, has enabled millions of Americans to obtain medical coverage.Trump has asked the Senate, controlled by his fellow Republicans, to confirm Barrett before Election Day. Trump has said he expects the Supreme Court to decide the election’s outcome as he faces Biden. Barrett said no one at the White House sought a commitment from her on how she would rule on that or any other issue. In declining to commit to stepping aside on politically charged cases in light of her nomination so near an election and comments made by Trump on the issues, Barrett said she would follow rules giving justices the final say on recusal amid questions about impartiality.Republicans have a 53-47 Senate majority, making Barrett’s confirmation a virtual certainty. If confirmed, Barrett, 48, would give conservatives a 6-3 Supreme Court majority. She is Trump’s third Supreme Court nominee.The hearing resumes at 9 a.m. (1300 GMT) on Wednesday.ABORTION RULINGAbortion rights advocates fear Barrett would vote to overturn the 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling that legalized abortion nationwide. Asked about the ruling, Barrett said she would consider the usual factors on whether to overturn a precedent.But Barrett indicated Roe v. Wade was not a “super-precedent” that could never potentially be overturned.“I’m answering a lot of questions about Roe, which I think indicates Roe does not fall in that category. Scholars across the spectrum say that doesn’t mean that Roe should be overruled, but descriptively it does mean it is not a case that everyone has accepted,” Barrett said.Senator Dianne Feinstein, the panel’s top Democrat, asked Barrett whether she agreed with her mentor, the late conservative Justice Antonin Scalia, that Roe v. Wade was wrongly decided and should be overturned. After Barrett sidestepped, Feinstein told her that “it’s distressing not to get a straight answer.”Barrett, a devout Catholic and a favorite of religious conservatives, said she could set aside her religious beliefs in making judicial decisions. She would not say whether she agreed with Scalia that the 2015 Supreme Court Obergefell v. Hodges ruling legalizing gay marriage nationwide was wrongly decided. She said she would not discriminate on the basis of “sexual preference,” prompting Democratic Senator Mazie Hirono to chastise her for using an “offensive and outdated term.”Barrett also declined to comment specifically on whether presidents should commit to a peaceful transfer of power if they lose an election. Trump created a furor in September when he refused to make that commitment. “To the extent that this is a political controversy right now, as a judge I want to stay out of it and don’t want to express a view,” Barrett told Democratic Senator Cory Booker. Prompted by Booker again to comment, she said: “One of the beauties of America from the beginning of the republic is that we have had peaceful transfers of power.”Asked about George Floyd, a Black man killed by Minneapolis police in May in an incident that triggered widespread protests, Barrett called the issue “very, very personal for my family” because among her seven children, two - adopted from Haiti - are Black. Barrett said she and one of her daughters, Vivian, cried together after seeing the video.Trump nominated Barrett to a lifetime post on the court on Sept. 26 to succeed the late liberal Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. The four-day hearing is a key step before a full Senate vote due by the end of October on Barrett’s confirmation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-nominee-barrett-says-she-is-not-on-a-mission-to-destroy-obamacare/story-hYoqZ6tQ7pawKRxPXEVESL.html
14-10-2020||World||Northern Ireland govt says set to impose tougher Covid-19 curbs, says first minister Arlene Foster||Northern Ireland’s devolved government is set to impose tougher Covid-19 restrictions, First Minister Arlene Foster said after a rapid spread of cases led to the cancellation of elective surgeries across Belfast on Tuesday.The British-run region has become one of Europe’s biggest Covid-19 hotbeds in recent weeks. Its health minister described the situation as getting more grave by the hour last Friday and said further constraints were likely. However, the mandatory power-sharing government led by rivals Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) have disagreed in public on how strict any new measures should be and ministers were still meeting late on Tuesday to finalise the response.The measures will be announced in the regional parliament at 0930 GMT on Wednesday, a statement on the parliament’s website said.“Whatever we put in place will only be for a limited period of time so that we can find our way out of the restrictions that have to be put in place,” Foster of the DUP said in a video posted on her Facebook page.Foster said it was critical that “long term” school closures were avoided. Local media reported that a two-week closure of schools was being considered in what may amount to the toughest constraints anywhere in the United Kingdom. Restrictions in Northern Ireland are currently not as severe as many areas elsewhere in the UK or across the open border in Ireland.The Belfast Health and Social Care Trust announced earlier that it was cancelling elective surgeries in the capital for the rest of the week due to a rise in Covid-19 admissionsThe city’s main Covid-19 facility, the Mater Hospital, was caring for 10 ventilated patients on Tuesday, one less than capacity, the Trust said, adding that more will likely require critical care in the coming days.Northern Ireland’s health department reported 863 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and seven more deaths, bringing its cumulative seven-day rate of infections per 100,000 people to 334.1. (Editing by Padraic Halpin, Mark Heinrich and Tom Brown)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/northern-ireland-govt-says-set-to-impose-tougher-covid-19-curbs-says-first-minister-arlene-foster/story-fDxt3ixyA0PpRrGQRMvcvO.html
14-10-2020||World||North Korea’s Kim pledges thousands of new homes in storm recovery effort: Report||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un promised to help typhoon-hit areas recover and to build at least 25,000 houses over the next five years, state media said on Wednesday.Visiting one of the worst-hit areas of North Korea, Kim expressed regret over the more than 50-year-old houses in which people have been living and urged the military to embark on a more ambitious construction plan, KCNA said.Also Read: Kim Jong Un breaks down in rare apology to North KoreansThe visit came after Kim appeared to shed tears at the weekend as he thanked citizens for their sacrifices, in the most striking demonstration yet of how he is relying on his “man-of- the-people” persona to tackle his country’s deepening crises. The military has reached a construction level of 60% for at least 2,300 houses in the Komdok area in South Hamgyong province, northeast of the capital, Pyongyang, the state media said.Also Read: Kim Jong Un reveals largest liquid-fuelled missile designed to carry multiple warheads: ReportKim said new houses were now only built when the old ones were brought down by natural disasters, and called for a “revolution” in construction plans, starting with building 25,000 houses during his five-year plan set to be unveiled in January. Last week, Kim called on his country to embark on an 80-day “speed battle” - to attain economic goals before a congress in January to decide the new five-year plan. North Korea has had a tough year because of the impact of anti-coronavirus measures, international sanctions and several typhoons that battered towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-pledges-thousands-of-new-homes-in-storm-recovery-effort-report/story-1UZkc8L946wgC5WIKyL4KI.html
14-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: China will own United States if ‘sleepy guy’ Biden is elected, says Trump||During his rally at Johnstown, Pennsylvania, US President Donald Trump hit out at Joe Biden alleging that his Democratic Party opponent would, if elected lift tariffs imposed on China.(Follow all US Election 2020 updates here)“I took the toughest-ever action to confront China’s rampant threat on American jobs -- we charged them so much that we gave that money to our farmers because our farmers were targetted. We got it (back) from China; USD 28 Billion, we have a lot leftover,” Trump said at the rally at the John Murtha Johnstown-Cambria County Airport.“This election is a simple choice,” said the US President. “If Biden wins, China wins. All these other countries win. We get ripped off by everybody. If we win, you win, Pennsylvania wins, and America wins. Very simple,” he told his supporters at the crucial battleground state.Trump further said that earlier on Tuesday, he had signed an order for the crackdown of Chinese counter-fitters and merchants “who sell their fake products” across the US. The President went on the rampage against the former Vice President terming him as “the sleepy guy” who “surrenders” and that is the reason why China wants Biden to win as he “would send the jobs” to Beijing.“Biden will eliminate my tariffs on China-- he has already said that he is going to take the tariffs off China. The one constant in Biden’s platform is that he surrenders. That’s why China and the far left are desperate for a Biden to win because he will surrender our jobs to China. China will own the United States if that sleepy guy gets the position.”Pennsylvania is his second campaign trip since he was hospitalised with COVID-19 earlier this month. At the airport, Trump emerged from the Air Force One without a face mask and shook hands with supporters as he made his way to the podium.He also reiterated what he said in Florida on Monday about being “immune” from the virus and also threw masks at the audience. Trump was also seen dancing to the Village People’s “YMCA.”Trump is set to hold rallies in Iowa, Georgia, North Carolina, and Florida this week.The US Presidential Elections are set to take place on November 3, this year. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-china-will-own-united-states-if-sleepy-guy-biden-is-elected-says-trump/story-7fARDQVkHToQZuE3M92LlL.html
14-10-2020||World||US resets ties with Bangladesh, to seek India’s view on neighbourhood||US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun has told the Indian government that Washington will be consulting it more on its neighbouring countries, as he takes a key step towards resetting ties with Bangladesh at a meeting with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Wednesday.Biegun will be the first high-ranking US official in at least a decade to visit Dhaka.According to people familiar with the matter, Biegun, in his discussions with India’s foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, went over ways to strengthen the QUAD security dialogue, and sought India’s inputs on its neighbourhood. WATCH | Trump or Biden: Amid India-China faceoff, who’s better for Delhi’s cause?Also Read: The increasing value of Quad | HT EditorialThey discussed bilateral cooperation on trade, including the development of common standards, a framework for investments, and building supply chains; apart from steps to help the Indian subcontinent respond to the Covid-19 pandemic, and plans to distribute a vaccine when it is ready.The people cited above said that Shringla also briefed his US counterpart on Bangladesh, and told him about the need for Washington to engage with the Muslim-majority country, which is rising economically under the current leadership. Former US secretaries of state John Kerry and Hilary Clinton had shown their intention to visit Dhaka, but did not make the trip. For long, India has encouraged the US to engage with Bangladesh as under the leadership of Hasina, saying the country has taken a sharp turn away from a more radical approach under Khaleda Zia. Also Read: China has itself to blame for strong QUAD | AnalysisExperts point out that the unstated backdrop to this is also that China has made huge inroads into Bangladesh, with the latter buying more than 80% of its military hardware from Beijing, including artillery guns and ammunition. While India had offered $500 million as credit to Dhaka to buy military hardware during the then defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s visit in 2018, the defence cooperation between the two neighbours is still work in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-resets-ties-with-bangladesh-to-seek-india-s-view-on-neighbourhood/story-7hgRwD4IUvKHvzBt3rKyiJ.html
14-10-2020||World||Bangladesh president signs ordinance on capital punishment in rape cases||Bangladesh President Md Abdul Hamid on Tuesday signed an ordinance approving the death penalty for rapists, amid nationwide protests after a series of recent sexual assaults in the country.“The President assented the Cabinet decision and issued an ordinance on Women and Children Repression Prevention Act,” a presidential palace spokesman told PTI. On Monday, the Cabinet approved an increase in the maximum punishment in rape cases to death from life imprisonment.The Law Ministry in a statement said that from now on the “death penalty” instead of “lifetime rigorous imprisonment” would be the maximum punishment for rape. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said that the government has introduced capital punishment in rape cases in an effort to prevent the “brutality” of rapists.“A man when he is a rapist turns into an animal. They become so brutal; that is why women suffer so much these days. Hence we amended the law,” she said while speaking at an event here on Tuesday.“Besides the life-term imprisonment, we have elevated the maximum punishment for rape to death and approved it in the cabinet. As the parliament is not in session right now, we’re issuing an ordinance,” she said.Bangladesh was rocked over the weekend by an unprecedented level of protest after footage of a brutal gang assault on a woman went viral on social media. Demonstrators carried signs reading “Hang the rapists” and “No mercy to rapists”.The changes to the law were demanded by thousands of demonstrators across the Muslim-majority nation calling for more stringent punishments for the perpetrators of sexual assaults.Police arrested eight suspects after the video of the assault went viral more than a month after the attack occurred at the victim’s home in Noakhali.In a separate case, another woman was allegedly gang-raped last week in a hostel in the northern district of Sylhet, leading to the arrest of several members of the student wing of the ruling party. Protesters in the capital Dhaka and elsewhere have demanded stiffer punishments for rape, faster trials for rapists and an end to what they see as a culture of impunity.According to rights group Ain O Salish Kendra or ASK, at least 889 women have been raped in Bangladesh between January and August 2020. Rights activists believe the numbers are much higher because many of the victims do not complain to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-president-signs-ordinance-on-capital-punishment-in-rape-cases/story-5aTqXVyAGqMGJQuUfznTfO.html
14-10-2020||World||PPP leader says Pak generals never accepted Constitution, asks govt to improve relations with India||The “creeping coup” in Pakistan is a result of the powerful military trying to safeguard its economic interests which might not be protected in a federal and democratic system, the spokesperson of an opposition party has said while calling for changing the basis of the country’s relations with India. Addressing the fifth annual conference of South Asians Against Terrorism and for Human Rights (SAATH), Pakistan People’s Party spokesman and former Senator Farhatullah Babar said Pakistan’s parliament was unable to hold the military accountable. “In their hearts, Pakistan’s generals do not accept the country’s Constitution. That is why they have built a national narrative that is against democratic values and puts the army above all institutions,” he said at the event from Pakistan through a video conference. Babar called for changing the basis of Pakistan’s relations with India, which he said had been predicated on the resolution of the Kashmir issue as Pakistan wants it. “If China and India can have trade relations despite their conflicts, why can’t Pakistan?” He asked, hinting that good relations with India would help advance democratic norms and civilian supremacy in Pakistan. He said the “creeping coup” in Pakistan was the result of the powerful military trying to safeguard its economic interests which might not be protected in a federal and democratic system. Speaking at the virtual event from Islamabad, the former Senator said that the protests against the army that started in Pashtun tribal regions have now reached Punjab, the heartland of the Pakistan Army. He said the young people are discovering that “the emperor has no clothes”, according to a statement issued by SAATH. Babar lamented that Pakistan’s parliament was unable to hold the military accountable and was deprived of the most elementary information about the military’s spending and other matters. “The hybrid regime is fighting a hybrid war against the people of Pakistan by curbs on media and freedom of expression,” he added. In his remarks, Babbar expressed hope that the exiled members of SAATH, a grouping of prodemocracy Pakistanis co-founded by former Pakistan ambassador the U, Husain Haqqani and US-based columnist, Dr. Mohammad Taqi, could speak out about matters that can no longer be raised in Pakistan’s repressed media. Mohsin Dawar, a member of the National Assembly from Waziristan and a leading figure in Pashtun Tahaffuz Movement (PTM), said that the regime was trying to bring the Taliban back to power and to break the bond between the Pashtuns on both sides of the Durand Line. Dawar also expressed concern over Pakistan’s survivability, asserting that the people of Pakistan seem fed up with the army’s dominance and intrusion in all spheres of life. “If the political leaders fail, the people will definitely stand up against the dictatorship,” he observed. Former parliamentarian Bushra Gohar said that young Pakistanis, lawyers, and women have started challenging the status quo in Pakistan and the “repressive” regime cannot prevail forever. Gohar questioned “secret talks between Pakistan’s military leaders and US Special Envoy for Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad over the future of Afghanistan, which have serious implications for Pakistan’s Pashtuns. She called for demilitarisation of the Pashtun region. Resolutions passed by participants also condemned enforced disappearances and erosion of freedom of expression. Most speakers also criticised Pakistan’s major political parties for compromising often with the military, instead of ensuring civilian supremacy under the Constitution. Haqqani and Taqi welcomed the recent formation of the Pakistan Democratic Movement, an alliance of opposition political parties, and expressed hope that “they would resist the Pakistani establishment’s totalitarian project and not just bargain for a share in power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/creeping-coup-ppp-leader-says-pak-generals-never-accepted-constitution-asks-govt-to-improve-relations-with-india/story-bB4L5dca2kZPs4fZOPh9YL.html
14-10-2020||World||Amy Coney Barrett bats away tough Democratic confirmation probing||Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett batted away Democrats’ skeptical questions Tuesday on abortion, health care and a possible disputed-election fight over transferring presidential power, insisting in a long and lively confirmation hearing she would bring no personal agenda to the court but decide cases “as they come.”The 48-year-old appellate court judge declared her conservative views with often colloquial language, but refused many specifics. She declined to say whether she would recuse herself from any election-related cases involving President Donald Trump, who nominated her to fill the seat of the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and is pressing to have her confirmed before the the Nov. 3 election.Also Read: Amy Coney Barrett cites ‘Ginsburg rule’ that Ginsburg didn’t follow“Judges can’t just wake up one day and say I have an agenda — I like guns, I hate guns, I like abortion, I hate abortion — and walk in like a royal queen and impose their will on the world,” Barrett told the Senate Judiciary Committee during its second day of hearings.“It’s not the law of Amy,” she said. “It’s the law of the American people.”Barrett returned to a Capitol Hill mostly locked down with COVID-19 protocols, the mood quickly shifting to a more confrontational tone from opening day. She was grilled by Democrats strongly opposed to Trump’s nominee yet unable to stop her. Excited by the prospect of a judge aligned with the late Antonin Scalia, Trump’s Republican allies are rushing ahead to install a 6-3 conservative court majority for years to come.The president seemed pleased with her performance. “I think Amy’s doing incredibly well,” he said at the White House departing for a campaign rally.Trump has said he wants a justice seated for any disputes arising from his heated election with Democrat Joe Biden, but Barret testified she has not spoken to Trump or his team about election cases. Pressed by panel Democrats, she skipped past questions about ensuring the date of the election or preventing voter intimidation, both set in federal law, and the peaceful transfer of presidential power. She declined to commit to recusing herself from any post-election cases without first consulting the other justices.“I can’t offer an opinion on recusal without short-circuiting that entire process,” she said.A frustrated Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the panel, all but implored the nominee to be more specific about how she would handle landmark abortion cases, including Roe v. Wade and the follow-up Pennsylvania case Planned Parenthood v. Casey, which confirmed it in large part.Also Read: Courts ‘should not try’ to make policy: Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett to senators“It’s distressing not to get a good answer,” Feinstein told the judge.Barrett was unmoved. “I don’t have an agenda to try to overrule Casey,” she said. “I have an agenda to stick to the rule of law and decide cases as they come.”She later declined to characterize the Roe v. Wade decision that legalized abortion as a “super-precedent” that must not be overturned.Democrats had no such reticence.Let’s not make any mistake about it,” said California Sen. Kamala Harris, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, appearing remotely due to COVID concerns as the hearing pushed into the evening.Allowing Trump to fill the seat with Barrett “poses a threat to safe and legal abortion in our country,” Harris said.The committee chairman, Republican Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, opened the day-long session under coronavirus protocols that kept it off limits to in-person attendance by members of the public.Republicans have been focused on defending Barrett and her Catholic faith against possible criticism concerning issues such as abortion and same-sex marriage, and Graham asked if she would be able to shelve her personal beliefs to adhere to law.“I have done that,” she said. “I will do that still.”He said, “I will do everything I can to make sure that you have a seat at the table. And that table is the Supreme Court.”The Senate, led by Trump’s Republican allies, is pushing Barrett’s nomination to a quick vote before Nov. 3, and ahead of the latest challenge to the “Obamacare” Affordable Care Act, which the Supreme Court is to hear a week after the election. Democrats warn that she would be a vote to undo the law and strip health coverage from millions of Americans.“I’m not hostile to the ACA,” Barrett told the senators. She distanced herself from her past writings perceived as critical of the Obama-era health care law, saying those pieces were not addressing specific aspects of the law as she would if confirmed to the court. “I’m not here on a mission to destroy the Affordable Care Act.”She appeared stumped when Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., tried to put her on the spot about several details of the health care law’s effects. She could not recite specifics, including that 23 million people are covered by the law or that more than 2 million young people are on their parents’ health insurance.The Indiana judge, accompanied by her family, described herself as taking a conservative, originalist approach to the Constitution. A former law professor, she told the senators that while she admires Scalia, her conservative mentor for whom she once clerked, she would bring her own approach.“You would not be getting Justice Scalia, you would be getting Justice Barrett,” she declared.Senators probed her views on gun ownership, gay marriage and racial equity, at one point drawing an emotional response from the mother of seven, whose children include two adopted from Haiti, as she described watching the video of the death of George Floyd at the hands of police.“Racism persists,” she said, adding that Floyd’s death had a “very personal” effect on her family and that she and her children wept over it. But she told Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., that “making broader diagnoses about the problem of racism is kind of beyond what I’m capable of doing as a judge.”Republicans were thrilled when she held up a blank notebook, apparently showing she had been fielding questions without aid.Also Read: Amy Coney Barrett vows to interpret laws ‘as they are written’Overall, Barrett’s conservative views are at odds with the late Ginsburg, the liberal icon.While Ginsburg testified at her 1993 confirmation hearing that the decision to have a child is one a woman “must make for herself,” Barrett says as a judge she must reserve opinions, despite having made her anti-abortion views known before joining the bench.“You would be the polar opposite of Justice Ginsburg,” said Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn.Barring a dramatic development, Republicans appear to have the votes to confirm Barrett to a lifetime seat on the Supreme Court, and they spent their time portraying her as a thoughtful judge with impeccable credentials. She would be Trump’s third justice.Underscoring the Republicans’ confidence, Graham set an initial committee vote on the nomination for Thursday, the last day of hearings, which would allow final approval by the full Senate by the end of the month.Protesters rallied outside the Senate building, unable to come inside the hearing room.Other issues aside, Democrats are outraged that Republicans are moving so quickly, having refused to consider President Barack Obama’s nominee after Scalia’s death in February 2016, well before that year’s election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amy-coney-barrett-bats-away-tough-democratic-confirmation-probing/story-F6cCkniZuhkuUodmKdn1IJ.html
14-10-2020||World||US elections 2020: Republicans weaponize Russia probe to hurt Biden-Harris’ chances||In 2016, Donald Trump’s campaign chairman shared polling data with an associate suspected of ties to Russian intelligence. Another Trump associate sought inside information about Democratic emails stolen by Kremlin operatives. The candidate himself invited Russia to hunt for his opponent’s emails, then tried to stifle investigators once he entered the White House.These were among the findings of the special counsel investigation of ties between Russia and Trump’s 2016 campaign. It produced a trove of damaging, or at least embarrassing, information about Trump. Yet in the 2020 campaign, Democrats are largely ignoring the Russia probe. It’s Republicans who are making it a top campaign issue.Trump and his supporters have cast the investigation as a witch hunt. It’s a refrain in Trump tweets and speeches and on conservative media. In the run-up to the election, Trump-appointed officials are ordering the declassification of documents that Trump hopes will boost his campaign.While some of the revelations from the steady drip of newly declassified documents are serious, they do not undercut the reasons the Russia probe was launched or its principal findings. An inspector general and a bipartisan Senate panel have both concluded that the probe was valid.A look at the Russia probe:Why was the investigation launched?The FBI opened “Crossfire Hurricane” on July 31, 2016, after learning a Trump campaign aide may have had advance knowledge that Russian intelligence operatives had stolen Democratic emails.A diplomat revealed that the aide, George Papadopoulos, had boasted to him that he had heard Russia had damaging information on Democrat Hillary Clinton that it could release to harm her campaign.That May 2016 conversation triggered alarms within the FBI since the Russian hacking operation, which resulted in the public disclosure of thousands of hacked emails, was not yet public knowledge.What did the investigation find?The investigation was taken over by special counsel Robert Mueller, whose team documented substantial contacts between Trump associates and Russia.That included a Trump Tower meeting with a Russian lawyer that Trump’s oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., took with the expectation of receiving dirt on Clinton, and a campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, who shared internal polling data with a contact whom a Senate Intelligence committee report characterized as a Russian intelligence officer.A separate Justice Department inspector general report found the investigation was opened for a valid reason and did not find evidence of partisan bias. The Senate committee’s report found Manafort’s Russian contacts posed a “grave” counterintelligence risk.Was Trump vindicated?He was not criminally charged, but he wasn’t vindicated.It is true Mueller said his investigation did not find sufficient evidence to establish a criminal conspiracy between Trump, or his associates, and Russia to sway the election. But the investigation also described broad Russian interference as well as a campaign that was eager to receive the help and expected to benefit from it.Mueller also investigated multiple episodes in which he found Trump tried to exert control over the investigation, including by firing his FBI director, but Mueller did not push forward with obstruction of justice charges, citing Justice Department policy against indicting a sitting president.What are the criticisms of the investigation?Most focus on one strand: the FBI’s suspicion that former campaign adviser Carter Page was a Russian agent. Page has denied that and was not charged with any wrongdoing.The inspector general identified major errors and omissions in applications the FBI submitted to a secretive court for permission to eavesdrop on Page. For instance, the FBI failed to update the court as it received new information that undercut its original premise about Page. It also highlighted how the warrant applications relied in part on Democratic-funded research conducted by former British spy Christopher Steele.The problems are significant because they suggest the FBI misused intrusive surveillance powers or withheld information from the court. The FBI was alerted that Russian disinformation could have made its way into the dossier of research, and a key source for Steele was himself once investigated by the FBI for possible connections to Russian intelligence, newly declassified documents show.Multiple former FBI and Justice Department officials have said they would not have certified the applications had they know then what they know now. FBI Director Chris Wray has issued more than 40 corrective steps to prevent the problems from recurring.But the Page aspect of the probe accounted for only a fraction of it, and the dossier — though the target of much derision — had nothing to do with the decision to open the investigation. The Page problems don’t relate to the criminal convictions that Mueller’s team produced against six Trump associates, or the 25 Russians indicted on charges related to election interference.How are Republicans weaponizing it?In an extraordinary mix of politics in America’s national security apparatus, Trump has demanded that intelligence and Justice Department officials act to discredit the Russia investigation before the Nov. 3 election. To a large extent, they’ve complied.Much of the declassified material involves Page and the dossier. But they’ve also released information that, while creating buzz in conservative media, offer scant evidence of wrongdoing.Officials declassified the names of Obama administration officials who had requested the “unmasking” of an American — in this case, former national security adviser Michael Flynn — who surveillance revealed had interacted with Russia’s ambassador, but who wasn’t identified by name in intelligence reports. While Trump cast the unmasking as sinister, it’s a routine action and proper procedures were followed.The Washington Post reported Tuesday that a probe commissioned by Barr and focused on the “unmasking” question had concluded without criminal charges or any findings of substantive wrongdoing.Separately, some Republican senators are seeking an inspector general investigation after records showed multiple members of Mueller’s team had forgotten their work phone passcodes or entered the wrong ones too often, causing data to be lost. One of the prosecutors, Andrew Weissmann, has said in media interviews that the issue is overblown since the information was backed up.More recently, the national intelligence director, John Ratcliffe, a Trump loyalist, declassified what he said was Russian intelligence analysis even though he acknowledged the information might not be accurate.Meanwhile, Attorney General William Barr has appointed a prosecutor to investigate the origins of the Russia probe. That prosecutor, US Attorney John Durham of Connecticut, has secured a guilty plea from a former FBI lawyer for altering an email related to Page’s surveillance.Trump has demanded big-name indictments and called for the probe to be completed by Election Day. But it’s not clear when Durham will finish his work or what it will reveal.How is the Russia probe figuring in the presidential campaign?Even before it was released, the Mueller report was seen as potentially devastating to Trump, with its details about campaign ties to Russia and the president’s efforts to hinder the probe. Yet Democrats have hardly mentioned it. Leading in the polls, Democratic nominee Joe Biden has focused instead on Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic and the divisiveness of his presidency, issues that may be more likely to resonate with voters.Meanwhile, attacking the Russia probe is a core part of Trump’s campaign. Trump and his supporters have often mischaracterized the investigation, with Trump falsely claiming that President Barack Obama spied on his campaign. Vice President Mike Pence falsely suggested at a debate last week that the investigation had vindicated Trump.Those attacks on the Russia probe may not win over many undecided voters. But they could energize Trump’s base at a time when the campaign needs a strong turnout in crucial battleground states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-republicans-weaponize-russia-probe-to-hurt-biden-harris-chances/story-v1jUig7gvuLPEAdH152aUM.html
14-10-2020||World||Wildfire threat intensifying across California, say officials||Hot, dry conditions and intense winds across California are threatening to reinvigorate what has already been the worst fire season in state history, officials warned on Tuesday.Gusty winds in California’s north and extreme heat in its south are creating conditions that could fan wildfires that began earlier in the summer as well as spark new ones, leading state and federal authorities to urge residents to prepare.Also Read: Trump visits California, Biden talks climate change as wildfires take campaign focusThe National Weather Service issued a heat advisory for a wide swath of Southern California as temperatures topped 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius). The agency asked residents to exercise caution with any fire sources.The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire) said strong winds and low humidity could ramp up blazes in Northern California starting Wednesday.“While good progress has been made on a number of fires, this could hamper containment efforts,” Daniel Berlant, Cal Fire assistant deputy director, said on Twitter on Tuesday. “It means if a new fire breaks out, that that fire is going to be able to burn very rapidly.”Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E), which provides power to much of California, said Monday it was considering proactively shutting off power as soon as Wednesday to as many as 50,000 state residents to mitigate fire risk.Also Read: Search crews scour charred Oregon landscape, residents return to rubble as wildfires burnThis year, wildfires have burned over 4 million acres in California - twice the total of 2018 which had been the highest on record. Five of the six largest fires in state history were in 2020. Thirty-one people have died, and over 9,200 structures have been destroyed.Fall has tended to be California’s peak wildfire season, but state officials say the season is growing longer each year.Experts say droughts and climate change from fossil fuels have made poorly managed forests much more flammable, leading to extreme fire activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wildfire-threat-intensifying-across-california-say-officials/story-helXZ8qIQdhUyGCr8PvcOM.html
14-10-2020||World||US justice department sues author of ‘Melania and me’||The US Justice Department filed suit Tuesday against a former aide to Melania Trump over her tell-all book on the US first lady.The department said that Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, who published the book “Melania and Me” last month, had committed not to disclose information about President Donald Trump’s wife that was gleaned from her position as a White House volunteer.While Wolkoff, who worked on an unpaid basis for Melania during 2017-2018, was not a federal employee, the suit says she nevertheless signed an federally enforceable “contract” called a gratuitous services agreement.In that agreement, she was “specifically prohibited from publishing, reproducing or otherwise divulging any such information to any unauthorized person or entity in whole or in part.”She also was forbidden from profiting on what she learned in the White House, without the approval of White House lawyers, the suit said.“Melania and Me: The Rise and Fall of My Friendship With the First Lady,” purported to lift the veil off the 50-year-old ex-model of Slovenian origin who became the third wife of the real estate billionaire turned president.It portrays a much more active and decisive Melania than generally understood, and depicted her as a bitter rival of Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka, labelling her and her husband Jared Kushner as “snakes.”Wolkoff fell out with the Trumps over a scandal related to millions of dollars that went unaccounted for in the president’s inauguration in January 2017, which she helped organize.Earlier this year the attorney general of Washington sued Trump’s inaugural committee and the president’s Trump Organization business, alleging the Trump’s profited heavily on the events.Communications and records from Wolkoff are cited as evidence that contributed to the suit.The lawsuit says Wolkoff was not free from her obligations to submit the book to Melania Trump and White House lawyers after she stopped working there.While the Justice Department warned Wolkoff and her publisher Simon & Schuster in July of the possible violation of her agreement, it did not take action until after the book was published.The lawsuit seeks to seize all of Wolkoff’s profits from the book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-justice-department-sues-author-of-melania-and-me/story-1q06TArJzoJStBndUHD3wK.html
14-10-2020||World||Supreme Court halts 2020 census for now||The US Supreme Court on Tuesday has, for now, stopped the once-a-decade head count of every US resident from continuing through the end of October.President Donald Trump’s administration had asked the nation’s high court to suspend a district court’s order permitting the 2020 census to continue through the end of the month. The Trump administration argued that the head count needed to end immediately so the US Census Bureau had enough time to crunch the numbers before a congressionally mandated year-end deadline for turning in figures used for deciding how many congressional seats each state gets.A coalition of local governments and civil rights groups had sued the Trump administration, arguing that minorities and others in hard-to-count communities would be missed if the count ended early. They said the census schedule was cut short to accommodate a July order from Trump that would exclude people in the country illegally from the numbers used to decide how many congressional seats each state gets.The US Census Bureau says it has counted 99.9% of the households in the US during the 2020 census, but the nation’s largest statistical association, and even the bureau’s own census takers and partners, are raising questions about the quality of the data gathered for the nation’s once-a-decade head count.A shortened schedule, dropped quality control procedures, pending lawsuits and the outside politicization of some parts of the 2020 census have raised questions about the quality of the nation’s head count that need to be answered if the final numbers are going to be trusted, according to a report released Tuesday by the American Statistical Association.The report was written by a task force made up of three former Census Bureau directors, a former deputy director, a former chief scientist and a former chief demographer at the bureau, among others.“It’s not enough to complete an enumeration. It’s also important to count everyone in doing so,” said John Thompson, a former Census Bureau director who was on the task force.The Census Bureau has cited the high completion rate in its court battle against a coalition of local governments and civil rights groups that sued the statistical agency and the Commerce Department to stop the head count from ending Sept. 30.The coalition argued that ending the count early would cause minority communities to be overlooked, but the Trump administration said it needed to end the count to meet a Dec. 31 deadline for turning in numbers that decide how many congressional seat each state gets. US District Judge Lucy Koh ruled that the census can continue through Oct. 31, but the Trump administration has appealed to the US Supreme Court.Among the concerns highlighted in the report by the statisticians are the reliance on people other than those living in the household, such as a neighbor or landlord, in answering questions about the household; college students who left campuses and college towns during the pandemic; and the elimination of quality control checks that would catch computer errors.The report recommends that outside experts should be given access to the data to help analyze its quality before numbers are turned in for divvying up congressional seats. It also says that federal law governing the census should be evaluated to determine whether changes are needed to protect the independence and integrity of the Census Bureau and the once-a-decade head count.Concerns about the quality of the data also have been raised by census takers and partners in the field.Sheila Valenzuela, census director for the Gila River Indian Community in Arizona, said in court papers that she had been given misleading information from the Census Bureau’s Tucson office for weeks about how many households had been counted in her community. Last week, she was told that more than 101% of her community had been counted. Doubting that figure, she contacted the manager of the Tucson office, who revised the completion rate to 88%.The information she has been getting about her community’s response rates has been “unclear and conflicting,” she said.Census field supervisor Daniel Bachmann emailed Koh last weekend that his team of census takers in Ohio hadn’t been given work since the start of the month and he was directed to lay off census takers without giving a reason.“I also suspect that the 2020 count is going to be neither accurate nor complete,” Bachmann wrote.Besides deciding how many congressional seats each state gets, the census determines how $1.5 trillion in federal spending is distributed each year.Some indicators that will determine the quality of the census is the percentage of cases counted through proxies, or people other than those living in a household, as well as the rate of cases where administrative records are used to get information about households. The census questionnaire asks about a household members’ race, Hispanic origin, sex and the relationship of the people living in the home.The best quality answers come from people who have answered the questionnaire themselves either online, by mail or by phone since they are most knowledgeable about their household. Next-best is information coming from census takers who directly interview the occupants of the home during the door-knocking phase. Census takers turn to neighbors or landlords or administrative records for information only after they’ve failed to reach members of a household.During the door-knocking phase of the 2020 census, almost 24% of responses have been from interviews with neighbors or landlords or someone other than a person living in the household. That’s about the same rate as a decade ago during the last decennial census, Al Fontenot, an associate director at the Census Bureau, said in court papers.This is the first decennial census in which administrative records, such as IRS, Social Security and Medicare documents, are being used in large numbers to help fill in information gaps.Answers about households have come from administrative records in 13.9% of the homes during the door-knocking phase, Fontenot said.That’s only slightly higher than what the bureau projected before the start of the 2020 census. But Terri Ann Lowenthal, a former congressional staffer who specialized in census issues, worries that the reliance on administrative records will miss hard-to-count populations that are lacking records, such as undocumented residents and people experiencing housing insecurity.“It signals a worrisome indicator of data quality and accuracy,” Lowenthal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/supreme-court-halts-2020-census-for-now/story-pOrBi4MfVfU5w1ytob49QI.html
14-10-2020||World||Amy Coney Barrett cites ‘Ginsburg rule’ that Ginsburg didn’t follow||Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett invoked Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg at her Senate confirmation hearing Tuesday in refusing to discuss her view of gay rights and the Constitution.“Justice Ginsburg with her characteristic pithiness used this to describe how a nominee should comport herself at a hearing. No hints, no previews, no forecasts. That had been the practice of nominees before her. But everybody calls it the Ginsburg rule because she stated it so concisely,” Barrett said of the woman whose seat she would take if confirmed.It’s become a standard response by Republican high court nominees to recite Ginsburg’s words from her own confirmation hearing.Ginsburg, who died last month, did utter those words 27 years ago, saying “A judge sworn to decide impartially can offer no forecasts, no hints for that would show not only disregard for the specifics of the particular case, it would display disdain for the entire judicial process.”But she also said much more on a range of hotly debated issues, including abortion, that went well beyond the rule that bears her name.Here’s Ginsburg on abortion in 1993, shortly before the Senate voted 96-3 to confirm her: “The decision whether or not to bear a child is central to a woman’s life, to her well-being and dignity. It is a decision she must make for herself. When Government controls that decision for her, she is being treated as less than a fully adult human responsible for her own choices.”Barrett, who has signed ads opposing abortion and belonged to Notre Dame University’s Faculty for Life, has refused to answer senators’ questions on Roe v. Wade, the 1973 landmark Supreme Court ruling that declared a woman’s right to an abortion.Barrett’s nomination is on a fast track since her nomination by President Donald Trump just over two weeks ago. Trump and Senate Republicans have said they want her on the court before Election Day, Nov. 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amy-coney-barrett-cites-ginsburg-rule-that-ginsburg-didn-t-follow/story-vRZAu8NNaamfWfDyO8hFBJ.html
14-10-2020||World||Donald Trump lawyers ask Supreme Court to halt tax record turnover||President Donald Trump on Tuesday asked the Supreme Court to put on hold an appeals court ruling that Trump’s accountant must immediately turn over tax records to a New York state prosecutor, setting up a decision from the high court that could come before Election Day.The court could allow the immediate enforcement of a subpoena issued by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. or block it temporarily. Even if the court rules against Trump, however, the records would normally not be made public but turned over to Vance’s office.This is the second time the records issue has reached the high court. The court previously prevented the records from being turned over while the case proceeded.The justices in July rejected Trump’s argument that he is effectively immune from investigation while he holds office. Trump’s two Supreme Court nominees, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh, joined that decision.But the high court returned the Vance case and another, similar case involving records sought by Congress to lower courts to allow Trump’s attorneys to make additional arguments.In August, a district court judge rejected Trump’s attorneys’ renewed efforts to block Vance’s access to the records. And last week, the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan agreed, saying the records should be turned over. But the rulings have been on hold while the president’s attorneys appeal.Vance is seeking more than eight years of the Republican president’s personal and corporate tax records as part of an investigation his office is conducting. Part of that probe involves an investigation related to payoffs to two women — porn actress Stormy Daniels and model Karen McDougal — to keep them quiet during the 2016 presidential campaign about alleged extramarital affairs with Trump. Trump has denied the affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-lawyers-ask-supreme-court-to-halt-tax-record-turnover/story-RsgJOwWNOIXgknWzS00H3N.html
14-10-2020||World||Mark Zuckerberg donates $100 million more to help election offices||Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, on Tuesday donated an additional $100 million to helping local election offices prepare for November even as some conservatives are stepping up their efforts to stop the funds from being used.The contribution brings the total funding for the election from Zuckerberg and Chan to $400 million — the same amount that Congress allocated in March to help fund election offices as they dealt with the difficulties of adapting to new voting behavior during the coronavirus pandemic. Election experts had estimated it could cost $4 billion to make all the changes, but Senate Republicans never acted on a relief bill from the Democratic-controlled House that included $3.6 billion to help voting officials.Zuckerberg and Chan stepped into the gap initially in September, with a $300 million donation. That came after other donors had already been contributing to the nonprofit that is receiving most of the Facebook founder’s contributions, the Chicago-based Center for Technology and Civic Life.“We’ve seen massive interest in the Covid-19 Response Grant program over the last month from over 2,100 election officials who are seeking funding to ensure safe, health election options for voters in every corner of the country,” said Tiana Epps-Johnson, executive director of the Center for Technology and Civic Life.The money will pay for protective equipment to prevent spread of the coronavirus at polling sites, drive-thru voting locations, equipment to process mail ballots and more.The CTCL is respected by election administrators in both parties. But it was founded by former staffers of a Democratic technology firm, and late last week Louisiana’s Republican Attorney General, Jeff Landry, moved to block 26 offices in his state from taking $7.8 million in funds. Landry is also working on rewriting state law to bar such arrangements in the future.A Republican legal group late last week also announced it has filed lawsuits in nine swing states, including Iowa and Pennsylvania, against the donations.Phill Kline of the Thomas More Society’s Amistad Project in a statement last week announcing the litigation called the donations “an insidious, coordinated, and stealth campaign to manipulate this year’s elections.”Zuckerberg, in a post on Facebook, acknowledged the controversy. “Since our initial donation, there have been multiple lawsuits filed in an attempt to block these funds from being used, based on claims that the organizations receiving donations have a partisan agenda,” Zuckerberg wrote. “That’s false. These funds will serve communities throughout the country -- urban, rural and suburban – and are being allocated by non-partisan organizations.”Zuckerberg added that most election offices that applied have fewer than 25,000 registered voters in their jurisdictions. Some conservatives have criticized CTCL for donating to election offices in large Democratic-leaning cities in swing states. In a widely circulated video from President Donald Trump’s campaign, a campaign worker being expelled from an election office in Philadelphia — the recipient of an $8 million CTCL election grant — asks if it’s not a public place “because it’s being funded by the nonprofit?”Zuckerberg added: “I agree with those who say that government should have provided these funds, not private citizens. I hope that for future elections the government provides adequate funding. But absent that funding, I think it’s critical that this urgent need is met.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mark-zuckerberg-donates-100-million-more-to-help-election-offices/story-bDZLfUi6kpJPMUFnBpMsNI.html
14-10-2020||World||Indie bookstores launch anti-Amazon ‘Boxed Out’ campaign||With many independent bookstore owners facing the most dire financial crisis in their lifetimes, the American Booksellers Association has teamed with an award-winning advertising agency known for “culture hacking” to dramatize the threats of the pandemic and the growing dominance of Amazon.com.On Tuesday, the trade group launched the “Boxed Out” campaign, for which a handful of bookstores around the country will have windows boarded up and boxes piled up out front that resemble Amazon delivery containers, with one label reading “Don’t Accept Amazon’s Brave New World.” The beginning of what the booksellers association hopes will be a conversation in stores and online, “Boxed Out” was designed by DCX Growth Accelerator, a Brooklyn-based firm which attracted national attention in 2018 when it set up a fake “Palessi” luxury shoe store and stocked it with items from the Payless discount chain.“Boxed Out” coincides with Amazon Prime Day, when the online giant offers special deals to its members.“We’re hoping that people will understand the juxtaposition and support their local stores,” says booksellers association CEO Allison Hill.Independent booksellers had enjoyed a resurgence over the past decade after being devastated in the 20 previous years by the rise of the superstore chains Barnes & Noble and Borders, and then the emergence of Amazon. ABA membership, once more than 5,000, was down to just 1,401 in 2009 during the height of the Great Recession and was apparently set to keep declining as e-books began to catch on.But the digital revolution stalled, Borders went out of business and Barnes & Noble retreated after a long era of expansion. In 2019, the last time the ABA released yearly numbers, membership was up to 1,887, with some sellers even opening additional outlets. Hill’s predecessor, Oren Teicher, who retired at the end of 2019, received an honorary National Book Award earlier that year for his success in “working to strengthen and expand independent bookstores nationwide.”But the pandemic could wipe out all the gains since 2009. An ABA survey from this summer found that some 20 percent of members could go out of business, meaning hundreds of stores face closure, especially as government aid runs out. Meanwhile, the number of new independent stores opening has dropped sharply, according to the ABA, just 30 this year compared to 104 in 2019.While the overall market for books has been surprisingly solid in 2020, Amazon.com has apparently fared best as the public increasingly makes purchases online. According to a report issued last week by the antitrust subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee, “Amazon accounts for over half of all print book sales and over 80% of e-book sales” in the US market.Greenlight Bookstore in Brooklyn is among the participating stores in “Boxed Out.” Co-owner Jessica Stockton-Bagnulo says that sales have fallen this year by double digits after a decade of “steady growth.” Her store has risen from its “deepest trough” earlier this year, and has rehired some laid off workers, but Stockton-Bagnulo says Greenlight’s position is still “precarious.”“If shoppers could shift more of their purchasing away from Amazon to local businesses like ours ... it could make all the difference in allowing us to survive and thrive for years to come. We hope Boxed Out will have that effect,” she said.Hill said she and the booksellers association had been looking for a way to draw attention to what indies were going through and met with several agencies before deciding on DCX. Not all of DCX projects have had long-term impact. Payless, for instance, continued to struggle after the Palessi campaign, filed for bankruptcy in 2019 and closed all of its U.S. stores.Hill said she was more impressed by a campaign from 2015 on behalf of Jesse’s bodega in Brooklyn, near the headquarters of DCX. Owner Jesse Itayim faced eviction after the landlord sought a 250 percent rent hike, so DCX devised an “Artisanal Landlord Price Hike Sale” that featured exorbitant costs for such rebranded items as “Grass Fed Himalayan Tuna Salad.”Jesse’s held on another year before shutting down.“I just liked how they did it with a sense of humor,” Hill says of DCX. “I think things are different now and that we’re at the beginning of a sea change. I think people realize how fragile we are because of the pandemic, and my hope of this campaign is that it’s the beginning of a conversation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indie-bookstores-launch-anti-amazon-boxed-out-campaign/story-JIyUNL9S0wQQJ6dAMqOUSJ.html
14-10-2020||World||Russia threatens to halt dialogue with EU amid Navalny spat||Russia’s foreign minister warned Tuesday that Moscow could freeze its contacts with the European Union in response to its sanctions over the poisoning of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny — an unprecedented threat that reflects a bitter Russia-EU strain.The tough statement from Sergey Lavrov comes a day after the EU foreign ministers agreed to impose sanctions on Russian officials and organizations blamed for Navalny’s poisoning with a Soviet-era nerve agent.“We probably simply have to temporarily stop talking to those people in the West who are responsible for foreign policy and don’t understand the need for mutually respectful dialogue,” Lavrov said at a foreign policy conference attended by experts in Moscow.He specifically pointed at European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen’s recent statements ruling out a partnership with Russia, saying that scenario will play out if that’s what the EU wants.“Russia wants to understand whether it’s possible to do any business with the EU in the current conditions,” Lavrov added.At Monday’s meeting in Luxembourg, France and Germany urged their EU partners to freeze the assets of those suspected of involvement and ban them from traveling in Europe under sanctions to combat the use and spread of chemical weapons.EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell provided no details about who might face sanctions or when the measures might come into force, but said that technical work on preparing the action will now proceed.Navalny, an anti-corruption investigator and the most visible opponent of President Vladimir Putin, fell ill on Aug. 20 during a domestic flight in Russia. He was flown to Germany for treatment two days later and is still recovering there.Last week, tests conducted at labs designated by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons confirmed that the poison used on Navalny was a Novichok nerve agent. Navalny asserted that his poisoning only could have been ordered by spymasters who wouldn’t have made such decisions without Putin’s involvementThe Kremlin has rejected Navalny’s accusations as “absolutely groundless and unacceptable.”The Kremlin also reiterated that before Navalny’s transfer to Charite Hospital in Berlin, Russian labs and a hospital in the Siberian city of Omsk found no sign of a poisoning. Moscow has called for Germany and the OPCW to provide its evidence, and bristled at Western leaders’ insistence that Russia answer questions about what happened to the politician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-threatens-to-halt-dialogue-with-eu-amid-navalny-spat/story-vrAbtuISnlFjEdNIL9R3SK.html
14-10-2020||World||China and Russia win seats on UN rights council, Saudis lose||China, Russia and Cuba won seats on the UN’s premiere human rights body Tuesday despite opposition from activist groups over their abysmal human rights records, but another target, Saudi Arabia, lost.Russia and Cuba were running unopposed, but China and Saudi Arabia were in a five-way race in the only contested race for seats on the Human Rights Council.In that race, Pakistan received 169 votes, Uzbekistan 164, Nepal 150, China 139 and Saudi Arabia just 90 votes.Despite announced reform plans by Saudi Arabia, Human Rights Watch and others strongly opposed its candidacy saying the Middle East nation continues to target human rights defenders, dissidents and women’s rights activists and has demonstrated little accountability for past abuses, including the killing of Washington Post columnist and Saudi critic Jamal Khashoggi in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul two years ago.Under the Human Rights Council’s rules, seats are allocated to regions to ensure geographical representation.Except for the Asia-Pacific contest, the election of 15 members to the 47-member Human Rights Council was all but decided in advance because all the other regional groups had uncontested slates.Four countries won four Africa seats: Ivory Coast, Malawi, Gabon and Senegal. Russia and Ukraine won the two East European seats. In the Latin American and Caribbean group, Mexico, Cuba and Bolivia won the three open seats. And Britain and France won the two seats for the Western European and others group.“We need for states to have a choice,” said Louis Charbonneau, the U.N. director for Human Rights Watch. “They don’t want competition. ... Essentially these are backroom deals that are worked out among the regional groups.”“When states don’t have a choice, the worst candidates easily find their way on to the council,” he said at a briefing last week. “This is an unfortunate political reality, but we keep hammering the message that we need competition and a real election, not a fake election.”Last week, a coalition of human rights groups from Europe, the United States and Canada called on U.N. member states to oppose the election of China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Cuba, Pakistan and Uzbekistan, saying their human rights records make them “unqualified.”“Electing these dictatorships as U.N. judges on human rights is like making a gang of arsonists into the fire brigade,” said Hillel Neuer, executive director of UN Watch.The Geneva-based rights organization published a 30-page joint report with the Human Rights Foundation and the Raoul Wallenberg Center for Human Rights evaluating candidates for council seats. The report lists Bolivia, Ivory Coast, Nepal, Malawi, Mexico, Senegal and Ukraine as having “questionable” credentials due to problematic human rights and U.N. voting records that need improvement. It gave “qualified” ratings only to the United Kingdom and France.Human Rights Watch pointed to an unprecedented call by 50 U.N. experts on June 26 for “decisive measures to protect fundamental freedoms in China,” warning about its mass rights violations in Hong Kong and Tibet and against ethnic Uighurs in the Chinese province of Xinjiang as well as attacks on rights defenders, journalists, lawyers and government critics. Their call was echoed by over 400 civil society groups from more than 60 countries.The rights group said Russia’s military operations with the Syrian government “have deliberately or indiscriminately killed civilians and destroyed hospitals and other protected civilian infrastructure in violation of international humanitarian law,” and noted Russia’s veto of U.N. Security Council resolutions on Syria, including blocking Damascus’ referral to the International Criminal Court.The Geneva-based Human Rights Council can spotlight abuses and has special monitors watching certain countries and issues. It also periodically reviews human rights in every U.N. member country.Created in 2006 to replace a commission discredited because of some members’ poor rights records, the new council soon came to face similar criticism.The United States announced its withdrawal from the council in June 2018 partly because it considered the body a forum for hypocrisy about human rights, though also because Washington says the council is anti-Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-and-russia-win-seats-on-un-rights-council-saudis-lose/story-XH0BU0IHrCCiJXZ0q6ZVCN.html
