19-10-2020||World||Egypt says another trove of ancient coffins found in Saqqara||Egyptian archaeologists have unearthed another trove of ancient coffins in a vast necropolis south of Cairo, authorities said Monday.The Tourism and Antiquities Ministry said in a statement that archaeologists found the collection of colourful, sealed sarcophagi buried more than 2,500 years ago at the Saqqara necropolis.Mostafa Waziri, secretary general of the Supreme Council of Antiquities, said more than 80 coffins were found.Archaeologists also found colourful, gilded wooden statues, the ministry said. Details of the new discovery will be announced in a news conference at the famed Step Pyramid of Djoser, it said.Egypt has sought to publicize its archaeological finds in an effort to revive its key tourism sector, which was badly hit by the turmoil that followed the 2011 uprising. The sector was also dealt a further blow this year by the coronavirus pandemic.Prime Minister Mustafa Madbouly and Tourism and Antiquities Minister Khalid el-Anany toured the area and inspected the new discovery, which came just over two weeks after the ministry revealed 59 sealed sarcophagi, with mummies inside most of them, in the same area of Saqqara.The Saqqara site is part of the necropolis at Egypt’s ancient capital of Memphis that includes the famed Giza Pyramids, as well as smaller pyramids at Abu Sir, Dahshur and Abu Ruwaysh. The ruins of Memphis were designated a UNESCO World Heritage site in 1970s.The plateau hosts at least 11 pyramids, including the Step Pyramid, along with hundreds of tombs of ancient officials and other sites that range from the 1st Dynasty (2920-2770 B.C.) to the Coptic period (395-642).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-says-another-trove-of-ancient-coffins-found-in-saqqara/story-5ApkOB7fr5CxQvke2WX7tJ.html
19-10-2020||World||US charges six Russian intelligence agents over ‘destructive’ cyberattacks||The US charged six current and former members of Russia’s military intelligence agency for allegedly carrying out some of the world’s most destructive and sophisticated hacking attacks from 2015 to 2019, including knocking out Ukraine’s power grid and causing almost $1 billion in damages to three American companies alone.The hackers allegedly carried out attacks against the 2017 elections in France and the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympic Games, according to an indictment unsealed by the Justice Department on Monday.“Their computer attacks used some of the world’s most destructive malware to date,” the department said.“According to the indictment, beginning in or around November 2015 and continuing until at least in or around October 2019, the defendants and their co-conspirators deployed destructive malware and took other disruptive actions, for the strategic benefit of Russia, through unauthorized access to victim computers,” the department said.Also Read: Russia, China hackers boost election attacks, says MicrosoftThe hackers allegedly spread the NotPetya malware, which damaged computers used for critical infrastructure, including impairing the administration of medical services by a hospital system in Pennsylvania.“The attack caused the unavailability of patient lists, patient history, physical examination files, and laboratory records,” according to the department.None of the charges involved the current US presidential campaign, although the FBI and other agencies say Russia continues trying to interfere in US politics.“No country has weaponized its cyber capabilities as maliciously or irresponsibly as Russia, wantonly causing unprecedented damage to pursue small tactical advantages and to satisfy fits of spite,” Assistant Attorney General for National Security John C. Demers, said in the Justice Department statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-charges-six-russian-intelligence-agents-over-destructive-cyberattacks/story-JsSYXsJpBV9cViRHV0qVWN.html
19-10-2020||World||What is the China-Taiwan divide and US’ role in it?||According to defence observers cited by the South China Morning Post, the presence of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has been increasing in China’s Southeast coast as it prepares for a possible military invasion of Taiwan. Just in the past one month, a lot has happened with talks about China invading Taiwan and other military provocations; Washington’s help to Taipei and Beijing’s beefing up of coastal forces.A brief history of Taiwan Taiwan has enjoyed de-facto independence since the end of the civil war in 1949 in which the losing Kuomintang faction fled to Taiwan and its leader Chiang Kai-shek established a self-rule with hopes of retaking mainland China. But gradually in the late 1980s, Taiwan moved to becoming a democracy. The economy is highly export oriented and the per capita GDP is extremely high as well. Their excellent response to the coronavirus pandemic further improved their global status. Presidential election and Tsai Ing-WenIn presidential election held in January this year, Taiwanese voters re-elected incumbent president Tsai Ing-Wen in a landslide election with 57.13 per cent of the votes. This upset Beijing as Tsai defeated her opponent Han Kuo-yu whose party promotes closer ties with Beijing. This month, Time magazine put Tsai on its 100 most influential people list and after its Hong Kong dilemma, Beijing has been irked by the changes in Taipei with President Xi asserting that “reunifying” Taiwan with China is his focus even if force is required to do the same. Also Read: Chinese aggression, censorship brings India and Taiwan closer, says reportPresident Xi Jinping’s reasons for Taiwan pushGaining “lost” territory, reduced support among Taiwan’s public for China, rise of Hong Kong like pro-independence sentiment in Taiwan, wanting the world to recognise “One China” policy and Washington’s increasing ties with Taipei are all reasons for President Xi Jinping’s bellicose moves in Taiwan. US’ role in TaiwanThe US is Taiwan’s most important friend and ally even though in 1979 President Jimmy Carter ended diplomatic recognition of Taipei. Taiwan Relations Act passed by the US Congress promises to supply Taiwan with defensive weapons and any attack by China on the island is considered very serious by USA. For decades, the US has sold weapons to Taiwan and this week, the White House moved forward with drones and missile sales to Taipei. The increasing hostility between the US and China over the past years has resulted in Washington being closer to Taipei, thus playing a major role in the divide between Taiwan and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-the-china-taiwan-divide-and-us-role-in-it/story-blygr7f8vJMY8sJc2IqfKJ.html
19-10-2020||World||Dr Jajini Varghese, Indian-origin oncoplastic surgeon honored Outstanding Young Person 2020||Dr Jajini Varghese, a UK-based Indian-origin plastic surgeon, has been named an ‘Outstanding Young Person of the World 2020’ by a non-profit NGO for her “incredible” scientific contributions to diagnosing and treating breast cancer. The 39-year-old Consultant in Oncoplastic Breast Surgery at Royal Free Hospital and University College London is one of 10 nominations from the UK for the international award, which honours outstanding young people under the age of 40 every year from across 110 countries for extraordinary accomplishments in various fields. Varghese has been recognised in the “Medical Innovation” category for making it her personal mission to attempt to restore the lives of millions of women affected by breast cancer and will be presented with the award at a ceremony at the 2020 Junior Chamber International (JCI) World Congress in Yokohama, Japan, in early November “Cancer will not defeat. We aim to restore people and lives. I can only search for the answers and heal the external scars but ultimately only God can heal the mutilations caused by breast cancer,” said Varghese. “I am only an ordinary individual with an extraordinary urge to succeed and to alleviate suffering. I count excellence as the eventual result of a continual striving to do better. I count myself fortunate to be healthy, to love what I do and to be able to help others,” she said. Based in London with her husband and two children, the young surgeon traces her roots to Muttom Haripad in Kerala where her parents George and Jolly Varghese live. In the UK, she is a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons in Plastic Surgery (FRCS) and a Member of the Royal College of Surgeons (MRCS). She is also on the Board of Examiners for the MSc in Plastic Surgery at University College London (UCL). After graduating with a first class in medicine from India, Varghese became one of the few doctors to be awarded the Cambridge Commonwealth Full Scholarship to the University of Cambridge to complete her MPhil and PhD on the “Genetics of Breast Cancer”. Thereafter, her research has been to identify susceptible women with high breast density and to find out their genes associated with breast cancer. This led to the discovery of the ZNF 365 gene, associated with breast cancer, in collaboration with Harvard University and the Mayo Clinic, which was published in several academic journals including ‘Nature Genetics’. This genetic mutation, which confers a higher risk in the carriers, is now used in microarrays worldwide to identify women with a genetic predisposition for early detection, prevention and prophylactic treatment of breast cancer. JCI, a global leadership organisation which provides personal and professional development opportunities to young leaders aged 18 to 40, praised Varghese for adopting strategies to prevent breast cancer by offering early screening for women in developing countries. “With medical advances, many women live beyond the initial diagnosis of breast cancer. Her current work focuses on providing women as normal a body as possible following this procedure through extensive reconstructive oncoplastic surgery,” JCI notes. Varghese’s work has won her other awards, including the top prize at the Association of Breast Surgery Conference and UK Radiology International Congress. The medic refers to herself as “a timid woman of small stature” in quite a male-dominated arena of plastic surgery. She currently lectures on the UCL Athena Programme, encouraging women to take up a surgical career, and has mentored several doctors to hold leadership roles in their chosen fields. “Availability of health care should be a universal and a basic right,” she said. To address the need for doctors in rural areas of India, Varghese was instrumental in setting up EMET Scholarships in India 17 years ago, offering help for Indian medical students who at the end of their education are asked to spend up to two years in an area of India lacking medical care. During her free time, she is a trained Indian classical dancer and painter and has been recognised in those fields too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dr-jajini-varghese-indian-origin-oncoplastic-surgeon-honored-outstanding-young-person-2020/story-9gHAX1ink6gYNy1m42HDYO.html
19-10-2020||World||Virgin Atlantic to start flights to Manchester from Mumbai, Delhi||British premier carrier Virgin Atlantic, which had announced the launch of flight services from India to Manchester, which has a sizable population of Indian origin people, will start from October 20. Virgin Atlantic is delighted to announce it will be launching services from Delhi and Mumbai to Manchester as the airline ramps up flying from its home in the north of England, a release said. Flying three times a week from Mumbai to Manchester, beginning in December, and twice weekly from Delhi, starting in January, these new services will go on sale from October 20 and will complement the airline’s existing services from Mumbai and Delhi to London Heathrow, it said. The airline will operate one of its newest and fuel efficient aircraft, the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, on these new routes, the release added. Erstwhile carrier Jet Airways used to fly to Manchester, the UK’s third-largest airport by passenger volume, connecting Mumbai with the northwest city of England. However, since its collapse in April 2019, the destination remains untapped from India. Besides flying passengers, Virgin Atlantic will also offer a fast cargo service presenting new opportunities for companies looking to export and import goods such as fresh produce, pharmaceuticals and textiles between prime markets in the UK, US and India, the airline stated in the release. “We’re delighted to launch new flying from our home in the north in Manchester. India boasts the largest foreign-born population in the UK and we’re anticipating that post Covid-19, the demand to travel home to visit loved ones will increase,” Virgin Atlantic Chief Commercial Officer Juha Jarvinen said. Following the relaunch of services from Heathrow to Mumbai and Delhi in September, these new services from Manchester represent Virgin Atlantic’s continued investment in India, he added. With over 16 million Indians living outside the country and 5,00,000 living across the north of England, India has the world’s largest diaspora, Virgin Atlantic said. “We are excited to welcome passengers onboard Virgin Atlantic services from Delhi and Mumbai to Manchester for the very first time. Manchester is our home in the north of England and is positioned as a fantastic hub for onward travel,” said Alex McEwan, Country Manager for India at Virgin Atlantic. These new services will open up over 1,30,000 seats between India and Manchester and the airline aims to respond to the large, fast-growing demand to visit friends and relatives as well as capturing demand for business and leisure travel to the region as global economies gradually recover from the impact of Covid-19 pandemic, Virgin Atlantic said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virgin-atlantic-to-start-flights-to-manchester-from-mumbai-delhi-tomorrow/story-bB5ckVzkWWp3qiKYbP5mKO.html
19-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Florida begins early voting, no major problems reported||Floridians began early voting in much of the state Monday with no serious problems reported as the Trump campaign tries to cut into an early advantage Democrats have posted in mail-in votes in the key swing state.Many polling sites had long lines before dawn as voters awaited their opening. One county had to close an early voting sites after the elections supervisor and an employee tested positive for the coronavirus and another county had its website go down.In Miami, Aldo Rodriguez, 62, lined up early and waited in heavy rain to cast his ballot for Democrat Joe Biden over President Donald Trump. He said he wanted to make sure his ballot for the former vice president gets counted.Biden “knows pretty much how the country was running and hopefully he’ll get it back the same way it was,” Rodriguez said. “No fighting against any colors or races, we are all the same. ...We shouldn’t have this bickering.”In Orlando, some voters cast their ballots at the arena used by the NBA’s Magic, where coach Steve Clifford assisted poll workers. The NHL’s Tampa Bay Lightning’s arena and the NFL’s Tampa Buccaneers stadium are also being used as early voting sites as sports teams around the country have been encouraging turn out.“I felt like I was a player. I just had to make the right decisions,” said Anton Versch, 30, after he cast his ballot for Trump. Versch, who works in the pharmaceutical industry, said his main issue is “freedom,” particularly of speech and the right to bear arms.“We should be able to do the most that we are allowed to do, as long as we aren’t infringing on anybody’s rights or liberties,” Versch said.With 29 electoral votes, Florida is crucial to both candidates but especially Trump, who moved his official residence to his Palm Beach estate Mar-a-Lago from New York last year. A Florida loss would make it nearly impossible for Trump to reach the 270 electoral votes needed to retain the White House. The state typically has close elections, most notably in 2000 when Republican George W. Bush defeated Al Gore by 537 votes after a recount.California Sen. Kamala Harris, the Democratic vice presidential candidate, will visit Orlando and Jacksonville on Monday to encourage her party’s voters to cast early ballots. Trump will visit Florida on Friday after visiting last week.Under state law, counties can offer up to two weeks of early voting and many do, including Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach and other population centers. Large counties offer multiple sites and all counties allow those who have received mail-in ballots to drop them off. The latest a county can start early voting is Saturday. The final day is Nov. 1.About 2.5 million mail-in ballots have already been cast, with Democrats returning 1.2 million and Republicans about 758,000 as of Monday. Non-affiliated voters and third-party members make up the rest. The number of mail-in votes is approaching the 2.7 million cast in 2016 when Republicans had a 70,000-vote margin on returns. Trump defeated Hillary Clinton in the state by about 113,000 votes. No Republican has won the presidency without winning Florida since Calvin Coolidge in 1924.Florida Republicans say they aren’t worried about the mail-in gap, believing any advantage Biden gets will be swamped by Trump supporters casting in-person ballots starting this week and on Election Day. They believe Democrats are “cannibalizing” their own votes — moving in-person voters to mail-in without increasing their overall support. They point to their increased voter registration, which narrowed the Democrats’ lead to 134,000, down 327,000 four years ago.Political strategist Steve Schale, who runs the pro-Biden super PAC “Unite The Country,” said Monday that Democrats shouldn’t get comfortable.“Republicans are going to get their vote out,” he said.While Florida Republicans have historically outperformed Democrats in mail-in voting, Schale said Trump’s criticism of the practice has crippled his party’s Florida mail-in effort — even though he has praised his adopted home state’s system.“Trump basically decided to take a match and just torch 20 years of Republican work down here,” he said.In Orange County, the home of Orlando, the elections supervisor’s website was unavailable Monday morning because of a problem with its domain. Supervisor Bill Cowles said there was no issue with hacking, and it didn’t impact voting.In the Panhandle, Okaloosa County Elections Supervisor Paul Lux announced that he and an employee had tested positive for the coronavirus. That resulted in the closure of the early voting site at the county’s main office, but four other sites remained open. The Republican-dominated county has approximately 150,000 voters.___AP reporters Mike Schneider in Orlando and Brendan Farrington in Tallahassee and photographers Lynne Sladky and Marta Lavandier in Miami contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-florida-begins-early-voting-no-major-problems-reported/story-vjjz0vDYOFgMv0hVvcoVFK.html
19-10-2020||World||US election 2020: Economy, unemployment and the impact on polls||America has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic. Being the worst-hit country, its economy has taken a plunge. Though some experts have predicted its revival, one of the major indicators - unemployment rate - has many in the US alarmed. The US unemployment rate dropped to 7.9 per cent in early October. According to the country’s Labour Department, employers added just 661,000 jobs in September down from 1.5 million in August and 1.8 million in July. The number of Americans filing new applications for unemployment benefits has reached 898,000. In contrast, China’s economy is recovering with 4.9 per cent growth between July and September and it is now leading the global recovery post the coronavirus pandemic. So what exactly is happening in United State’s economy and how could this impact the upcoming presidential elections?What is happening in America’s economy?The US economy is showing signs of a significant slowdown with experts saying that the recovery is reaching a “plateau”. Monthly job gains, consumer spending and factory output are decreasing overall. As US’ coronavirus numbers continue to rise, experts believe that it will be difficult to manage the economic slowdown. While the lockdown imposed due to the pandemic has been lifted in some states, many services like travel, live entertainment and indoor dining are still functioning with a very limited capacity. Moreover, consumer spending habits have also changed due to the pandemic and job recovery depends highly on the increase in demand for goods and services. Experts believe that the initial expectation of a V-shaped recovery is far-fetched for now as its rate is very slow. The recovery is also said to be very uneven, the result being that billionaires like Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg have continued to thrive despite the pandemic. What is President Trump’s response to the economy?The current unemployment numbers are the worst job losses that any American President has faced in an election year since the Second World War. From the beginning of his presidency, President Trump has touted the US economy in various speeches and tweets and on the campaign trail as well he continues to talk about a V-shaped recovery in the economy. A new stimulus bill is also impending with President Trump proposing a $1.8 trillion relief package. What is Joe Biden’s response to the economy?Former Vice President and Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden is continuously talking about the impact of unemployment on poor Americans and is focussing on increasing the existing social programmes as his solution to the economic slowdown. His strategy to improve the economy, if he becomes the President, is through the ‘Build Back Better’ plan focussed on the New Deal which promises to create clean jobs via infrastructure and clean energy improvements.Will the economy be a major issue for the 2020 presidential election? Yes, economy is a major issue for the 2020 presidential election and the contrasting positions of the presidential candidates are of interest to the voters which is exactly why Biden has continued to target President Trump on the economy. In 1992, campaign strategist James Carville coined the phrase “It’s the economy, stupid” and this shaped Bill Clinton’s victory in the elections. Thus, the economy could end up being a major factor on which voters pick their President on November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-economy-unemployment-and-the-impact-on-polls/story-MoJ3eOib9LZX07eQqnqv1L.html
19-10-2020||World||Brazil’s relations with the US at their best ever, says Jair Bolsonaro||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro said on Monday Brazil’s relations with the United States are at their best moment ever and announced three trade facilitation agreements to ensure good business practices and to stop corruption.“This triple package will be able to slash red tape and bring about even more growth to our bilateral trade with beneficial results for the flow of investments as well,” Bolsonaro said at a virtual summit organized by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, at the same conference, said Brazil was getting closer to joining the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) grouping rich nations with the support of the United States.“We want this to happen as quickly as we can,” he said.Pompeo said the US Export-Import Bank would back projects valued at $450 million in Brazil this year, while the US Development Finance Corp had plans involving about $1 billion in projects there.Pompeo underscored the importance of expanding US-Brazilian economic ties, given what he called “enormous risk” stemming from the significant participation of China in the Brazilian and US economies.“To the extent we can find ways that we can increase the trade between our two countries, we can ... decrease each of our two nations’ dependence for critical items” coming from China, he said.“Each of our two peoples will be more secure, and each of our two nations will be far more prosperous, whether that’s two or five or 10 years from now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-s-relations-with-the-us-at-their-best-ever-says-jair-bolsonaro/story-pSbR0aMDpjrf4aLFYXFWxH.html
19-10-2020||World||John Oliver now has a sewage plant named after him||Comedian John Oliver made a secret trip to Connecticut last week to help cut the ribbon on a sign naming a sewage treatment plant in his honor.Danbury’s City Council voted earlier this month to rename the sewage plant “The John Oliver Memorial Sewer Plant,” following a tongue-in-cheek battle that began with an expletive-filled rant against the city on HBO’s “Last Week Tonight with John Oliver” in August.Mayor Mark Boughton responded to the attack by posting a video of himself at the sewage plant saying the city was going to name it after Oliver “because it’s full of crap just like you, John.”Oliver offered to donate $55,000 to local charities if Danbury actually followed through with the idea.Oliver shared a video of the ribbon-cutting on his show Sunday. During the ceremony, he wore a homemade protective suit, which appeared to be made from a white plastic trash bag, with rubber gloves and a see-through plastic helmet.“This place takes the worst that humanity can produce, and transforms it into something that we can live with,” Oliver said. “And now more than ever, there’s something inspirational in that, because at the end of this awful, awful year, what could be more important than evidence that, if we want to, we can come together, overcome our differences and sort our s—- out.”Boughton said Oliver’s promised donations have helped spur local fundraising efforts for area food banks that could end up collecting hundreds of thousands of dollars to feed needy families.He said the ceremony was kept private as a public health precaution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/john-oliver-now-has-a-sewage-plant-named-after-him/story-tM4VJpw8mXwZOMzeMS4fMN.html
19-10-2020||World||French police operations underway after beheading of teacher||France’s interior minister said Monday that police operations are underway into dozens of people who allegedly issued messages of support for the attacker after the beheading of a history teacher near Paris.Gerald Darmanin said on French radio Europe 1 that at least 80 cases of hate speech have been reported since Friday’s attack.Samuel Paty was beheaded in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, northwest of Paris, by a 18-year-old Moscow-born Chechen refugee, who was later shot dead by police. Police officials said Paty had discussed caricatures of Islam’s Prophet Muhammad with his class, leading to threats.French President Emmanuel Macron held a defense council on Sunday at the Elysee presidential palace. The government will reinforce security at schools when classes resume on Nov. 2 after two weeks of holidays, Macron’s office said.French President Emmanuel Macron met with Paty’s family on Monday morning, the French presidency said.Macron will also meet with the members of France’s leading Muslim organization, the French Muslim Council, or CFCM, later in the day.A national homage is to be held for Paty on Wednesday.Players, coaches and referees at high-level soccer matches this weekend will wear a black armband in a tribute to Paty. The French league said in a statement Monday that a minute of silence will be observed before kick-off at all professional matches in leagues 1 and 2.Tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered on Sunday across France in support of freedom of speech and in memory of the slain 47-year-old teacher.French authorities said they detained 11 people following the killing.Darmanin said they include the father of a student and an Islamist activist who both “obviously launched a fatwa,” or religious ruling, against the teacher.A man who said he was the father of a student had posted a video on social media asserting that Paty had shown an image of a naked man and told students it was “the prophet of the Muslims.” He called on other angry parents to contact him, and relay the message.Darmanin said authorities were also looking into about 50 associations suspected of encouraging hate speech. Some will be dissolved, he said.The president of the Conference of imams in France, Hassen Chalghoumi, said “we are hurt, we are condemning this barbaric act,” on French news broadcaster BFM TV. “Samuel is a martyr of freedom.”“Barbarism has no place in schools nor elsewhere in France,” he said.Chalghoumi, who is an imam in Drancy, a suburb northeast of Paris, said he had received death threats and insults on social media from radical Islamists in recent days.Justice authorities opened an investigation for murder with a suspected terrorist motive. At least four of those detained are family members of the attacker, who had been granted 10-year residency in France as a refugee in March. He was armed with a knife and an airsoft gun, which fires plastic pellets.Anti-terrorism prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard said a text claiming responsibility and a photograph of the victim were found on the attacker’s phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-police-operations-underway-after-beheading-of-teacher/story-PNnL7gZJYbh6tL5muixMqJ.html
19-10-2020||World||Thai authorities seek to censor coverage of student protests||Thai authorities worked Monday to stem a growing tide of protests calling for the prime minister to resign by threatening to censor news coverage, raiding a publishing house and attempting to block the Telegram messaging app used by demonstrators.The efforts by Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha’s government to drain the student-led protests of support and the ability to organize comes as they have grown in the capital and spread around the country, despite an emergency decree, which bans public gatherings of more than four people in Bangkok, outlaws news said to affect national security and gives authorities broad power to detain people.The mostly young protesters have gathered en masse across Bangkok the past six days to push their demands, which also include a controversial call for reform of the monarchy.The protesters charge that Prayuth, an army commander who led a 2014 coup, was returned to power unfairly in last year’s general election because laws had been changed to favor a pro-military party. The protesters say a constitution written and passed under military rule is undemocratic.But their more recent demand for checks and balances on the monarchy has deeply angered conservative Thais — and broken a taboo since the monarchy is considered sacrosanct and tough laws protect it from insult. It has also raised the risk of confrontation in a country where calls for political change have a history of being met with military intervention or even violence.Authorities are now increasingly turning to censorship to try to clamp down on the demonstrations after protesters heckled a royal motorcade last week in a once unthinkable scene.With protesters starting to gather for three new rallies in Bangkok on Monday evening, a top official with the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission confirmed reports that the agency had been ordered to block access to the messaging app Telegram. Suthisak Tantayothin said it was in the process of talking with internet service providers to discuss doing so, but so far the encrypted messaging app favored by demonstrators the world over was still available in the country.Police also searched the office of a publishing house that handles books by Thai and foreign scholars with sometimes controversial perspectives. Same Sky publishing house said police took away copies of three titles that had been sold at a recent book fair in a bundle it called Monarchy Studies, and asked their publisher to come for questioning at their station.Deputy police spokesman Kissana Phataracharoen also confirmed an order signed by the chief of police that could allow officials to block access to news sites that give what he called “distorted information.”Under existing laws, the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission and the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society are empowered to ban broadcasts and block internet content. Police themselves can also do so under the emergency decree, which went into effect October 15.Kissana spoke after a leaked copy of the censorship request circulated on social media. The order calls for blocking access to the online sites of Voice TV, The Reporters, The Standard, Prachatai, and Free Youth, and removing their existing content. It also proposes a ban on Voice TV’s over-the-air digital broadcasts.All the outlets have been broadcasting live coverage of the protests. Voice TV and Prachatai are openly sympathetic to the protest movement, and Free Youth is a student protest organization. As of Monday, none had been blocked. At least one local cable TV provider, however, has been censoring international news broadcasts during their segments on the Thai protests.The Foreign Correspondents Club of Thailand said it was “deeply concerned” by the censorship threat, adding that it “makes the government appear heavy-handed and unresponsive to criticism, and could stir up even more public anger.”“Bona fide journalists should be allowed to report important developments without the threat of bans, suspensions, censorship or prosecution hanging over them,” the club said in a statement.Despite the spread of protests outside the capital, Prayuth, the prime minister, told reporters the state of emergency will remain only in Bangkok for now.In addition the emergency decree making protests illegal, authorities have also tried in vain to keep people from gathering by selectively shutting down stations on Bangkok’s mass transit lines. It has also warned that it will take legal action against those who promote the protests on social media, including by taking photographs there or checking into them on social media apps.Despite that, protest-related hashtags remain the most used on Twitter.Prayuth said Monday that the government is open to an extraordinary session of Parliament to seek a solution to the current situation. It was not clear when that might be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thai-authorities-seek-to-censor-coverage-of-student-protests/story-jly1jSXW9WfeBikaZ7N3MP.html
19-10-2020||World||Pak oppn claims police chief was ‘kidnapped’, made to order arrest of Nawaz Sharif’s son-in-law||The Pakistan opposition is crying foul over the ‘arrest’ of former premier Nawaz Sharif’s son-in-law, saying a provincial police chief was kidnapped by paramilitary forces and made to register cases against him and 200 others.Muhammad Safdar Awan, the husband of Maryam Nawaz, Sharif’s daughter and vice-president of his PML-N party, was arrested hours after she took part in the second major rally of the newly-formed joint opposition front Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) in Karachi on Sunday night.Maryam tweeted on Monday morning: “Police broke my room door at the hotel I was staying at in Karachi and arrested Capt Safdar.” The retired captain and 200 others including Maryam were reportedly booked for sloganeering inside the mausoleum of Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah a day earlier, and thus violating its sanctity.Later on Monday, PDM leaders claimed at a press conference in the Sindh capital that the province’s Inspector General (IG) of Police Mushtaq Ahmed Mahar was kidnapped by the paramilitary Rangers Force along with his deputies and forced to order the arrest of Safdar.The Rangers swung into action after the provincial government refused to bow to pressure from the Imran Khan government to take action against Safdar, they claimed.PDM chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman told the media that police then broke into the hotel room of Maryam Nawaz and took away her husband. Prominent journalist Hamid Mir also tweeted: “Unfortunate incident. Sindh Govt informed PML-N leader Muhammad Zubair that IG Sindh was kidnapped by Rangers at 4 in the morning he was brought in sector commander’s office where addnl IG was already present and were forced to issue the orders for the arrest of Cpt Rtd Safdar”.Ali Zaidi, maritime affairs minister in Khan’s government and a Karachi native, rejected the opposition’s allegations as “nonsense”.“If this is true then CM Sindh must fire IG Sindh or resign himself as his orders were followed,” he tweeted.So far, no announcement has been made by the government regarding Safdar’s arrest.Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), had hosted Sunday’s protest rally. The police action reportedly came after Khurram Sherzaman, a member of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Party, lodged complaints against Maryam and Safdar at a police station in Karachi.PTI leaders were reportedly angered by “slogans raised at the mausoleum” targeting Khan’s administration. Video clips circulating on social media apparently showed Safdar and several others chanting slogans against Pakistan’s government and its military leadership, from the inner circle of the mausoleum.Political activities are banned inside the mausoleum and its immediate surroundings.Earlier on Sunday, Maryam, Safdar and PML-N supporters had visited the mausoleum to offer prayers ahead of the PDM’s rally that was held in Karachi’s Jinnah ground, located near the mausoleum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-oppn-claims-police-chief-was-kidnapped-made-to-order-arrest-of-nawaz-sharif-s-son-in-law/story-z79lCQ8lumGvHKPhWKV4WN.html
19-10-2020||World||Nawaz Sharif’s son-in-law arrested in Pakistan||Opposition Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz’s vice-president Maryam Nawaz on Monday alleged that the police barged into her hotel room in Karachi and arrested her husband and deposed prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s son-in-law Capt (retd) Muhammad Safdar.“Police broke my room door at the hotel I was staying at in Karachi and arrested Capt Safdar,” said Maryam, who addressed a large anti-government rally in the port city on Sunday.She said she was asleep when the police “barged in” her hotel room where he was staying with her husband.Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) minister Ali Zaidi, however, refuted her claim, saying “Maryam (is) once again lying that the hotel door was broken.” Safdar, who is being kept at the Aziz Bhatti police station, was arrested a day after he raised slogans at the Quaid’s (Pakistan’s founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah) mausoleum before the second rally of Pakistan Democratic Movement’s (PDM) – an alliance of 11 opposition parties.It is expected that Safdar will be presented before a court.The arrest comes after a first information report (FIR) was registered against Maryam, Safdar and 200 others for violating the sanctity of the Quaid’s mausoleum, Dawn news reported.The complainant, Waqas Ahmed, alleged that the PML-N leaders, along with 200 of their followers, reached the Quaid’s grave where Safdar jumped over the grill surrounding it.The complainant said that he tried to stop him from doing so but Safdar “got out of control” and started threatening him and his fellows that he would kill them, according to the report.Safdar later damaged government property before leaving the site with his followers, it alleged.“My complaint is that Safdar and his cohort violated the sanctity of the Quaid’s mausoleum and his grave. A case [should be] registered against him for raising political slogans inside the mausoleum complex, death threats against me and for damaging government property,” according to the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nawaz-sharif-s-son-in-law-arrested-in-pakistan/story-laAX7QUR0kedCpa7OVOyoI.html
19-10-2020||World||Taiwan Diplomat Hurt in Scuffle With China Officials in Fiji||Chinese diplomats injured one of their Taiwanese counterparts during a scuffle in the South Pacific earlier this month, a senior Taiwanese official said, highlighting rising concerns over Beijing’s aggressive “wolf warrior” diplomacy.Two uninvited diplomats from the Chinese embassy in Fiji were asked to leave an event celebrating Taiwan’s national day in Suva on Oct. 8 after they were seen photographing other guests, Taiwan’s Deputy Foreign Minister Harry Tseng told lawmakers in Taipei on Monday.When confronted by Taiwanese officials, the Chinese diplomats initiated a physical confrontation, leaving one staff member from the Taiwanese representative office in Fiji needing hospital treatment for a head injury, Tseng said.Taiwan’s Foreign Ministry condemned what it called “provocative wolf warrior diplomacy” as a violation of rule of law and civilized behavior, a reference to Chinese diplomats who have taken an increasingly assertive stance on social media in advocating for Beijing’s policies. A ministry spokesperson told Bloomberg News by text that the injury was a “mild concussion.”“We strongly condemn the violence against our diplomat in Fiji by China’s uncivilized ‘wolf warriors,’” Taiwanese Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said on Twitter. “Taiwan is a force for good in the world & we won’t be intimidated.Diplomatic FightChina Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Monday that the allegations had “no facts” and that Taiwan was “playing victim here.”“Any attempt to sow discord between China and Pacific Island countries using the Taiwan issue will not succeed,” he told a daily briefing in Beijing.The Chinese embassy in Fiji said in an earlier statement that a Chinese diplomat had been injured when staffers from the Taipei Trade Office in Fiji “acted provocatively,” and asked local police to investigate.Taiwan’s Foreign Ministry objected to China’s “untrue statement” about the incident, saying it was an attempt to “muddy the issue.”“We can’t let China bully its way into doing whatever it wants,” Taiwanese lawmaker Wang Ting-yu tweeted. “Our diplomats in Fiji have my full support.”Diplomatic BattlegroundThe incident in Fiji is particularly sensitive as the Pacific is one of the major battlegrounds for diplomatic influence between Beijing and Taipei. After the Solomon Islands and Kiribati switched ties to China in quick succession in 2019, the U.S. stepped in to shore up support for Taiwan in the region, urging Taipei’s last four remaining allies not to follow suit.While governments around the world are becoming increasingly concerned about China’s more strident approach to diplomacy, Taiwan has long been on the receiving end of it. China’s Communist Party -- which claims the democratic island as part of its territory despite never having ruled it -- has steadily increased its diplomatic and military pressure on Taipei.Aircraft from China’s People’s Liberation Army repeatedly encroached into Taiwan’s Air Defense Identification Zone in recent months, twice crossing the median line of the Taiwan Strait -- which for decades stood as a tacit border between the two sides. China has also steadily whittled away formal recognition of Taiwan in the international arena, leaving Taipei with just 15 official allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-diplomat-hurt-in-scuffle-with-china-officials-in-fiji/story-hq3Ai95uritlhbNz4NjSnN.html
19-10-2020||World||UK church leaders warn Boris Johnson govt over key Brexit bill||Five influential leaders of the UK’s Anglican churches on Monday warned the Boris Johnson government that a new Brexit bill currently going through parliament would set a “disastrous precedent” since it would allow ministers to break international law.The controversial Internal Market Bill could not only violate the Withdrawal Agreement signed by the Johnson government with Brussels last year, but also strain trading relationships between the four constituents of the UK: England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.Interventions by leaders of the Church of England on pressing issues of the day are influential, given the context of the long history of the relationship between the church and UK parliament. The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Archbishop of York, the bishops of London, Durham and Winchester and 21 other bishops sit in the House of Lords.The bill was passed in the House of Commons in September and was due to be debated in the House of Lords on Monday. The government defended the bill on the ground that it is needed as a ‘safety net’ in the post-Brexit trade arrangements.The five leaders wrote to Financial Times: “We are taking the rare step of writing together because the decisions implemented in this bill will profoundly affect the future of our countries and the relationships between them.” “The bill represents a profound shift in how trading relationships within the UK will be regulated and governed…The bill is, of course, not just concerned with domestic law. It currently asks the country’s highest lawmaking body to equip a government minister to break international law”. They added: “This has enormous moral, as well as political and legal, consequences. We believe this would create a disastrous precedent. It is particularly disturbing for all of us who feel a sense of duty and responsibility to the Good Friday (Belfast) Agreement — that international treaty on which peace and stability within and between the UK and Ireland depends.” The letter was published ahead of the UK’s complete exit from the European Union on December 31, with little prospect of a trade deal in the post-Brexit future. Preparations for Brexit have added to the challenges of the government grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic.The church leaders added: “The UK negotiated the Northern Ireland Protocol with the EU to ‘protect the 1998 Agreement in all its dimensions’. One year on, in this bill, the UK government is not only preparing to break the protocol, but also to breach a fundamental tenet of the agreement: namely by limiting the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights in Northern Ireland law.” “If carefully negotiated terms are not honoured and laws can be ‘legally’ broken, on what foundations does our democracy stand? We urge lawmakers to consider this bill in the light of values and principles we would wish to characterise relationships across these islands long after the transition period”. The letter was signed by John McDowell, Archbishop of Armagh, Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury, Mark Strange, Primus of the Scottish Episcopal Church, John Davies, Archbishop of Wales, and Stephen Cottrell, Archbishop of York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-church-leaders-warn-boris-johnson-govt-over-key-brexit-bill/story-l6GaD6kpEtq3YTdz4ioueJ.html
19-10-2020||World||Two-week lockdown in Wales from Friday as UK cases surge||The Wales government announced a two-week ‘short, sharp’ lockdown from Friday to break the cycle of transmission of Covid-19, as the number of new cases continued to surge in the UK and other European countries.Calling it a ‘firebreak’, first minister of the Labour-led Welsh government, Mark Drakeford, announced on Monday that for the two weeks, everyone will need to stay at home. All businesses will be shut. The only exceptions would be workers engaged in critical services. As of Sunday evening, the UK recorded 16,982 new cases–more thrice the daily peaks in April and May–and 67 deaths. Overall, there have been 57,690 deaths and 722,049 cases in the country.Calling the lockdown a ‘short sharp shock’, Drakeford said: “There no easy choice in front of us as the virus spreads rapidly in every part of Wales. If we do not act now, it will continue to accelerate. Most starkly of all, even more people will die from this deadly virus.”Wales has already banned people from parts of England currently in Tier 2 and Tier 3 alert levels from entering. Liverpool and areas around Leicester are currently under the highest Tier 3 alert level, with Greater Manchester expected to follow due to surge in new cases.Manchester mayor, Labour politician Andy Burnham, has resisted attempts by the central government in London to place the area under Tier 3, which would involve closing businesses and adding to the economic woes of the region. He has demanded more financial support.Communities secretary Robert Jenrick said on the Manchester impasse: “Delay I’m afraid will only make the situation worse, will only put people’s lives at risk, and will only make the economic fallout for the city worse in the long term.”“We do now need to take action. I hope that we can reach agreement but one way or another, we need to draw this to a conclusion,” he added, days after Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he may need to intervene if local leaders did not agree to Tier 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-week-lockdown-in-wales-from-friday-as-uk-cases-surge/story-1Yhwoz9jJrEMannYS9nUtN.html
19-10-2020||World||US election 2020: What are mail-in ballots and why are they important?||US election 2020: What are mail-in ballots and why are they important?One of the most discussed topics in the run-up to presidential election in the United States has been the mail-in ballots as more and more voters are choosing the option because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. What is mail-in voting and how does it work?Mail-in voting means casting a vote through mail. Different states have different rules with respect to mail-in voting but all of them have the option available. Some states have absentee ballots which are provided if the voter provides a reason why they cannot cast their vote in person. In the Florida 2020 primary election, President Donald Trump voted using an absentee ballot as he is a registered voter in Florida but was unable to vote in person. In some states, absentee voting does not require a specific reason and in a few others, vote my mail is sent to every registered voter without any request made.Is there a verification process followed by the states?Different states have different methods to verify the ballots like in some states authorities check if ballots have come from voters’ registered address; some states require signatures on the envelopes and others require witness or notarised signatures. Why are mail-in ballots important in this election?In the 2016 US Presidential election, nearly 25 per cent of votes were cast by using mail-in ballots and this number is expected to rise much more in the 2020 US presidential election because of Covid-19.What is President Donald Trump’s take on mail-in ballots?While being a supporter of absentee ballots, President Donald Trump has constantly criticised the process of mail in voting and has also said that it leads to voter fraud. The Republicans have also reduced funding to the mail service and have been against expansion of the mail-in ballot process. President Trump has also talked about how the mail-in voting may result in delay in the results of the presidential elections. What is the Democrat Party’s stand on this issue?The Democrat Party has supported the mail-in voting process and has blamed the Republican Party for disruption in the election process.How can the use of mail-in ballots affect the elections? While President Trump’s claims of voter fraud in the mail-in voting system have not been proved, there is common consensus that the mail-in voting process will cause a delay in the results of the elections as the counting process might take a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-what-are-mail-in-ballots-and-why-are-they-important/story-wqlTxxqF1fhkZSVEmII7WJ.html
19-10-2020||World||US envoy warns new violence threatens Afghan peace process||The US special envoy to Afghanistan warned Monday that “distressingly high” levels of violence threaten to derail ongoing peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban.Zalmay Khalilzad’s comments come as renewed fighting for days has plagued Afghanistan’s southern Helmand province, a longtime Taliban stronghold. The Taliban this Friday agreed to halt its attacks on condition of the US stopping its airstrikes in the area.But then came a suicide car bombing Sunday that killed at least 13 people and wounded around 120 others in Afghanistan’s western Ghor province. Though no one claimed responsibility for the bombing, suspicion immediately fell on the Taliban.“Violence has stalked Afghans for far too long. It has robbed far too many Afghans of their loved ones,” Khalilzad wrote on Twitter. “The tragedy in Ghor today is the most recent example.”He added: “The belief that says violence must escalate to win concessions at the negotiating table is very risky. Such an approach can undermine the peace process and repeats past miscalculations by Afghan leaders.”The Taliban offered no immediate reaction to Khalilzad’s tweets. However, it issued a statement Sunday over the US airstrikes targeting Helmand province. The Taliban warned that “all responsibility and consequences from continuation of such actions shall fall squarely on the shoulders of the American side.”Omer Zwak, a spokesman for Helmand’s provincial governor, said Monday there were still gun battles in a few areas of the province’s Nad Ali and Nawa districts. The Afghan air force separately conducted limited airstrikes to support Afghan forces trying to retake Taliban-held areas, Zwak said.The fighting has overwhelmed the only emergency hospital in Lashkar Gah, Helmand’s provincial capital, said Marco Puntin, the program coordinator at EMERGENCY, an aid group working there. He said doctors faced those wounded from six-consecutive nights of fighting.“Most of the patients we are currently admitting to the hospital are victims of bomb attacks and therefore suffer complicated injuries, which require complex surgery and a long hospital stay,” Puntin said in statement. “Civilians are paying the price for this offensive, trapped by the crossfire and often hit by mortars, rockets and grenades.”The peace talks in Qatar between the Taliban and Afghan government negotiators began in September, but after a ceremonious start they became bogged down, mainly in the minutiae of Islamic jurisprudence. This current round of negotiations come after a deal in February between the US and the Taliban that seeks to end America’s longest war.Despite the challenges, the ongoing talks represent the most-serious effort yet at ending decades of war in Afghanistan that followed the 2001 US-led invasion that toppled its Taliban government, which then was hosting al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden who planned the September 11 attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-envoy-warns-new-violence-threatens-afghan-peace-process/story-iTpTmPAU1bTxEzewoHd1xJ.html
19-10-2020||World||Covid-19 delay: New coronavirus relief may slip past election||Congress is quickly moving past the point at which it can deliver more coronavirus relief before the election, with differences between House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, her Senate Republican rivals and President Donald Trump proving durable despite the glaring needs of the country.Trump’s GOP allies are reconvening the Senate this week for a revote on a virus proposal that about one-third the size of a measure being negotiated by Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. But the Senate GOP bill has failed once before, and that Trump himself now says is too puny. The debate promises to bring a hefty dose of posturing and political gamesmanship, but little more. A procedural vote on a stand-alone renewal of bipartisan Paycheck Protection Program business subsidies is slated for Tuesday.Even the architect of the larger Senate measure, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., isn’t claiming the vote will advance the ball. Once the measure fails, he plans to turn the chamber’s full attention to cementing a 6-3 conservative majority on the Supreme Court by confirming Judge Amy Coney Barrett. It is likely to be the Senate’s final act before Election Day.In that context, this week’s action has the chief benefit of giving Republicans in tough reelection races one last opportunity to try to show voters they are prioritizing COVID relief — and to make the case to voters that Democrats are the ones standing in the way.“It was important to indicate to the American people before the election — not after — that we were not in favor of a stalemate, that we were not in favor of doing nothing,” McConnell said in a Kentucky appearance last week.McConnell is resurrecting a measure in the $650 billion range that would repurpose $138 billion in small business subsidies to provide a second round of paycheck relief, add $300 per week in supplemental unemployment benefits, and help schools and universities reopen. The last version of the bill left out help for states and local governments sought by Democrats and another round of $1,200 direct payments demanded by Trump.The last coronavirus relief package, the $1.8 trillion bipartisan CARES Act, passed in March by an overwhelming margin as the economy went into lockdown amid fear and uncertainty about the virus. Since then, Trump and many of his GOP allies have focused on loosening social and economic restrictions as the key to recovery instead of more taxpayer-funded help.Trump has been anything but consistent. He now insists that lawmakers should “go big” with a bill of up to $2 trillion or more, a total reversal after abandoning the talks earlier this month. But Trump’s political problems aren’t swaying Senate Republicans.“He’s talking about a much larger amount than I can sell to my members,” McConnell said.The most recent bill from House Democrats weighs in at $2.4 trillion — or more than $2.6 trillion when excluding a $246 billion tax increase on businesses that’s unlikely to gain GOP acceptance. The package is a nonstarter with Senate Republicans and McConnell, who is making the case for a more targeted approach that’s well south of $1 trillion.The moment is challenging for Pelosi as well. For months she has been promising a COVID relief package of more than $2 trillion stuffed with Obama-era stimulus ideas. Even though the Senate and White House are both in GOP hands — and will be at least into January — she has sharply rebuffed anyone who suggests that Democrats should take a smaller deal now rather than risk going home empty-handed until next year.“This is not the time to say, ‘Okay, let’s fold.’ This is what we have been building up to,” Pelosi told fellow Democrats on a recent teleconference. She said Sunday that she remains optimistic of reaching an agreement with the administration but that a deal would have to come within 48 hours — or Tuesday — for it to be enacted by Election Day.Taking a smaller bill now would likely require Pelosi to give up tax cuts for the working poor and accept a far smaller aid package for states and local governments. But it would also mean that relief would flow immediately to millions of workers whose supplemental unemployment benefits were cut off this summer.Liberal economist Jared Bernstein, who worked for Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden in 2009 and advises him now, says inaction would mean “a lot of completely avoidable suffering for economically vulnerable people.”When an aid bill finally passes may depend on the outcome of the election.If Trump loses, Congress is likely to stagger through a nonproductive lame-duck session comparable to the abbreviated session after the decisive 2008 Obama-Biden victory or the 2016 session that punted most of its leftovers to the Trump administration. That scenario would push virus aid into 2021.Delays in coronavirus aid come as the recovery from this spring’s economic shutdown is slowing and as the massive stimulus effects of the $1.8 trillion March relief measure wear off. COVID cases are spiking again heading into a third wave of the pandemic this winter. Poverty is climbing and the virus is continuing to take a disproportionate toll on minority communities.“If Congress doesn’t act the next administration is going to inherit a real mess,” said Harvard economist Jason Furman, a former top Obama adviser. “Economic problems tend to feed on themselves.” He is in the Democratic camp that prefers imperfect stimulus now rather than a larger package in four months or so.Instead, if history repeats, COVID relief is likely to be the first major item out of the gate next year, but it’s not clear even then that it’ll be as big as Democrats hope.“Pelosi decided in July that the political benefit of the next package would accrue to the president’s benefit and therefore she was going to lay out the most aggressive terms possible,” said veteran GOP Rep. Patrick McHenry of North Carolina, who predicts that Pelosi won’t get much more next year than she could have gotten now “unless they’re willing to break the filibuster for a $3 trillion bailout for blue states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-delay-new-coronavirus-relief-may-slip-past-election/story-SbJHgInsz23IdH72ZMy3SN.html
19-10-2020||World||Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina sends gifts to Mamata Banerjee for Durga Puja||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has sent congratulatory gifts to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on the occasion of Durga Puja, a government official said on Monday.“The gifts were channelled through the protocol wing of the premier’s office,” an official in the prime minister’s office, who was familiar with the process, said.The gifts have been sent through the Benapole-Petropole land route to be delivered to Banerjee through the Bangladesh deputy high commission officials in Kolkata.Unconfirmed reports said the gifts included a sari, sweets and flowers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-pm-sheikh-hasina-sends-gifts-to-mamata-banerjee-for-durga-puja/story-Lp2bZ9oOJJ0pOHiWLys1yN.html
19-10-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine storage issues could leave 3 billion people without access||From factory to syringe, the world’s most promising coronavirus vaccine candidates need non-stop sterile refrigeration to work.But despite great strides in equipping developing countries to maintain the vaccine “cold chain,” nearly 3 billion of the world’s 7.8 billion people live in places with insufficient temperature-controlled storage for an immunization campaign to bring Covid-19 under control.The result: Poor people around the world are likely to be the last to emerge from the pandemic. The cold chain hurdle is just the latest disparity of the pandemic weighted against the poor, who more often live and work in conditions that allow the virus to spread and whose health systems are not equipped for large-scale testing.Maintaining the cold chain for coronavirus vaccines won’t be easy in the richest of countries, especially when it comes to the handful of candidates that require ultracold temperatures of around minus 70 degrees Celsius (minus 94 F). Logistics experts say most of Africa and much of Southeast Asia, Central Asia and Latin America lack the infrastructure to preserve even more conventional vaccines.A tiny medical clinic outside Burkina Faso’s capital that went nearly a year without a working refrigerator is a microcosm of how the cold chain can break.The clinic in Gampela couldn’t keep vaccines on site once its refrigerator broke last fall, nurse Julienne Zoungrana said. Staff members use motorcycles to fetch vials from a hospital in the capital, Ouagadougo, and must make a second trip to return unused doses.When Adama Tapsoba, 24, needs to take her baby for routine immunizations, she walks four hours to reach the clinic and often waits hours for a doctor. The mother of two thinks it will be difficult for her family to get coronavirus vaccines.“People will have to wait at the hospital, and they might leave without getting it,” she said.To uphold the cold chain in developing nations, international organizations have overseen the installation of tens of thousands of solar-powered vaccine refrigerators. Keeping temperature-sensitive vaccines safe from beginning to end also requires reliable electricity, sound roads and planning.For poor countries like Burkina Faso, the best chance for receiving supplies of a coronavirus vaccine is through the Covax initiative, led by the World Health Organization and the Gavi vaccine alliance. The goal of Covax is to place orders for multiple promising candidates with the aim of distributing successful ones equitably.The U.N.’s children’s agency, UNICEF, began laying the groundwork for global distribution months ago in Copenhagen. At the world’s largest humanitarian aid warehouse, logistics staff try to foresee shortages in part by learning from the past, especially the spring chaos surrounding masks and other protective gear that were commandeered off airport tarmacs or stolen for black-market trade.Cracks in the cold chain start once a vaccine leaves the factory. Cargo ships are too slow for vaccines with a limited shelf life. Carrying vaccines by air at cold temperatures costs a lot more, and air cargo traffic is only now rebounding from pandemic-related border closures.German logistics company DHL, which has expanded its cold storage capacity in response to the pandemic, estimated that 15,000 cargo flights would be required to fully vaccinate the world against the coronavirus.For every gap in the cold chain “we need to find a bridge,” DHL chief commercial officer Katja Busch said.Coronavirus vaccines will be one of the world’s most sought-after products, so theft is also a danger.“They can’t be left on a tarmac and fought over because they would actually be spoiled and they would have no value — or worse still, people would still be trying to distribute them,” said Glyn Hughes, the global head of cargo for the International Air Transport Association.Johns Hopkins University researcher Tinglong Dai, who specializes in health care logistics, said creativity will be needed to keep the cold chain intact while coronavirus vaccines are dispersed on a global scale. Gavi and UNICEF have experimented with delivering vaccines by drone. India’s largest cold storage company for food is weighing setting aside space for vaccines.“If people can figure out how to transport ice cream, they can transport vaccines,” Dai said.Multi-dose vials, which are the equivalent of bulk storage for vaccines, reduce manufacturing and transportation costs. But if too few people show up for their jab in time, whatever remains in the vials must be discarded.For now, UNICEF is betting on 20-dose vials and hoping that the amount wasted will stay below 15% for opened ones, according to Michelle Siedel, one of the agency’s cold chain experts.UNICEF also expects to have 520 million syringes pre-positioned and maps of where refrigeration needs are greatest by year-end, “to ensure that these supplies arrive in countries by the time the vaccines do,” Executive Director Henrietta Fore said.If Burkina Faso were given 1 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine today, the country wouldn’t be able to handle it, Jean-Claude Mubalama, UNICEF’s head of health and nutrition for the West African country.“If we had to vaccinate against the coronavirus now, at this moment, it would be impossible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-storage-issues-could-leave-3-billion-people-without-access/story-7BAUPPsAJhzcvjALrcrfJN.html
19-10-2020||World||Researchers identify ‘silent’ mutations that helped novel coronavirus thrive||Researchers have identified a number of ‘silent’ mutations in the roughly 30,000 letters of the novel coronavirus’s genetic code that helped it thrive once it made the leap from bats and other wildlife to humans -- and possibly set the stage for the global pandemic. The subtle changes involved how the virus folded its RNA molecules or genetic material within human cells, according to the researchers. The finding, published in the journal PeerJ, could lead to new molecular targets for treating or preventing Covid-19. The researchers used statistical methods to identify adaptive changes that arose in the SARS-CoV-2 genome in humans, but not in closely related coronaviruses found in bats and pangolins. “We’re trying to figure out what made this virus so unique,” said Alejandro Berrio, a postdoctoral associate in biologist Greg Wray’s lab at Duke University in the US. Previous research detected fingerprints of positive selection within a gene that encodes the “spike” proteins studding the coronavirus’s surface, which play a key role in its ability to infect new cells. The new study flagged mutations that altered the spike proteins, suggesting that viral strains carrying these mutations were more likely to thrive. However, with their approach, the researchers also identified additional culprits that previous studies failed to detect. They report that so-called silent mutations in two other regions of the SARS-CoV-2 genome, dubbed Nsp4 and Nsp16, appear to have given the virus a biological edge over previous strains without altering the proteins they encode. Instead of affecting proteins, Berrio said, the changes likely affected how the virus’s genetic material -- which is made of RNA -- folds up into 3D shapes and functions inside human cells. What these changes in RNA structure might have done to set the SARS-CoV-2 virus in humans apart from other coronaviruses is still unknown, he said. But they may have contributed to the virus’s ability to spread before people even know they have it -- a crucial difference that made the current situation so much more difficult to control than the SARS coronavirus outbreak of 2003. “Nsp4 and Nsp16 are among the first RNA molecules that are produced when the virus infects a new person,” Berrio said. “The spike protein doesn’t get expressed until later. So they could make a better therapeutic target because they appear earlier in the viral life cycle,” he said. By pinpointing the genetic changes that enabled the new coronavirus to thrive in human hosts, scientists hope to better predict future zoonotic disease outbreaks before they happen. “Viruses are constantly mutating and evolving,” Berrio said. “So it’s possible that a new strain of coronavirus capable of infecting other animals may come along that also has the potential to spread to people, like SARS-CoV-2 did. We’ll need to be able to recognise it and make efforts to contain it early,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/researchers-identify-silent-mutations-that-helped-novel-coronavirus-thrive/story-0awXaljQ1oAPrmvW6JYICK.html
19-10-2020||World||A beginner’s guide to US Elections 2020||The US presidential elections take place every four years and the outcome is not only awaited in the United States but also throughout the world.Here’s a beginner’s guide to US elections 2020:When is the election?The election is scheduled for Tuesday, November 3, 2020.Is the election limited to choosing the President?No. While the entire focus of the election is on who will be the next President of the United States of America, voters will also be choosing new members of the Congress which includes the House of Representatives and the Senate. In the House of Representatives members serve two-year terms after which elections need to be conducted. In the Senate, senators serve six-year terms which are split in three parts and therefore, one-third of the senators are up for election every two years.How do the elections work?For becoming the President, candidates compete to win the Electoral College votes. Each state gets Electoral College votes based on its population. Voters decide who will go to the Electoral College and except two states, all others have a “winner takes all” rule which means that whoever wins the highest number of votes in the state gets all of the Electoral College votes. From a total of 538 Electoral College votes, the winner has to get 270 votes or more in order to become the President. This also means that it is not necessary to win the popular vote to become the President as US has an indirect election system. Elections will be held for all 435 seats of the House of Representatives. In Senate, 33 seats are up for grabs.Who can vote and how?A US citizen who is 18 years and above is eligible to vote in the elections. Voting can be done in person on the election day, in person but early before election day, through mail-in ballot or postal ballots and through absentee ballots. Who are the presidential candidates?Republican Party: Incumbent President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike PenceDemocrat Party: Former Vice President Joe Biden for President with his running mate Kamala Harris for Vice President What are the central issues of the elections?The elections will be a referendum on the Trump’s presidency. Trump’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, protests in reaction to the killing of George Floyd, situation of the economy under Trump, nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court have been the major issues discussed during the election cycle.How is this election different from the previous elections?This election will be very different from the previous elections due to Covid-19. Although President Trump’s campaign has many more public appearances, Joe Biden’s campaign has been largely low key. President Trump’s Covid-19 diagnosis also changed the scenario. Except the first debate between the presidential candidates and one debate between the vice presidential candidates, no debates have taken place as the Trump campaign disagreed to the idea of virtual debates.The voting has also been impacted and a surge in postal ballots has also been seen. When will the results be out?It can take several days for all the votes to be counted but the winner is usually clear by the morning of November 4. This time because of the increase in number of postal ballots, the counting process could be lengthy.When will the new President take office?The new President will be sworn into office on January 20, 2021, in a ceremony called the Inauguration Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-beginner-s-guide-to-us-elections-2020/story-udPF6TD2EmcZq1MhXkemGN.html
19-10-2020||World||‘Absolutely not’ surprised Donald Trump got Covid-19: Anthony Fauci||America’s top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci says he was “absolutely not” surprised when Donald Trump contracted COVID-19 after seeing the president surrounded by several people not wearing face masks and flouting best public health practices against the deadly pandemic. Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases appeared to be referring to the White House Rose Garden event on September 26 where Trump announced Judge Amy Coney Barrett was his pick to replace Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Supreme Court. At least 12 people have tested positive for Covid-19 after attending the function.Fauci said during an interview on CBS’ “60 Minutes” that was aired on Sunday, “I was worried that he was going to get sick when I saw him in a completely precarious situation of crowded -- no separation between people, and almost nobody wearing a mask.” “When I saw that on TV, I said, ‘Oh my goodness. Nothing good can come out of that, that’s got to be a problem,’“ he said. “And then sure enough, it turned out to be a superspreader event.” His remarks came as Americans face another surge in the COVID-19 pandemic ahead of the November 3 US presidential election. Infections have crossed the 8-million mark and are rising rapidly. Over 219,000 people have died due to the disease, according to latest Johns Hopkins University. Even though the ceremony was held outdoors and many attendees were tested before being allowed in, photos and videos of the event showed few people wearing masks, many people greeting each other with hugs and handshakes, and people mingling and sitting very closely, CNN reported.There were also smaller, private gatherings inside the White House that did not include the mask-wearing or social distancing that public health experts have advised is essential to stopping the spread of the virus, the report noted.Fauci had previously labelled the event as a “superspreader” -- noting the lack of public health measures in place and the slate of positive tests that followed.“The data speak for themselves,” he said.Trump announced that he and first lady Melania Trump had tested positive for coronavirus, just days after the Rose Garden event. The 74-year-old president was admitted to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and received various treatments before returning to the White House.Upon his release, the President told his followers that the virus that had hospitalised him for 72 hours discharge from hospital, was nothing to fear. He also posed for a mask-less photo-op on the White House balcony, sending a message to his supporters that he was not afraid of the disease.“Don’t be afraid of Covid. Don’t let it dominate your life,” Trump wrote several hours before walking carefully out the hospital.During the interview with the CBS, Fauci said it does not make sense to him why Trump “equates wearing a mask with weakness.” Masks, Fauci maintained, “really do work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/absolutely-not-surprised-donald-trump-got-covid-19-anthony-fauci/story-hk5SRgE1WybOqfcDOtaOLM.html
19-10-2020||World||Confirmed Covid-19 cases cross 40 million mark globally||The number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 across the planet has passed 40 million.The milestone was passed early Monday according to Johns Hopkins University, which collates reporting from around the world.The actual worldwide figure of Covid-19 cases is likely to be far higher, as testing has been variable, many people have had no symptoms and some governments have concealed the true number of cases. To date, more than 1.1 million confirmed virus deaths have been reported, although experts also believe that number is an undercount.The US, Brazil and India are reporting by far the highest numbers of cases, although the increase in recent weeks has been driven by a surge in Europe, which has seen over 240,000 confirmed virus deaths in the pandemic so far.Last week, the World Health Organization said Europe had a reported a record weekly high of nearly 700,000 cases and said that the region was responsible for about a third of cases globally. Britain, France, Russia and Spain account for about half of all new cases in the region.WHO said new measures being taken across Europe — including new requirements on mask-wearing in Italy and Switzerland, the closure of restaurants and bars in Northern Ireland and Belgium, a night-time curfew in France and targeted limited lockdowns in parts of the UK — are “absolutely essential” to stop Covid-19 from overwhelming hospitals.The agency said several European cities could soon see their intensive care units overwhelmed and warned that governments and citizens should take all necessary measures to slow the virus’ spread, including bolstering testing and contact tracing, wearing face masks and following social distancing measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/number-of-confirmed-covid-19-cases-passes-40-million/story-lapnwxyP2h9kSjMVfitsRK.html
19-10-2020||World||UK police to implement self-isolation by tracking Covid-19 ‘case-by-case’ data||Police forces in England will have access to data of people told to self-isolate through the official National Health Service (NHS) Test and Trace system as part of their enforcement of coronavirus lockdown rules.Forces will have access to information telling them if an individual has been told to self-isolate on a “case-by-case basis”, the government’s Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said on Friday. It said the move was part of a legal requirement for people who had tested positive and their close contacts to self-isolate when formally notified to do so.“The DHSC has agreed a memorandum of understanding with the NPCC (National Police Chiefs Council) to enable police forces to have access on a case-by-case basis to information that enables them to know if a specific individual has been notified to self-isolate,” a DHSC spokesperson said.“The memorandum of understanding ensures that information is shared with appropriate safeguards and in accordance with the law. No testing or health data is shared in this process,” the spokesperson said.Police will not have access to data from the NHS Covid-19 app as it works on an anonymous basis.Under legal requirements in place, anyone who receives a positive result for Covid-19 is currently required to isolate for 10 days after displaying symptoms – or 10 days after receiving their result if asymptomatic. Members of the person’s household must also isolate for 14 days. Failure to comply with these legal requirements can lead to a fine starting at 1,000 pounds for first offences, which can scale up to 10,000 pounds for repeat offences and serious breaches of the law.“If there is evidence to suggest you are not complying with the duty to self-isolate without reasonable justification, your local authority may pass this information on to local police forces to investigate further. This may lead to enforcement action being taken against you, which could include you being fined,” notes the latest DHSC privacy information guidance related to coronavirus testing.“A police force may request information relating to positive Covid-19 tests from the NHS Test & Trace programme directly, where they are investigating a report of someone who may not be complying with the mandatory self-isolation period,” it said.A spokesperson for NPCC said police forces would continue to encourage “voluntary compliance” but would enforce regulations and issue fines where appropriate.“Officers will engage with individuals to establish their circumstances, using their discretion wherever it is reasonable to do so,” they said.Meanwhile, Scotland Yard issued an update on its policing plan as London moved into the high alert Tier 2 category of lockdown rules over the weekend amid a spike in infections. It came ahead of the Metropolitan Police dispersing groups of drinkers after they spilled out of bars after the 10pm curfew and many continued gathering on the streets in the early hours of Saturday, soon after the new stricter rules against gatherings came in.“Frustratingly, we have seen a small number of dangerous and reckless breaches of the regulations and as the alert level in London increases, we are adopting our policing approach,” said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist, Met Police lead for Covid-19. “Communities across London can therefore expect to see an increase in our efforts to deal with the most deliberate, harmful and flagrant breaches of regulations. We will not hesitate to take action against those individuals or businesses who put people at risk,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-police-to-implement-self-isolation-by-tracking-covid-19-case-by-case-data/story-RqH2woPhwYGw2MlQAe547O.html
19-10-2020||World||Which country wields most power in Asia? US leads but China is catching up||China is closing in on the US as the most powerful country influencing the Asia-Pacific, as America’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic tarnishes its reputation, a study showed.While America retained its place as the region’s top superpower, its 10-point lead on China two years ago has been halved, according to the Sydney-based Lowy Institute’s Asia Power Index for 2020, which ranks 26 nations and territories. The US “lost prestige” due to its poor response to the pandemic, multiple trade disputes and President Donald Trump’s moves to withdraw from multilateral deals and agencies, according to Herve Lemahieu, the study’s research chief and director of Lowy’s Asian Power and Diplomacy Program. “The pandemic was a game changer,” he said in a phone interview. “It contributed to a double whammy of problems for the US because on the one hand, its poor handling of the Covid-19 crisis has resulted in a diminished reputation. And on the other hand, obviously it will take many more years to recover from the economic fallout of the pandemic.”The US economy could take until 2024 to recover to pre-pandemic levels, the institute said. In contrast, China’s economy has rebounded from the virus and is the only large economy forecast to recover in 2020. This could give it an advantage against neighbors over the next decade. China stayed firmly in second place for the third year running, despite seeing a “notable fall” in diplomatic clout after facing  accusations of withholding information about the severity of the Wuhan outbreak. Lemahieu also cited wolf warrior diplomacy — more aggressive rhetoric and actions from Beijing’s envoys — contributing to that drop.A Trump re-election in November would bring “more of the same” trends, he said. However, China would find it hard to replace the US and become the region’s uncontested dominant power.“I think it’s more likely that China will eventually level with the United States and may, toward the end of this decade, even surpass the United States. But not meaningfully enough to pull ahead by substantial margins,” said Lemahieu.“Asia will learn to cope without the United States if Trump wins a second term,” he added. “With [Joe] Biden, I think Asia will be far more willing to do business with the United States.”India, the fourth most powerful nation on the index after Japan, lost economic growth potential in the pandemic and is also ceding strategic ground to Beijing. Lowy projects India will reach 40% of China’s economic output by 2030, compared with the 50% estimate last year.“It’s certainly delayed India’s arrival as the great power in the region,” said Lemahieu. “And it also means that India will be quite distracted by the development challenges and by the new poverty rate, with more newly impoverished people in South Asia.”As many as 347.4 million people in the Asia-Pacific region could fall below the $5.5 a day poverty line because of the pandemic, according to the United Nations University World Institute for Development Economics Research.Overall, Asia’s economy, which was poised to become larger than the rest of the world economy combined in 2020, now faces “a perfect storm of public health, economic and strategic challenges” due to the pandemic, the Lowy report said.Third-placed Japan, described in the report as a “smart power” for using limited resources to wield broad influence in the region, gained the most points in terms of its defense diplomacy — which spans a country’s defense dialogues to joint military exercises and procurement of arms — overtaking South Korea on this measure.Russia, Australia, South Korea, Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia round out the top 10. Southeast Asian nations on the list have been gripped with political turbulence, yet have managed to keep virus spikes in hand despite limited resources, Lemahieu said.Taiwan was among the few places to gain relative power this year, alongside Australia and Vietnam. Taiwan in particular improved its diplomatic influence score this year, after setbacks in 2019 when a handful of allies cut official ties as Beijing sought to isolate the island on the world stage. Australia climbed by one spot to 6th, overtaking South Korea. The country gained points in cultural and diplomatic influence due to favorable perceptions of its domestic response to the virus, with daily infections slowing to a trickle. It also boosted its economic relationships score after this year securing its 14th free-trade deal, with neighbor Indonesia.Apart from the US, Russia and Malaysia posted the biggest losses on the index. Russia took hits to its diplomatic influence and military capability scores and performed best on resilience measures thanks to “ample resource security and well-established nuclear deterrence capability.”The index measures power using 128 indicators including economic relations, defense spending, internal stability, information flows and projected future resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/which-country-wields-most-power-in-asia-us-leads-but-china-is-catching-up/story-n3FELbatWw92LkmDZZXJcP.html
19-10-2020||World||Indonesian president warns not to rush vaccines amid halal concern||The president of the world’s largest Muslim-majority nation, Joko Widodo, called on Monday for Indonesia not to rush the rollout of vaccines, citing concerns over public awareness about whether they were halal.With more than 365,000 coronavirus cases and 12,000 deaths, Indonesia has struggled to get its outbreak under control. and the government has been racing to secure a supply of vaccines while still under development, drawing criticism from some epidemiologists for seeking a “silver bullet” solution before full vaccine efficacy and safety is known.Senior ministers have indicated that emergency vaccine authorisation could be granted as early as November.But the president, better known by his moniker “Jokowi”, signaled a more cautionary approach, warning against haste and urging clear public messaging about whether vaccines were halal, or permissible under Islam.“I ask that this vaccine is not rushed because it’s so complex,” Jokowi said ahead of a closed meeting.“I want to ensure there is good preparation. On public communication, especially in relation to halal and haram, the price, and quality.”Indonesia has previously pledged to vaccinate more than 100 million people next year, but Jokowi on Monday said that scale of inoculation in an archipelagic nation of 270 million would be uniquely challenging.Controversy over whether vaccines adhere to Islamic principles has stymied public health responses before in Indonesia, including in 2018, when the Indonesian Ulema Council issued a fatwa declaring a measles vaccine was haram, or forbidden under Islam.Indonesia has secured 50 million doses from China’s Sinovac by March next year and 100 million from AstraZeneca by next April, in addition to other deals.Vaccines from Sinovac as well as China’s Sinopharm and CanSino Biologics for 9.1 million people will be available this year, with health workers prioritised, said Achmad Yurianto, a senior health ministry official.Indonesia’s rush to secure supplies of unproven vaccines has generated concern among epidemiologists, some of which argue it should instead focus on testing and contact tracing until a safe and effective vaccine is available.“Many countries think a vaccine will be their silver bullet to deal with the pandemic,” said Dicky Budiman, an Indonesian epidemiologist from Australia’s Griffith University.“But unfortunately, the history of pandemics, the literature, does not support that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-president-warns-not-to-rush-vaccines-amid-halal-concern/story-Dp3MbPGopdkDcL6fkThK9H.html
19-10-2020||World||Chinese aggression, censorship brings India and Taiwan closer, says report||Taiwan and India do not have formal diplomatic ties but their citizens have bonded over a shared feeling of being targets of Chinese aggression and censorship, reported The Diplomat.As China and India are engaged in border stand-off, netizens support their counterparts in Taiwan and Hong Kong, bringing along masala chai to become an adjacent member of the online pro-democracy “Milk Tea Alliance.”Ahead of Taiwan National Day, the Chinese Embassy in India sent guidelines to Indian media on how to refer to Taiwan. The move backfired and led to outrage in both India and Taiwan.China in recent years has also increased military drills around Taiwan, with almost 40 Chinese warplanes crossing the median line between the mainland and Taiwan on September 18-19 -- one of several sorties the island’s President Tsai Ing-wen called a “threat of force.”“It looks like communist China is hoping to march into the subcontinent by imposing censorship,” Taiwan’s Foreign Minister Joseph Wu tweeted on October 7. “Taiwan’s Indian friends will have one reply: GET LOST!”The Chinese demand did, in fact, spur a flurry of op-eds and news coverage of Taiwan’s National Day and the state of Taiwan-India ties, in both countries.In India, #TaiwanNationalDay trended on Twitter throughout the day on October 10 as internet users, along with journalists and politicians, sent well wishes to Taiwan.Y. Satya Kumar, national secretary of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), tweeted: “Greetings to my Taiwanese brothers and sisters on #TaiwanNationalDay. India stands in solidarity with the courage, strength and resolve that you people have displayed in your struggle against colonialism and oppression by the imperial power!”Indian Twitter users followed Taiwanese accounts, including that of President Tsai Ing-wen, en masse. Tsai thanked her new followers on Tuesday by tweeting several photos from her trip to India in 2012, writing: “Your architectural marvels, vibrant culture & kind people are truly unforgettable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-aggression-censorship-brings-india-and-taiwan-closer-says-report/story-Qsgkrep2S05rdfbogbnsGK.html
19-10-2020||World||Pakistan opposition rally calls for PM Imran Khan to quit||Tens of thousands of opposition supporters rallied in Pakistan’s largest city of Karachi on Sunday as part of a campaign to oust Prime Minister Imran Khan, who they accuse of being installed by the military in a rigged election two years ago.The mass demonstration in Karachi was the second in three days launched by Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), formed last month by nine major opposition parties to begin a nationwide agitation against the government.Under Khan, Pakistan has experienced mounting censorship of the media and a crackdown on dissent, critics and opposition. But the campaign against him sought to tap into discontent over his handling of the economy, which was tanking even before the global coronavirus pandemic struck.“You’ve snatched jobs from people. You have snatched two-time a day food from the people,” Maryam Nawaz, the daughter and political heir of the former three-time premier Nawaz Sharif, told the rally.In the early hours of Monday, police snatched her husband, arresting Muhammad Safdar following complaints from Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) party that he had raised political slogans at the mausoleum of Pakistan’s founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, an action deemed illegal.“Police broke my room door at the hotel I was staying at in Karachi and arrested Capt. Safdar,” Nawaz tweeted on Monday morning. A spokesman of the provincial government said police had not acted on their orders.During Sunday’s rally she had shared the platform with Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, whose late mother Benazir Bhutto was also prime minister two times. “Our farmers have hunger in their homes... our youth is disappointed,” said Zardari, whose Pakistan People’s Party governs the southern city of Karachi. The message struck a chord with their supporters, in a country now suffering double digit inflation and negative economic growth.“Inflation has broken the back of poor citizens forcing many to beg to feed their children,” said Faqeer Baloch, 63, at the Karachi rally. “It is high time that this government should go now,” he said as the crowd chanted, “Go Imran go!” The next general election is scheduled for 2023.On Friday, the opposition held a mass rally in Gujranwala, a city in the eastern province of Punjab, a stronghold for Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League (N).Addressing the rally via video link from London, Nawaz Sharif accused army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa of rigging the 2018 elections and orchestrating his ouster in 2017, saying the corruption charges brought against him were concocted. The military, which denies meddling in politics, has yet to respond specifically to Sharif’s accusations. Khan, who denies the army helped him win, has defended the military and on Saturday threatened a fresh crackdown on opposition leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-opposition-rally-calls-for-pm-imran-khan-to-quit/story-Uonzm5ZSDC7TNMrOUOdQtM.html
19-10-2020||World||EU members call for long term plan to tackle 5G fake news||The European Union needs to come up with a strategy to counter disinformation about 5G technology or risk false claims derailing its economic recovery and digital goals, a group of 15 countries including Poland and Sweden said.Conspiracy theories that the novel coronavirus may be linked to the wireless technology have led to the torching of mobile phone masts in 10 European countries and assaults on maintenance workers in recent months.The 27-nation EU sees 5G as the linchpin of its economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and technology autonomy, with its promise to enable everything from self-driving cars to remote surgery and more automated manufacturing.The 15 countries listed their concerns and proposals in a joint letter to EU digital chief Margrethe Vestager, internal market commissioner Thierry Breton and values chief Vera Jourova that was seen by Reuters.“It is clear ... that we are witnessing increasing activity of the anti-5G movement across the European Union,” they said, calling for the EU to “take an active, long-term and systemic approach” to tackling concerns about 5G and electromagnetic fields (EMF).“We, as Member States are willing to contribute to this EU-wide initiative with our national expertise and best practice to tackle the issue of 5G and EMF disinformation,” the letter said.The countries urged more scientific research on the risks to people’s health, proposed an awareness-raising campaign across Europe and also suggested a broad debate taking into account the fears and worries of opponents to 5G.Other signatories to the letter include Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Portugal and Slovakia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-members-call-for-long-term-plan-to-tackle-5g-fake-news/story-ahsmHMJZss7Iy0lPxFDR2O.html
19-10-2020||World||Top Palestinian official Erekat ‘critical’ from virus: Hospital||Long-time chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat was in “critical” condition and in a medically induced coma on Monday, said the Israeli hospital in Jerusalem treating him for coronavirus complications.The Palestine Liberation Organization said on Sunday that Erekat had been admitted to Hadassah Ein Kerem hospital’s coronavirus intensive care unit due to “chronic health problems in the respiratory system”.The 65-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 9, the PLO said.Erekat had “arrived in serious condition” and was receiving oxygen, the hospital said on Sunday, adding that his condition was “serious” but “stable”.On Monday morning, Hadassah said that after a “quiet night,” his condition “deteriorated and is now defined critical and due to respiratory distress, he is anaesthetised and ventilated.”Erekat, who lives in the biblical town of Jericho in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, underwent lung-transplant surgery in the United States in 2017.“Mr Erekat is a challenge to treat for coronavirus since he had lung transplants, he is immunosuppressed, and has another bacterial infection in addition to coronavirus,” Hadassah said on Monday.Hadassah said it was “in contact with international medical authorities regarding the treatment policy of this complex patient”.The Jerusalem-born Erekat serves as the PLO’s secretary-general and in remains Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas’s inner circle.He has been a key figure in Palestinian politics for decades, often serving as a main interlocutor for foreign envoys and the international media.He has consistently voiced support for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.There have been 42,490 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus in the West Bank, including 381 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-palestinian-official-erekat-critical-from-virus-hospital/story-8sxa78BkAU0dNIdaLCFj3N.html
19-10-2020||World||For good relationship with India, vote for Donald Trump: Indian-American supporters||Describing President Donald Trump as India’s “good friend”, a group of Indian-Americans have urged the community members across the country to support and vote for the Republican leader in the November 3 elections. Al Mason, co-chair of the Trump Victory Indian American Finance Committee, on Sunday said the Indian-American community has emerged as a force to reckon with for the first time in the history of the US presidential election. “Your support will contribute to President Trump’s win,” he said. “This is a historical election where we all e have to make a simple choice. Do we want better economy, less taxes and smaller government, then let’s re-elect President Trump? You want to have a good friend for India, first time ever, let’s elect President Trump,” said eminent Indian businessman Chintu Patel.Trump also needs to be elected to successfully address the challenges posed by China, said the founder of the Amneal pharmaceuticals at a ‘meet a greet’ event organised for Donald J Trump Jr, son of the president, and Kimberly Guilfoyle, national chair of the Trump Victory Finance Committee.“We could be small in numbers, but we are strong in dollars. So let’s unite, make our vote count. We will elect this president. We have to take our country forward, not backward,” said Patel.Dr Raj Bhayani, who has been working among Indian-Americans in some of the key battleground states, said it is important for the community that they support and vote for Trump as the president has supported India in the last four years, including on the issue of China.Shridhar Chityala, a member of the ‘Indian Voices for Trump’, said the policies of President Trump in the last four years have been bold, disruptive and transformative. “On the issue of China, the president has sent a strong message that he stands with India. We would like to see him reelected again,” he said.Businessman Navin Shah said Trump has successfully managed the coronavirus. The president has led America towards peace and prosperity and that his achievements in the field of economy is unparalleled. “We need to spread the word and help re-elect Trump,” he said.Dr Shobha Choklingam asserted that Trump has supported India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue of Kashmir. “President Trump is the one that takes on China the way it should be,” she said.“I want to thank him for the support he gave to India against China...As a patriotic American we need to support him very, very strongly,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-good-relationship-with-india-vote-for-donald-trump-indian-american-supporters/story-kecUPV1J6BCgm7yyUg9Y0N.html
19-10-2020||World||Chinese economic indicators promise sustained recovery, says statistics bureau||Chinese economic indicators are providing a good reason to believe that a sustained recovery is underway, the country’s statistics bureau said on Monday, after the world’s second-biggest economy further expanded in the third quarter. There’s also good reason to be confident about China’s full-year economic growth, Liu Aihua, spokeswoman at the National Bureau of Statistics, told a press briefing after the release of third-quarter gross domestic product. While third-quarter GDP growth lagged behind expectations, the month of September saw improvement in all major indicators for the first time this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-economic-indicators-promise-sustained-recovery-says-statistics-bureau/story-ytaza8DzSjXDKlp93swsiJ.html
19-10-2020||World||Trump, Modi relationship is incredible, says Donald Trump Jr||Donald Trump Jr has said his father and US President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have an incredible relationship and that both the countries can fight the ‘threat’ of socialism and communism across the world. Donald Trump Jr said he was surprised at the reception his father had received at the beginning of the year when the US president and his family visited India for the first time for the Namaste Trump event in Ahmedabad.“The relationship between my father, president of the United States Donald Trump, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is incredible. When I saw the reception he received in India a few months ago, it was overwhelming. I think they understand that these two big democracies are fighting together against communism and socialism spreading across the world… I love that they have a powerful relationship that will benefit the world,” Donald Trump Jr, the eldest son of the US president said, according to news agency ANI.Trump Jr was speaking after the release of his book Liberal Privilege and the event was organised exclusively for the Indian American community. The book documents allegations of corruption against Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden.Both Republicans and Democrats are aiming to impress the Indian-American electorates across the United States. On October 14, a report said that according to the Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS) conducted by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Johns Hopkins University and Princeton in partnership with YouGov, 72% of Indian American respondents could vote for Democrat Joe Biden in the upcoming presidential elections.Republicans expect that Donald Trump’s anti-China and anti-immigrant rhetoric will impress Indian Americans and will lead them to vote for him on November 3. Donald Trump Jr also echoed the same sentiment. “We have to understand the threat of China and no one knows that probably better than Indian-Americans,” he said. He added that Biden will be soft on China and will not benefit the India-US ties.During the 2019 Howdy Modi event in Houston, PM Modi highlighted how Trump strengthened India and the ties between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-modi-relationship-is-incredible-says-donald-trump-jr/story-ZWDmkzRDZnHROVqXAACVPJ.html
19-10-2020||World||Imran Khan incapable and clueless; betrayed people of Pakistan: Opposition leaders||Prime Minister Imran Khan is “incapable and clueless”, and his government is worse than a dictatorship, Pakistan’s opposition leaders have said at the second rally of an alliance formed to oust the premier.The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance of 11 opposition parties formed on September 20, has launched a three-phased anti-government movement under an “action plan” to remove the Khan-led Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) government.Under the plan a number of rallies public meetings and demonstrations will be held across the country, before a “decisive long march” to Islamabad in January next year. The first of these rallies was held on Friday in Gujranwala near Lahore. “This incapable and clueless prime minister will have to go home,” Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari said on Sunday at the Bagh-e-Jinnah, which was packed with people including supporters and workers of the alliance’s members.History has proved that the biggest dictators could not survive and “what standing does this puppet have?”, Zardari said targeting Prime Minister Khan and added that “this is not a new fight but this will be a decisive fight”.The rally here also marked the 13th anniversary of the twin blasts in Karsaz that targeted the homecoming procession of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto in 2007. The blast left around 200 people dead and several injured.Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) vice presidents Maryam Nawaz and Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, Pakhtunkhwa Milli Awami Party chairman Mehmood Achakzai and Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam Fazl (JUI-F) leader Maulana Fazlur Rehman were among the leaders of opposition parties who attended the rally. The PPP also invited Mohsin Dawar, who heads the Pashtun Tahaffuz Movement (PTM), to address the gathering at the Bagh-e-Jinnah. Maryam Nawaz, daughter of exiled former prime minister Nawaz Sharif, attacked the PTI government for declaring opposition leaders and her father as “traitors”. “When answers are demanded, you say we are traitors,” said the PML-N vice president. Fatima Jinnah, the sister of Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah, was also declared a traitor, Maryam Nawaz told the gathering.Calling PM Khan a “coward”, Maryam accused him of using the armed forces for his face-saving and declaring opponents as traitors only to save his skin and hide incompetence.“Do not scare us (by declaring us) traitors,” the PML-N vice president said and added that “when you (Khan) are pressed for answers, you hide behind the armed forces”.“You bring the army into disrepute. You use them (army) to hide your failures. Who gave you this right?” Maryam asked.“Remember this, one or two personalities are not the entire institution, but one or two people can defame the entire institution, and when they take cover of that institution, they cause heavy losses to that institution,” she said. “We cannot respect those who violate their oaths. Is Nawaz Sharif wrong in saying that the army should not interfere in politics?” she asked. Addressing the first power show of the PDM in Gujranwala via video link from London on Friday, Sharif had accused the military and Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI of being behind his ouster as premier and installing their “puppet government” by bringing Imran Khan into power.It was for the first time that the 70-year-old PML-N supremo, who was ousted from power in 2017 by the Supreme Court on graft charges, directly named army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and ISI head Lt Gen Faiz Hameed for interfering in the elections of 2018 to ensure victory of Khan.On Sunday, Prime Minister Khan warned that he would be getting tough with the opposition and would ensure Sharif is brought back from London and put in jail for his deeds.Sharif has been living in London since November last year after he was allowed by the courts and the government to go there for a period of eight weeks for medical treatment. But he did not come back, while his lawyers told the court that he was still recovering.The Islamabad High Court through newspaper advertisements has asked Sharif to appear before it by November 24 to avoid being declared a “proclaimed offender”. Maryam said Khan’s speech was that of a defeated man who was worried about the support the PDM had gathered in a short time.Bilawal, in his speech, lashed out at Khan for “betraying” the people of Pakistan and said the rise of “facism” in the country had weakened the country’s position on Kashmir and other issues. Taking a jibe at PM Khan and Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa, PDM chief Maulana Fazlur Rahman said, “Bajwa Sahib, I respect you so much. But please try to avoid these foolish (Khan) friends.” Mohsin Dawar, who was one of the first speakers at the rally, termed the PDM as a “beginning for real democracy and civilian supremacy” in the country. He criticised the incumbent government for filing “baseless cases” against political workers, whether they were from Waziristan, Gilgit Baltistan, Baluchistan or Sindh. The cases, Dawar claimed, were filed due to political differences. The current regime is “worse than a dictatorship”, he said. The PDM will hold rallies in Quetta on October 25, Peshawar on November 22, Multan on November 30 and then a rally in Lahore on December 13.Opposition leaders have announced that they would use all political and democratic options, including no-confidence motions and mass resignations from Parliament to seek “the selected” prime minister’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-incapable-and-clueless-betrayed-people-of-pakistan-opposition-leaders/story-IKDve3rvX9Oav4eBsSZCjN.html
19-10-2020||World||Pak Oppn hammers Imran Khan at rally, cops ‘gate crash’ Maryam Nawaz’s hotel||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s administration came under attack at Sunday’s mass protest rally that was held at Karachi’s Jinnah ground. Thousands of people attended the event held by the newly-formed 11-party opposition alliance, the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM).Maryam Nawaz, daughter of former PM Nawaz Sharif and currently PML-N vice-president, attended the mass protest where she launched a scathing attack on PM Khan in a speech. “When you are pressed for answers, you hide behind the armed forces. You coward! You bring the army into disrepute. You use them (the army) to hide your own failures. Who gave you this right?” she questioned the prime minister amid cheers from the crowd.In her speech, Maryam also responded to comments made by PM Khan a day earlier. “Yesterday, you must have seen on your TV screens a man screaming his defeat,” she told the crowd. “You (Khan) tell people ‘ghabrana nai hai’ (don’t worry), there has only been one ‘jalsa’ (rally). But you are already worried.”Maryam challenged Khan to ban the opposition PML-N Party, saying, “Don’t even think about it. This is the biggest party of Pakistan.”Also Read: Maryam Nawaz’s husband Safdar Awan ‘arrested’ in Karachi after rally against Imran KhanIn a reference to India, Maryam said, “You say the opposition is speaking (Indian Prime Minister Nardendra) Modi’s language, when it was you who prayed for Modi’s re-election, were dying to talk to him, gave him Kashmir on a plate… and we are the ones speaking his language?”Maryam was softer in her approach when she spoke about Pakistan’s military establishment, saying the PDM was not against the army but only some of its generals. “Those soldiers who sacrificed their lives, Nawaz salutes them, Maryam Nawaz salutes them, we all salute them. Remember this, one or two personalities are not the entire institution, but one or two people can defame the entire institution. And when they take cover of that institution, they cause heavy losses to that institution,” she said.Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chairperson Bilawal Bhutto Zardari also gave a speech at the event, criticising PM Khan for promulgating an ordinance to take over two islands located near Karachi. He said Khan betrayed the people of Karachi by offering an unconvincing package and taking over the two islands in order to build housing colonies.Bilawal also questioned the ruling party’s strategy on Kashmir, accusing the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) of weakening the Kashmir cause. “He (Khan) claimed to be the ambassador of Kashmiris. But now, he has become the lawyer of Kulbhushan (Jadhav). He (Khan) has done a deal on Kashmir,” Bilawal said.“This incapable and clueless prime minister will have to go home,” said Bilawal and told the audience that the main demand of the PDM was “real democracy”.A surprise speaker at the event was Pashtun Tahaffuz Movement (PTM) leader Mohsin Dawar. The PTM member of parliament talked about human rights violations in north Waziristan and other parts of the tribal areas. He lamented that over time, people had gone missing not just in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), but all across the country.“I consider this government to be worse than a dictatorship because they have placed a prime minister as a punching bag. In reality, the decision makers are the Pakistan Army and its agencies,” he told the crowd.Another leader who spoke at the protest rally was Balochistan National Party-Mengal’s (BNP-M) Akhtar Mengal, who began his speech by mockingly welcoming PDM leaders into what he called a “gallery of traitors”.“Traitor certificates for us, the followers of Bacha Khan, were issued in 1947. Our certificates are so old, they are moth-eaten by now. Yours are new, so I welcome you,” he said.The BNP-M leader also questioned why Pakistan was created in the first place. “Was this country made for us or for the Defence Housing Agency (DHA)?” he asked. Political observers say the Karachi rally was a success. The provincial government, which belongs to the opposition PPP, is believed to have managed the event’s logistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-top-opposition-leaders-slam-pm-imran-khan-at-pdm-s-protest-rally-in-karachi/story-O1rffiCNK1rhbH6TXUgMKL.html
19-10-2020||World||China’s post Covid-19 economic recovery rate accelerates||China’s shaky economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic is gaining strength as consumers return to shopping malls and auto dealerships while the United States and Europe endure painful contractions.The world’s second-largest economy expanded by 4.9% over a year ago in the three months ending in September, official data showed Monday. Retail spending rebounded to above pre-virus levels for the first time and factory output rose, boosted by demand for exports of masks and other medical supplies.The recovery is broadening out and becoming less reliant on government stimulus, Julian Evans-Pritchard of Capital Economics said in a report. He said growth is “still accelerating” heading into the present quarter.China, where the pandemic began in December, became the first major economy to return to growth after the ruling Communist Party declared the disease under control in March and began reopening factories, shops and offices.It is the only major economy that is expected to grow this year while activity in the United States, Europe and Japan shrinks.The Chinese economy expanded by 3.2% over a year earlier in the three months ending in June, rebounding from the previous quarter’s 6.8% contraction, its worst performance since at least the mid-1960s.The economy “continued the steady recovery,” the National Bureau of Statistics said in a report. However, it warned, “the international environment is still complicated and severe.” It said China faces great pressure to prevent a resurgence of the virus.Authorities have lifted curbs on travel and business but visitors to government and other public buildings still are checked for the virus’s telltale fever. Travelers arriving from abroad must be quarantined for two weeks.Last week, more than 10 million people were tested for the virus in the eastern port of Qingdao after 12 cases were found there. That broke a two-month streak with no virus transmissions reported within China.Industrial production rose 5.8% over the same quarter last year, a marked improvement over the first half’s 1.3% contraction. Chinese exporters are taking market share from foreign competitors that still are hampered by anti-virus controls.Retail sales rose 0.9% over a year earlier. That was up from a 7.2% contraction in the first half as consumers, already anxious about a slowing economy and a tariff war with Washington, put off buying. Online commerce rose 15.3%.In a sign demand is accelerating, sales in September rose 3.3%.“China’s recovery in private consumption is gathering momentum,” said Stephen Innes of AxiCorp in a report.China has reported 4,634 coronavirus deaths and 85,685 confirmed cases, plus three suspected cases.Economists say China is likely to recover faster than other major economies due to the ruling party’s decision to impose the most intensive anti-disease measures in history. Those temporarily cut off most access to cities with a total of 60 million people.The International Monetary Fund is forecasting China’s economic growth at 1.8% this year while the U.S. economy is expected to shrink by 4.3%. The IMF expects a 9.8% contraction in France, 6% in Germany and 5.3% in Japan.Private sector analysts say as much as 30% of China’s urban workforce, or up to 130 million people, may have lost their jobs at least temporarily. They say as many as 25 million jobs might be lost for good this year.The ruling party promised in May to spend $280 billion on meeting goals including creating 9 million new jobs. But it has avoided joining the United States and Japan in rolling out stimulus packages of $1 trillion or more due to concern about adding to already high Chinese debt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-post-covid-19-economic-recovery-rate-accelerates/story-ztDBgR55pp2MyIkkJSO8gO.html
19-10-2020||World||Covid-19: South Korea begins testing employees at hospitals, nursing homes||South Korea has reported 76 new cases of the coronavirus as officials begin testing tens of thousands of employees at hospitals and nursing homes to prevent transmissions at live-in facilities.The figures released by the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency on Monday brought the national caseload to 25,275, including 444 deaths.Thirty-seven of the new cases were from the densely populated Seoul metropolitan area, home to about half of the country’s 51 million people, where health workers have scrambled to track infections linked to various places and groups, including hospitals, churches, schools and workers.Fifteen cases were reported from the southern port city of Busan, where more than 70 infections so far have been linked to a hospital for the elderly.Health officials from Monday will start a process to test 130,000 employees and 30,000 patients at hospitals, nursing homes and welfare centres for senior citizens in the greater capital area in part of efforts to prevent outbreaks at these facilities. (AP) SCY SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-south-korea-begins-testing-employees-at-hospitals-nursing-homes/story-duQZpzGN8IEIYRj2EPM6cO.html
19-10-2020||World||Israeli delegation visits Bahrain after agreement to normalise ties||Donald Trump’s Middle East envoy said on Sunday the President’s push for an Israeli-Arab rapprochement was gaining momentum and he hoped more accords would follow even if Trump loses next month’s election. Avi Berkowitz, who accompanied an Israeli delegation which visited Bahrain on Sunday, said the so-called “Abraham Accords” had bipartisan support in the United States and were designed to bear long-term fruit by encouraging grassroots engagement between Israel and its new Arab partners.“Peace is something everybody should celebrate and see as a positive thing for the world,” Berkowitz said in an interview. “It’s our sincere hope that, no matter who wins the election, the Abraham Accords will continue to grow.”Bahrain followed the United Arab Emirates in agreeing last month to normalise ties with Israel, angering Palestinians who had conditioned any such regional rapprochement on statehood, with East Jerusalem as capital of their independent state.The administration has been racing against the clock to secure normalisation deals for Israel, in an effort to help Trump secure re-election in November.For allies in the Middle East, it is a chance to close ranks on Iran more overtly.The flight carrying the Israeli delegation flew over Saudi Arabia, an accommodation by the Gulf’s powerhouse, which has so far resisted appeals to normalise ties with Israel.“That is a decision for them to ultimately come to, our conversations with them have been positive on numerous fronts,” Berkowitz said when asked about any Saudi plans to follow suit. “We look to them for an understanding in the region of the temperature of how things are going on numerous fronts, we’ve had very good discussions with them but time will tell,” he added. Berkowitz, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and other officials will travel on Monday to the UAE, where the accord with Israel has opened up bilateral commerce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/berkowitz-hopes-abrahamic-accords-grows-no-matter-who-wins-us-elections/story-tmdbo2AstggTLsK5PNAc3J.html
19-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Trump, Biden urge supporters to vote early as this week’s final debate showdown awaits||President Donald Trump implored supporters in Nevada on Sunday to cast ballots early in a state he narrowly lost in 2016, while Democrat Joe Biden urged North Carolina residents to “go vote today,” as the final presidential debate looms later this week.(Click here for full US Election 2020 coverage)Some 27.9 million Americans have already cast ballots either by mail or in person ahead of the Nov. 3 election, according to the US Elections Project at the University of Florida. The record-shattering figure is being driven in part by concerns about crowds at polling sites on Election Day during the coronavirus pandemic.(Read more: US president Donald Trump woos evangelical Christians in Nevada rally)At a rally in Carson City, Nevada, a state where voting started on Saturday, Trump told attendees: “Early voting is under way, so get out and vote.” (Read more: Twitter blocks tweet from Trump adviser downplaying face-masks)In North Carolina, a battleground where 1.4 million, or 20%, of the state’s registered voters had already voted as of Sunday morning, Biden asked people to cast ballots as soon as possible. The race is neck and neck in the state, which Trump won by 3.66 percentage points in 2016.“We gotta keep the incredible momentum going; we can’t let up,” Biden told a “drive-in rally” in Durham, as attendees sitting in their cars honked in approval. “Don’t wait - go vote today.”Biden also criticized Trump for saying over the weekend that the United States had “turned the corner” in the coronavirus pandemic, noting that the rate of new cases across the country had risen to the highest level in months.“As my grandfather would say: ‘This guy’s gone around the bend if he thinks we’ve turned the corner,’“ Biden said. “Things are getting worse, and he continues to lie to us about circumstances.”Despite Trump’s recent recovery from his own bout with the virus, he mocked Biden in Nevada for his cautious approach toward the pandemic. There was little social distancing at the packed outdoor rally at the Carson City airport.“Listen to the scientists!” Trump said in a mocking voice. “If I listened totally to the scientists, we would right now have a country that would be in a massive depression.”The Biden campaign responded almost immediately. “New coronavirus cases are surging and layoffs are rising,” said spokesman Andrew Bates. The two will debate for a final time on Thursday in Nashville, Tennessee. Their second scheduled debate, set for last Thursday, was canceled when Trump pulled out of the event after organizers said it would be virtual to lessen the risk of infection.HARRIS RETURNING TO TRAILBiden’s pick for vice president, Senator Kamala Harris, canceled in-person events over the weekend as a precaution after an aide tested positive for Covid-19. She will return to the campaign trail on Monday with a visit to Florida to mark that state’s first day of early in-person voting. Harris tested negative for the virus on Sunday, the campaign said. The president, who rarely goes to church but has remained popular among evangelical Christians for his opposition to abortion and for appointing conservative judges, began his day by attending a service at the International Church of Las Vegas. Trump did not wear a mask for the indoor service.One of the church’s pastors, Denise Goulet, said to Trump from the stage that God had told her he would win the 2020 election. Trump put a handful of $20 bills into an offering bucket and bowed his head during a prayer. Trump will campaign every day leading up to Thursday’s debate, including stops in Arizona and North Carolina, campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh said. While Trump lags in opinion polls at the national level and in many battleground states, Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said over the weekend that the national figures were misleading because must-win states were close.“We cannot become complacent because the very searing truth is that Donald Trump can still win this race, and every indication we have shows that this thing is going to come down to the wire,” she wrote in a memo to donors.U.S. presidential elections are determined by electoral votes, allotted to U.S. states and territories based largely on their populations, rather than by a tally of the popular vote nationwide. (Reporting by Jeff Mason in Carson City, Nevada, and Michael Martina in Durham, North Carolina; Writing by Joseph Ax, Jarrett Renshaw and James Oliphant; Editing by Daniel Wallis and Peter Cooney)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-trump-biden-urge-supporters-to-vote-early-as-this-week-s-final-debate-showdown-awaits/story-L7xELqOEeCrag0vG1UoksJ.html
19-10-2020||World||Maryam Nawaz Sharif’s husband Safdar Awan ‘arrested’ in Karachi||Police has “arrested” Safdar Awan, the husband of Pakistan Muslim League (N) leader, Maryam Nawaz Sharif, from the hotel they were staying in Karachi, hours after the PML-N vice-president lashed out at Prime Minister Imran Khan and the PTI government at second power show of 11-party opposition alliance People’s Democratic Movement (PDM) which was attended by thousands of people.“Police broke my room door at the hotel I was staying at in Karachi and arrested Capt. Safdar,” Maryam tweeted early Monday.  Police broke my room door at the hotel I was staying at in Karachi and arrested Capt. Safdar.So far no official announcement has been made regarding the arrest by the police. This is also not clear whether the Safdar’s arrest has been made with regard to an FIR that was lodged yesterday at Brigade police station by Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government representatives against Maryam, Safdar Awan and their “200 goons” for violating the “sanctity of Quaid’s Mazar Under Quaid-e-Azam’s Mazar Protection and Maintenance ordinance 1971”.On the way to Bagh-e-Jinnah garden, Maryam made a stopover visit at Quaid’s mausoleum on Sunday. Retired Captain Safdar had chanted the PML-N slogan “vote ko izzat do (honour the vote)” and urged people to join him.This move was condemned by government representatives saying that ‘the sanctity of Quaid’s Mazar has been disrespected’. According to Geo News, the government representatives approached the police asking them to initiate legal action against all those who participated in the act.Minister for Science and Technology Fawad Chaudhry also criticised Safdar and said both he and Maryam must apologise.“An FIR has been lodged at Brigade police station against Maryam, Safdar Awan and their 200 goons who violated the sanctity of Quaid’s Mazar Under Quaid-e-Azam’s Mazar Protection and Maintenance ordinance 1971,” PTI tweeted.Speaking at the Sunday’s anti-government rally, Maryam paid tribute to the provincial government for their efforts amid the COVID-19 pandemic, while they were subjected to humiliation and taunts by the federal government, Dawn reported.“Yesterday, you must have seen on your TV screens a man screaming his defeat...You [PM Imran] tell people ‘ghabrana nai hai’, there has only been one jalsa yet and you are worrying already,” she said.While taunting the Prime Minister for PTI’s recently failed 126-day sit-in on Shahrah-e-Dastoor, the PML-N leader said, “You [PM Imran] addressed empty chairs, dug democracy’s grave, [and yet] Nawaz Sharif never took your name. Even today, you will long for it but Nawaz Sharif will not even take your name, because children have no role in the fight between elders.”(ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/maryam-nawaz-sharif-s-husband-safdar-awan-arrested-in-karachi/story-dqKfPwaCIi77mds3IrqaPI.html
19-10-2020||World||Saudi Arabian artist makes world’s ‘largest coffee painting’||A Saudi artist has created the world’s “largest coffee painting”, becoming the first woman from the country to achieve a record title single-handedly, the Guinness World Records announced Sunday. Ohud Abdullah Almalki used expired coffee to illustrate renowned leaders from the kingdom and the neighbouring United Arab Emirates for the 220 square metre (around 2,370 square feet) piece.“It took me 45 days of continuous work to complete, under the watchful eyes of two witnesses, video recording and drone footage,” Almalki said, according to a Guinness World Records statement. The artwork, titled “Naseej 1” (meaning “Woven Together”) was created in the Saudi city of Jeddah on a canvas of seven connected cloths.It features the founding fathers of Saudi Arabia and the UAE -- the late King Abdul Aziz bin Saud and the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al-Nahyan, respectively. Below them is a series of smaller portraits of other leaders from the two Gulf countries, while the whole work is bordered in the traditional “Al-Sadu” style of Bedouin decoration.“My aim is to remind the world of the centuries-old entente between the two nations,” Almalki said.The artist used approximately 4.5 kilogrammes of expired coffee granules to complete the painting, according to the Guinness World Records statement. Almalki expressed hope that her accomplishment “will contribute to empowering the women in Saudi Arabia and beyond.”It is the first time a Saudi woman has achieved a record alone, Guinness World Records said, though others have taken part in previous attempts.In 2015, 8,264 women came together in Riyadh to make the largest “human awareness ribbon”, to raise awareness about breast cancer.dm/lg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabian-artist-makes-world-s-largest-coffee-painting/story-143rWonjbRMhz9vc458NsI.html
19-10-2020||World||Nepal Government not to bear costs of Covid-19 test, treatment||Amid the continuous surge in COVID-19 cases, the Nepal government has decided not to bear expenses of all virus-infected people and not to bury infected people who died during home isolation.The decision, which was made earlier week by KP Sharma Oli-led administration, has been made public on Sunday through the daily COVID-19 briefing held by Ministry of Health and Population.Decided during a Cabinet meeting, a list of people completing certain criteria will be getting the facilities from the government, spokesperson at the Ministry announced.“Those from economically deprived, differently-abled and helpless, single women, senior citizens, front-line health workers, sanitisation workers, security personnel and those civil servants who are working in the risk-prone zone would be tested for free and treated as well. In case aforementioned persons have an insurance policy from any company, then expenses will be reimbursed from their insurance policy which shall cover the expenses of tests and treatment. Others who don’t fall in the criteria would require taking tests and expenses for treatment on their own,” Dr Jageshwor Gautam, one of the spokesperson at Ministry of Health and Population said in the regular press briefing on Sunday.The latest decision has gone into effect for all government, non-government hospitals and laboratories from Sunday itself. The new decision has left more than 25 per cent of the population (statistics from ADB, 2010) deprived of proper tests for COVID-19 infection.A large number of people, especially those depending on daily wage, will be adversely affected as a standard COVID-19 test costs NPR 2,000 in private labs.Government Hospitals and Labs have been conducting the tests for almost free of cost as they earlier use to receive reimbursement from the government on the basis of tests conducted.Besides, the Government has distanced itself from criminating the bodies of those succumbing to the deadly virus.Amending the “Dead Body Management of COVID-19 Cases Guideline” the government has made family members bury the body of their kin if he/she dies during home isolation.As per the new rule, the family members need to inform the local administration and police in case the infected person in home isolation dies and funeral rites need to be carried out by maintaining a physical distance. However, the guideline bars people above 60 years and children to participate in the procession.The new regulation also states that family members would require to arrange a vehicle to carry the dead body while the persons going close with the body would need to wear gloves, surgical masks, boots, spectacles and full sleeve dress.Kathmandu Valley which hosts almost half of the active cases in real-time have the highest number of infected ones in home isolations as a hospital run out of beds and other infrastructures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-government-not-to-bear-costs-of-covid-19-test-treatment/story-RwN56cSag0QVn7n9Fh1E0M.html
19-10-2020||World||Brexit - Britain, EU blame game continues; post brexit trade deal still possible||Britain and the European Union will on Monday attempt to breathe life into post-Brexit trade talks that appeared all but dead last week, with each side telling the other it needed to fundamentally change course.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday there was no point in continuing talks and it was time to prepare for a ‘no-deal’ exit when transitional arrangements end on Dec. 31.But Michael Gove, one of his senior ministers, struck a more conciliatory tone on Sunday, saying the door was still ajar to a deal if the bloc was willing to compromise.EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier had been due in London for talks with his British counterpart David Frost this week. Instead, they will now speak by telephone on Monday to discuss the structure of future talks, Barnier’s spokesman said.Negotiations broke down on Thursday when the European Union said Britain needed to give ground.Issues still to be resolved include fair competition rules, dispute resolution and fisheries.Gove said on Sunday that the bloc had squandered some of the progress that had been made because it had not been willing to intensify talks or produce detailed legal texts.“We hope that the EU will change their position; we’re certainly not saying if they do change their position that we can’t talk to them,” he said.Asked by Sky News if Barnier should come to London, Gove said the ball was “in his court”.EU diplomats and officials cast Johnson’s move as little more than rhetoric, portraying it as a frantic bid to secure concessions before a last-minute deal was done, and European leaders have asked Barnier to continue talks.“A DEAL, BUT NOT AT ANY PRICE”German Chancellor Angela Merkel said compromises on both sides would be needed. French President Emmanuel Macron said Britain needed a Brexit deal more than the 27-nation EU, which remained united.“We are ready for a deal, but not at any price,” Macron said.A “no deal” finale to the United Kingdom’s five-year Brexit crisis would disrupt the operations of manufacturers, retailers, farmers and nearly every other sector - just as the economic hit from the coronavirus pandemic worsens.“It is not my preferred destination,” Gove said in an opinion piece in the Sunday Times.“But if the choice is between arrangements that tie our hands indefinitely, or where we can shape our own future, then that’s no choice at all. And leaving on Australian terms is an outcome for which we are increasingly well prepared.”Critics say that an “Australian-style” deal is simply code for no deal at all with Britain’s largest export market.Britain is launching a campaign this week urging businesses to step up preparations for a no-deal exit. In a statement accompanying the launch, Gove says: “Make no mistake, there are changes coming in just 75 days and time is running out for businesses to act.”More than 70 British business groups representing over 7 million workers on Sunday urged politicians to get back to the negotiating table next week and strike a deal.“With compromise and tenacity, a deal can be done. Businesses call on leaders on both sides to find a route through,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-britain-eu-blame-game-continues-post-brexit-trade-deal-still-possible/story-5uUEboodomok6tUXoIOwCI.html
19-10-2020||World||Decade-long UN arms embargo on Iran expires, US to sanction sellers||US secretary of state Mike Pompeo on Sunday said arms sales to Iran would breach UN resolutions and result in sanctions, after Tehran said the decade-long UN embargo on arms trade with the Islamic republic had expired.“The US is prepared to use its domestic authorities to sanction any individual or entity that materially contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer of conventional arms to or from Iran,” Pompeo said in a statement. “Every nation that seeks peace and stability in the Middle East and supports the fight against terrorism should refrain from any arms transactions with Iran.”The embargo on the sale of conventional arms to Iran was due to begin expiring progressively from October 18 under terms of the United Nations resolution that confirmed the 2015 nuclear deal between Tehran and world powers.A high-level delegation of American and Israeli officials landed in Bahrain on Sunday on a mission to cement a pact to establish formal diplomatic ties between Israel and the Gulf Arab state.US treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin and Israel’s national security adviser Meir Ben-Shabbat led the delegations. The sides will issue a statement that would make Bahrain only the fourth Arab country to have full diplomatic relations with Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/decade-long-un-arms-embargo-on-iran-expires-us-to-sanction-sellers/story-x6UWmKbyvlsPWcpoz4N99K.html
19-10-2020||World||Europe’s Covid-19 deaths top 250k||More than 250,000 people across Europe have died from Covid-19 as Italy saw another record in number of cases since the pandemic began.A total of 250,030 deaths were recorded out of 7,366,028 registered cases in Europe, according to an AFP tally. Cases of coronavirus in Italy continued to rise to new records on Sunday, hitting 11,705 in the past 24 hours.Britain has suffered 43,646 fatalities from 722,409 infections. After Britain, the worst-hit European countries are Italy with 36,543 deaths, Spain with 33,775, France with 33,392 and Russia with 24,187. Over the last seven days, 8,342 deaths have been recorded in Europe, the highest weekly toll in the region since mid-May.The Italian government on Sunday approved 40 billion euros ($47bn) in new spending to counter the pandemic’s economic blow. The stimulus package includes an additional 1bn euros to the national health care system, plus funds to hire doctors and nurses to fill in during the emergency and money to pay for vaccines and other necessities to treat and combat the spread of Covid-19.The streets of Paris and eight other French cities were deserted on Saturday night on the first day of a curfew that is to last at least four weeks.The Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has confirmed the detection and isolation of living novel coronavirus on the outer packaging of imported frozen marine fish in the port city of Qingdao.The CDC said it detected and isolated the living virus on the outer packaging of imported frozen cod in Qingdao.The finding was made during an investigation to trace the source of recent infections in the city. It has proved that contact with packaging contaminated by living coronavirus could lead to infection.Australia’s state of Victoria, the epicentre of the country’s outbreak, will see more freedom of movement as of Monday after months-long restrictions. In the US, movie theatres in New York state can reopen beginning next Friday with restrictions on audience size and other precautions in place, governor Andrew Cuomo said on Saturday. Saudi Arabia allowed its citizens and residents to perform prayers in Al-Haram mosque in Mecca, for the first time in seven months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-s-covid-19-deaths-top-250k/story-HxM55DxArGNs4Gs6sdeTmO.html
19-10-2020||World||US president Donald Trump woos evangelical Christians in Nevada rally||President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden were courting early voters on Sunday in the competitive states of Nevada and North Carolina, as the final presidential debate looms later this week.Some 27.7 million Americans have already cast ballots either by mail or in person ahead of the Nov. 3 election, according to the US Elections Project at the University of Florida. The record-shattering figure is being driven in part by concerns about crowds at polling sites on Election Day amid the coronavirus pandemic.Trump, a Republican, was spending his Sunday in Nevada, a state he hopes to wrest away from Democrats after narrowly losing it in 2016.The president, who rarely goes to church but has remained popular among evangelical Christians for his opposition to abortion and for appointing conservative judges, began his day by attending a service at the International Church of Las Vegas. Trump, who recently came down with his own bout of COVID-19, did not wear a mask for the indoor service.One of the church’s pastors, Denise Goulet, said to Trump from the stage that God had told her he would win the 2020 election. Trump put a handful of $20 bills into an offering bucket and bowed his head during a prayer. Biden flew to North Carolina, a battleground where 1.4 million, or 20%, of the state’s registered voters had already voted as of Sunday morning.The former vice president’s campaign said he would urge residents to make a plan to vote as early as possible at an event in Durham, while also detailing his proposals to lessen economic inequality for Black Americans.His pick for vice president, Senator Kamala Harris, canceled in-person events over the weekend as a precaution after an aide tested positive for COVID-19. She will return to the campaign trail on Monday with a visit to Florida to mark that state’s first day of early in-person voting. Trump will campaign every day leading up to Thursday’s debate in Florida, including stops in Arizona and North Carolina, campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh said. While Trump lags in opinion polls at a national level and in many battleground states, Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said over the weekend that the national figures are misleading because must-win states are close.“We cannot become complacent because the very searing truth is that Donald Trump can still win this race, and every indication we have shows that this thing is going to come down to the wire,” she wrote in a memo to donors.US presidential elections are determined by electoral votes, allotted to US states and territories based largely on their populations, rather than by a tally of the popular vote nationwide.Trump campaigned on Saturday in Michigan and Wisconsin, two battleground states he narrowly won in the 2016 election.In Muskegeon, Mich., he attacked Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, for imposing restrictions to slow the spread of the coronavirus and made light of a right-wing plot uncovered by the FBI to kidnap her.“Hopefully you’ll be sending her packing pretty soon,” Trump said, prompting the crowd to yell back “Lock her up!” several times.Whitmer said on Sunday’s “Meet the Press” on NBC that the president’s rhetoric was “incredibly disturbing” and “dangerous” for her and her family as well as other politicians whom he targets.Opinion polls have shown a high level of concern among voters about the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 219,000 people in the United States and hammered the economy.While the virus is deadliest for older people, the pandemic is motivating young voters as well, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted between Sept. 29 and Oct. 13. Among likely voters aged 34 and under, 25% named COVID-19 as their top concern when picking a president, while jobs and the economy were cited by 20%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-donald-trump-woos-evangelical-christians-in-nevada-rally/story-pexxQ4twRPbPk1M0L0GukM.html
19-10-2020||World||UAE minister faces Scotland Yard investigation after allegations of sexual assault arise||A British woman working on a literary festival in the United Arab Emirates, has alleged she was sexually assaulted in February by the UAE minister for tolerance, according to The Sunday Times newspaper.Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, 69, who has denied any wrongdoing, is being investigated by Scotland Yard, the newspaper said in an article on Sunday.The assault allegedly happened when Hay literary festival worker Caitlin McNamara, 32, who has waived her right to anonymity, visited the minister at a private island villa on Valentine’s day, the report said.The alleged victim said the attack occurred when she accepted an invitation to meet the sheikh shortly before the opening of the inaugural Hay Festival Abu Dhabi.In the UK, she later made a formal complaint to the Metropolitan Police who are investigating it as an allegation of rape, the report added.Chair of the Hay Festival board, Caroline Michel, said: “What happened to our friend and colleague Caitlin McNamara in Abu Dhabi last February was an appalling violation and a hideous abuse of trust and position.“Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan made a mockery of his ministerial responsibilities and tragically undermined his government’s attempt to work with Hay Festival to promote free speech and female empowerment,” The Sunday Times report quoted her as saying in a statement.London libel lawyers Schillings told The Sunday Times: “Our client is surprised and saddened by this allegation, which arrives eight months after the alleged incident and via a national newspaper. The account is denied.”The Metropolitan Police confirmed that a woman contacted officers in July to report an allegation of rape.“An initial statement has been taken from the woman,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-minister-faces-scotland-yard-investigation-after-allegations-of-sexual-assault-arise/story-pYMcoDMzkw3RuqItrp5OVP.html
19-10-2020||World||Pakistan most likely to stay in ‘grey list’ of terror funding watchdog||Pakistan’s failure to fulfil six key obligations of the FATF, including action against two of India’s most wanted terrorists Maulana Masood Azhar and Hafiz Saeed, and the sudden disappearance of more than 4,000 terrorists from its official list will most likely lead to its continuation in the ‘grey list’ of the global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog, officials said on Sunday.The virtual plenary of the Financial Action Task Force, to be held on October 21-23, will take the final call on Pakistan’s continuation on its grey list after a thorough review of Islamabad’s performance in fulfilling the global commitments and standards in the fight against money laundering and terror financing. The FATF had given Pakistan a total of 27 action plan obligations for completely checking terror financing of which so far it has cleared 21 but has failed in some of the key tasks, an official privy to the developments said.The mandates which Pakistan has failed include action against all UN-designated terrorists like Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Azhar, Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Seed and the outfit’s operational commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi.Besides, FATF has strongly noted that there was sudden disappearance of the names of more than 4,000 terrorists from its original list of 7,600 under Schedule IV of its Anti Terrorism Act. “Under these circumstances, it is almost certain that Pakistan will continue in the FATF grey list,” the official said.Also, the four nominating countries — the US, UK, France and Germany — are also not satisfied with Islamabad’s commitment to taking strong action against the terror groups operating from its With Pakistan’s continuation in the grey list, it is increasingly becoming difficult for Islamabad to get financial aid from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the European Union, thus further enhancing problems for the country which is in a precarious financial situation.Outstanding action areas also include effective implementation of targeted financial sanctions (supported by a comprehensive legal obligation) against all 1,267 and 1,373 designated terrorists and those acting for them, another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-most-likely-to-stay-in-grey-list-of-terror-funding-watchdog/story-TRR7EVS8RsLEncecaxyocL.html
19-10-2020||World||Twitter blocks tweet from Trump adviser downplaying face-masks||Twitter blocked a post Sunday from an adviser to President Donald Trump who suggested that masks do not work to stop the spread of the coronavirus.Scott Atlas, who joined the White House in August as a science adviser, had tweeted “Masks work? NO,” and said widespread use of masks is not supported.The tweet violated a Twitter policy that prohibits sharing false or misleading misinformation about Covid-19 that could lead to harm, a company spokesperson said. The policy bans statements that have been confirmed to be false or misleading by experts such as public health authorities.In such cases, Twitter disables the account until its owner deletes the post in question.Trump has downplayed the importance of masks in reducing the spread of the virus, even after he contracted the disease, which has killed more than 215,000 Americans.“I don’t understand why the tweets were deleted,” Atlas said in an email, calling Twitter’s actions censorship. He said his tweet was intended to show that “general population masks and mask mandates do not work,” and he clarified that the correct policy is to use masks when one cannot socially distance. Atlas added that infections exploded even with mandates in Los Angeles County, Miami-Dade County, Hawaii, Alabama, the Philippines, Japan and other places.Researchers have concluded that masks can control the spread of the virus, and public health experts have urged the public to wear them. But Trump and his team often go without masks while campaigning.Atlas, the former chief of neuroradiology at Stanford University Medical Center and a fellow at Stanford’s conservative Hoover Institution, has no expertise in public health or infectious diseases. He has criticized the coronavirus lockdowns and campaigned for children to return to classrooms. Some scientists view Atlas as promoting dangerous theories around “herd immunity.”Last week, Twitter and Facebook moved quickly to limit the spread of an unverified political story published by the conservative-leaning New York Post. The story cited unverified emails from Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden’s son, and it has not been confirmed by other publications. There have been no new tweets from the Post since Oct. 14, indicating Twitter may still be blocking the newspaper’s tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-blocks-tweet-from-trump-adviser-downplaying-face-masks/story-DJ7gik2zzgXl5jYylek1yN.html
19-10-2020||World||Start of the fourth global Covid-19 wave||As the global case tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 40 million mark, the outbreak appears to have entered the fourth and strongest (yet) wave. The latest spurt of infections is fuelled by the second wave in most European nations, the third in the United States, and the tail-end of the first wave in India and South America. Here is a look at the countries that are behind the still-rising casesClick here for full Covid-19 coverage1. Global Covid-19 cases at a new all-time highThe first wave of the infections started in China at the start of the year with the first batch of infections reported in December 2019. After a rapid initial outbreak, China managed to control the outbreak by the end of February, marking the end of the first wave. The second wave started in March in Europe, with Italy as the earliest hot spot along with Spain, the United Kingdom and Germany. The virus started gripping the US by May, which marked the start of the third wave. This wave flattened through August and September, largely due to a recent plateau in daily cases in the US and Brazil. India became the global epicentre around early August 2. Where is this wave coming from?Third wave starts in the USThe US has reported an average of 55,917 new cases every day in the past week, according to Worldometers.info. This is the highest that the seven-day average of new infections has touched in the country since early August when the second wave of infections was receding. New infections are rising in most parts of the country with states such as Florida, Texas and California, all of which were hit hard in the second wave, reporting most cases since August. Scientists warn that the third wave is likely to surpass the peaks of the second wave. Europe’s second wave surpasses the firstThe new case trajectory in Europe is at an all-time high with new infections crossing 150,000 for the first time on Friday, just a week after daily infections on the continent surpassed the 100,000 mark for the first time. Nations such as Russia, France, Spain and UK are all reporting a record daily numbers of infections in their second waves. In the light of the new wave, many countries have imposed curbs on movement — for instance, a night-time curfew came into effect in France from Saturday.  India’s 1st wave dips, but still highest in worldFor a month now, new cases in India appear to be dipping consistently – the first time this has happened since the outbreak started in early March. For the week ending on Saturday, India reported 63,025 new cases every day — a drop of 33% from the peak recorded in mid-September, and the lowest this number has touched since the middle of June. However, India remains the country with the worst current trajectory of daily cases. To be sure, the US is set to retake the spot as it has reporting 55,917 daily cases in the last week, and the curve is rising there. 3. Deaths from 2nd wave remain worst While every wave of cases has been stronger than the one it precedes, the same can’t be said for deaths. With time, scientists are becoming better at saving lives from Covid-19 and as a result, the peak of deaths reported during the second wave of cases has never been surpassed. This is despite the fact that the third, and now fourth, waves have had a far higher number of cases. This is something that has helped countries like India (which saw its peak in the third global wave) keep its mortality rate better than the world average||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/start-of-the-fourth-global-covid-19-wave/story-4jwp8sj51gLTZ9NrUfctVK.html
19-10-2020||World||Coronavirus remains active on human skin for 9 hours: Study||The coronavirus remains active on human skin for nine hours, Japanese researchers have found, in a discovery they said showed the need for frequent hand washing to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. The pathogen that causes the flu survives on human skin for about 1.8 hours by comparison, said the study published this month in the Clinical Infectious Diseases journal. “The nine-hour survival of SARS-CoV-2 (the virus strain that causes Covid-19) on human skin may increase the risk of contact transmission in comparison with IAV (influenza A virus), thus accelerating the pandemic,” it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe research team tested skin collected from autopsy specimens, about one day after death. Both the coronavirus and the flu virus are inactivated within 15 seconds by applying ethanol, which is used in hand sanitisers.“The longer survival of SARS-CoV-2 on the skin increases contact-transmission risk; however, hand hygiene can reduce this risk,” the study said.The study backs World Health Organization guidance for regular and thorough hand washing to limit transmission of the virus, which has infected nearly 40 million people around the world since it first emerged in China late last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-remains-active-on-human-skin-for-9-hours-study/story-9IqRzq6AAuZcqTQbY76PiO.html
19-10-2020||World||‘We are not afraid’: France rallies after beheading of teacher||Tens of thousands of people rallied in Paris and cities across France on Sunday in solidarity with a teacher beheaded for showing pupils cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.Demonstrators on the Place de la Republique held aloft posters declaring: “No to totalitarianism of thought” and “I am a teacher” in memory of murdered colleague Samuel Paty.“You do not scare us. We are not afraid. You will not divide us. We are France!” tweeted Prime Minister Jean Castex, who joined the Paris demonstration.Castex was accompanied by Education Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer, Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo and junior interior minister Marlene Schiappa who said she was there “in support of teachers, of secularism, of freedom of expression”. Politicians from the other major parties also attended.Also Read | Paris beheading: Suspect in teacher’s attack in France was Chechen teenSome in the crowd chanted “I am Samuel”, echoing the “I am Charlie” cry that travelled around the world after Islamist gunmen killed 12 people at the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine in 2015 for publishing caricatures of the Islamic prophet.Between bursts of applause, others recited: “Freedom of expression, freedom to teach.”“I am here as a teacher, as a mother, as a Frenchwoman and as a republican,” said participant Virginie.The Charlie Hebdo attack in 2015 unleashed a wave of Islamist violence and forced France into a national discussion about Islam’s place in a secular society.After the massacre at the magazine, some 1.5 million people gathered on the same Place de la Republique in support of freedom of expression. ‘Things have to change’Local authorities said around 12,000 people rallied in Lyon in eastern France.In Toulouse, in the southwest, around 5,000 turned out. “The entire educational community is affected, and beyond it society as a whole,” teachers union representative Bernard Deswarte said there.Hundreds more assembled in Nice on the south coast, where in 2016 a man killed 86 people when he rammed a truck into a crowd on the July 14 national holiday.“Everyone is in danger today,” said student Valentine Mule, 18, attending the Nice rally. “Things have to change.”There were other marches in the eastern city of Strasbourg, in Lille in the north, and in the southern cities of Marseille and Montpellier. Samuel Paty was murdered on his way home from the school where he taught in a suburb northwest of Paris on Friday afternoon.A photo of the teacher and a message confessing to his murder was found on the mobile phone of his killer, 18-year-old Chechen Abdullakh Anzorov, who was shot dead by police.Witnesses said the suspect was spotted at the school on Friday asking pupils where he could find Paty.On Saturday, anti-terror prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard said Paty had been the target of online threats for showing the cartoons to his civics class.Depictions of the prophet are widely regarded as taboo in Islam.Online campaignThe father of one schoolgirl had launched an online call for “mobilisation” against the teacher and had sought his dismissal from the school.The aggrieved father had named Paty and given the school’s address in a social media post just days before the beheading, which President Emmanuel Macron has labelled an Islamist terror attack.The father and a known Islamist militant who was involved in his campaign against Paty are among those arrested, along with four members of Anzorov’s family. An 11th person was taken into custody on Sunday, a judicial source said, without providing details.Ricard did not say if the assailant had any links to the school or had acted independently in response to the online campaign.The Russian embassy in Paris said Anzorov’s family arrived in France from Chechnya when he was six to seek asylum.Locals in the Normandy town of Evreux where the attacker lived described him as low key, saying he got into fights as a child but had calmed down as he became increasingly religious in recent years.Friday’s attack was the second of its kind since a trial started last month over the Charlie Hebdo killings.The magazine republished the controversial cartoons in the run-up to the trial, and last month a young Pakistani man wounded two people with a meat cleaver outside Charlie Hebdo’s former office. ‘Doing his job’According to his school, Paty had given Muslim children the option to leave the classroom before he showed the cartoons, saying he did not want their feelings hurt.Kamel Kabtane, rector of the mosque of Lyon and a senior Muslim figure, told AFP on Sunday that Paty was merely been “doing his job” and had been “respectful” in doing so.Ministers in France’s defence council on Sunday agreed to step up security at schools when they return after half term.Action would also be taken against anyone expressing support for the attack.And authorities will be looking into the authors of 80 messages of support for the attacker from Monday, the Elysee added.A national tribute is to be held for Paty on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-are-not-afraid-france-rallies-after-beheading-of-teacher/story-AVp4Vg3VauhBGOltWDjjjK.html
19-10-2020||World||Livid Imran Khan vows to jail Nawaz Sharif as oppn holds 2nd rally||As the joint opposition movement held its second rally on Sunday, Pakistan government went into overdrive to reply to the speeches made at its first major meeting.A visibly upset and angry Prime Minister Imran Khan told a conference of his supporters in Islamabad on Saturday that he would get “tougher” with the opposition leaders and put them all behind bars. “Come back and see where I put you,” he said in reference to exiled former prime minister and PML-N leader Nawaz Sharif, at whom he largely directed his ire. “Now I will try my best to bring you back and put you in common prison, not VIP.” Khan told his supporters that the 11-party Pakistan Democratic Movement’s (PDM) thrust was to create a rift between his government, the judiciary and the army. “I will not let that happen,” said Khan, who also made fun of PML-N vice president Maryam Nawaz, whom he called a “Naani” (grandmother).Other ministers attacked PDM leaders over the weekend. Railways minister Shaikh Rasheed, seen to be close to the military, told a press conference, “Now it is a free for all. We will not hold back.” Also targeted were Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, who had said in his speech at the Gujranwala rally on Saturday that he was not sure who brought Punjab chief minister Usman Buzdar to power. “Was it a Jadugarni (witch) or a Khalai Makhluq (extra terrestrial being)?” he asked. He was referring to Imran Khan’s wife Bushra Bibi, herself a political and religious figure who is known to make decisions in the province and to ISI, the powerful intelligence agency. In response, minister Fawad Chaudhry said it was strange that the PDM was holding a rally in Karachi on the anniversary of the attack on Benazir Bhutto. “Benazir Bhutto was attacked by the Taliban and today the PDM, which is led by a Taliban sympathiser (Maulana Fazul Rehman), is paying tribute to her.”As the PDM continues its rallies all over the country, the political temperature in Pakistan has started to rise. Apart from personal attacks, there has been a rise in questions about the role of the army in the political affairs of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/livid-imran-khan-vows-to-jail-nawaz-sharif-as-oppn-holds-2nd-rally/story-UzTEHoGu0xgGooENgUN4mK.html
19-10-2020||World||Hard hit by coronavirus, airlines push for tests over quarantines||What will it take to get people flying again? International air traffic is down 92% this year as travelers worry about catching Covid-19 and government travel bans and quarantine rules make planning difficult. One thing airlines believe could help is to have rapid virus tests of all passengers before departure.Scattered experiments on improving safety are under way around the world, and a UN organization is leading talks to set guidelines. There is a lot at stake. With no end in sight to the pandemic, the near total halt to international travel will hinder economies as they try to bounce back from recession and return to normal levels of business activity. Millions of jobs - at airlines, airports and travel related businesses such as hotels and restaurants - are affected.Here’s a look at some of the key issues.___WHY IS THE FOCUS ON TESTING?One major factor keeping people from taking long-haul flights is the fear they will be seated next to someone with Covid-19, according to a survey by the International Air Transport Association. While flying helped carry the virus around the world initially, airplanes themselves have so far not been proven to be super-spreader locations the way business conferences and meat-packing plants have been.Most people are also reluctant to fly into a quarantine that restricts their activities for up to two weeks after arrival. Quarantines themselves aren’t perfect in terms of stopping the virus from spreading, as in some cases they’re not strictly enforced.“Testing all passengers will give people back their freedom to travel with confidence. And that will put millions of people back to work,” says Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director general and CEO.___HOW WOULD TESTING WORK?Initial trials focus on testing passengers before departure, either at the airport or remotely. Information about the test result could be documented through a smartphone app. Newer tests can give results in less than an hour.___WHAT DO HEALTH AUTHORITIES SAY?They are open to the idea but are still assessing how effective it would be.The US Centers for Disease Control noted that testing technology, capacity and access to testing is improving. It added that “efforts are currently ongoing internationally to assess the risk reduction, determine what a feasible testing regime for air travel may look like, and gain some level of agreement on standards for a harmonized approach to testing globally in air transportation.”___WHO’S GOING TO DECIDE THIS?The IATA is calling for rapid, accurate and scalable testing for all passengers. After airline executives appealed for help on this from the European Union and the White House’s Covid-19 task force, the issue appears to have moved to a United Nations forum, the International Civil Aviation Organization based in Montreal.The ICAO is working on guidelines based on scientific advice that countries could use in establishing testing regimes. The issue is on the agenda for an Oct. 29 meeting, but that’s not a guarantee that guidelines will be approved.___WHAT TRIALS ARE UNDER WAY?Various forms of testing have been tried for weeks in different places. What airlines want is a larger-scale international approach.For instance, China requires a time-consuming negative polymerase chain reaction test before departure. At Frankfurt’s international airport, diagnostics firm Centogene has been offering tests to non-symptomatic people for 59 euros ($69) for a result within 12 hours and 139 euros for six hours. A doctor’s certificate - for another 25 euros - can help avoid quarantine restrictions.The Switzerland-based Commons Project Foundation and the World Economic Forum are holding trials this month for CommonPass, a digital health pass that lets travellers securely document compliance with COVID-19 test requirements through a QR code on their smartphones or on paper. The idea is to get around the problems posed by printed test results, which may be from unfamiliar labs or in a language that those inspecting them don’t know.Cathay Pacific has trialled CommonPass with volunteers on a Hong Kong-Singapore flight and United Airlines will test it between London Heathrow and Newark Liberty International. The CDC’s Martin S. Cetron, head of the global migration and quarantine division, says it is “eager to learn” from the trials and that CommonPass “could be one of the many potential tools.” CommonPass could be adopted by individual countries, without waiting for international agreements.___WHAT’S THE HOLDUP?There are a lot of moving parts to any testing regime. First off, the test must be accurate, fast and cheap enough to deploy on a large scale. Governments must agree to accept the results; while governments are represented in the ICAO, the organization’s guidelines will not be mandatory. There has to be a way of certifying the result, while at the same time protecting privacy of passenger medical information, and a procedure for handling people who test positive.Scientists warn there are concerns about the accuracy of some rapid tests. People can test negative for a couple of days after being infected. People can be infectious before they show symptoms, and these people may also test negative.___IS TESTING THE ONLY SOLUTION?The International Air Transport Association advocates a layered approach. In addition to testing, that means: social distancing at the airport, touchless check-in, wearing masks in flight, and limiting passenger movement in the cabin.In a survey published in May, consulting firm McKinsey asked 40 corporate travel planners what would give them the confidence to book travel. Seventy-five percent said they would want a vaccine, while 39% said testing. McKinsey said business travel spending exceeded $1.4 trillion in 2018, or 21% of the global travel and hospitality sector. Business travellers drive 55% to 75% of the profit at top airlines - even though they make up less than 10% of passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hard-hit-by-coronavirus-airlines-push-for-tests-over-quarantines/story-cv5lZ1acKMrVtnmxA48RbK.html
19-10-2020||World||Donald Trump says he’d go over $1.8 trillion on stimulus, blames Nancy Pelosi for delay||President Donald Trump said he’d support a virus relief package in excess of $1.8 trillion -- his administration’s most recent negotiating proposal -- and blamed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi for delaying a deal.“We’re not holding it up, she’s holding it up,” Trump said in an interview Thursday on Fox Business. “She wants to wait until after the election. She thinks it hurts the Republicans.”Pelosi is scheduled to have another call with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin Thursday in a continuing saga of talks on another stimulus for the economy. Democrats want a $2.2 trillion aid plan, including a number of priorities that Republicans reject. Pelosi has accused the administration of not taking the impact of the coronavirus pandemic seriously.“Absolutely I would” go over $1.8 trillion, Trump said Thursday, echoing his recent mantra “go big or go home.”However, Trump faces another hurdle beside Pelosi to getting such a deal -- Republicans. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and other GOP lawmakers have resisted any plan of much more than $1 trillion. Some Republican senators have questioned whether any additional stimulus is needed.McConnell, speaking in Kentucky Thursday, reaffirmed his plan to put a narrow bill worth roughly $500 billion on the Senate floor next week. He said the proposal is “what we think is appropriate to tackle this dread disease.”He said he doesn’t expect Democrats to support it. “They still are insisting on upwards of a $2.5 trillion grab bag,” McConnell said of the larger package passed by House Democrats. He has been among those expressing skepticism about getting anything done before Election Day.Investor disappointment over the continuing impasse in the U.S. and new virus restrictions in Europe have contributed to declines in the S&P 500 Index this week. The gauge was down 0.6% as of 11:19 a.m. New York time, heading for a third consecutive drop.Mnuchin said earlier Thursday that Pelosi’s “all or nothing approach doesn’t make sense for the American people,” but that the administration is “not giving up” trying for an agreement.Trump indicated he’d be open to calling Pelosi on the stimulus but doubted it would result in a deal. The two haven’t spoken directly in about a year.Trump, who canceled negotiations last week and only days later reversed course to advocate a bigger stimulus than congressional Republicans support, said that Pelosi has “a lot of mental health problems and it’s going to be very hard to do anything with her.”The president and speaker have each been questioning each other’s mental faculties. Pelosi said last week that Trump was “in an altered state right now,” and she suggested to colleagues that his thinking might be affected by the steroids he was given as treatment for Covid-19.Trump and Mnuchin both said they’d like to deploy leftover funds from the March stimulus act. McConnell’s proposal would use such money to help small businesses, though Democrats have opposed a piecemeal approach to providing assistance.Mnuchin said that there is $300 billion left from the Cares Act that is “sitting in the Treasury bank account right now, ready to go” if Congress could approve it for repurposing.The Treasury chief also said, speaking on CNBC, that he wouldn’t let differences with Pelosi on a national coronavirus testing plan get in the way of a deal. The House speaker said Wednesday that she was hoping to get “better language back” on that issue Thursday.Other roadblocks to a deal have included differences on tax credits for lower-income families and for real-estate and other businesses, along with the magnitude of support for state and local authorities.Meanwhile, the economy continues to show evidence of the impact of a withdrawal of past fiscal stimulus -- just as anticipated by Federal Reserve policy makers and private economists alike.Applications for U.S. state unemployment benefits unexpectedly jumped last week to the highest since August, a report showed Thursday. Initial jobless claims in regular state programs totaled 898,000 in the week ended Oct. 10, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey, Labor Department data showed Thursday.Trump said Thursday that he did still think a stimulus deal is possible before Nov. 3 -- “because I think there’s a lot of pressure on Pelosi.”Yet when Trump was asked whether he told Mnuchin to seek a bigger stimulus package, the president expressed frustration with his main negotiator.“I’ve told him,” Trump said on Fox Business. “So far he hasn’t come home with the bacon.”Trump’s own undermining of his team, by endorsing a bigger package than they have fought for -- and that Senate Republicans oppose -- has encouraged the Democrats to hold out.“Pelosi suggests that she has the leverage in negotiations with Mnuchin since President Trump seems anxious for a big pre-election deal,” said Sarah Binder, a political science professor at George Washington University and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “The closer to the election a deal might be reached, the better for Democrats and the worse for Trump.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-would-go-higher-than-1-8-trillion-on-coronavirus-stimulus-deal/story-b8GP9zbnPWAc9f6X8611KN.html
