30-10-2020||World||US early voting breaks records amid Facebook’s warnings of post-poll unrest||As early voting in the US broke records, Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg has warned of possible civil unrest when ballots are counted, calling it “a test” for the social network.“I’m worried that with our nation so divided and election results potentially taking days or weeks to be finalised, there is a risk of civil unrest across the country,” Zuckerberg said on Thursday during a call on the company’s quarterly earnings. He went on to list steps taken to prevent poll misinformation.Confusion early this week over political ads at Facebook marred the onset of what was supposed to be a cooling-off period ahead of the US presidential election on November 3.In the Facebook’s library of paid posts, which is viewable by the public, for President Donald Trump’s campaign, what appeared to be a victory ad is already visible.Trump and his Democratic challenger Biden will campaign in Wisconsin and Minnesota, both battleground states. Biden will also be in Iowa, which he is hoping to flip, while Trump will visit Michigan, which he won in 2016. Biden’s running mate Kamala Harris was in Texas, which on Thursday created a record for early-voting turnout, surpassing the total for 2016 with still a day left of early voting. More than 9 million Texans have voted, which is only 35% of registered voters, but more than the state’s total turnout of 8.9mn in 2016. The Texas Tribune expects the turnout to go past 60% of registered voters at the end of election day and early voting, a first since the early 1990s.Other states have reported high early voting turnouts too. North Carolina, for instance, had reported more than 4mn votes by Thursday evening, which is 53% of all registered voters. Countrywide, more than 84 mn Americans have already cast their ballots, which is 35% of the 240 eligible voters in all.Democrats and pollsters believe Texas is a close fight now, and there are calls for Biden to invest more there in the final days.Harris, meanwhile, appears to be the target of more misinformation online than any other white man who has run for vice-president, including Mike Pence, the incumbent, according to a medial intelligence firm, as first reported by AP.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-early-voting-breaks-records-amid-facebook-s-warnings-of-post-poll-unrest/story-nPLlQEAgtzJ3oReJr9zADM.html
30-10-2020||World||Thousands stage anti-France protests in Bangladesh, Pakistan||Muslims in South Asia vented their fury at France on Friday and torched an effigy of President Emmanuel Macron over his recent remarks on Islam, with tens of thousands flooding the streets.Smaller anti-France protests also took place in the Middle East after Macron’s defence of the right to publish controversial cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed -- a position that has sparked anger across the Muslim world.France has been on edge since the beheading this month of a teacher in a Paris suburb for showing pupils the cartoons, repeatedly published by satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, in a class on free speech.On Thursday a 21-year-old Tunisian jihadist suspect allegedly brutally killed three people at a church in the southern French city of Nice, further raising tensions across France.Huge crowds took to the streets of Dhaka to condemn the French leader after Friday prayers -- the Bangladeshi capital’s second anti-France protest in five days. “We are all soldiers of Prophet Mohammed,” the crowd chanted as demonstrators called for a boycott of French goods and some burned an effigy of Macron.Police said 12,000 people took part in the Dhaka rally, though independent observers and organisers claimed more than 40,000 marched in the city. Smaller crowds gathered outside hundreds of mosques elsewhere in the capital and around the country.“France is insulting the world’s two billion Muslims. President Macron must apologise for his crimes,” said Gazi Ataur Rahman, a senior leader of Islami Andolan Bangladesh, one of the political parties which called the protests.Around 10,000 people marched through Karachi, Pakistan’s biggest city, after Friday prayers in what was organised as a procession to mark the Prophet’s birthday but which was charged with anti-France anger.Another rally in Pakistan’s capital grew rowdy, with stones thrown at police and tear gas fired to control the crowds.Around 2,000 protesters in Islamabad marched towards the French embassy, pushing aside shipping containers that had been placed to block their path. The crowed shouted “expel the French dog” and “behead the blasphemous” but were prevented from reaching the embassy by further guarded barricades.- ‘How dare they?’ -“How dare they disrespect our prophet? As a Muslim I am ready to sacrifice my head for the prophet’s honour,” said Rasheed Akbar, a 34 year-old trader who joined the crowd. Small protests were also held in neighbouring Afghanistan, with thousands in the western city of Herat shouting “Death to France! Death to Macron!”.In the Lebanese capital Beirut, around 200 people protested against Macron at a rally organised by an Islamic group, and some young men clashed with police.“France is in crisis because of Macron,” read a sign held up by a protester. Another said “Islam is dear” to us.In Jerusalem, prominent Palestinian cleric Ekrima Sabri, the sheikh of Al-Aqsa Mosque, read a statement addressed to Macron during his Friday sermon saying: “We tell the enemies of Islam... the light of Allah will cover up your words”.Palestinians rallied in Hebron, in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, against Macron and clashed with Israeli forces, witnesses said.Macron’s comments have prompted denunciations from several Muslim countries.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan has accused the French president of attacking the Muslim faith and urged Muslim countries to work together to counter what he called growing Islamophobia in Europe.Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s office vowed to take “legal and diplomatic action” over another Charlie Hebdo cartoon, which depicted Erdogan looking up a woman’s skirt while drinking beer in his underpants. Turkey’s NTV broadcaster said Ankara had summoned a senior diplomat from the French embassy.Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called Macron’s defence of cartoons depeciting the prophet a “stupid act” and an “insult” to those who voted for him. More than 40,000 took part in an anti-France demonstration in Dhaka earlier this week, and the country’s embassy there has been given extra security.In India, where the Hindu nationalist government has strongly backed Macron, leaders of the country’s minority Muslim community have called for a boycott of French goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-stage-anti-france-protests-in-bangladesh-pakistan/story-ipXqhs5jQVKwL5LjeRwItI.html
30-10-2020||World||European Union urges quick WHO reform, asks for more transparency in pandemics||The World Health Organization (WHO) should be quickly overhauled, get more powers to handle pandemics and expose its member states’ shortfalls in health emergencies, European Union(EU) officials said on Friday.The comments were made at a video conference of EU health ministers that endorsed an EU document on the reform of the UN agency which for the first time outlines a series of sweeping changes needed to boost WHO’s powers and resources, as exclusively reported by Reuters in September. The moves followed criticisms that China and other countries did not share information on the Covid-19 pandemic in a timely fashion at its onset. “The current pandemic challenges us very acutely, but it is very important that the (WHO) reform debate is held in parallel,” German Health Minister Jens Spahn told a news conference.He did not say when the reform process should begin, but stressed that as a result of the overhaul the WHO should become faster in its reaction to health crises, while its member states should share more information during emergencies.“We greatly appreciate the EU’s strong leadership in global health and its steadfast support for WHO, including support for strengthening the organization,”WHO said, declining to comment specifically on the EU document.“It is extremely important we move ahead with this reform,” EU Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides told the same news conference.After months of international pressure, an independent panel was set up in September to review the global handling of the pandemic. The process to reform WHO would begin after that, officials had said. The EU draft document, which will represent their position at a WHO assembly in mid-November, urges the UN agency to make public more quickly how and whether its member states respect their obligations on sharing information on health crises.The United States has accused WHO of being too close to China in the first phase of the pandemic, when critics say Beijing was slow in sharing crucial information on the new coronavirus which first appeared in the city of Wuhan.WHO has repeatedly dismissed these accusations.“Transparency on who complies with the rules is fundamental,” Kyriakides told ministers at the video conference, according to her speaking notes.The draft document also says WHO countries should allow independent epidemiological assessments on-site in high risk zones during health crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-urges-quick-who-reform-asks-for-more-transparency-in-pandemics/story-ibsWqjqwYR0YkjGTXQxNmO.html
30-10-2020||World||Panama Canal is clogged with ships, and the pandemic is making it worse||Ships carrying cargoes around the world are waiting for days to pass through the Panama Canal, as pandemic hit staffing caused congestion at the key pinch point.Long waiting times are affecting shipments of liquefied natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas from the US Gulf Coast to Asia, according to people with direct knowledge of the situation.The waiting time, which for vessels with unbooked slots is as long as between 10 and 15 days, have contributed to a rally in the cost of chartering an LNG tanker on the spot market and added to disruptions affecting the supply of super-chilled fuel, the same sources said.The Panama Canal is a crucial waterway for cargoes from the US, the fastest growing Liquefied Natural Gas(LNG) supplier, to reach markets in Asia, the biggest consumer. Delays coupled with soaring charter rates may affect economics of supplies from the US into Asia and force cargo owners to choose alternative routes.The delays stem from traffic congestion as well as the Covid-19 pandemic reducing resource capacity, the people, who asked not to be identified said.The Panama Canal Authority denied that even vessels with booked slots are experiencing delays, saying waiting time has increased only for vessels that arrive without a reservation.“Due to a combination of seasonal fog, higher-than-average arrivals, and added Covid-19 safety procedures, the Panama Canal has seen an extended waiting time for vessels that arrive at the waterway without a reservation in recent days,” the Panama Canal Authority said in an emailed statement.“Vessels that book transits for a particular date continue to have transit certainty for that date. This has been true for over 99 per cent of transits historically and remains true despite the pandemic,” the authority said.In the Liquefied petroleum gas(LPG) market, logistical delays suffered by Asia-bound tankers prompted a spike in regional prices as buyers sought alternative supplies, two traders who asked not to be identified said. The disruption to flows coincided with seasonal demand from Northeast Asian buyers in South Korea, Japan and China during the year-end winter period.Delays for LPG loadings from the US to Asia have occurred for the past few weeks, with waiting time for non-booking slots of as much as eight days.The Flex Aurora liquefied natural gas carrier waited for nine days to pass through the canal for a passage that typically takes less than a day. The tanker approached Panama Canal on October 15 and entered it northbound October 24. The vessel is now loading at Cheniere Energy Inc.’s Corpus Christi plant in Texas, according to ship-tracking data on Bloomberg.Shipping rates for spot LNG vessels are already surging with reduced availability of spare vessels as delays mean tankers are on journeys for longer.With coronavirus cases surging across the country, the Panamanian Ministry of Health imposed lockdowns and restrictions, limiting the number of workers at the canal, FACTS Global Energy Group(FGE) said in a note. There are also more stringent checks and additional procedures for transiting vessels to curb the spread of the disease.“With these developments coinciding with an uptick in seasonal demand for canal transits, it could take some time before delays start to ease,” the note said.The Canal has adjusted its operations to raise daily transits from 32 to 37 on average, according to the statement. Transits are up from 30 in July, and 28 in June and May, when traffic was down because of the pandemic.“The Panama Canal anticipates this is a short term situation. As these numbers demonstrate, the waterway has the capacity to meet demand and willingness to find ways to accommodate vessels when needed,”the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panama-canal-is-clogged-with-ships-and-the-pandemic-is-making-it-worse/story-eVUHMVqnaPNE620LfNlL7H.html
30-10-2020||World||14 dead, over 400 injured as major earthquake hits Turkey, Greece||Rescuers dug through heavy blocks of concrete with their bare hands on Friday in a desperate search for survivors from a powerful earthquake that levelled buildings across Greece and Turkey, killing at least 14 people.The quake caused a mini-tsunami on the Aegean island of Samos and a sea surge that turned streets into rushing rivers in one town on Turkey’s west coast.The US Geological Survey said the 7.0 magnitude quake was registered 14 kilometres (almost nine miles) off the Greek town of Karlovasi on Samos. Much of the damage in Turkey occurred in and around the Aegean resort city of Izmir, which has three million residents and is filled with high-rise apartment blocks.- Hospital patients on the street - Images from the popular vacation destination showed collapsed buildings and dazed survivors trying to make their way through rubbled piled high on the streets.“Oh my God!” one passerby shouted near a collapsed building in one image that went viral in Turkey.In another, a crowd let out a relieved cheer and broke out in applause as one woman was pulled out alive in tears.Izmir’s mayor Tunc Soyer told CNN Turk that 20 buildings had collapsed, with officials saying they were focusing their rescue efforts on 17 of them.Turkey’s disaster agency reported the death of 12 people, and said more than 400 were injured, while in Greece two teenagers died on their way home from school on Samos when a wall collapsed.The scenes of devastation suggested the toll could rise.One Izmir hospital rolled out some of its patients -- still strapped into their beds and hooked up to drips -- out on the street as a precaution.Ali Erbas, who heads the religious affairs directorate, said mosques would open their doors to host those left homeless by the disaster.- ‘Remain calm’ -Images on social media showed water rushing through the streets of one of the towns near Izmir from an apparent sea surge.Thick white plumes smoke rose from various parts of the city itself, where buildings had collapsed.Aerial footage on Turkey’s NTV television showed entire city blocks turned to rubble.Rescuers, helped by residents and sniffer dogs, used chainsaws as they tried to force their way through the rubble of a seven-floor building that had collapsed.At one site, Agriculture Minister Bekir Pakdemirl managed to establish mobile phone contact with a girl buried under the debris.“We ask you to remain calm,” he told her in televised footage. “We will try to lift the concrete bloc and reach you.”NTV television said up to six people were trapped at the site, including the girl’s cousin.- ‘Earthquake diplomacy’ -On the Greek island of Samos, near the quake’s epicentre, people rushed out into the streets in panic.“It was chaos,” said deputy mayor Giorgos Dionysiou. “We have never experienced anything like this.”The Greek civil protection agency told Samos residents in a text message to “stay out in the open and away from buildings”.Greece and Turkey are both situated in one of the world’s most active earthquake zones.The two uneasy neighbours also suffer from historically poor relations despite both being members of the NATO military alliance.But the quake saw a spurt of what pundits immediately termed “earthquake diplomacy”, after Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis placed a rare call to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to offer his condolences and support.“Whatever our differences, these are times when our people need to stand together,” Mitsotakis said on Twitter.Erdogan aide Fahrettin Altun tweeted that the disaster “reminds us once again how close we are despite our differences over policy”.France, which has feuded with Turkey over a range of regional disputes and has come under attack from Erdogan for its campaign against radical Islam, also offered its support, as did the EU and NATO.Some of the world’s strongest earthquakes have been registered along a fault line that runs across Turkey to Greece.In 1999, a 7.4 magnitude earthquake struck Turkey’s northwest, killing more than 17,000 people, including 1,000 in Istanbul.Another quake in 2011 in the southeastern province of Van resulted in more than 600 deaths.In Greece, the last deadly quake killed two people on the island of Kos, near Samos, in July 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twelve-dead-over-400-injured-in-turkey-quake-disaster-agency/story-yp9jnIogYr7ZJYJ9ZC8hDP.html
30-10-2020||World||US surgeon general battles rising Covid-19 vaccine skepticism||A coronavirus vaccine may be available as soon as the end of the year, but that will “mean nothing if people don’t trust it,” says Jerome Adams, US Surgeon General, a job known as the nation’s doctor.Many people don’t, and time is running short to convince them otherwise.Adams, a key member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, said he spends his days, nights, and weekends racing to boost vaccine confidence. It is a daunting challenge, given that overcoming the pandemic hinges on vaccine use and the administration he works for has at times undermined confidence that a shot will be safe and effective.The question now is whether Adams and others can reverse the public’s reluctance, especially among Black Americans, to accept government assurances.“I just want to say to people out there of this, that I’m at the table fighting for you, and specifically bringing up issues of equity, both as a Black man, and as someone who has championed these issues throughout my career,” he said in an interview.Though low confidence in immunizations has been a pressing issue in the US for years, Adams said, politics now has roiled the medical landscape and fuelled new doubts. An inoculation will only be effective if a large majority of Americans get it, including Black people, who have higher infection and mortality rates.“There’s no chapter in the pandemic playbook for a presidential election,” Adams said. “That’s made it very difficult for anyone to have a true conversation about health without some of these other agendas and areas of mistrust seeping in.”President Donald Trump has urged US regulators to expedite approval of Covid-19 vaccines and treatments, while accusing the Food and Drug Administration(FDA) of slowing development to harm his re-election chances. The president has repeatedly said a vaccine would be approved by Election Day on November 3, though that timeline has proven untenable.Many Black Americans and others hard hit by the virus are unmoved by Trump administration entreaties to get the vaccine as soon as it’s available. The leading Black doctors group, the National Medical Association, said it would review vaccine data and make recommendations to physicians and patients.Angela Riley, a Black pharmacist and a city councilwoman in Binghamton, New York, said there’s a disconnect in the Trump administration’s messaging to Black Americans.“You have not prioritized me and my well-being overall, in terms of housing, in terms of arrest, in terms of social justice,” Riley said. “You’ve consistently tweeted racist remarks, you’ve talked about how the virus isn’t real, yet you want me to go first?” Adams has tried to shift the discussion about the vaccine to the science and the rigors of the approval process, not the politics. He said he has elevated concerns of doctors, faith leaders, and others to Vice President Mike Pence, head of the virus task force, and Adams’s political patron: While serving as Indiana governor, Pence appointed Adams as the state’s health commissioner.“This isn’t about Donald Trump or Joe Biden,” Adams said. “This is about knowing there is a process in place and holding people accountable for the process.” There is little sign that Adams’s approach is working. Only half of US adults say they would “definitely” or “probably” get a vaccine to prevent Covid-19 if it were available, according to a September poll from Pew Research Center. That’s down from 72 per cent in May. Mistrust is more pervasive among Black adults, with only 32 per cent saying they’d likely get a Covid-19 vaccine, down from 54 per cent in May.Vaccine skepticism among racial and ethnic minorities is rooted in historical medical malpractice and exploitation, such as the infamous experiment in Tuskegee, Alabama, where Black men with syphilis were denied treatment without their knowledge over four decades. A previous Surgeon General is considered an architect of the notorious experiment. Adams said he carries the weight of that history in the role he now occupies.These past wrongs are compounded by the shortcomings of today’s health-care system. One concern has been a lack of diversity in early-stage Covid-19 vaccine clinical trials. Later trials better reflect the racial and ethnic makeup of the US after drug companies made extensive efforts to recruit volunteers in communities of colour.Still, overcoming deeply rooted reluctance is difficult when there’s lack of trust in the messenger. Adams’s critics say he’s been an ineffective communicator for an administration that has been faulted for tone-deaf handling of racial issues. Some of his attempts to appeal directly to Black Americans on virus issues have drawn rebukes from lawmakers. And Adams’s senior role in the administration closely ties him to the hurried effort to release a Covid-19 vaccine.But Evelyn Lewis, a family physician in Newnan, Georgia who has worked in the drug industry, lauds Adams for walking the tightrope.‘In that administration, if you disagree, you’ll get thrown under the bus, and then run over by it,” said Lewis, who knows Adams professionally. “His ability to navigate that environment is critical to his ability to represent the community.’Just because Adams has a seat at the table doesn’t mean Lewis trusts the Trump administration or the health agencies it oversees. She remains concerned that the FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC) have been compromised by the White House’s political agenda.That leaves Lewis wrestling with one of the most difficult questions of her medical career: Should she advocate for people of color to line up and get inoculated should a shot become available?“That’s a gut-wrenching question for a person like myself, who is a physician, who is an African-American,” Lewis said. “I’m still to-be-determined on my position. I want to see the data.”Lisa Fitzpatrick, a CDC trained epidemiologist, is among those trying to allay those doubts by volunteering for a clinical trial of a Covid vaccine.“Being a Black physician, I needed to put my money where my mouth is,” said Fitzpatrick, now a professor at the George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences. “This has to be a community driven effort by people who are trusted.”And while Adams said he doesn’t believe U.S. government officials, including himself, have yet earned the confidence of Black Americans, he’ll continue to work through those who are trusted. The stakes are high as the pandemic rages on.“We need to help America understand,’’ he said, “that you cannot have social justice if you don’t have health equity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-surgeon-general-battles-rising-covid-19-vaccine-skepticism/story-cqTzBJ24yzCmYaCSX11IwN.html
30-10-2020||World||Why an abortion law ruling trigged mass protests in Poland||Poland is a largely conservative country compared to much of Europe, a place where churches fill up on Sundays and Roman Catholicism is deeply interwoven with the national identity.So why has a court ruling restricting abortion sparked more than a week of angry protests across the central European nation of 38 million?Hundreds of thousands have been pouring into the streets for days, defying the risk of contagion amid a spike in Covid-19 infections that have been hitting new records each day, reaching nearly 22,000 on Friday.With a mass march scheduled for Friday evening in Warsaw, here is a look at some of the key issues.TOP COURT RULESThe immediate trigger of the protests was an Oct. 22 decision by the constitutional court that had been asked to rule on a provision of a 27-year-old law which allows abortions in cases of severe fetal deformity, including Down syndrome. The latter is one of the main reasons cited for the roughly 1,000 legal terminations performed in Poland each year.Lawmakers with the ruling Law and Justice party were among those who sought the court’s review. They say they want to ensure fetuses with Down syndrome are allowed to be born.POLAND IN THE BIGGER PICTUREKlementyna Suchanow, one of the main organizers with the initiative Women’s Strike, the key force behind the protests, said Poland is just one element in a global struggle where democracies face a challenge from fundamentalist and authoritarian forces.Whatever happens now in Poland will be crucial for democracy worldwide, says Suchanow, the author of “This is War: Women, Fundamentalists, and the new Middle Ages,” a book on international ultra-conservative groups that want to ban all abortions.The groups say they are fighting to preserve traditional families, and also fight same-sex marriage.The slogan “This is War” has been repeated often on banners carried at the protests in Poland.COMPROMISE BROKENPoland already had one of Europe’s most restrictive laws, hammered out in 1993 between political and Catholic church leaders. It allowed abortions only in the cases of fetal defects, risk to the woman’s health and incest or rape.It was born from difficult negotiations after the fall of communism, when the Soviet bloc countries had liberal abortion laws. The church, long repressed by the communist regime, sought a full ban in line with its view that all life must be protected from the moment of conception.Aleksander Kwasniewski, a former left-wing president, said this week: “It seems to me that in 1993, it was the only possible compromise.”However, neither side has ever been satisfied with the 1993 law.Earlier attempts by the conservative ruling party to replace it with a blanket ban on abortions were met with enormous street protests in 2016 and 2017, and shelved.POLITICAL CALCULATIONSThe government appears to have calculated that it could change the law with less of a backlash by getting a court under its political control to do the job — during the pandemic.If so, the plan has backfired.The ruling Law and Justice party won a second term in 2019 and President Andrzej Duda, a party ally, was re-elected this summer. With three years to go before the next elections, it seemed the right time to push through an unpopular move that is widely understood as a reward to the church and ultraconservative groups for their political support.While a large majority of Poles disapprove of the court ruling, some of the protesters’ methods have also met with disapproval, including vulgar language, vandalizing churches and disrupting Masses.“If they continue that way, they will lose support,” said Marcin Zaborowski, a political analyst and author with Visegrad Insight, a policy journal focused on Central Europe.THE COURT’S AUTHORITYThe Constitutional Tribunal, which ruled to restrict abortion, is itself the product of a separate controversy: the ruling party’s takeover of the courts, an issue at the heart of a 5-year standoff with the European Union.Of 15 judges on the court, 14 were picked by Law and Justice for nine-year terms, three of them chosen in a manner that violates Polish law.This has led some legal scholars to declare that the court itself is illegitimate and that the abortion ruling has no legal validity. Many critics now refer to the court as “Julia Przylebska’s tribunal,” a reference to the court president who is a Law and Justice party loyalist.“This is an ineffective ruling from the constitutional court. It has no legal consequences,” said Michal Wawrykiewicz, a lawyer with Free Courts, an initiative fighting for rule of law.Wawrykiewicz said the ruling is likely to unleash legal chaos because the government will treat it as legally binding but many doctors will not. If doctors are sued for performing abortions of damaged fetuses, they will be sued in lower courts, where judges have maintained a large degree of independence and can be expected to rule in their favor. Ultimately the issue will need to be resolved by the EU’s Court of Justice.A YOUTH REVOLTWhile traditionally conservative, Poland has also been undergoing massive social changes under the influence of EU membership, which has led many Poles to travel and study abroad, and of popular culture influences such as Netflix.The protests of the past week have been dominated by young people, who believe that the abortion ruling infringes on their liberties.Dominika Stankiewicz, a 26-year-old who was handing out protest stickers and posters in Warsaw’s Mokotow district on Thursday, said abortion is the only issue that has ever brought her to the streets to protests.“This is too much right now,” she said.WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?With society in upheaval, people are discussing ways out.President Andrzej Duda on Friday proposed a bill that would allow abortions in cases where the fetus is so deformed that it could not survive after birth, but ban them for Down syndrome.Women’s rights activists and opposition politicians immediately condemned that idea.Protest organizers are now pushing for the government to resign and a liberal abortion law to be passed — though neither seem like realistic prospects now.Some people are saying that the matter should be decided in a referendum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-an-abortion-law-ruling-trigged-mass-protests-in-poland/story-hCAY38OyI2gHylstyStjDP.html
30-10-2020||World||UK accelerates reviews of Pfizer and Astra-Oxford Covid-19 vaccines||The UK’s drug regulator has started accelerated reviews of Covid-19 vaccines under development from Pfizer Inc. and AstraZeneca Plc, as Britain gets ready to approve the first successful shot as quickly as possible.The U.K. Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency started a so-called rolling review of the Pfizer vaccine in recent weeks, according to a person with knowledge of the situation who didn’t want to be identified because the procedure hasn’t been announced publicly. The agency is also conducting an expedited review of Astra’s vaccine, which the company is co-developing with the University of Oxford, a spokesman for Astra confirmed.Astra shares erased losses, trading 0.2% higher in London. Pfizer rose 0.5% in premarket trading in New York.Rolling reviews allow regulators to see clinical data in real time and have discussions with companies about ongoing trials and manufacturing processes so that approvals can be granted more quickly. The approach is designed to speed up access to drugs and vaccines when there is a public health need.The move supports the U.K.’s plans to potentially move ahead of the European Union on clearing a vaccine. While the U.K. is still subject to the approval process of the European Medicines Agency until the end of the Brexit transition process this year, the government has said that if there was a compelling case to move more quickly than the EMA, it would look at granting a temporary authorization for an unlicensed vaccine.Pfizer declined to comment. A spokeswoman for the MHRA said the agency couldn’t comment on rolling reviews due to commercial confidentiality.Pfizer and Astra are among a vanguard of vaccine developers that could have shots cleared for use this year. The U.S. company, which is co-developing its vaccine with Germany’s BioNTech SE, expects to release initial late-stage trial data next month and may apply for an emergency-use authorization in the U.S. shortly after.Pfizer said this week that it hadn’t yet reached a key milestone that will help researchers know how effective the shot is. Astra and Oxford are also targeting publication of advanced-stage trial data this year.Moderna Inc., another frontrunner in the vaccine race, also said this week it had started an expedited review of its shot in the U.K. Rolling reviews of the Pfizer and Astra jabs in Europe were announced by the EMA earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-accelerates-reviews-of-pfizer-and-astra-oxford-covid-19-vaccines/story-0YkJ0f7YCltFgHmWyPZhIK.html
30-10-2020||World||Second study testing a Covid-19 antibody drug has a setback||For the second time, a study testing an experimental antibody drug for Covid-19 has been paused to investigate a possible safety issue in hospitalized patients.Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. said Friday that independent monitors had recommended placing on hold enrollment of the most severely ill patients -- those who need intense oxygen treatment or breathing machines -- because of a potential safety problem and unfavorable balance of risks and benefits.The study can continue to test the two-antibody drug combo in hospitalized patients who need little or no extra oxygen, the monitors said. Other studies in mild or moderately ill people also are continuing.Antibodies are proteins the body makes when an infection occurs; they attach to a virus and help it be eliminated. But it can take several weeks for the most effective ones to form. The experimental drugs aim to help immediately, by supplying concentrated versions of one or two antibodies that worked best against the coronavirus in lab and animal tests.Earlier this month, a different group of monitors recommended pausing enrollment in a US National Institutes of Health study testing an Eli Lilly antibody drug to investigate a possible safety issue in hospitalized patients. On Monday, the NIH said no safety problem had been verified, but they stopped the study because the drug didn’t seem to work in that situation.“These kinds of results are informing us about the timing of the benefit,” said Dr. Myron Cohen, a University of North Carolina virologist who advises the government on Covid-19 treatments.Tests in animals suggest that antibody drugs work best when given early in infection to lower the amount of virus, he said. Once someone is very sick, the drugs may not help, but it’s too soon to know if that’s the case, he said.Doctors already know that timing can matter when it comes to Covid-19 treatments. Studies suggest that dexamethasone and other steroids can lower the risk of death when given to very sick patients to tamp down an over-active immune system, but they may be harmful for those who are only mildly ill.Lilly and Regeneron have asked the Food and Drug Administration to allow emergency use of their experimental antibody drugs for mild and moderately ill patients who don’t need hospitalization.Regeneron said it would share Friday’s advice from independent monitors with the FDA and leaders of a separate study in the United Kingdom testing its drug in hospitalized patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-study-testing-a-covid-19-antibody-drug-has-a-setback/story-FSB9xANH3WFxzepGKjs1jP.html
30-10-2020||World||US may need France-like lockdown to beat Covid-19||The coronavirus pandemic isn’t finished with us yet. A spike in infections in recent weeks has sent new cases to records in a number of places around the world including the US, which already weathered two waves of outbreaks this year, and the weather is only starting to turn cold.Europeans have started taking draconian action again, despite the potential to drag their economies. France has introduced a new lockdown which is only slightly less harsh than the one it imposed in the spring. Germany has opted for lockdown-lite. So what is the US going to do?Hospitalizations, which had been on the decline, are now rising again, with some health systems feeling the strain. In Wisconsin, a field hospital was opened on the state’s fairgrounds to accommodate patients, while capacity in El Paso, Texas, is so overtaxed that a county judge imposed stay-at-home orders. Elsewhere, though, and as a whole, hospitalizations are nowhere near where they were during the previous big outbreaks. As a result, there is a risk that the administration, governors and the public misinterpret the severity of this latest wave or downplay the danger beyond a few hotspots. This would be a mistake, and a good look at the data shows why. During the first wave – which was centered around the New York area from March 3 to June 11 – case counts led hospitalizations by about a week. That gap stretched to about two weeks during the second “Sun Belt” wave from June 11 to September 14, and has now grown to an even longer three weeks in the current third wave. It also appears that the ratio of people in the hospital to the number of positive cases has fallen dramatically in the second and third wave. Here is where the risk of complacency rises.There are several ways to explain this evolution. First, it is very likely that the number of infections in the first wave were significantly undercounted. This was not only driven by the lack of access to routine tests and facilities at first, but also, many never got checked out to begin with.Second, the latest wave is driven by younger individuals. While there is risk of severe Covid-19 and “long Covid” in this group, they have a much lower rate of hospitalizations. But they can certainly still spread the disease. Given the incubation period for the virus and the fact that many younger people are likely to be asymptomatic, we would expect many of them to pass on the infection to older members of their families without realizing it. In time, as more elderly people become sick, you’d expect to see an increase in hospitalizations.Another key difference from prior waves is our increased knowledge of Covid-19 and how to treat it. This has made us more stringent in deciding who gets hospitalized. During the first wave, clinicians had no idea what they were dealing with and outpatient settings didn’t know how to handle patients with moderate to severe illness. So the hospitalization rate was much higher. This time around, people who are being hospitalized are likely to have much more severe cases of the disease, which means a bigger strain on Intensive Care Units(ICU). The good news is that mortality rates are likely to be lower this time around as we already have better treatments and clinical management has evolved significantly. But hospitals may still be just as burdened, raising the prospect of delays in elective procedures and other care.This latest Covid-19 wave isn’t taking the same course as the prior ones, but it looks likely to end up with the same result or worse: an acute health crisis in hospitals. How can the US avoid this? Proper mitigation tactics – masking, social distancing, hand-washing should be standard operating procedure. But it may take more than that.In the coming winter months, people will tend to gather more indoors, where the virus has a very a good chance of being transmitted, while their immune systems will become less capable of fighting invading pathogens. A vaccine won’t be ready for broad deployment until well into 2021, assuming current clinical trials of experimental vaccine technologies work. States and local governments will likely need to put curbs on people mixing. Given the experience in Europe, lockdowns, or something very close to that, may be the only option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-may-need-france-like-lockdown-to-beat-covid-19/story-ehSJXjZwxdaCgDInjsBikM.html
30-10-2020||World||Brexit sparks a battle over Chinese bikes as UK ends EU levies||British bike manufacturers are warning they face competition from a wave of cheap Chinese imports after Brexit as the UK abandons European Union(EU) anti-dumping rules.Brompton Bicycle Ltd. and Frog Bikes Ltd. are among firms saying they risk being undercut when the Brexit transition period ends on December 31 and tariffs of up to 48.5 per cent levied by the EU on bikes imported from China stops applying. The EU introduced the levy because large state subsidies were giving the country’s producers an unfair advantage.“We’ve got coronavirus, we’ve got Brexit, we need as a nation to be supporting industries that have potential to grow,” said William Butler-Adams, managing director of Brompton, the maker of the eponymous folding bike favored by London commuters. “There’s this fantastic opportunity in cycling. You would have thought the government would support it and nurture that industry.”The plight of the bike makers is a sign of the upheaval industries will face as the UK government defines its own trade policy outside the EU. While opening the economy to more imports may benefit consumers, domestic producers risk being caught in a pincer between greater competition from overseas and less access to the EU market.“We have been consulting with British bicycle producers and recognize the challenges that the industry faces,” the Department for International Trade said in a statement. “However, British consumers will bear the brunt of higher prices if anti-dumping measures were retained or carried across from the EU.”Rule ReviewThe UK is assessing each of the EU’s anti-dumping rules on a case-by-case basis. If British producers account for no more than 1 per cent of the domestic market, the government will drop the anti-dumping tariff.Frog Bikes, which specializes in making bikes for children and employs about 80 people, said it submitted evidence to the government in July showing that domestic producers make up more than 3 per cent of the UK market, according to Shelley Lawson, the company’s co-founder.She said her company’s recent efforts to contact the Trade Remedies Authority, the government agency responsible, have gone without reply, meaning she doesn’t know the basis for the decision or how it could be appealed.A Department for International Trade spokeswoman couldn’t immediately comment on the ruling.“It’s a substantial threat to us,” said Lawson, whose firm generates about 10 million pounds ($13 million) in sales annually. “It’s not good for the cycling consumer at all,” she said.Frog Bikes, which generates 50 per cent of its sales in the EU, said it fears being hit both by cheaper imports from China and potential tariffs on trade with the EU. Even with a trade deal, their customers in the bloc will find it harder to source their bikes because of extra customs formalities, Lawson said.“The UK market is going to become even more important to us,” she said. “We’re doubly concerned we’re going to be much less competitive within our home market as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-sparks-a-battle-over-chinese-bikes-as-uk-ends-eu-levies/story-q5fLxeaDZvgSTwI8kH6CEP.html
30-10-2020||World||4 dead, 120 injured in Turkey after major earthquake||Four people died and 120 people were injured in an earthquake that struck the Aegean coast of Turkey, the country’s disaster management authority said on Friday.One of those who was killed had drowned, the authority said.The strong earthquake was felt in both Greece and Turkey. A strong earthquake struck the Aegean Sea on Friday and was felt in both Greece and Turkey, where some buildings collapsed in the coastal province of Izmir and a government minister said people were trapped in rubble. People crowded onto the streets in Izmir city, witnesses said, after the quake struck with a magnitude of up to 7.0. The tremor could be felt as far away as in Istanbul and on Greek islands, where officials said some people were panicking although there were no immediate reports of injuries.There were various reports of damage to property, with Turkish Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu saying six buildings had collapsed in two districts of the coastal city of Izmir.Urbanisation Minister Murat Kurum put the number of collapsed buildings in the area at five, and added that some people were stuck under the rubble. Izmir mayor Tunc Soyer said nearly 20 buildings had collapsed in the province.In a tweet, Soylu said there were no reports of casualties from six other provinces where the earthquake was felt but added there were small cracks in some buildings.Ilke Cide, a doctoral student who was in Izmir’s Guzelbahce region during the earthquake, said he went inland after waters rose after the earthquake.“I am very used to earthquakes... so I didn’t take it very seriously at first but this time it was really scary,” he said, adding the earthquake had lasted for at least 25-30 seconds.Also read | 6.6 magnitude earthquake in Aegean Sea shakes Turkey, GreeceCrisscrossed by major fault lines, Turkey is among the most earthquake-prone countries in the world. More than 17,000 people were killed in August 1999 when a 7.6 magnitude quake struck Izmit, a city southeast of Istanbul. In 2011, a quake in the eastern city of Van killed more than 500.Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency (AFAD) said its teams had been sent to the region of Friday’s quake.Residents of the Greek island of Samos, which has a population of about 45,000, were urged to stay away from coastal areas, Eftyhmios Lekkas, head of Greece’s organisation for anti-seismic planning, told Greece’s Skai TV.“It was a very big earthquake, it’s difficult to have a bigger one,” said Lekkas.High tidal wave warnings were in place in Samos.“We have never experienced anything like it,” said George Dionysiou, the local vice-mayor. “People are panicking.” A Greek police spokesman said there was damage to some old buildings on the island, with no immediate reports of injuries. AFAD put the magnitude of the earthquake at 6.6, while the U.S. Geological Survey said it was 7.0. It struck at around 1150 GMT and was felt along Turkey’s Aegean coast and the northwestern Marmara region, media said.The epicentre was some 17 km (11 miles) off the coast of the Izmir province, at a depth of 16 km, AFAD said. The U.S. Geological Survey said the depth was 10 km and that the epicentre was 33.5 km off Turkey’s coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-toll-several-injured-in-turkey-after-major-earthquake/story-IQBssDINCpGrR1y7DjTUOO.html
30-10-2020||World||What is WHO’s Vaccine Insurance Scheme? All you need to know||The World Health Organisation is setting up a fund which will compensate people in poor nations in case they suffer any side-effect from Covid-19 vaccines, which are still under trial. Does this mean that such a possibility can’t be ruled out? Here is everything you need to know in this regard.1. It is unlikely that a vaccine which will be approved for use might lead to some serious side-effects. But in the past, similar things happened which slowed down inoculations against Swine flu.2. In dozens of low-income countries, H1N1 inoculations were slowed down as there was no clear liability, Reuters reported.3. Also, this will help in alleviate fear among people about the vaccine which, if developed by December, will make a record of being developed in just a year.4. This fund will be in tune with COVAX vaccine facility, which has been set up by the World Health Organisation and GAVI, a global vaccine allowance. COVAX will facilitate distribution of at least 2 billion effective shots among the member nations.5. The insurance scheme will be applicable for 92 low-income countries, mostly in Africa and South-East Asia.6. If anything goes wrong after the administration of a vaccine, the government of those countries under the scheme will not have to face any cost. But the vaccine has to be distributed by COVAX.7. The criteria to avail of this scheme has not been made clear as several middle-income countries such as South Africa, Lebanon, Iran will not be offered this scheme, Reuters reported.8. If something happens to an individual after a vaccine shot has been administered, COVAX will pay compensation to the victim.9. This will discourage the victim for approaching the court as that could stall the entire inoculation programme.10. COVAX said vaccine makers were reluctant to provide vaccines for distribution in countries that did not offer them a liability shield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-who-s-vaccine-insurance-scheme-all-you-need-to-know/story-plvL41Mp5pZOEJg9eSMgFJ.html
30-10-2020||World||Tens of thousands protest in Bangladesh over French cartoons||Tens of thousands of Muslims marched in Bangladesh’s capital on Friday to protest the French president’s support of secular laws allowing caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad, burning effigies of him and calling for a boycott of French products.Protests were also reported across the country after Friday’s weekly Muslim prayers.In Dhaka, tens of thousands of people from more than a dozen Islamist parties and groups poured into the streets near the Baitul Mokarram national mosque demanding that Bangladesh sever relations with France. Some carried banners reading “Say no to Islamphobia” and “Boycott French products.”Barbed-wire fences were installed near the mosque as hundreds of police in riot gear cordoned off the processions.The protesters carried effigies of President Emmanuel Macron and then burned them.“I ask the government to remove the French Embassy from this country immediately. Otherwise, in the face of the movement, no one favoring France will be able to stay in power,” Abu Taher Jihadi al Kashemi, a leader of the marches, told the protesters.France is an important aid provider and trading partner for Bangladesh.Protests began in the Muslim-majority country earlier this week, with pressure growing on Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to officially denounce France. Hasina, who has yet to officially comment, follows a policy of balanced diplomatic ties with Muslim and Western nations.The Islamist parties support the introduction of Islamic Shariah law in Bangladesh, which is governed by a legal system largely based on British common law.Muslim-majority countries across the world have been outraged by Macron’s refusal to condemn the publication or display of caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad. In Islam, any depiction of the prophet is prohibited. The issue has come to light again in recent days following the gruesome beheading near Paris of a French teacher who showed caricatures of the prophet in class. An 18-year-old Chechen refugee who carried out the attack was later shot dead by police.The teacher, Samuel Paty, has been heralded as a symbol of France’s staunch secular ideals and its rejection of religious intrusion in public spheres. Macron and members of his government have vowed to continue supporting such caricatures as protected under freedom of expression.A series of attacks that French authorities have attributed to Muslim extremism has followed. On Thursday, a knife-wielding Tunisian man carrying a copy of the Quran killed three people at a church in the Mediterranean city of Nice.Muslim politicians and religious scholars have condemned such caricatures as a form of hate speech and view them as sacrilegious and insulting to Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tens-of-thousands-protest-in-bangladesh-over-french-cartoons/story-4OCNf05HPpjQXZgNE3WiAN.html
30-10-2020||World||Over 3 million cases of coronavirus reported in Mideast||The number of reported coronavirus cases has gone over 3 million in the Middle East, an Associated Press count showed Friday, with the true number likely even higher.Across the Mideast, there have been over 75,000 deaths attributed to the virus by health authorities, the AP count relying on reported figures by individual countries shows.There have been 2.5 million recoveries from the virus causing the Covid-19 illness.In the Mideast, the hardest-hit nation remains Iran, which served as the initial epicenter of the virus in the region. In Iran alone, authorities say there have been over 600,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, with some 477,000 recoveries and 34,000 deaths. Yet even those numbers are believed to be low, Iranian officials say.In some war-torn nations, it remains difficult to know the scope of the pandemic as well. In Yemen for instance, it’s believed that the vast majority of the country’s cases have gone undiagnosed and untreated, and health workers have said only those who are near death are usually brought to hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-3-million-cases-of-coronavirus-reported-in-mideast/story-znYfw2ejeER5rwGwP2fmCJ.html
30-10-2020||World||Scientists find Madagascar chameleon last seen 100 years ago||Talk about good camouflage! Scientists say they have found an elusive chameleon species that was last spotted in Madagascar 100 years ago. Researchers from Madagascar and Germany said Friday that they discovered several living specimens of Voeltzkow’s chameleon during an expedition to the northwest of the African island nation.In a report published in the journal Salamandra, the team led by scientists from the Bavarian Natural History Collections ZSM said genetic analysis determined that the species is closely related to Labord’s chameleon.Researchers believe that both reptiles only live during the rainy season — hatching from eggs, growing rapidly, sparring with rivals, mating and then dying during a few short months.“These animals are basically the mayflies among vertebrae,” said Frank Glaw, curator for reptiles and amphibians at the ZSM.Researchers said the female of the species, which had never previously been documented, displayed particularly colorful patterns during pregnancy, when encountering males and when stressed.The scientist say that Voeltzkow’s chameleon’s habitat is under threat from deforestation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-find-madagascar-chameleon-last-seen-100-years-ago/story-ocxzvrJ3DJM50lQISjFE9N.html
30-10-2020||World||Strong Aegean Sea earthquake topples buildings in Turkey||A strong earthquake in the Aegean Sea has shaken Turkey and Greece. Several buildings were wrecked in Turkey’s western Izmir province, according to officials, but there was no immediate information on casualties.Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency said Friday’s earthquake was centered in the Aegean at a depth of 16,5 kilometers (10.3 miles) and registered at a 6.6 magnitude. The emergency authority said it sent search and rescue teams to Izmir.The European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre said the quake had a preliminary magnitude of 6.9, with an epicenter 13 kilometers (8 miles) north northeast of the Greek island of Samos.The United States Geological Survey put the magnitude at 7.0.Turkish media showed wreckage of a multiple-story building in central Izmir, with people climbing it to start rescue efforts. Turkish media showed at least one woman being helped from the rubble of a collapsed building. Smoke was filmed in several spots in central Izmir.Izmir mayor Tunc Soyer told CNN Turk that about 20 buildings collapsed. The city is the third biggest in Turkey with about 4,5 million residents. Turkey’s interior minister tweeted six buildings in Izmir were destroyed. He said there were small cracks in some buildings in six other provinces.Izmir’s governor said there was no immediate information on casualties.Turkish media said the earthquake was felt across the regions of Aegean and Marmara, including Istanbul. Istanbul’s governor said there were no reports of damage in the city.The quake was felt across the eastern Greek islands and even in the Greek capital Athens. Greek media said the residents of Samos and other islands fled their homes, while some rockfalls were reported. There were no immediate reports of injuries.Turkey and Greece reported aftershocks. The quake was also felt in Bulgaria.Greek seismologist Efthymios Lekkas told Greek state television ERT that it was still too early to say whether this was the main earthquake, although he said it was likely it was.“It is an event that is evolving,” Lekkas said, adding that some damage had been reported in parts of Samos.A tsunami warning was issued, with residents of the Samos area told to stay away from the coastline. Water rose above the dock in the main harbor of Samos and flooded the street.The regional governor of the Samos region, Yiannis Stamoulis, said no injuries had been reported on the island. Residents have also been told to stay away from buildings, as aftershocks continued to rattle the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-aegean-sea-earthquake-topples-buildings-in-turkey/story-NFWrCGdw2RwiRZKHQAbTwO.html
30-10-2020||World||6.6 magnitude earthquake in Aegean Sea shakes Turkey, Greece||A strong earthquake in the Aegean Sea has shaken Turkey and Greece.Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency said Friday’s earthquake was centered in the Aegean at a depth of 16,5 kilometers (10.3 miles) and registered at a 6.6 magnitude.The European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre said the quake had a preliminary magnitude of 6.9, with an epicenter 13 kilometers north northeast of the Greek island of Samos.The United States Geological Survey put the magnitude was 7.0.Turkish broadcasters showed a wrecked building is western Izmir province. The governor said there was no immediate information on casualties and damage.Turkish media said the earthquake was felt across the regions of Aegean and Marmara, where Istanbul is located. Istanbul’s governor said there were no reports of damage.The quake was felt across the eastern Greek islands and even in the Greek capita,l Athens. Greek media said the residents of Samos and other islands fled their homes, while some rockfalls were reported. There were no immediate reports of injuries.Both countries reported aftershocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/6-6-magnitude-earthquake-in-aegean-sea-shakes-turkey-greece/story-lJWBk0cFyUtvVXgwN1FTdJ.html
30-10-2020||World||France on alert as official warns of more militant attacks after Nice church killings||France’s interior minister said on Thursday more militant attacks on its soil were likely as the country was engaged in a war against Islamist ideology following the second deadly knife attack in its cities in two weeks.Minister Gerald Damarnin was speaking a day after an assailant shouting “Allahu Akbar” (God is Greatest) beheaded a woman and killed two other people in a church in Nice. The man was shot by police and is now in critical condition in a hospital.“We are in a war against an enemy that is both inside and outside,” Damarnin told RTL radio. “We need to understand that there have been and there will be other events such as these terrible attacks.” Thursday’s attack, on the birthday of the Prophet Mohammad, took place at a time of growing Muslim anger across the globe at France’s defence of the right to publish cartoons depicting the prophet. Protesters have denounced France in street rallies in several Muslim-majority countries. Tens of thousands of Muslims protested in Bangladesh on Friday, chanting slogans such as “Boycott French products” and carrying banners calling French President Emmanuel Macron “the world’s biggest terrorist” as they marched in the streets of the capital Dhaka.Macron has deployed thousands of soldiers to protect important sites such as places of worship and schools, and the country’s security alert is at its highest level.France’s chief anti-terrorism prosecutor said the man suspected of carrying out the Nice attack was a Tunisian born in 1999. Who had arrived in Europe on Sept. 20 in Lampedusa, the Italian island off Tunisia that is a main landing point for migrants from Africa.A Tunisian security source and a French police source named the suspect as Brahim Aouissaoui.A judicial source said on Friday that a 47-year-old man had been taken into custody on Thursday evening on suspicion of having been in contact with the perpetrator of the attack. The Nice attack occurred just under two weeks after Samuel Paty, a school teacher in a Paris suburb, was beheaded by an 18-year-old Chechen who was apparently incensed by the teacher showing a cartoon of Prophet Mohammad in class.Speaking outside the church in Nice on Thursday, Macron said France had been attacked “over our values, for our taste for freedom, for the ability on our soil to have freedom of belief, and I say it with great clarity again today: We will not give any ground.” Prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard said the suspected attacker had entered the city by train early on Thursday morning and made his way to the church, where he stabbed and killed the 55-year-old sexton and beheaded a 60-year-old woman.He also stabbed a 44-year-old woman, who fled to a nearby cafe where she raised the alarm before dying, Ricard said. Police then arrived and confronted the attacker, who was still shouting “Allahu Akbar”, and shot and wounded him. Tunisia said the man was not listed by police there as a suspected militant and authorities have begun their own investigation.France, with Europe’s largest Muslim community, has suffered a string of Islamist militant attacks in recent years, including bombings and shootings in 2015 in Paris that killed 130 people and a 2016 attack in Nice in which a militant drove a truck through a seafront crowd celebrating Bastille Day, killing 86.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-on-alert-as-official-warns-of-more-militant-attacks-after-nice-church-killings/story-mtkiKYjhJwNiKPADZqADUO.html
30-10-2020||World||Facebook using experience from polls in India to stop abuse ahead of US elections||Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has said steps taken by the social media giant have helped protect the integrity of more than 200 different elections around the world, including in India, and have also played an important role in stopping abuse ahead of US elections. Noting that next week will certainly be a “test” for Facebook, Zuckerberg said the company will continue “fighting to protect the integrity of the democratic process”. “These are all changes we’ve made in the last four years -- and they’ve helped us protect the integrity of more than 200 different elections around the world, including in the EU, India, and Indonesia. And they’ve been important for stopping abuse ahead of next week’s vote in the US,” Zuckerberg said during the company’s earnings call and outlined some of the steps that have been taken. He added that the company has focused on issues like voter suppression, and has worked closely with experts in the space, including civil rights leaders.Facebook’s security teams were looking for traditional threats like hacking four years ago, but what it ended up seeing was something new -- coordinated interference campaigns, using fake accounts to spread misinformation and discord. “Since then, we’ve built the most advanced systems in the world to find and remove these threats, and it shows in the numbers. In the years since, we’ve taken down more than 100 networks, including from Russia, Iran, and China – and we block millions of potentially abusive accounts every day,” Zuckerberg said. Zuckerberg explained that the company has taken steps to make ads transparent and anyone who wants to run a political or social issue ad has to go through its authorisation process first. Between March and September, the company reportedly rejected ads 2.2 million times before they could run for trying to target the US without authorisation. For political and social issue ads, Facebook allows users to see who paid for the ad and what audience the ad reached, to make political advertising on the platform more transparent. “Our policies prohibit misrepresentations of when and how to vote and content meant to intimidate people into not showing up to polling places, like claiming ICE will be there. And we recently expanded these policies to include implicit misrepresentations, like for example, claims that you’ll get Covid by voting in person,” he said. From March through mid-October, Facebook removed more than 1,35,000 pieces of content in the US for breaking these rules, he added. “Election integrity is and will be an ongoing challenge.I also know that our work doesn’t stop after November 3. So, we will keep anticipating new threats evolving our approach, and fighting to protect the integrity of the democratic process and the right of people to make their voices heard around the world,” Zuckerberg remarked.Facebook saw its total revenue grow 22 per cent to USD 21.4 billion in the September quarter, while its net income was at USD 7.8 billion.Its daily active users (DAUs) base stood at 1.82 billion on average, while monthly active users (MAUs) base was at 2.74 billion as of September 30, 2020.Zuckerberg also talked about interoperability between Facebook’s family of apps (WhatsApp and Instagram) that allows users to send messages between the apps.“We started rolling out interoperability between Messenger and Instagram Messaging, and that’s live in a lot of countries around the world now, including in the US.The big benefit, the way that I think about this is that in a lot of countries around the world, there is a primary messaging app that most people use,” he said. He added that the messaging experience in the US is very fragmented compared to what one would experience in India, China, Brazil, or countries in Europe. “So, our goal is to make it so that people could just choose one of our apps that they prefer using the most for messaging and can reach all the people who they want to reach across all of our different apps from whichever of the apps is their favourite. And of course, they can continue using multiple if they want,” he said. Facebook has over 300 million users in India, while its group company, WhatsApp has more than 400 million users in the country. Earlier this year, Facebook had inked a deal to buy 9.99 per cent stake in Mukesh Ambani-led Jio Platforms for Rs 43,574 crore. The companies are also leveraging WhatsApp for delivering goods from local neighbourhood Kirana stores through JioMart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-using-experience-from-polls-in-india-to-stop-abuse-ahead-of-us-elections/story-Uyr4dA2MuulccuzJO9dYSI.html
30-10-2020||World||Anti-France sentiments rise in Muslim world, thousands protest French cartoons||Thousands of Muslims in Pakistan poured out of prayer services to join anti-France protests on Friday, as the French president’s vow to protect the right to caricature the Prophet Muhammad continues to roil the Muslim world.An estimated 2,000 worshippers celebrating the Mawlid, the birthday of the Prophet Muhammad, took to the streets in the eastern city of Lahore. Crowds led by Islamic parties chanted anti-France slogans, raised banners and clogged major roads en route to a Sufi shrine. Dozens of people furiously stomped on French flags and cried for the boycott of French products. In Multan, a city in Pakistan’s eastern Punjab province, thousands burned an effigy of French President Emmanuel Macron and demanded that Pakistan sever ties with France.More gatherings were planned for later Friday in Pakistan, including the capital, Islamabad, where police were out in force to prevent possible demonstrations outside the French Embassy. The atmosphere was tense as police positioned shipping containers to block the roads.Other protests, largely organized by Islamists, are expected across the region, including in Lebanon and the Gaza Strip.Also Read | Kremlin, after French attacks, says wrong to kill but wrong to insult religion tooIn Afghanistan, members of the Islamist party Hezb-i-Islami set the French flag ablaze. Its leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, warned Macron that if he doesn’t “control the situation, we are going to a third world war and Europe will be responsible.”The protests come amid rising tensions between France and Muslim-majority nations, which flared up earlier this month when a young Muslim beheaded a French schoolteacher who had shown caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad in class.Those images, republished by the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo to mark the opening of the trial for the deadly 2015 attack against the publication, have stirred the ire of Muslims across the world who consider depictions of the prophet blasphemous.A series of attacks that French authorities have attributed to Muslim extremism ensued. On Thursday, a knife-wielding Tunisian man carrying a copy of the Quran killed three people at a church in the Mediterranean city of Nice. That same day, a Saudi man stabbed and lightly wounded a security guard at the French consulate in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, prompting France to urge its citizens there to be on “high alert.”Also Read | France raises its alert level to maximum after Nice attackOver the past week, protests and calls to boycott French products have spread rapidly from Bangladesh to Pakistan to Kuwait. Social media has been pulsing with anti-France hashtags. Muslim leaders, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in particular, have loudly criticized France for what they see as the government’s provocative and anti-Muslim stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anti-france-sentiments-rise-in-muslim-world-thousands-protest-french-cartoons/story-fDbP0y2sraL3EJ9h2iY2JI.html
30-10-2020||World||Sheep diplomacy amid pandemic: Mongolia sends China sheep via land bubble||It is not quite the secure air bubble arrangements that governments worldwide are struggling to put in place for safe international travel in a pandemic, but China and Mongolia have implemented something similar over land – for 30000 sheep.Herds of 4000 of the promised 30000 sheep – from Mongolia to China – arrived in a northern China town earlier this month after being tested, quarantined, and travelling over a designated land route in disinfected trucks.In late February, Mongolian President Khaltmaa Battulga became the second foreign leader to visit China – after Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen – and promised to donate 30000 sheep as a mark of support and solidarity to Beijing’s fight against Covid-19 outbreak, which was raging in China then.The gift of the lamb is considered to be a sign of deep friendship in Mongolia.As promised, and despite a delay, over a dozen trucks loaded with 4000 sheep from Mongolia arrived in the China-Mongolia border city of Erenhot, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (IMAR) a week ago.The sheep, as per the arrangement between Mongolia’s food and agriculture ministry and China’s ministry of commerce, had to be first tested thoroughly in Mongolia and kept quarantined from other herds.The process in Mongolia started on September 18.“After the live sheep were quarantined in the immunization zone for 30 days, the Chinese pre-inspection veterinarian and technicians carried out inspection and quarantine on the live sheep,” the People’s Daily online said in a report.Subsequently, the massive trucks in which the animals would be transported had to be disinfected and separated as well.So, were the drivers and staff deployed to accompany the sheep – tested for Covid-19 and quarantined.A handover ceremony for the first batch was held simultaneously in Zamyn-Uud in Mongolia and Erenhot in China on October 22.Then the remaining half of the secure bubble for the sheep kicked in.“The sheep entered the country at Erenhot Port in North China’s IMAR where they will undergo quarantine and inspection and will be slaughtered and stored within 14 days before they are transferred to Hubei province (in central China where the Covid-19 pandemic was first reported),” the state-run China Daily said in a report.“Once they arrive at the isolation point, the immigration policemen in protective clothing have unloaded the sheep and inspected the vehicle body again to complete the closed loop,” the PD report said.The rest of the sheep are expected to arrive in China by the middle of November as part of – how Chinese state media described it -- reflecting “…the deep friendship of the Mongolian people towards the Chinese people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sheep-diplomacy-amid-pandemic-mongolia-sends-sheep-via-land-bubble/story-jBDGx6XN2F5qtLA4HPMe2H.html
30-10-2020||World||Xi Jinping rolls out vision for China in 2035, sparks buzz about his future role||The four-day plenary of the Chinese Communist Party signed off on President Xi Jinping’s plan to put innovation at the heart of China’s modernisation drive to develop the country into a powerhouse riding on the strength of domestic spending and tech self-reliance. But it was the party’s unusual decision to outline its vision for 2035 that has renewed buzz around President Xi’s plans for himself.President Xi has never spoken about his plans but dropped enough hints over the last few years that he does not intend to walk away after completing his two terms that end in 2022. One of them was the decision to scrap a constitutional bar introduced by Deng Xiaoping in 1982 that prevented China’s president from serving more than two terms. That move had sparked off speculation that 67-year-old Xi Jinping could end up becoming China’s President-for-life.The 67-year-old Chinese President has already emerged as the communist party’s most powerful leader after its founder Mao Zedong, holding the posts of party General Secretary, head of the military besides the Presidency.Also Read: China draws up a peace plan on Ladakh. India sees right through itIn October 2017, Xi was only the second Chinese leader after Mao to have had an eponymous ideology included in the party’s charter while in office. President Xi firmly established his stamp of authority at that party plenary when he got the party leadership to end the system of collective leadership, a safeguard introduced by Deng Xiaoping to protect Chinese people from an autocratic regime similar to Mao Zedong’s years in power.This year, he had the Xi Jinping Research Center for Diplomatic Thought opened that elevated his philosophy on par with Mao.Also Read: With Xi Jinping Centre On Diplomatic Thought, Chinese President is the new MaoThe 2017 plenary meeting that surrendered the leadership’s powers to Xi Jinping had been preceded by another purge of rivals in the party and the army, mostly by filing corruption cases against them. According to one analysis, commander-in-chief had purged 73 general-rank officers by 2016 and elevated officers loyal to him.The CCP’s closed-door plenum consisting of about 204 full central committee members and 172 alternate members is held annually to review the policies of the party and the government. Previous plenums – the party’s name for these key meetings – have been used to signal personal moves, indicating leadership succession plans. But, there were none in the 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) in its fifth plenary session’s document, which included a longer-term focus to 2035 by which time Xi would be 82, the same age as Mao Zedong when he died in 1976.China watchers link Beijing’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea, Hong Kong, Taiwan and at the Indian borders to Xi Jinping’s superpower ambitions vis-a-vis the United States that come across in his signature projects such as the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), upgrading Chinese cities into smart cities through 5G and artificial intelligence, and pulling more countries into the ambit of the Chinese financial system.Also Read: Prez Xi Jinping pushes limits, not just with neighbours but at home too | AnalysisThe success of this strategy was on display this week when the United States secretary of state Mike Pompeo attempted to turn Sri Lanka into a partner in its alliance against the Chinese. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa is reported to have told the US team about the island’s reluctance to take sides, particularly in light of the billions of dollars that Beijing had poured into the island for years.China watchers said the distinct possibility that President Xi Jinping could remain in power would be a key factor that countries would take into account when dealing with Beijing. “This is not a democracy where there is a possibility that the leadership can change after a certain period,” one of them said.Like in the US where Donald Trump faces a challenge from Joe Biden, who is expected to be less unpredictable if he reaches the White House. Most observers believe that Biden was unlikely to be as shrill as Trump on China but it is going to be difficult for any US president to adopt a very different approach given President Xi’s ambitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-rolls-out-vision-for-china-in-2035-sparks-buzz-about-his-future-role/story-UyHA2M7JkTUQxEaeBUwt7N.html
30-10-2020||World||China preaches the material over the spiritual in Tibet||Dzekyid, a 54-year-old barley farmer, presents himself as a role model for his neighbours and for the success of China’s efforts to tie economic development to social control in Tibet.Dzekyid’s well-built house in Jangdam village has a hall filled with Buddhist scriptures and Thangka paintings, and a row of prayer wheels for his religious 76-year-old father, Tenzin, to spin twice a day. As a member of China’s ruling Communist Party, Dzekyid is an atheist.“This house is possible because of good government policies. My heart is wholly with the party, not even one bit with religion,” said Dzekyid, whose family was showcased to a group of reporters on a government-organised tour of Tibet, an area where access to foreign journalists is normally barred.Government officials in both Beijing and Tibet vetted the reporters from media organisations who were invited to join the trip. On the closely supervised tour, there was little opportunity to interact with ordinary Tibetans without government officials in attendance.China is pushing to transform the mindsets and values of Tibetans to bring them into the country’s modern mainstream, which includes urging the region’s devout Buddhists to focus less on religion and more on material prosperity.“Tibet has some bad old habits, mainly due to the negative influence of religion that emphasises the afterlife and weakens the urge to pursue happiness in the current life,” said Che Dhala, chairman of the Tibet Autonomous Region.On the trip to Tibet, officials showcased poverty-relief programmes that include relocation of families to better homes, schooling, vocational training, and business development efforts such as a climate-controlled mushroom farm. The efforts are part of China’s push to eradicate rural poverty nationwide by the end of this year.Officials also described efforts to “manage the minds” of Tibetans, who for centuries lived in a deeply religious society with a belief in reincarnation and a devotion to their spiritual leader.The head of Caiqutang village, Dekyi Paldron, described how poor households who receive free new government housing “should not” set up a family room for worshipping Buddha, a common feature in traditional Tibetan houses, because they “shouldn’t be two-faced” after benefiting from the atheist Communist Party.“If space is taken up by the Buddha room, the boy and girl may have to squeeze into one bedroom - this is not ideal for the healthy development of either child,” another official told the visiting journalists.China seized Tibet after troops entered the region in 1950, in what Beijing calls a “peaceful liberation.” In 1959, spiritual leader the Dalai Lama fled China after a failed uprising, and the long-impoverished region has been one of the most politically sensitive and restricted parts of China.PRAY LESS, WORK MORERecipients of poverty relief are told to curb their spending on religion and to instead invest in increasing their earning power and in their children.At a vocational school in Nyingchi, a signboard stated that the school uses ideological and political education to fight against “separatism”, denounce the Dalai Lama and to prevent religion from making people “passive”.“Ten years ago, villagers competed among themselves to see who donates more to temples. Now they compete to see whose son or daughter has a stable government job, or who owns a car,” Karma Tenpa, deputy propaganda minister for the Tibet Autonomous Region, told Reuters.Pictures of the Dalai Lama, once commonly displayed in Tibetans’ houses, are banned, but framed posters of President Xi Jinping were visible inside all the homes the journalists were shown. Propaganda slogans urging allegiance to China and the Communist Party are conspicuous along roadsides and billboards in Tibet.Also Read | Trump administration’s new appointment to scrutinise China’s human rights violations in TibetCritics say China’s efforts linking poverty eradication to an embrace of a secular life and the Communist Party infringe on human rights.“The Chinese government’s efforts to force Tibetans to change their way of life to the one the government approves is a violation of their fundamental human rights, including their freedoms of thought and religion,” Maya Wang of Human Rights Watch told Reuters.A recent Reuters report based on official documents described how growing numbers of rural Tibetans were being pushed into recently built training centres, where they are trained to be factory workers in a programme that some critics have called coercive - a characterisation China rejects.“At first we have to go around explaining to the nomads and herders why they should go for skills training to earn higher wages. Now that they see the benefit of doing so, they come to us automatically,” Lin Bei, a poverty alleviation official, told Reuters.FAME OR SHAMEFamilies who practise good hygiene or have other desirable attributes receive credits for goods such as washing powder or towels, Lin said. The best are listed as “Five Star Families” on the village notice board.Those deemed to show undesirable behaviour are named and shamed.“If someone has been lazy, drunk alcohol, hung out at the teahouse or played games instead of taking care of his family, we will call him out at the village meeting,” said Lin, who is a member of China’s ethnic Han majority.Dzekyid, who like many Tibetans uses only one name, encourages his neighbours to support the party and its programmes. His house was built with a government grant of nearly $20,000.“Praying to the gods and Buddha can’t get me this,” he told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-preaches-the-material-over-the-spiritual-in-tibet/story-nJMfgkRM8GfOQo7x8pNh8O.html
30-10-2020||World||Thanksgiving feast or famine? Turkey industry left to guess||For the turkey industry, this Thanksgiving is a guessing game.Millions of Americans are expected to have scaled-down celebrations amid the pandemic, heeding official warnings against travel and large indoor gatherings. That leaves anxious turkey farmers and grocers scrambling to predict what people will want on their holiday tables.Kroger — the nation’s largest grocery chain — said its research shows 43% of shoppers plan to celebrate Thanksgiving only with those in their immediate household. It has purchased more turkeys than usual — in all sizes — but it’s also predicting an increase in demand for alternatives, including ham, pork roast and seafood. Kroger also expects to see more demand for plant-based meats, like a vegan roast stuffed with mushrooms and squash.Walmart says it will still carry plenty of whole turkeys, but it will also have 30% more turkey breasts in its stores to accommodate shoppers who don’t want to cook a whole bird.It’s not always easy to pivot. Angela Wilson, the owner of Avedano’s Holly Park Market in San Francisco, ordered turkeys last year for this Thanksgiving. She can’t cancel the order, so they’re still coming in.But Wilson said this Thanksgiving might be busier than in the past, since customers who usually go out of town will be staying home. She’s also stocking up on smaller birds like quail and game hen.Some farmers are making tweaks based on what they think customers will be looking for. Dede Boies raises heritage breed turkeys at Root Down Farm in Pescadero, California. The turkeys she sells for Thanksgiving were born in May, so she has spent months thinking about how the coronavirus might impact the holidays.Boies decided to harvest some turkeys early this year. It’s a gamble, because the birds gain a lot of fat and flavor in their final few weeks, but she figures customers will want smaller birds. She’s also offering more chickens and ducks.“We’ve invested so much time and energy and love into these birds, and the whole point is that they go and they are celebrated with people for these great meals. We’re just really hoping that still happens,” Boies said.Butterball — which typically sells 30% of America’s 40 million Thanksgiving turkeys — said it’s expecting more gatherings, but it’s not convinced people will want smaller turkeys. Its research shows that 75% of consumers plan to serve the same size turkey or a larger turkey than they did last year.Butterball says about half its turkeys will be in the 10-16 lb. range and half will be in the 16-24 lb. range, the same as usual. Anyone looking for a specific size should plan to shop early, said Rebecca Welch, senior brand manager for seasonal at Butterball.“Don’t be afraid to go big,” she said. “It’s just as easy to cook a large turkey as it is a smaller one, and it means more leftovers.”Nancy Johnson Horn of Queens, New York, usually shares a big turkey with her in-laws, her parents and her own family of five. But Horn, who writes The Mama Maven blog, said that gathering won’t happen this year because her kids are attending school in-person and she is worried about spreading the virus.“As much as it hurts me, I will have to cook myself this year,” she said. She’s not sure what will be on the menu. She’s only cooked a whole turkey once in her life and she’s never made mashed potatoes.This Thanksgiving comes at an already tenuous time for the $4.3 billion U.S. turkey industry. Thanks to better technology for carving breast meat, per capita consumption of turkey nearly doubled over the 1980s, peaking at 14.4 pounds per person in 1996, according to Mark Jordan, executive director of LEAP Market Analytics in Jonesboro, Arkansas.But interest in turkey has been steadily falling, thanks in part to price increases five years ago when flocks were hit by bird flu. Annual consumption is now around 12 pounds, Jordan said.Turkey sales have even been falling at Thanksgiving as consumers explore alternatives, according to Nielsen data. Last November, Americans spent $643 million on turkey, down 3.5% from the previous year. They spent $1.9 billion on beef, which was up 4%. And they spent $12 million — or more than double the prior year — on alternatives like plant-based meat.Jordan thinks the uncertainty about Thanksgiving demand will hurt groceries hardest. If they discount turkeys, they can sell them but it will hurt profits. If they keep prices high and consumers pass, they’ll be stuck with a lot of turkeys.“I don’t see many ways that they win this holiday season,” Jordan said.The uncertainty may well see a repeat at Christmas — both in the U.S. and beyond.Christmas turkeys are a staple in Britain, where turkey farmers are also bracing for slimmed-down festivities after the government told people not to meet in groups of more than six.Richard Calcott raises 2,000 Christmas turkeys each year at Calcott Turkeys in Tamworth, England. He bought his turkey chicks — known as poults — in February and March, and it was too late to switch to a smaller breed when pandemic restrictions took hold.He has tweaked their diets to reduce the weight of each turkey by around 2.2 pounds by the time they’re ready for market. Still, Calcott said he continues to get some orders for larger birds.“It’s been a very difficult year for a lot of people this year,” he said. “Christmas will be a good time to get families back together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thanksgiving-feast-or-famine-turkey-industry-left-to-guess/story-d0sDW9Rk8EPKPlje0ZA3zI.html
30-10-2020||World||US Elections 2020: Did Trump manage to overhaul economic relationship with China?||President Donald Trump ran for office pledging to rewrite the US economic relationship with China, which he blamed for hollowing out America’s manufacturing base and impoverishing its workers. His four years in the White House have shown limited impact on the metrics he laid out.American companies cite much the same concerns -- and the same growth objectives -- with regard to China today as they did when Trump took office. The unprecedented trade war he launched, breaking Republican free-trade orthodoxy along the way, ended up costing American factory jobs, not creating them, economists say. The state support for Chinese enterprises that Trump pledged to confront remains intact.Trump’s term has, however, had a notable impact on American attitudes toward China. In time, that could prove the dynamic that affects economic ties in ways the current president has struggled to achieve. And it underscores that Washington’s China policy is forever changed, regardless of who wins the Nov 3 election.Also Read | What Joe Biden has said on major US flashpoints with ChinaThe following is a look at the metrics Trump laid out for overhauling the economic relationship with China, and how they’ve panned out during his administration.End the OutsourcingTrump pledged to reclaim millions of American jobs and revive American manufacturing, in a 2016 campaign document titled “Reforming the US-China Trade Relationship to Make America Great Again.”After years of escalating tensions spanning billions of dollars in tariffs and retaliatory duties, American companies are as committed as ever to their China operations, and few have plans to leave -- while virtually none aim to come back to US shores.A US-China Business Council member survey taken in May and June showed 87% of respondents had no plans to shift production out of China. Only 4% said they’re planning to move operations to the US, largely due to lagging consumer demand in China, while 11% said they’re shifting production to alternatives like Thailand and Mexico.As for factory jobs, gains there flatlined after Trump started imposing tariffs on China in 2018. While there was a small bump in employment for some companies thanks to the administration’s protectionist moves, that was “more than offset by larger drags from the effects of rising input costs and retaliatory tariffs,” a study by Federal Reserve staff showed.No More IP TheftOn the 2016 campaign trail, Trump proclaimed that under his presidency, “we will adopt a zero tolerance policy on intellectual property theft and forced technology transfer.”The reality on the ground shows little has changed. About the same share of American companies operating in China reported in 2020 that their businesses were hindered by IP infringements as before Trump took office, according to a survey by the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai taken in June and July.The US-China Business Council survey separately showed 13% of its members reported that they were asked to transfer technology in 2020, versus 5% in 2019. While China made commitments on this front in the Trump administration’s phase one trade deal in January, as well as in the adoption of a new foreign investment law, “it is unclear how this will reasonably be enforced,” the business group said.The US Trade Representative’s office defended the phase one agreement’s provisions and enforceability. USTR also said the agency regularly resolves complaints from US companies with its Chinese counterparts.Also Read | Where the United States takes on China | HT EditorialStop the SubsidizingA key element of Trump’s anti-China program was forcing Beijing to abandon its system of what he termed unfair help for its companies. From export subsidies to below-market lending rates, the playing field was uneven for businesses trying to compete with Chinese rivals, in Trump’s analysis.This wasn’t addressed in the phase one agreement. Officials have said it will be part of phase two, but it’s not clear if or when that will proceed. Meantime, Beijing has doubled down on supporting indigenous innovation, announcing a fund to back its semiconductor industry.The US-China Business Council survey earlier this year showed the vast majority of members continue to report that both state-owned and private enterprises in China are getting subsidies or other benefits from the government.USTR says getting China to change is a work in progress, and that negotiations will continue.“To say that China hasn’t stopped all of its non-market behavior is obvious, but it is also obvious that this President and this Administration have done more to successfully challenge that behaviour than any Administration ever has,” the office said in response to a request for comment. “The President is more than willing to act if China does not keep up its end of the deal.”Shrink the DeficitTrump the candidate called for “eliminating America’s chronic trade deficit,” in a 2016 campaign document that listed China, Canada, Germany, Japan and South Korea as the main culprits. Reducing the gap was described as Trump’s “primary goal.”Monthly deficits with China have averaged slightly bigger since Trump took office than during Barack Obama’s second term in the White House -- $30.3 billion compared with $28.7 billion. The gap widened considerably in the run-up to the application of tariffs, then narrowed in 2019 before climbing again during the Covid-19 crisis this year.Meantime, countries including Vietnam have seen their surpluses with the U.S. expand as some supply chains diverted away from China to avert the tariff hikes.Currency ManipulationTrump said he’d label China a currency manipulator on day one of his administration, and frequently accused the country of artificially setting its exchange rate to give its exporters an unfair advantage. His campaign cited estimates that the yuan was 15% to 40% undervalued.With Election Day 2020 looming, the yuan is practically the same level against the dollar it was when Trump won in 2016.In the end, it took the Trump administration until August 2019, at the height of the trade war, to declare China a manipulator. Currency analysts noted that Chinese authorities had actually restrained gains in the yuan earlier on in Trump’s term, and most viewed Beijing as stopping short of an active depreciation strategy during the trade war.Tech WarWhile not an initial focus for Trump, his administration over time made the containment of China’s swelling advanced-technology sector a key objective. It imposed export restrictions on American companies supplying mobile tech giants Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp., among others. It also moved to restrict Chinese-owned social-media platforms TikTok and WeChat in the US, though those measures have been put on hold thanks to court injunctions.Also Read | Trump blocks TikTok, WeChat operations in US from SundayMore than once, Trump has reversed himself, offering a reprieve to ZTE after what he said was a personal appeal from Chinese President Xi Jinping. Huawei meantime has been able to shield itself from some of Trump’s blows by stockpiling crucial chips.Changing SentimentThough it was never a declared objective, the Trump administration, populated with China hawks including US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Peter Navarro, has had unparalleled success with tarnishing China’s image in the US Trump has also for months been blaming China for the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.It might have taken a toll, with criticism of China even becoming a rare issue uniting Democrats and Republicans in Washington. The proportion of Americans viewing China unfavourably has soared almost 20 percentage points since Trump took office, according to the Pew Research Center. Some 73% of Americans had a negative evaluation of the country in a survey Pew published this month.“We’re all China hawks now,” Navarro regularly proclaims. And that may be the most durable change Trump achieved on China policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-did-trump-manage-to-overhaul-economic-relationship-with-china/story-BWisTTW1kviDF7OTUXfyGK.html
30-10-2020||World||Church attack in Nice: What we know so far||A knife attacker killed three people, cutting the throat of at least one woman, inside a church in Nice on the French Riviera on Thursday.The brutal killings come only two weeks after a French teacher was decapitated outside his school north of Paris by an Islamist extremist -- the teacher had shown his pupils cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed during a lesson on freedom of speech.Here is what we know so far:What happened? At 8:29 am French time (0729 GMT) a man with a knife began attacking people praying inside the Basilica of Notre-Dame in the heart of the Mediterranean city.The attacker had a copy of the Koran and three knives with him, France’s anti-terror prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard told a news conference.In a near half-hour frenzy, the assailant used a 30 centimetre (12 inch) knife to cut the throat of a 60-year-old woman, who died inside the church.The body of a man, a 55-year-old church employee, was found nearby inside the basilica -- his throat had also been slit.Another woman, a 44-year-old who had fled the church to a nearby restaurant, died shortly afterwards from multiple knife wounds.The killer was shot and wounded by police who arrived quickly at the scene.Videos seen by AFP show he was hit at least six times.Even as he was being arrested the man continued to shout “Allahu Akbar” (God is greatest), before he was rushed to the city’s Pasteur hospital.Who is the suspect?The 21-year-old Tunisian suspect only arrived in France earlier this month after coming to Europe on a migrant boat via the Italian island of Lampedusa at the end of September, an official source told AFP.The suspected knifeman called himself “Brahim” when he was arrested and later claimed to be Brahim Aouissaoui, the source added. Who were the victims?The dead man was a 45-year-old father of two girls who served as the basilica’s sacristan, looking after the church, according to Canon Philippe Asso, its most senior cleric.The killer’s first victim was a 60-year-old woman, who he tried to behead, and the other woman who died was a mother in her 40s.“Tell my children I love them,” she managed to say before her death, according to French cable channel BFM TV.The Brazilian government later said she was a Brazilian citizen, though it did not confirm whether she also had French nationality.Is it a terror attack?The French authorities are treating it as a terror attack, with the anti-terrorist prosecutor immediately opening an inquiry into “murder and attempted murder linked to a terrorist enterprise”. President Emmanuel Macron called it an “Islamist terrorist attack”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/church-attack-in-nice-what-we-know-so-far/story-R68osiu3WecKwvQk3X37aO.html
30-10-2020||World||Eating out, grocery shopping more dangerous than air travel during Covid-19: Study||A person who eats at restaurants and steps out for shopping for grocery is at a greater risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than someone who travels in an airplane, according to a report by Harvard researchers.Also Read: India registers 48,648 new Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than ThursdayScientists at Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health published a study named ‘Aviation Public Health Initiative’ this week, in which they claimed that the rate of transmission of Covid-19 in passengers could drastically be reduced if they are encouraged to follow preventive measures.Guidelines to curb the spread of the virus mandate frequent washing of hands with soap, wearing masks at all times, ensuring constant ventilation and airflow in the aircraft and airport and regularly cleaning and sanitizing planes.If followed, the approach “reduces the risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission onboard aircraft below that of other routine activities during the pandemic, such as grocery shopping or eating out,” the study said.Also Read: Fewer international flyers between Oct-Mar than projections of 10-15 mn: CAPAEducation and awareness also play a significant role in controlling the spread of coronavirus, the study added. “Airlines and airports are campaigning to inform the public about actions they can take to reduce disease transmission on their journey. This includes public health safety information while booking, at check-in, boarding, and on the aircraft. Cabin crew receive training to identify and isolate potentially infected individuals should a case appear on board an aircraft,” it said.This study has come as global coronavirus disease cases have gone over the 45 million mark. According to the website worldometer, as many as 1,187,029 deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported worldwide. In India, the death toll stands at 121,090 while the infection tally soared to 8,088,851 on Friday, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eating-out-grocery-shopping-more-dangerous-than-air-travel-during-covid-19-study/story-gWQRsMypywBht4P6aLWRfP.html
30-10-2020||World||China focuses on building its own core tech as US curbs supply||China said it needs to build its own core technology because it can’t rely on buying it from elsewhere, as the Communist Party laid out plans for greater economic self-sufficiency.Outlining details of its new five-year economic plan that elevates self-reliance in technology and innovation, senior party officials said Friday the nation would accelerate development of the kind of technology needed to spur the next stage of economic development. Key to that are bold measures to cut reliance on foreign know-how, although that doesn’t mean China will cut itself off from the world.Also Read: China condemns US media control, calls it ‘political oppression’“To achieve technological advancement, China increasingly needs the world, and the world increasingly needs China,” Wang Zhigang, science and technology minister, told a briefing in Beijing Friday. The nation planned to “improve our ability to make innovations independently and do our own things well because we cannot ask for or buy the core technologies from elsewhere.”At the same time, “we hope to learn from advanced international experience, and will share more Chinese technological outcomes with the world,” he said.Tech stocks were some of Friday’s best-performers. Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., the country’s largest chipmaker, surged as much as 8% in Hong Kong in its biggest intraday gain in about two weeks. On mainland bourses, Gigadevice Semiconductor Beijing Inc. climbed its 10% limit, becoming the biggest gainer on the CSI 300 index as of early afternoon.Decoupling ThreatBeijing’s drive for tech self-sufficiency is gaining urgency as the US seeks to contain the rise of its geopolitical rival. The US has pressured allies to shun equipment from Huawei Technologies Co., barred dozens of China’s largest tech companies from buying American parts, and even slapped bans on ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok and Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s WeChat.Also Read: India dealing with worst border crisis with China with ‘firmness and maturity’:Harsh ShringlaHowever, officials talked down prospects of a decoupling between the world’s two largest economies and said China’s door would remain open for foreign competition.“Complete decoupling is not realistic. And it is not good for China, the United States and the whole world,” a Communist Party Central Committee official Han Wenxiu said at the briefing. “The truth is very few would really want to see the two countries decouple. Most would want our two countries to cooperate and work together.”Growth TargetThe Central Committee released initial details of the five-year plan Thursday, stressing the need for sustainable growth and also pledging to develop a robust domestic market. Officials didn’t specify the pace of growth they would seek over the period, but said the National Development and Reform Commission would work on guidelines to be submitted to country’s parliament in March.“Based on the general direction and strategy determined in the proposal, we will put forward corresponding numeric targets and specific indicators after careful estimate and calculation, so as to promote the reasonable economic growth and the steady improvement of its quality,” Ning Jizhe, vice chairman of NDRC, said at the briefing Friday.Wang, the technology minister, said it was a strategic choice to elevate the role of innovation and make technological self-reliance a strategic pillar of national development in the plan. Han separately stated there are “three priorities of paramount importance. They are: reform, opening up and innovation.”Central to that endeavor is self-reliance in chips, the building blocks for innovations from artificial intelligence to fifth-generation networking and autonomous vehicles.The government now intends to confer the same priority on semiconductor development that it accorded to building its atomic capability, people with knowledge of the matter have said. That’s said to include broad support for so-called third-generation semiconductors -- a nascent field in which no nation yet claims dominance -- for the period through 2025.But it will take years for local companies to match foreign counterparts in both basic manufacturing and design expertise, while there’s no ready answer to the dominance of Japanese and American names in chip-making equipment.China imports more than $300 billion worth of integrated circuits each year and its semiconductor developers rely on US-made chip design tools and patents, as well as critical manufacturing technologies from US allies. Deteriorating ties between Beijing and Washington have made it increasingly difficult for Chinese companies to source components and chip-making technologies from overseas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-focuses-on-building-its-own-core-tech-as-us-curbs-supply/story-Npw72DuV8QImroZYZSCuMJ.html
30-10-2020||World||Mike Pompeo wraps up ‘anti-China’ tour of Asia in Vietnam||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo wrapped up a five-nation, anti-China tour of Asia in Vietnam on Friday with a call for regional unity to counter Beijing’s growing assertiveness, as the fierce American presidential election race entered its final stretch.With just four days left in the campaign in which China has been a central theme, Pompeo visited Hanoi ostensibly to celebrate 25 years of US-Vietnam relations. But, as he has at his previous stops in India, Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia, Pompeo’s main aim was to shore up support for pushing back on China.“We have enormous respect for the Vietnamese people and your country’s sovereignty,” Pompeo told Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc.In brief comments heard by reporters, neither man mentioned China by name, but Pompeo’s use of the word “sovereignty” has become code for referring to opposition to Chinese encroachment, particularly in Asia.Also Read | Mike Pompeo’s attack on China signals a shift in India’s approach“We look forward to continuing to work together to build on our relationship and to make the region — throughout Southeast Asia, Asia and the Indo-Pacific — safe and peaceful and prosperous,” Pompeo said.Phuc said he seeks “sincere cooperation” between both sides in support of a peaceful regionThe Trump administration has made confronting China, its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, human rights record and aggressiveness towards its smaller neighbours one of its main foreign policy priorities. Those issues, particularly the Chinese origin of the virus, have been highlighted by President Donald Trump as he seeks to beat back a stiff re-election challenge from former Vice President Joe Biden in the Nov 3 polls.Trump has sought to paint Biden as weak on China and beholden to it, repeatedly raising questions about alleged connections between Biden’s son, Hunter, and Chinese businesses.Amid concerns about the spread of Covid-19, Vietnam was a late addition to Pompeo’s itinerary and has numerous fears about Chinese policies in the region. Those range from Beijing’s territorial and maritime claims in the South China Sea to its development activities along the Mekong River, which runs through much of mainland Southeast Asia and is a regional lifeline.In a statement released ahead of Pompeo’s arrival in Vietnam, the State Department attacked China for reneging on cooperation pledges with other Mekong countries and for aggressively pursuing suspect claims in the South China Sea.China’s “malign and destabilizing actions in the Mekong region, including manipulation of Mekong River water flows, negatively affect millions of people who depend on the river for their livelihoods,” it said.“The United States stands with our Indo-Pacific allies and partners in protecting their sovereign rights to offshore resources in the South China Sea, consistent with their rights and obligations under international law,” it said. It noted that earlier this year, Pompeo had rejected outright nearly all of Beijing’s sweeping maritime claims in the South China Sea, including those involving Vietnam.“The United States rejects (China’s) maritime claims to the waters surrounding Vanguard Bank off Vietnam’s coast,” the statement said. “We will oppose any efforts aimed at undermining the rules-based maritime order in the South China Sea or elsewhere.”China’s moves to assert its claims in the South China Sea, through which a third of global shipping passes, have drawn rebuke from the United States and become a flashpoint for a region in which Southeast Asian neighbours Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan all have rival claims.China has ignored an arbitration ruling won by the Philippines that invalidated most of Beijing’s claims, and built military outposts on seven man-made islands.Pompeo arrived in Vietnam from Indonesia, where he praised Indonesian leadership in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations for pushing back on what he called China’s “unlawful” South China Sea claims and denounced Beijing for its treatment of religious minorities, calling it “the gravest threat to the future of religious freedom.”Pompeo had travelled to Indonesia from the Maldives, Sri Lanka and India on stops where he steadily ratcheted up the pressure on Beijing, which has rejected US concerns and accused him and others in the Trump administration of fanning the flames of a new Cold War.In the Maldives, Pompeo announced the United States would for the first time open an embassy in the Indian Ocean archipelago, a move that reflects growing US concern about increasing Chinese influence and what he called “its lawless and threatening behaviour” in the Indo-Pacific region.Just hours earlier in Sri Lanka, Pompeo had accused China of being a ”predator” in smaller countries by exploiting them with loans and development projects intended to benefit the Chinese more than the intended recipients.At his first stop of the tour in India, Pompeo and Defense Secretary Mark Esper had stepped up the administration’s anti-China message by playing on Indian suspicions about the Chinese to shore up a regional front against Beijing in the Indo-Pacific.Just hours before the meetings in New Delhi began, the Trump administration notified Congress of plans for a $2.37 billion sale of Harpoon missile systems to Taiwan — the second major arms sale in two weeks to the democratic island that Beijing regards as a renegade province. China angrily reacted by announcing sanctions on US defense contractors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-wraps-up-anti-china-tour-of-asia-in-vietnam/story-fb5eJLsB7t3DspGZmFLK3I.html
30-10-2020||World||Several rare Punjab-Sikh artefacts auctioned in London||A 19th century large panoramic water-colour view of the Golden Temple and jewellery once owned by Maharani Jindan Kaur are among several Indian artefacts sold in auction for hundreds of thousands of pounds in London this week.The water-colour painting is attributed to English painter Cyril Wiseman Herbert (1847-1882). According to auctioneer Bonhams, the painting is believed to be the largest depiction of the Golden Temple in water-colour ever to have come on the market. It was sold for £75,063 (the estimate was £60,000-80,000).Jindan Kaur’s jewellery, comprising a gem-set gold forehead pendant (chand-tikka), gem-set gold mirrored roundel and a pearl-mounted gold pendant – inherited by her grand-daughter Princess Bamba Sutherland – were sold for £62,563 (the estimate £60,000-80,000).Bonhams said that the jewellery in the sale was “almost certainly” from the casket of jewels handed back to her by British authorities when she agreed to live in London with her son, Duleep Singh, with whom she was reunited in colonial Calcutta in 1861.The only surviving widow of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, Jindan Kaur (1817-1863) led spirited resistance to the encroachment of the British into the Punjab, but was eventually forced to surrender. More than 600 pieces of her jewellery from the treasury of Lahore were confiscated, and she was imprisoned before escaping to Nepal in 1848.Oliver White, head of Bonhams’ Islamic and Indian Art, said: “These are wonderful jewels in their own right, made more special still by their rich and fascinating history – the circular stoned gold and mirrored brooch was, according to Princess Bamba, formerly part of Maharajah Duleep Singh’s horse harness. They represent a remarkable link back to one of the richest treasuries in the world.”Another major sale was a portrait of Viscount Hardinge of Lahore, former governor-general of India, accompanied by his two sons and his aide-de-camp Colonel Wood, on the battlefield after the victory at Ferozeshah during the first Anglo-Sikh war by Sir Francis Grant (1803-78). It was sold for £50,063 (the estimate was £40,000-60,000).Other artefacts sold include: A copy of the first French edition of Alexander Burnes’ account of his journey through Sikh territories and to Bokhara, titled ‘Voyages de L’embouchure de l’Indus a Lahor, Caboul, Balkh et a Boukhara et retour par la Perse’; eight prints depicting incidents from the Anglo-Sikh Wars; a pencil sketch of the Golden Temple; a painting of Raja Anirudh Singh, son of Sansar Chand of Kangra, dressed in Sikh attire, seated holding a flower at a balcony window, circa 1815-20; and a collection of photographs from the collection of Major Arthur Wallace Dunlop (1866-1937), 23rd Sikh Pioneers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/several-rare-punjab-sikh-artefacts-auctioned-in-london/story-PID1cEBQKZmYNHAJ3tQHaL.html
30-10-2020||World||Instagram pauses ‘recent’ search listings on US site to stop fake election news||Facebook Inc’s Instagram said on Thursday it was making changes to its image sharing platform for US users to prevent the spread of misinformation around the November 3 presidential election.“We’re doing this to reduce the real-time spread of potentially harmful content that could pop up around the election,” the statement added. Instagram’s “Recent” tab arranges hashtags in chronological order and amplifies content. Researchers have cautioned that automated amplification can lead to the rapid spread of misinformation on the platform. The development comes as social media companies face increasing pressure to combat election-related misinformation and prepare for the possibility of violence or poll place intimidation around the November 3 vote.Earlier this month, Twitter Inc said it will remove tweets calling for people to interfere with the US election process or implementation of election results, including through violence. Twitter has recently announced several temporary steps to slow amplification of content: for example, from October 20 to at least the end of the US election week, global users pressing “retweet” will be directed first to the “quote tweet” button to encourage people to add their own commentary.Twitter said it will also stop surfacing trending topics without added context. Its decision to hit the brakes on automated recommendations contrasts with the approach at Facebook, which has previously boosted promotion of its groups product. Separately on Thursday, Facebook acknowledged that a technical error in its systems caused a number of ads from the Republican and Democratic parties to be improperly paused.It was the result of a policy change Facebook announced last month to block new political ads in the week prior to the elections. Facebook said it has made updates to enable the affected ads to run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/instagram-pauses-recent-search-listings-on-us-site-to-stop-fake-election-news/story-MYoQfA2UUkaS6I1qmbCsDO.html
30-10-2020||World||‘China is angry’: Taiwan anxiety rises as sabre-rattling grows||The tank traps on the beaches of Kinmen Island are a stark reminder that Taiwan lives under the constant threat of a Chinese invasion -- and fears of a conflict breaking out are now at their highest in decades.Democratic Taiwan has learned to live with the warnings of Beijing’s authoritarian leaders that they are ready and willing to seize a place it views as part of its territory.But that background static has reached hard-to-ignore levels recently with China’s jets now crossing into Taiwan’s defence zone at an unprecedented rate and the People’s Liberation Army releasing propaganda simulating an invasion of the island -- and even an attack on US bases in Guam.Also Read: China’s resurrection of 1959 LAC claim may be first step. India preps for falloutNot since the mid-1990s, when China fired missiles into the Taiwan Strait during a moment of heightened tension, has the sabre-rattling been so loud. Sitting under a pavilion at National Quemoy University on Kinmen, a Taiwan-ruled island just off the Chinese mainland, freshman Wang Jui-sheng says he feels more than a little unsettled.“China is angry at Taiwan and acting all the more brutish,” he told AFP.“I’m worried about the chance of military conflicts between the two sides, possibly even in the near future.”Kinmen (population 140,000) lies just two miles (3.2km) from the mainland and was left in the hands of the Nationalist forces at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949 that formed modern-day China and Taiwan.If Beijing’s troops ever cross the Taiwan Strait, they would almost certainly have to take Kinmen first. And if war does break out, it could easily rope in the United States -- pitting two nuclear-armed militaries against each other. Flashpoint Ian Easton, author of a book about what war could look like, says the world is ignoring the spiralling tensions in the Taiwan Strait at its peril. “This is the most dangerous, the most unstable, and the most consequential flashpoint on the planet,” the senior director at the Project 2049 Institute, a think-tank that specialises in China-Taiwan affairs, told AFP.Historically Beijing has used carrots and sticks to seek what it sees as the unification of China, melding honeyed promises of shared prosperity with warnings of annihilation for Taiwan’s 23 million inhabitants.But in recent years the carrot has all but disappeared. Four years ago Taiwan voted for President Tsai Ing-wen, who views the island as a sovereign state and not part of “one China”.China cut off official communication and piled on economic, military and diplomatic pressure, with the aim of prompting voters to place a more Beijing-friendly politician in office next time. It didn’t work. Tsai won a second term by a landslide in January and polls show a growing number of voters now view themselves as Taiwanese, not Chinese.‘Prepare for war’The failure to win Taiwanese hearts -- exacerbated by Beijing’s crackdowns in Hong Kong and Xinjiang -- may explain why President Xi Jinping has adopted the most bellicose stance towards Taiwan since the Mao Zedong era.Also Read: India trashes ‘1959 LAC’ claimXi, who did away with presidential term limits two years ago, has made no secret of his goals. He has described Taiwan’s takeover as an “inevitable requirement for the great rejuvenation of the Chinese people” -- a project he aims to complete by 2049, the centennial of communist China’s founding. During a trip earlier this month to a PLA base, he told troops to “prepare for war”.Captain James Fanell, former director of naval intelligence for the US Pacific fleet, believes China will move on Taiwan in some form in the next 10 years. “The reality is China’s always had a plan and they’re on a timeline,” he told AFP from the Geneva Centre for Security Policy which he joined after his retirement in 2015. “We’re in the decade of concern right now.”During his career, Fanell watched China transform from a brown-water force confined to its coast into a globally capable navy equipped with better hypersonic missiles and far more ships than the US.“For every one ship we produce, they produce five times as many,” Fanell said.He added that what makes Beijing’s designs on Taiwan so dangerous now, compared with previous moments of tension, is that China may now have enough military might to take the island -- although any invasion would be hugely costly.Will US stand by Taiwan?Whether the US will come to Taiwan’s aid in the event of an attack is still not clear. Unlike Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, Taiwan is not a treaty ally.But Washington is bound by Congress to sell Taiwan weapons to defend itself, and says it opposes any forceful change of the island’s status.The policy -- dubbed “strategic ambiguity” -- was designed to ward off an invasion without directly confronting China.But there is growing bipartisan discussion in the US over whether a switch to strategic clarity is now needed given China’s more assertive approach.“If Taiwan was conquered and occupied by the PRC (China), America’s alliance system in Asia would be devastated,” said Easton.The administration of US President Donald Trump has certainly embraced Taiwan as it clashed with Beijing on a host of issues.Trump has been much more willing than his recent predecessors to sell major weapon systems to Taiwan’s out-gunned forces.Over the last three years, the US has agreed to deals worth at least $15 billion, including new generation F16 fighter jets and moveable missile platforms. Whether Trump’s challenger, Joe Biden, will take a similar stance on Taiwan if he wins next week’s election is unclear.As the great powers jostle, those living in Kinmen desperately hope such weapons will never be needed. “I don’t want to see a war break out as both sides would suffer,” said Tsai Yan-mei, a Chinese mainlander who married a Taiwanese man and lives in Kinmen.“I hope to live a stable life,” she added. “I enjoy the democracy and freedom in Taiwan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-is-angry-taiwan-anxiety-rises-as-sabre-rattling-grows/story-vWqNwZlY8poHZhfytfuTSN.html
30-10-2020||World||US elections: Swing states, Samosa Caucus, electoral college and other things you should know||The Process An estimated 240 million Americans in 50 states and across three time zones (which will determine staggered starting and closing time for polling) are eligible to vote either in person or through mail in 2020 to elect their president for the next four year. Polling closes on November 3.What’s an electoral college and how are electors selected?US Constitution mandates the president to be elected by an electoral college, which now comprises 538 members, selected by states. Each state’s share is determined by the number of members in the House of Representatives and Senate. Presidential candidates nominate electors for each state, who are then expected to go with whichever candidates wins the popular vote in the state in a winner-takes-all system. Only Maine and Nebraska allocate their electors among winners of congressional districts and the popular vote.A candidate needs 270, the halfway mark, plus 2, to win.What is a Caucus?It is a meeting of members of political parties to register their support for candidates competing for the party’s nomination through discussions and multiple rounds of headcount. It’s how some states decide their nominees for president — of both Republican and Democratic parties. Iowa, which kicks off the presidential election cycle, is the most prominent state with this system. The alternative is a primary, which is a straightforward vote in the traditional sense.Does popular vote count?Yes and, then, No.The presidential candidate who wins the popular vote in the state picks up all the state’s electors in a winner-takes-all system — except in Maine and Nebraska. And the candidate with the maximum number electors — 270 or more — wins the White House. Winning the popular vote alone nationally is not enough — Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by 3 million in 2016, but Donald Trump won the electoral college and the presidency.Why are people voting early? Early voting in the shape of absentee voting goes all the way back to the American Civil War when soldiers deployed in battlefield were allowed to mail in their ballots. Many states now allow early voting, especially after the 2000 “hanging chad” debacle. This year, all states are allowing early voting, in-person and through mail, in view of the ongoing Covid1-19 pandemic and mitigation efforts in place to stop the spread of the virus.More than a third of all eligible voters have already cast their ballots this time, in a record early voting turnout.Differences between the American and Indian voting processesIndians vote on a date announced by the Central Election Commission to elect representatives — Members of Parliament, Lok Sabha — who in turn elect the prime minister. In the US, Americans vote on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November — a statutorily fixed date — to elect the president directly, but with a twist called the electoral college. Also, elections in India are administered and regulated by the EC, but in the US, they are held by state governments in their respective jurisdictions. The Federal Election Commission only administers and regulates campaign finance laws.Cost of the electionThe 2020 elections to the White House and House of Representatives are expected to cost an estimated $14 billion, a record. But these are moneys spent by candidates, parties and outside bodies and do not include expenses incurred by state governments on polling, security and election-related issues and material. Joe Biden could become the first presidential nominee to raise $1 billion, or more.Other elections that will also take place on November 3Americans will also vote on November 3 to elect 435 members of the House of Representatives, 33 members of the Senate (a third of the 100 seats of the upper chamber are up for election every election cycle), 11 state governors (and two of US Territories), and members of 86 state legislative chambers (lower and upper chambers).When to expect results?In most election years, results become known within hours of the close of polling, as projections based on early counting trends and exit polling. But it may take longer this time because of the sheer volumes of mailed-in ballots. Some states begin counting their mail-in ballot before Election Day, others start on that day and still others wait till close of polling.Samosa Caucus: Will it grow or shrink?There are five Indian Americans in US Congress now; they call themselves the “Samosa Caucus”. Four in the House — Ami Bera, Ro Khanna, Raja Krishnamoorthi and Pramila Jayapal; and one in the Senate — Kamala Harris. All the House members are seeking re-election and Harris is running for vice-president. Among others seeking their first term are Sri Preston Kulkarni from Texas and Hiral Tipirneni from Arizona for the House and Sara Gideon for the Senate from Maine.The swing states that could decide the electionsMichigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania decided the 2016 White House race, giving Trump the presidency. They remain the key battleground states that will decide the 2020 race. Trump won them narrowly and has to take them again to win, if he also holds on to the states he won back in 2016. He is currently trailing Biden in all three, and by margins that have remained steady over a period of time.Florida, North Carolina, Arizona, Minnesota, Nevada and Ohio could also play critical roles. Trump won all six in 2016, but is trailing Biden in the first three narrowly, by wide margins in the next two and is barely ahead in the last.And then there are Georgia and Texas, solidly Republican states that have not voted for Democrats in presidential elections in decades. But Democrats and pollsters believe they are in play this time. Biden addressed two rallies in Georgia this week, a bold move for final days of campaigning, and has sent his running mate Kamala Harris to Texas amid growing calls from Democrats for star campaigners including former President Barack Obama to tip the state Blue.Main issues in the presidential electionEconomy, terrorism and national security, the response to the coronavirus, healthcare (health insurance) and education emerged as the top five issues in a poll of registered voters by Gallup earlier in October, just weeks before the close of polling.Economy was also the top issue in a Pew poll back in August, followed by healthcare, Supreme Court appointments, the coronavirus outbreak and violent crime.Economy is usually the top issue in US presidential elections but it has assumed even greater importance this cycle because of the devastating impact of Covid-19, with widespread and continuing closure and downsizing of businesses and millions of lay-offs.Biden has made the Trump administration’s response to the epidemic, which has killed more than 228,000 Americans and infected nearly 9 million, the nucleus of his case against granting the president a second term and giving him a chance instead to lead the country. He has accused the president of not doing enough to combat the virus, underplaying the gravity of the illness, peddling dubious cures and therapeutics and hosting “super-spreader” events.Trump, on the other hand, has sought to shift the focus away from the pandemic by raising law-and-order concerns stemming from anti-racism protests, has touted unverified allegations of corruption against Biden and questioned his mental acuity and physical wellbeing, with dubious claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-swing-states-samosa-caucus-electoral-college-and-other-things-you-should-know/story-F7DVdHrfibEY3bDhxeGkgI.html
30-10-2020||World||White House advisers warn of ‘unrelenting’ Covid-19 spread, ‘whole lot of pain’||The White House coronavirus task force has warned that much of the country is in the grips of an “unrelenting” rise in Covid-19 cases, urging tough countermeasures, while at least nine states on Thursday reported record daily increases in new infections.The hardest-hit regions in the West and Midwest encompass a number of battleground states expected to play a pivotal role in Tuesday’s U.S. presidential election contest between Republican incumbent Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden.“We are on a very difficult trajectory. We’re going in the wrong direction,” said Dr. Anthony Fauci, a leading task force member and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, said coronavirus cases were on the rise in 47 states, and patients were overwhelming hospitals across the country. “If things do not change, if they continue on the course we’re on, there’s gonna be a whole lot of pain in this country with regard to additional cases and hospitalizations, and deaths,” Fauci said in a CNBC interview on Wednesday night. The White House coronavirus task force has warned states in the middle and western parts of the country that aggressive measures will be necessary to curb the virus’ spread, according to weekly state reports seen by CNN.“We continue to see unrelenting, broad community spread in the Midwest, Upper Midwest and West. This will require aggressive mitigation to control both the silent, asymptomatic spread and symptomatic spread,” one state’s report said.The ominous assessment was echoed on Thursday by Dr. Ashish Jha, Brown University’s dean of public health, who told Reuters, “things are very, very bad in the United States right now.”“We are having some of the largest breakouts that we’ve had during the entire pandemic,” he said, adding that the initial waves of infections last spring were more localized. “And nine, 10 months into this pandemic, we are still largely not quite prepared.”At least nine states - Indiana, Ohio, Maine, Minnesota, Illinois, North Dakota, North Carolina, Michigan and Oregon - reported record one-day increases in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, according to a Reuters tally. Indiana also reported a record number of hospitalizations, which are soaring across the country, a metric independent of how much testing is being done.As of Thursday, there were 45,457 Covid-19 patients in U.S. hospitals, the highest number since Aug. 14. Nearly 228,000 people have died of the respiratory virus in the United States since the outbreak began - the world’s highest national toll - and 8.6 million U.S. infections have been documented to date.VIRUS ‘RAGING’Ohio Governor Mike DeWine announced the creation of “COVID Defense Teams” of community leaders to focus on measures for slowing the spread.“The virus is raging throughout the state, and there is no place to hide,” DeWine told a news conference as he urged residents to become more diligent in wearing masks, social distancing and hand-washing. Health experts believe the virus is surging because of more private social gatherings, colder temperatures driving people indoors, and Americans’ letting their guard down due to fatigue with Covid-19 restrictions.Russell Vinik, chief medical officer at University of Utah Health Plans, said the virus was spreading in his state predominantly through small social gatherings.As cases soar across Utah, Vinik said there was a dire need for specialized medical professionals to handle the surge. “We have adequate PPE (personal protective equipment), our big issue is the humans, the people you need,” he said in an interview. “It’s not about hospital beds. It’s about trained, specialized providers to take care of those patients.”As the pandemic threatens to stretch into winter, with a vaccine still months away, Vinik said hospitals would likely become more strained. Fauci indicated that the first doses of a coronavirus vaccine might become available to some high-risk Americans in late December or early January, if all goes well.Brown’s public health dean said doctors have gotten better at treating Covid-19, which he said helps explain why death rates have improved somewhat, “but we’re still starting to see a lot of hospitals starting to get filled up.”Trump on the campaign trail has repeatedly downplayed the virus, claiming for weeks that the country is “rounding the turn,” even as new cases and hospitalizations soar.At a rally in Arizona on Thursday, the president again argued against taking stricter measures against the resurgent virus. Biden and fellow Democrats in Congress have excoriated Trump for his handling of the health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-advisers-warn-of-unrelenting-covid-19-spread-whole-lot-of-pain/story-CV3DD90E8YbCqlSqpO9wJP.html
30-10-2020||World||Grocery store workers at heightened risk of symptomless Covid-19 infections: Study||Grocery store employees are likely to be at heightened risk of Covid-19 infection, with those in customer-facing roles 5 times as likely to test positive as their colleagues in other positions, suggests the first study of its kind.The findings of the study were published in the journal Occupational & Environmental Medicine.What’s more, among those testing positive, three out of four had no symptoms, suggesting these key workers could be an important reservoir of infection, say the researchers.Published research focusing on essential/key workers has largely focused on healthcare workers. To try and plug this knowledge gap and find out how Covid-19 has affected the health and wellbeing of other key workers, the researchers studied 104 employees of one grocery store in Boston, Massachusetts.Each employee was tested for SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for Covid-19 infection, in May this year as part of a mandatory testing policy across Boston.But before doing so, they completed detailed questionnaires on their lifestyle; medical history; employment history; working patterns and role at the store; commuting to and from work; and the protective measures they were able to take against infection at work.They were also asked to provide information on Covid-19, including any symptoms and exposure to anyone with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 over the past 14 days. Information on mental health was gleaned from two validated questionnaires for depression and anxiety: PHQ-9 and GAD-7.One in five (21 out of 104) workers tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, indicating a prevalence of 20% at that point in time. This was significantly higher than the prevalence of the infection in the local community at the time: 0.9-1.3%.Three out of four of those testing positive (76%) had no symptoms. And of those testing positive, most (91%) had a customer-facing role compared with 59% of those testing negative.Workers in customer-facing roles were five times more likely to test positive than their colleagues in other types of role, after accounting for potentially influential factors, such as the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 where they lived. Those in supervisory roles were six times more likely to do so.Ninety-nine employees filled in the mental health questionnaires: 24 workers reported at least mild anxiety. Only half (46%) of them said they were able to practice social distancing consistently at work, whereas most (76%) of those who weren’t anxious were able to do so.Eight employees were deemed to be mildly depressed from their questionnaire answers. They were less likely to practice social distancing consistently at work and more likely to travel to and from work on public transport or shared rides compared with those who weren’t depressed.Those able to commute on foot, by bike or in their own car were 90% less likely to report depressive symptoms.This is a small observational study of workers in one store in one city at one point in time, which relied on subjective reports, and as such, can’t establish cause, caution the researchers.Nevertheless, they say: “This is the first study to demonstrate the significant asymptomatic infection rate, exposure risks, and associated psychological distress of grocery retail essential workers during the pandemic.”And they point out: “Once essential workers are infected with SARS-CoV-2, they may become a significant transmission source for the community they serve.”They believe their findings support: “the policy recommendations that employers and government officials should take actions on implementing preventive strategies and administrative arrangements, such as methods to reduce interpersonal contact, repeat and routine SARS-CoV-2 employee testing, to ensure the health and safety of essential workers.”And they add: “Our significant mental health finding calls for action in providing comprehensive employee assistance services to help essential workers cope with the psychological distress during the Covid-19 pandemic.”(ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/grocery-store-workers-at-heightened-risk-of-symptomless-covid-19-infections-study/story-dqNEhDREvfAxqtecU6oa2J.html
30-10-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: Brazil expects vaccine by June 2021, Russia temporarily pauses trials||A worldwide hunt for a vaccine for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease is underway, even as the global tally due to the infection has risen to more than 45 million, including 1.1 million deaths. While the caseload of the United States, the worst-hit country, is hurtling towards ten million, that of India, the second worst-hit country, has crossed eight million.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest update for a coronavirus vaccine, Brazil has said it expects a vaccine approved and ready for use by June 2021 and Russia has temporarily paused vaccinating new volunteers in its trials.Here are the latest updates over the global search for a Covid-19 vaccine:1. Brazil is likely to have a vaccine, approved and ready for use, by June 2021, Antonio Barra Torres, the head of the country’s health regulator, Anvisa, has said. Torres said while Anvisa has not decided on the minimum efficacy required to approve a vaccine, in the past, the regulator has approved vaccines with less than 50% effectiveness. Brazil has the third-highest number of cases globally.Read: What you need to know today about Covid-19 today(2.) Russia, which claims to have developed the world’s first registered Covid-19 vaccine--the Sputnik V--has temporarily paused vaccinating new volunteers in its vaccine trial due to high demand for doses amid a shortage. Some clinics in the Russian capital of Moscow said they had run out specifically of the first component of the two-dose jab (the second component is injected 21 days after the first). However, the director of the institute developing the vaccine said the decision was “due to a new focus on giving those already vaccinated a second dose.”Read: India trials for Russia’s ‘Sputnik-V’ vaccine could start in next few weeks(3.) American biotechnology firm Moderna Inc said on Thursday it is on track to report early data from a late-stage trial of its Covid-19 vaccine, next month. The company is conducting trials on 30,000 persons adding that in November, an independent data monitoring committee is expected to conduct an interim review of its trials. Moderna is developing a vaccine called mRNA and says it expects to produce 20 million doses by 2021-end.(4.) EU leaders on Thursday agreed to ‘fairly distribute’ among member countries, a vaccine against the disease, as and when one becomes available. “We very much agreed, it was repeated around the video conference table, to guarantee a fair distribution between member states,” Charles Michel, the president of the European Council, said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-brazil-expects-vaccine-by-june-2021-russia-temporarily-pauses-trials/story-DTGt4mTnQha3ekELv3bTnI.html
30-10-2020||World||Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine trial slows as demand for doses soar amid shortage||Russia has temporarily paused the vaccination of new volunteers in its Covid-19 vaccine trial, staff at eight of 25 trial clinics said, with some citing high demand and a shortage of doses.However, the vaccine’s developer said the uptake of new participants had only slowed.At eight of the 25 Moscow clinics hosting the trial and inoculating volunteers, staff told Reuters the vaccination of new participants was temporarily on hold, and several said they had used up the doses allocated to their clinics, referencing a large influx of volunteers.At three of the Moscow clinics running the trial, staff said they had run out specifically of the first component of the two-dose jab. The second component is injected 21 days after the first.“Vaccination is temporarily suspended. We are only injecting the second component,” a staff member at Moscow Clinic #109 told Reuters, adding the first component ran out around a week ago.The director of the Gamaleya Institute, which developed and is manufacturing the vaccine, said the decision to slow the uptake of new volunteers was due to a new focus on giving those already vaccinated a second dose, the RIA news agency reported.“Everything is on track. It’s simply that the gap between (the number of people inoculated with) the first and second dose is quite significant,” Alexander Gintsburg was cited by RIA as saying. He said the total number of daily inoculations had not changed, the Interfax news agency reported.‘COLOSSAL DEMAND’Gintsburg said 20,000 volunteers had received the first shot so far and 9,000 the second. The need to now reduce the number of people receiving the first component was due to the capacity of the clinics hosting the trial.“It’s related to the fact that there’s colossal demand for the vaccine and they are not producing enough to keep up,” said a representative of Crocus Medical, the contract research organisation helping oversee the trial in Moscow together with Russia’s health ministry. The person did not give his name.According to provisional information, vaccinations will restart by around Nov 10, he said. A re-start of first dose vaccinations around this time was also mentioned at two of the eight clinics contacted by Reuters.“Try again next week!” prospective volunteers were told at a vaccination trial centre in Moscow’s Chertanovo district, a Reuters reporter heard staff announce on Tuesday.Crocus Medical’s director Alexei Butylin denied that the trial had been paused. “The trial continues, and there are enough supplies of vaccine.”Russian officials and vaccine developers have previously flagged challenges in ramping up output of the vaccine, known as Sputnik V, and initial estimates of 30 million doses to be produced by year-end were revised down earlier this month by the industry minister to just over 2 million doses.Earlier on Thursday, President Vladimir Putin said Russia was facing challenges scaling up production of the vaccine due to problems with equipment availability, but hoped to start mass vaccinations by the end of the year.Alexei Kuznetsov, aide to Russia’s health minister, said the human trial of the vaccine was continuing. “The target of 40,000 vaccinated volunteers will be met,” he said.The Gamaleya Institute is gradually joining forces with private Russian pharmaceutical firms, which are gearing up to mass produce the shot at their plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-trial-slows-as-demand-for-doses-soar-amid-shortage/story-nHTbY4MXTdGHwPOsvHmfLI.html
30-10-2020||World||Britain resists Covid-19 lockdown as Europe counts cost||Europe began counting the cost of sweeping restrictions on social life imposed to contain a surge in coronavirus infections while Britain continued to hold out against following Germany and France in ordering a second lockdown.As the pandemic raced ahead across the continent, Europe has moved back to being an epicentre of the global pandemic, facing the prospect of a prolonged economic slump alongside a public health crisis which has so far seen more than 44 million infections and 1.1 million deaths worldwide.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know today“The total number of confirmed cases has moved from 7 to 9 million in just 14 days, and, today, Europe exceeded the 10-million-case milestone,” Hans Kluge, regional director for Europe at the World Health Organization (WHO), told an emergency meeting of European health ministers on Thursday.Deaths from Covid-19 rose by 32% across the region last week, he said.But modeling shows that systematic wearing of masks - at a rate of 95% - may save up to 266,000 lives by Feb. 1 across WHO’s 53 European member states, Kluge said.France and Germany have imposed controls almost as strict as the lockdowns of the first phase of the crisis in March and April, shutting bars and restaurants and restricting movement, while allowing schools and most businesses to remain open.But Britain, the country with the largest number of coronavirus deaths in Europe, said it would stick with a system of local lockdowns despite a new study which showed cases in England doubling every nine days.“The judgement of the government today is that a blanket national lockdown is not appropriate, would do more harm than good,” Housing Minister Robert Jenrick told Times Radio.Germany has set aside some 10 billion euros ($11.82 billion) to help small businesses hit by the new measures but Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said the country was not experiencing an industrial collapse as it did in the initial phase of the pandemic.Also Read: EU leaders seek common ground on Covid-19 tests as virus spreads“(The economy) is so strong that we can avoid sliding into a long period of recession,” he said. He added output would not return to pre-pandemic levels until at least 2022, however.Separately, Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau said the drop in gross domestic product (GDP) expected at the end of the year should be less severe than in first half of the year after the initial lockdown.Financial markets steadied somewhat on Thursday following a brutal selloff a day before as the latest restrictions snuffed out faint signs of recovery seen over the summer and pointed to further economic pain at the end of the year.The European Central Bank, which has been propping up the economy through its 1.35 trillion euro ($1.60 trillion) Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme, said it was ready to offer additional support.Governments have been desperate to avoid a repeat of the spring lockdowns but have been forced to move by the speed of new infections and a steadily increasing mortality rate across the continent as winter approaches.Even the well-equipped health systems of countries like France, Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland have been pushed close to their limits by the exponential surge in cases recorded this month.On Thursday, Sweden, which alone among European countries never imposed a lockdown, reported its third record increase in cases in a matter of days.“We’re beginning to approach the ceiling for what the healthcare system can handle,” Chief Epidemiologist Anders Tegnell told a news conference, calling for a joint effort to curb the spread of the virus.‘WINTER WILL BE HARD’German Chancellor Angela Merkel said her government had moved quickly to prevent intensive care facilities being overwhelmed and called for a joint effort to face the crisis.“We are in a dramatic situation at the start of the cold season. It affects us all, without exception,” Merkel told the Bundestag lower house of parliament, adding new restrictions to reduce social contact were “necessary and proportionate”.Also Read: UK rejects ‘Britain First’ trade policy, taking swipes at US and EUWarning of difficult months ahead, she said: “The winter will be hard.”While Paris and Berlin hope month-long lockdowns will be enough to slow the spread of the disease, there was little certainty about whether they would be enough for a return to even near-normality.“We want to do everything so that French people can be with their families and their friends for the festivities at the end of the year,” French Health Minister Olivier Veran said. “Will it be the same? Possibly not.”While the latest restrictions have put a spotlight on Europe, the United States has also seen a surge in new coronavirus cases in the run-up to next week’s presidential election, with more than 80,000 new cases and 1,000 deaths reported on Wednesday.“We are on a very difficult trajectory. We’re going in the wrong direction,” said Dr. Anthony Fauci, task force member and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.By contrast, many Asian countries have begun to relax controls as the disease has been brought under control, with Singapore announcing it would ease restrictions for visitors from mainland China and the Australian state of Victoria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-resists-covid-19-lockdown-as-europe-counts-cost/story-Q20xij5OL2Z8zAs4juYlEK.html
30-10-2020||World||Brazil will have a Covid-19 vaccine by June 2021, says regulator||Brazil expects to have a vaccine against Covid-19 approved and ready for use in a national inoculation program by June, the head of the country’s health regulator Anvisa, Antonio Barra Torres, said on Thursday.With the world’s worst outbreak of coronavirus after the United States and India, Brazil has become a key testing ground and has approved late stage clinical trials for four vaccines that are under development.Torres told Reuters that Anvisa has not decided on the minimum efficacy to require but he said the agency has approved vaccines in the past with less than 50% effectiveness.Health authorities in Europe are debating whether to accept a so-called efficacy rate of less than 50% to be able to deliver a vaccine sooner, the Wall Street Journal reported this week.Sandra Gallina, Director General for Health and Food Safety at the European Commission told EU lawmakers in a hearing that the article was speculation, but then added that it’s not rare to have vaccines that only work with 50% efficacy.Last week, Brazil’s right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro disavowed a decision by his health minister to buy 46 million doses of a vaccine from China’s Sinovac Biotech called CoronaVac, saying “We will not buy a Chinese vaccine.”But Torres said Anvisa could register more than one of the four candidates now being tested in Brazil - from Oxford University/AstraZeneca, China’s Sinovac Biotech, Pfizer Inc in partnership with BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson’s pharmaceutical subsidiary Janssen - irrespective of their country of origin.“The origin of the vaccine has no bearing for us, there is no prejudice,” he said.Two days after Bolsonaro’s comments, Anvisa authorized Sao Paulo’s Butantan Institute to import 6 million doses of CoronaVac and on Wednesday further authorized the biomedical center to import the raw ingredients to make another 40 million doses in Brazil.Russia has agreed to supply its Sputnik V vaccine to the Brazilian states of Parana and Bahia, but it must first be tested and approved by Anvisa. Torres said that, to date, the agency had received no data or request for approval of Sputnik V trial protocols.Torres said the Butantan Institute and the federal FioCruz biomedical center in Rio de Janeiro have the capacity to produce millions of doses of vaccines for Brazil and probably for other Latin American nations.Anvisa is in talks with some Latin American countries about them accepting its registration of vaccines that will be made in Brazil, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-will-have-a-covid-19-vaccine-by-june-2021-says-regulator/story-yrYA9d7lGPTsqH2SkOcGcP.html
30-10-2020||World||Citing ‘civil unrest’, Walmart removes guns on display at US stores||Walmart says it has removed ammunition and firearms from displays at its US stores, citing “civil unrest” in some areas.The nation’s largest retailer, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, sells firearms in about half of its 4,700 stores.“We have seen some isolated civil unrest and as we have done on several occasions over the last few years, we have moved our firearms and ammunition off the sales floor as a precaution for the safety of our associates and customers,” Walmart said in a statement emailed to The Associated Press on Thursday.The discounter said the items remain available for purchase by customers.The move comes after several days of protests, widespread vandalism and an overnight curfew in Philadelphia before Election Day after police fatally shot a Black man with a history of mental health problems.Walmart made a a similar move in the wake of the police killing of George Floyd that set off sometimes violent demonstrations against police brutality and injustice against African Americans.Last year, Walmart stopped selling handgun and short-barrel rifle ammunition while requesting that customers not openly carry firearms in its stores, even where state laws allow it. The company also ended the sale of handguns in Alaska, the only state where the discounter sold them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/walmart-removes-guns-ammunition-on-display-at-us-stores/story-0g2U2HfueWAscLtfKJ9NBL.html
30-10-2020||World||In battleground Florida, Donald Trump and Joe Biden offer contrasting messages on Covid-19||President Donald Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden rallied supporters on Thursday in the closely fought state of Florida, highlighting their contrasting approaches to the resurgent coronavirus pandemic as the clock ticks down to Election Day. Opinion polls show Biden with a significant edge nationally, but with a tighter lead in the battleground states that play a decisive role in the final result. A Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Wednesday showed Trump had essentially moved into a tie with Biden in Florida, with 49% saying they would vote for Biden and 47% for the president.With its 29 electoral votes, the state is a major prize in Tuesday’s election. Trump’s victory in Florida in 2016 was vital to his surprise election win.Thousands of people, many of them without masks, crowded together at an outdoor event in Tampa on Thursday to hear Trump mock his opponent, the former vice president.“Could you imagine losing to this guy? Could you imagine?” Trump said, adding he was confident of winning a second term.Hours later, Biden arrived in the same city to hold a “drive-in” rally, where attendees remained in or near their cars to avoid the possible spread of the virus, his second such event of the day in Florida. Supporters at the event wore masks, as required by Biden’s campaign, although they did not always maintain social distancing.Biden criticized Trump for holding what he termed a “super-spreader event” and attacked the president’s repeated assertion that the country had moved past the worst days of the pandemic, despite rising cases nationwide.“Donald Trump has waved the white flag, abandoned our families and surrendered to this virus,” Biden said. “But the American people never give up; we never give in.”SHADOW OF THE PANDEMIC The pandemic that has upended life across the United States, killed more than 227,000 people and caused millions of job losses, is roaring back.Trump has repeatedly dismissed the threat of the pandemic, saying this week his opponents and the news media would stop paying attention to it right after the election, even as leaders in Europe scramble to contain a second wave and public health experts predict a grim winter in the United States.Officials in Gastonia, North Carolina, warned people who attended an Oct. 21 Trump rally there that two people who took part tested positive for Covid-19.Trump’s own White House coronavirus task force is warning of a persistent and broad spread of COVID-19 in the western half of the United States, including in a number of states that will play an important role in the election.The Republican president hailed figures released on Thursday that showed the U.S. economy grew at an unrivaled annualized pace of 33% in the third quarter because of a huge federal pandemic relief program.“So glad this great GDP number came out before November 3rd,” Trump wrote in a tweet. It is doubtful, however, whether economic data this close to Election Day can influence the outcome. Biden can point out that U.S. output remains below its level in the fourth quarter of 2019, before the pandemic hit.Following his own bout with Covid-19, the president has had a hectic campaign schedule, holding as many as three rallies a day in different states, while Biden has taken a more measured tack, spending two days this week close to his home base of Delaware. A planned Trump rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina, for Thursday night was postponed because of a wind advisory stemming from Hurricane Zeta, Trump’s campaign said. The president plans to return to the Midwest on Friday, campaigning in Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. In all, he plans to visit 10 states in the last days of the campaign and will host 11 rallies in the final 48 hours, a campaign official said.Biden’s own Tampa speech was cut short by a sudden downpour. He is expected to travel to Wisconsin, Minnesota and Iowa on Friday.EARLY VOTING DELUGE More than 80 million Americans have already cast ballots in the presidential election, according to a tally on Thursday from the U.S. Elections Project at the University of Florida, setting the stage for the highest participation rate in over a century.That surge includes more than 51 million ballots cast by mail, a long-standing practice of American elections that is surging in popularity because of the pandemic. State officials and experts have warned that it may take days or even weeks to tally them as some states have rules that forbid counting early votes before Election Day.Florida is home to large Latino populations, with Cuban Americans in the south of Florida traditionally tending to favor Republicans, while newer communities of Puerto Ricans in central Florida lean toward the Democrats.Biden’s campaign tried on Thursday to dampen concerns among Democrats that Biden is not reaching Latino voters nationally as well as former President Barack Obama used to.“We are 100% on track to match or exceed the Obama Latino vote numbers in 2012,” Matt Barreto, co-founder of the polling and research firm Latino Decisions, said on a media conference call organized by the Biden campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-battleground-florida-donald-trump-and-joe-biden-offer-contrasting-messages-on-covid-19/story-yxN70wppy0b3dSi0eQJNyL.html
30-10-2020||World||US tops 90,000 coronavirus cases in 24 hours for first time||The United States notched a record number of new coronavirus cases on Thursday, topping the grim milestone of more than 90,000 diagnoses in 24 hours, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University. The country, which has seen a resurgence of its Covid-19 outbreak since mid-October, saw 91,295 new cases in the 24 hours up to 8:30 pm Thursday (0030 GMT Friday), according to a real-time count by the Baltimore-based school. The US has tallied 8.94 million cases of the novel coronavirus since the beginning of the pandemic, the most of any country in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-tops-90-000-coronavirus-cases-in-24-hours-for-first-time/story-hkRWE91QPkS6fnnHziVuXN.html
30-10-2020||World||Donald Trump fights headwinds as he and Joe Biden battle over Florida||Pressing against stiff headwinds from the pandemic, President Donald Trump steered toward what he hoped was safer political ground with the U.S. economy Thursday, as Democratic rival Joe Biden kept up his assault on Trump’s handling of the coronavirus.Campaigning hours apart in Florida, a state all but essential to the Republican’s pathway to another term, both candidates urged supporters to get to polling places in person, even as a tropical storm interrupted early voting in the Southeast.The shift to focusing on in-person voting next Tuesday — or sooner, where possible — comes as more than 80 million Americans have already cast their ballots, absentee or by mail. While the Election Day vote traditionally favors Republicans and early votes tend toward Democrats, the pandemic, which has killed more than 227,000 people in the United States, has injected new uncertainty.“You hold the power. If Florida goes blue, it’s over,” Biden told supporters Thursday.Trump on Thursday was celebrating a new federal estimate that the economy grew at a stunning 33.1% annual rate in the July-September quarter — by far the largest quarterly gain on record — making up ground from its epic plunge in the spring, when the eruption of the coronavirus closed businesses and threw tens of millions out of work.“So glad this great GDP number came out before November 3rd,” Trump tweeted, predicting a dire reversal if Biden is elected.But economists warned that the economy is already weakening again and facing renewed threats as confirmed viral cases surge, hiring has slowed and federal stimulus help has mostly run out.Biden said, “The recovery is slowing if not stalling, and the recovery that is happening is helping those at the top but leaving tens of millions of working families and small businesses behind.”The Democrat is framing his closing arguments to voters on what he describes as responsible management of the Covid-19 pandemic. Trump, instead, is arguing that Biden would undo the economic gains of his administration with stricter, virus-targeting public health controls — though those are largely what scientists are calling for.“The people are tired. They can’t do it anymore,” Trump said of lockdowns.Trump and Biden both visited the western end of the Florida’s Interstate 4 corridor, an area known for rapid residential growth, sprawling suburbs and its status as an ever-changing, hard-fought battleground during presidential elections.The president had been scheduled to hit another sunbelt battleground state, North Carolina, on Thursday evening but canceled his event in Fayetteville as Tropical Storm Zeta brought wind gusts reaching 50 mph to the area.On Friday, Trump is to visit three upper Midwest states, and he will hold a trio of rallies on Saturday in Pennsylvania before launching on a whirlwind tour of battlegrounds including Florida, Michigan, Georgia and Pennsylvania in the closing 48 hours of the race.Biden, meanwhile, heads later in the week to three more states Trump won in 2016: Iowa, Wisconsin and then Michigan, where he’ll hold a joint Saturday rally with former President Barack Obama. Biden’s campaign also announced he will visit Minnesota Friday, hours before Trump holds a rally in one of the few Clinton-voting states Trump is hoping to pick up this year.The pandemic’s consequences were escalating, with deaths climbing in 39 states and an average of 805 people dying daily nationwide — up from 714 two weeks ago. The sharp rise sent shockwaves through financial markets, causing the Dow Jones Industrial Average to drop 900-plus points on Wednesday.Trump, who frequently lauds rising markets, failed to mention the decline. Stock prices recovered somewhat on Thursday.Trump is betting on the GOP’s vast field and data operations, and efforts known as “poll flushing” — monitoring precinct lists for who has and has not yet voted — to provide a late boost on Election Day. The Republican National Committee, which has more than 3,000 field staff and claims more than 2.5 million volunteers, will use that information to reach out to Trump supporters to ensure they get to the polls.Nowhere may those efforts be more important than in Florida. Without the battleground state’s 29 electoral votes, Trump’s path to victory is exceptionally difficult.On Thursday, Trump was introduced in Tampa by first lady Melania Trump, who praised her husband’s presidency, saying “under Donald’s leadership, we have blocked out the noise and focused on you, the American people.”Trump is banking on local news coverage of his visit to overcome a substantial advertising deficit stemming from a late cash crunch. Biden and his allies are outspending Trump and his backers by more than 3-to-1 in Florida — about $23 million to about $7 million — in the final push to Election Day, according to data from ad tracking firm Kantar/CMAG.Biden, meanwhile, is pouring tens of millions of dollars into a torrent of online advertising that will deliver his closing message of the presidential campaign, highlighting his promise to govern for all Americans while blasting Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic.“I will work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do,” Biden says in one of the digital ads, which will take over the masthead of YouTube.com on Thursday. “That’s the job of a president — the duty to care for everyone.”How much exactly Biden will spend is unclear. His campaign says it is putting a “mid-eight figure” dollar amount behind over 100 different ads, which means they could be spending as little as $25 million — but potentially much more.The ads will run on social media platforms including Instagram and Facebook, streaming services such as Hulu and music applications like Pandora.The Republican National Committee, meanwhile, launched its closing message to voters Thursday, not mentioning Trump, in an apparent aim to help GOP candidates up and down the ballot with a focus on traditional Republican messages around lowering taxes and health care.In both Hillsborough County, which includes Tampa, and the adjacent Pinellas County, Democrats are crushing vote-by-mail. As of Wednesday morning, 53,000 more Democrats than Republicans had voted by mail in Hillsborough. In Pinellas, the largest of the four counties in the state to switch from Obama to Trump in 2016, that number was just shy of 30,000.Republicans in both counties have a slight edge in the state’s in-person early voting, which began last Saturday as Trump himself voted in Palm Beach County downstate.Because of concerns about submission deadlines, Postal Service backlogs and the potential for drawn-out legal challenges, Democrats are pressing their backers who have yet to return ballots to head to the polls in person.The aftereffects of Hurricane Zeta were holding back voters at a number of polling places in northern Florida and northern Georgia that lost power. In Douglas County, in Atlanta’s western suburbs, all six polling locations were without power, as were county offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-fights-headwinds-as-he-and-joe-biden-battle-over-florida/story-wqeTlx6Bk0MLIMOR3v6DSO.html
30-10-2020||World||Apple temporarily closes 17 out of 20 French stores amid fresh Covid-19 lockdown measures||Apple Inc will temporarily close 17 out of 20 stores in France starting Oct. 30, as the country goes into a fresh one-month lockdown amid resurgence of coronavirus cases, the company’s website showed.Apple’s Opéra store in Paris, Les Quatre Temps store in Puteaux and Rosny 2 store in Rosny-Sous-Bois, will remain open, the company’s website showed.The company’s 15 stores in Germany will remain open, according to its website.Apple did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/apple-temporarily-closes-17-out-of-20-french-stores-amid-fresh-covid-19-lockdown-measures/story-Eo8Jr31uEkfDiZzdSzQCGN.html
30-10-2020||World||After 20 years, no equality for women in peace talks: UN||The head of the U.N. agency promoting gender equality told the 20th anniversary commemoration of a resolution demanding equal participation for women in peace negotiations that its implementation has failed, declaring Thursday that women still remain “systematically excluded” from talks to end conflicts where men make decisions affecting their lives.Despite some good initiatives, UN Women’s Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka told the Security Council that in peace negotiations from 1992 to 2019 only 13 percent of negotiators, 6 percent of mediators, and 6 percent of signatories to peace agreements were women.Also Read: 25 years after UN women’s meeting, equality remains distantShe said negotiations elevated and empowered “the actors that have fueled the violence,” instead of empowering women and others who are peace-builders — and women were either confined to “informal processes or relegated to the role of spectators.”Germany’s Foreign Office Minister of State Michelle Muntefering called the U.N. resolution adopted on Oct. 31, 2000 “a little revolution” because a united Security Council made clear for the first time that women’s equal participation “is required to maintain world peace and security.” It also affirmed that gender equality is also about security and conflict prevention, and that sexual and gender-based violence in war is a crime that must be punished and abolished, she said.But Muntefering said: “20 years and nine hard-won Security Council resolutions later... women are still excluded from peace processes, their rights and interests continue to be ignored when building post-conflict societies.”She was blunt in pointing at who Is responsible: “As a global community, we have not lived up to our commitment.”Too often, the German minister said, sexual and gender-based violence in conflicts remains unpunished and “even worse, in the past years we have seen a global push-back on women’s rights.” And she expressed doubt that the principles in the resolution on women, peace and security adopted in 2000 would be approved today.“Let me be clear,” Muntefering said. “We have a joint responsibility to implement what we have agreed upon, And that is: without watering down any of the commitments we have signed up to.”Last year, the Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution urging all countries to implement the provisions of all previous resolutions on women, peace and security “by ensuring and promoting the full, equal and meaningful participation of women in all stages of peace processes.”This year, Russia which currently holds the council presidency, has called a vote on a draft resolution which some diplomats say weakens the previous resolutions, especially on issues of human rights and the participation of civil society organizations which have been key in promoting gender equality and participation.The diplomats spoke on condition of anonymity because email voting is taking place. The result is expected to be announced on Friday afternoon and it’s unclear whether Russia will get the minimum nine “yes” votes required for adoption.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres reiterated to the council that “gender equality is first and foremost a question of power, and wherever we look, power structures are dominated by men,” starting at the top where women lead only 7 percent of countries.Also Read: Indian outfit wins UN award for efforts to combat climate change amid Covid-19He said women remain largely excluded from delegations to peace talks and negotiations and said “we face serious obstacles” if they are not fairly represented, for example, “in the rooms where the future of Afghanistan is being discussed between the Taliban and the government, or in Mali, as it embarks on a political transition.”Afghan women’s rights advocate Zarqa Yaftali, who spoke on behalf of non-governmental organizations that work to put women at peace tables, said “the presence of four women on the government’s negotiation team is a positive development, but it is not enough.” The Taliban, who ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001 and refused to allow women to go to school, work outside the home or leave their house without a male escorts, do not have any women in their delegation.Yaftali urged the international community to insist that the parties, especially the Taliban, don’t “restrict women’s human rights, civil liberties or citizenship in any way.”“We are not the only ones demanding action,” Yaftali said, pointing to women caught in conflicts from Yemen and Syria to Congo and Sudan who see Afghanistan as “the true test” of the Security Council’s commitment to equality in peace negotiations, and “an indication of what they too can expect” in similar challenges in their own countries.Actress and playwright Danai Gurira, a UN Women goodwill ambassador, retold the stories of women affected by conflicts in Yemen, Syria, Libya, Somalia and South Sudan who previously addressed the council, saying she didn’t want members to forget their words about working for peace and pleas for women to be at top tables.Gurira, who was born in Iowa but grew up in Zimbabwe and has appeared in the “Black Panther” and “Avenger” movies, said one thing all those women have in common is their insistence that “equality between men and women in decision-making is the only way we will build peace.”“Male-dominated rooms in the 21st century should be embarrassing to us all,” Gurira told the council. “And just like (the women) keep showing up for peace, it is your turn to show up for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-20-years-no-equality-for-women-in-peace-talks-un/story-KTCezYOgowcWuqracHVwcN.html
30-10-2020||World||US GDP grows 33.1% in third quarter of 2020||The US economy grew by 33.1 per cent in the third-quarter of this year, indicating a revival of the economy from affects of the coronavirus pandemic. President Donald Trump, who is seeking re-election for a second four-year term, has welcomed the latest GDP estimates released by the US Department of Commerce on Thursday. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 33.1 per cent in the third quarter of 2020, according to the “advance” estimate released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the second quarter, real GDP decreased 31.4 per cent, an official release from the Department of Commerce read. Soon after the report was made public, Trump tweeted: “GDP number just announced. Biggest and Best in the History of our Country, and not even close. Next year will be FANTASTIC!!!” “However, Sleepy Joe Biden and his proposed record setting tax increase, would kill it all. So glad this great GDP number came out before November 3rd,” he said. Democratic presidential nominee and former vice president Joe Biden said the report underlined three truths about the present economy. “We are in a deep hole and President Trump’s failure to act has meant that Q3 growth wasn’t nearly enough to get us out; the recovery is slowing if not stalling; and the recovery that is happening is helping those at the top, but leaving tens of millions of working families and small businesses behind,” he said. “And with no plan to convene Congress to get a deal done to get economic relief to those who badly need it and his White House admitting they have given up on trying to get the virus under control, President Trump still has no plan to get our country through this crisis and move us forward,” Biden said. The Trump Campaign said the latest GDP report has proven the success of Trump’s America-first policies. “Joe Biden spent 47 years in Washington shipping factory jobs overseas and selling out to China. President Trump has defended American jobs and brought economic success back to our country,” the campaign said. “America’s hardworking men and women form the backbone of this country and, with President Trump, they will always have an ally in the White House. The Trump Campaign’s new advertisement “Backbone” highlights President Trump’s economic record of promises made, promises kept and will air on network cable and local broadcast across the country,” it said. The Department of Commerce said the increase in third quarter GDP reflected continued efforts to reopen businesses and resume activities that were postponed or restricted due to Covid-19. “The full economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be quantified in the GDP estimate for the third quarter of 2020 because the impacts are generally embedded in source data and cannot be separately identified,” it said. According to the Department of Commerce, the increase in real GDP reflected increases in personal consumption expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, exports, nonresidential fixed investment, and residential fixed investment that were partly offset by decreases in federal government spending (reflecting fewer fees paid to administer the paycheck protection programme loans) and state and local government spending. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased. Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said that the GDP report provides some good news and some bad news. “The good news is that the assistance provided in the CARES Act, secured by Senate Democrats, accounts for a large percentage of the GDP growth in the third quarter, helped stabilise our economy and has begun to propel our nation’s recovery,” he said. The CARES Act provides fast and direct economic assistance for American workers and families, small businesses, and preserves jobs for American industries. “The bad news is, President Trump and Senate Republicans have stymied what could have been a much more robust recovery by allowing much of the assistance in the CARES Act to expire and by refusing to provide additional support to millions of American families. Had Republicans joined us in supporting a second robust and bold relief package, the second half of 2020’s recovery would be much stronger than it is anticipated to be,” Schumer added. “Everyday Americans are still hurting and even with third quarter GDP growth as reported today, we’ve lost USD 600 billion of economic output and our economy will still be down more than 3.5 per cent from where we were at the end of 2019,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-gdp-grows-33-1-in-third-quarter-of-2020/story-12Z0qzq7QLN7NO88NvkXZK.html
30-10-2020||World||China confirms details of new tech improved PLA living conditions at border||China has made high-tech arrangements for People’s Liberation Army (PLA) frontline soldiers posted at high altitudes to promote the troops’ preparation for war, the defence ministry said on Thursday.Defence ministry spokesperson Colonel Wu Qian shared details about the new logistical arrangements for PLA border troops without naming India but the message is clear as it comes in the backdrop of the months-long border conflict with India in eastern Ladakh.The details shared by the military officer also indicated that the Communist Party of China (CPC)-headed government is looking at a long haul in border areas.Wu was responding to a question at the monthly but restricted defence ministry briefing on Chinese media reports, which said that the PLA was using high-tech means to improve the training and living conditions of officers and men deployed for frontier defence at high altitudes.“Recently, the Logistics Support Department of the Central Military Commission (China’s highest military body headed by President Xi Jinping) and other relevant departments have innovated and applied high-tech means to improve the training and living conditions of officers and men in the plateau and alpine climate,” Wu said.Wu added that for soldiers’ accommodation, a new type of self-powered heat preserving shelter has been distributed among the troops, which can be built by officers and men and is self-sufficient in energy.“In areas with an outdoor temperature of -40 degrees centigrade and an altitude of over 5,000 metres, the indoor temperature can be guaranteed to be higher than 15 degrees centigrade,” Wu said.“Moreover, the newly-developed outfits (for soldiers), such as new individual sleeping bags, down training coats and cold-proof boots, are characterised by cold prevention and heat retention, portability and higher comfortableness, which have been specifically designed for alpine cold areas,” the military spokesperson said.Wu added that the new thermal insulation devices for food storage and new-type outdoor instant foods for alpine cold areas are under trial.“In addition, a batch of new-type insulated vegetable cellars with moisture-proof, anti-freeze, and fresh-keeping functions have been built and put into use. The UAVs are also being used to deliver fresh fruits and vegetables to duty posts to overcome the inconvenience in materials replenishment,” Wu added.“The logistic support capabilities are directly connected with the combat effectiveness. The application of high-tech means will facilitate the construction of logistic support capacity and promote the troops’ war preparation work,” Wu said.Separately, the PLA’s official website reported that its frontline troops have been equipped with a number of new-type border patrol outfits recently.“The upgrading of outfits reflects the improvement of the PLA’s comprehensive and precise logistics support capabilities,” the report said.The new outfits comprise 15 categories including cold-proof hood, cold-proof training clothes, lightweight cold-proof training coat, quick-dry underwear, fleece underwear, down coat and pants, down vest, cold-proof gloves, cold-proof socks, training cap, anti-glare glasses, camouflage windbreaker, training underwear, leg wrappings and multi-function insulated water bottle.“Through matching varieties, this series of outfits could provide solutions to the real combat needs under different environment conditions, from alpine cold areas on plateau, to high humidity and high temperature areas, or to areas with large temperature difference spans,” the PLA website report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-confirms-details-of-new-tech-improved-pla-living-conditions-at-border/story-LV3QH1oSt6lHoavduNUvwO.html
30-10-2020||World||Record-breaking early voting in US election tops 80 million||More than 80 million Americans have cast ballots in the US presidential election, according to a tally on Thursday from the US Elections Project at the University of Florida, setting the stage for the highest participation rate in over a century.The record-breaking pace, more than 58% of total 2016 turnout, reflects intense interest in the vote, in which incumbent Donald Trump, a Republican, is up against Democratic nominee Joe Biden, a former vice president.Huge numbers of people have voted by mail or at early in-person polling sites amid concerns the coronavirus could spread at busy Election Day voting places.Trump trails Biden in national opinion polls as most voters say they disapprove of the Trump administration’s handling of Covid-19, which has killed more than 227,000 people in the United States, with case numbers once again breaking daily records as Election Day nears on Tuesday.Democrats hold a significant advantage in early voting due to their embrace of mail balloting, which Republicans have historically cast in large numbers but have shunned amid repeated and unfounded attacks by Trump, who says the system is prone to widespread fraud.Experts have predicted turnout will easily surpass the 138 million who voted in the 2016 presidential election that Trump won. Only 47 million votes came before Election Day in 2016.In 20 states that report party registration data, 18.2 million registered Democrats have already voted, compared with 11.5 million Republicans and 8.8 million with no party affiliation. The data does not show for whom the votes were cast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/update-1-record-breaking-early-voting-in-u-s-election-tops-80-million/story-75JMmDQPHSTpVaODgdty0H.html
30-10-2020||World||Muslims have right to kill French: Malaysia’s former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad||Amid outpouring of solidarity for France in the wake of the Nice attack, Malaysia’s former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad has defended Muslims’ “right to kill millions of French people”.His blog post on Thursday, titled Respect Others, did not mention the Nice attack, but started with reference to the killing of Samuel Paty, the French teacher who was recently beheaded by an 18-year-old Chechen radical. “Muslims have a right to be angry and to kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past. But by and large the Muslims have not applied the ‘eye for an eye’ law. Muslims don’t. The French shouldn’t. Instead the French should teach their people to respect other people’s feelings.” He accused French President Emmanuel Macron of not being civilised and “primitive”. “It is not in keeping with the teachings of Islam. But irrespective of the religion professed, angry people kill. The French in the course of their history has killed millions of people. Many were Muslims,” he wrote.“Since you have blamed all Muslims and the Muslims’ religion for what was done by one angry person, the Muslims have a right to punish the French,” he said, addressing Macron. “The boycott cannot compensate the wrongs committed by the French all these years,” he added, referring to the call in some Muslim countries to boycott French products. Pope Francis prayed for the victims of Thursday’s attack in Nice, as the Vatican said terrorism and violence can never be accepted. “Today’s attack has sown death in a place of love and consolation. The Pope is aware of the situation and is close to the mourning Catholic community,” Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said. Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany stood with France. “I am deeply shaken by the brutal murders in the church in Nice. My thoughts are with the relatives of those murdered and injured. Germany stands with France at this difficult time.”Russian President Vladimir Putin extended his condolences to Macron and families of the victims. He called the attack “a cynical and a cruel crime inside a church” and said “the notions of human morals are absolutely alien to terrorists”. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte condemned the “vile attack” , saying it “will not shake the common front defending the values of freedom and peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/muslims-have-right-to-kill-french-malaysia-s-former-prime-minister-mahathir-mohamad/story-9ooO3miSWhPum6pHVlViVO.html
30-10-2020||World||First US Covid-19 vaccines could ship late December or early January: Anthony Fauci||If all goes well, the first doses of a safe and effective coronavirus vaccine will likely become available to some high-risk Americans in late December or early January, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious diseases expert, said on Thursday.Based on current projections from vaccine front-runners Moderna Inc and Pfizer Inc, Americans will likely know “sometime in December whether or not we have a safe and effective vaccine,” Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said in a live chat on Twitter and Facebook.“The first interim look (at trial results) should be, we hope, within the next few weeks,” he said.Both companies started the final stage of clinical testing in late July with tens of thousands of people taking part in each trial.Moderna earlier on Thursday said it was on track to deliver interim data from its large, late-stage trial next month.Pfizer, which was expected to announce interim data in October, is now unlikely to release data before November, probably after the Nov 3. US presidential election.The data will then need to be reviewed by the US Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which will make recommendations on who gets the first doses if the trials prove successful.Practically speaking, Fauci said, the first vaccine doses would likely be deployed to individuals deemed most in need “by the end of December or the beginning of January.”Fauci’s comments were part of a conversation with Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, who took questions from listeners.Even with an effective vaccine to protect against the virus, Fauci said it will take time to get back to something approaching normal as vaccine-induced immunity builds both nationally and globally. He said life will likely not get back to normal “until the end of 2021 at least.”In the interim, Collins urged Americans to be prepared to continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing.“I know Americans are tired of these measures. Tired of wearing masks. Tired of not being able to congregate together,” Collins said. “But we’ve got a long road yet to go.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-us-covid-19-vaccines-could-ship-late-december-or-early-january-anthony-fauci/story-1468AiHalpKKjnBv7ATdhN.html
30-10-2020||World||‘Hateful terror attack’:World leaders condemn deadly stabbings in France||World leaders condemned fatal stabbings Thursday in the French city of Nice that France called an Islamist terrorist attack.Condemnation came from US President Donald Trump, UN chief Antonio Guterres, as well as European, Arab and Israeli leaders.“Our hearts are with the people of France. America stands with our oldest Ally in this fight,” Trump tweeted. “These Radical Islamic terrorist attacks must stop immediately. No country, France or otherwise can long put up with it!”One of the first to condemn was Turkey, embroiled in a row with France for its permitting publication of cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed that have triggered a wave of attacks against French people.“We strongly condemn the attack committed today inside the Notre-Dame church in Nice,” a Turkish foreign ministry statement said.It expressed solidarity with France, and offered condolences to relatives of the three people killed in the attack.‘Hateful terror attack’“We strongly condemn the attack committed today inside the Notre-Dame church in Nice,” a Turkish foreign ministry statement said.It expressed solidarity with France, and offered condolences to relatives of the three people killed in the attack.Elsewhere in the Middle East, Arab and Islamic leaders drew a clear distinction between their religion and violent acts that claimed to defend it.Al Azhar university’s grand mufti Ahmed al-Tayeb denounced the murders as a “hateful terror act”.“There is nothing that justifies these heinous terror acts which are contrary to Islam’s teachings,” Tayeb said.Egypt’s foreign ministry said it “stands as a government and people with... France in combatting this hateful incident”.Qatar voiced strong condemnation and reiterated its rejection of violence and terrorism, especially against places of worship and regardless of the motivesThe foreign ministry also expressed condolences to the victim’s families.Lebanese prime minister designate Saad Hariri voiced his “strongest condemnation and disapproval of the heinous criminal attack,” and urged Muslims “to reject this criminal act that has nothing to do with Islam or the Prophet”.EU solidarity European Union leaders quickly expressed solidarity with France, and pledged to confront “those that seek to incite and spread hatred”. “I condemn the odious and brutal attack that has just taken place in Nice and I am with France with all my heart,” European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen tweeted.“We will remain united and determined in the face of barbarity and fanaticism.”German Chancellor Angela Merkel was “deeply shaken by the brutal murders” and said “my thoughts are with the relatives of those murdered and injured. Germany stands with France at this difficult time.”‘Vile attack’ Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte condemned a “cowardly attack” and said: “Our convictions are stronger than fanaticism, hatred and terror. We embrace the families of the victims and our French brothers. We are united!”Spanish counterpart Pedro Sanchez added: “We continue to defend freedom, our democratic values, peace and the security of our citizens.”Harder tone from Hungary A harder tone came from Hungary, where populist Prime Minister Viktor Orban wrote that the attack showed clearly “that our culture, our way of life and our European values are in the cross hairs of extremist terrorism.“We are ready to join forces in order to protect traditional European values and the traditional European way of life,” Orban added.Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who previously governed with far-right ministers, called the murders in Nice “a despicable Islamist terror attack.“France has our full solidarity. We will defend our values and European ‘way of life’ with all our might against Islamists and political Islam,” Kurz said. India, UK ‘stand with France’ Indian premier Narendra Modi strongly condemned the “heinous attack in Nice” and added that his country also “stands with France in the fight against terrorism.”British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was “appalled” at the “barbaric attack at the Notre-Dame Basilica,” he tweeted in English and French. “Our thoughts are with the victims and their families, and the UK stands steadfastly with France against terror and intolerance.”‘Sowing death’Pope Francis prayed for the victims as the Vatican said that “terrorism and violence can never be accepted.“Today’s attack has sown death in a place of love and consolation,” Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said.The pontiff urged people in France, a multi-cultural society, to “unite to combat evil with good”.During talks with the Italian foreign minister, Israeli President Reuven Rivlin warned: “The attempt to foment war between religious is inconceivable.“There is no war between Christianity and Islam, or between Judaism and Islam and we must be sure that no one is allowed to make that happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hateful-terror-attack-world-leaders-condemn-deadly-stabbings-in-france/story-5i03UqvA4JLGvcMrpV5i2I.html
30-10-2020||World||Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panic||A Pakistani politician and the country’s military on Thursday tried to control damage caused by his remarks in parliament that Indian Air Force Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman had been released last year by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government after it panicked.PML-N leader and former speaker of Pakistan’s parliament Sardar Ayaz Sadiq set a cat among the pigeons on Wednesday when he alleged that Abhinandan was released after a meeting of its leaders during which the foreign minister’s “legs were shaking”.He said the decision to release Abhinandan had already been taken ahead of the meeting by the Pakistan PM with top political leaders.“One thing is clear: Abhinandan did not come to Pakistan to distribute sweets; he had attacked Pakistan,” Sadiq said and questioned Khan’s motives behind delaying a meeting between top leadership to discuss the pilot’s fate. Also Watch | Pakistan minister brags about role Imran govt’s role in Pulwama attack“The prime minister, through foreign minister [Shah Mahmood Qureshi], had said that Abhinandan should be handed over to India immediately,” Sadiq said, adding “Was he taking dictation from [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi?” Sadiq alleged that the meeting was an eyewash and that Imran Khan had panicked. On Thursday, Sadiq tried damage control, saying the Indian media had distorted his comments from the floor of the National Assembly where he had said that the Pakistan government took the decision to release the Indian Air Force (IAF) wing commander under pressure.But the damage had been done. In response to Sadiq’s earlier statement, minister for science Fawad Chaudhry said Ayaz Sadiq had “lied confidently” over the Abhinandan incident.The Pakistan Army has also waded into the controversy. In a hurriedly called press conference on Thursday, director general of Inter-Services Public Relations Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar said the decision to release Abhinandan was “the mature response of a responsible state.”“Yesterday such a statement was given in which attempts were made to twist the facts [regarding Abhinandan’s release],” Gen Babar said.In the backdrop of these events, Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar said his briefing would be on a “single-point agenda” — to set the record straight on the entire episode.He said that after the Pulwama terror attack, India “violated all international principles and attacked Pakistan” on February 26.“They not only faced defeat but humiliation all over the world,” he claimed.He said that in response, on February 27, the Pakistan Army, sought to “teach the enemy a lesson”.Babar said that the enemy was in such a panicked state that it shot down its own helicopter.“I wish to set the history straight once more. Pakistan first demonstrated it capability and resolve. The decision was then made keeping all war options in mind and from a position of strength,” Maj Gen Iftikhar Babar said.In his remarks at the National Assembly on Wednesday, Sadig had said: “I remember Shah Mahmood Qureshi was in that meeting which the prime minister refused to attend and the chief of army staff joined us – his [Qureshi’s] legs were shaking and there was sweat on his brow.” “And Shah Mahmood Qureshi told us, ‘For God’s sake let this man [Abhinandan] go back because at 9pm on that night, India will carry out an attack on Pakistan’,” he said, speaking in Urdu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-military-on-damage-control-after-mp-says-iaf-pilot-was-released-out-of-panic/story-yV9k9wUprFnH44uxKn5gHO.html
