31-10-2020||World||Pakistan sees red after PM Modi’s remarks on Pulwama terror attack||Pakistan on Saturday rejected what it called Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “insinuation” of its involvement in the Pulwama attack by alluding to remarks made by a Pakistani minister in that country’s parliament.The statement from its foreign ministry was in reaction to Modi’s remarks that the truth behind the 2019 attack has been revealed after claims made in Pakistan’s National Assembly.“After the neighbouring country accepted responsibility for the attack in its parliament, the true nature of the people who resorted to ugly politics during our difficult time has been uncovered. I request them not to do such politics in the interest of the nation,” Modi said on Saturday during a two-day visit to Gujarat, in remarks aimed at the opposition.On February 14 last year, 40 troopers were killed in a suicide attack on a convoy of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) by a member of the Pakistan-based terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammed.Pakistan’s science and technology minister Fawad Chaudhry on Thursday said in the National Assembly that his country had entered India and beaten it on its own soil. “Hum ne Hindustan ko ghuss ke mara hai (We have entered and attacked India),” Chaudhry had said.But on Saturday, the Pakistan foreign office said Modi’s remarks “is a brazen attempt to twist the remarks of the federal minister, who was referring to the befitting response given by the Pakistan Armed Forces in broad day light to India’s ill-conceived misadventure of 26 February 2019, in violation of the UN Charter and international law.”It said, “It is the BJP leadership’s incurable obsession with Pakistan that impels them to invariably blame Pakistan for their own failings and shortcomings.”“Most notably, it has been a part and parcel of the BJP’s electoral strategy to raise the Pakistan ‘bogey’ in the attempt to galvanise voters’ support, while seeking to divert public attention from their domestic and foreign policy failures.”“Pakistan firmly believes that the biggest beneficiary of the February 2019 Pulwama attack was the BJP government, as it resulted in BJP’s landslide victory in Lok Sabha elections following their virulent anti-Pakistan electoral campaign,” it said. “On the other hand, to this day, India has failed to provide any credible evidence of Pakistan’s alleged involvement in the Pulwama attack.”“The BJP regime is advised, once again, to stop dragging Pakistan into India’s domestic politics, especially at the time of elections in India,” it said. “Instead of mobilising the electorate through stoking of anti-Pakistan sentiments, the BJP leadership would be well-advised to win voter support by demonstrating actual performance in meeting the expectations of the Indian people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-sees-red-at-pm-modi-s-remarks-on-pulwama-terror-attack/story-7QA7eoVJzJvlLbUni8mbSL.html
31-10-2020||World||Orthodox priest injured in French shooting, assailant flees: French Police||An orthodox priest has been injured in a shooting in the French city of Lyon and the assailant has fled, a source said on Saturday.The priest was fired on twice at around 4pm local time as he was closing the church, and was being treated on site for life-threatening injuries, the source said.French Police source confirms a priest has been seriously wounded in a gun attack in French city of Lyon, assailant is on the runFrench Interior Ministry there is a serious incident underway in the city of Lyon, security forces are on site||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/orthodox-priest-injured-in-french-shooting-assailant-has-fled-french-police/story-kW7DcdIqaHSROyuOH8Hb0K.html
31-10-2020||World||France church attack: Assailant’s family seeks answers||A third suspect is in French custody Saturday in connection with an Islamic extremist knife attack that killed three people in a Nice church, as the distraught family of the suspected Tunisian assailant asked to see video footage of what happened.Investigators in France, Tunisia, and Italy are trying to determine the motive of chief suspect Ibrahim Issaoui, and whether he acted alone and whether he premeditated Thursday’s attack on the Notre Dame Basilica.Authorities have labeled the attack, which took place amid growing tensions around cartoons published by a French newspaper mocking the Prophet Muhammad, an act of Islamist terrorism.Issaoui, who transited through Italy last month en route to France, is in critical condition in a French hospital after being wounded by police as they arrested him.A 35-year-old man who had met with Issaoui in Nice was arrested overnight, a judicial official said Saturday. A 47-year-old man who had met with Issaoui the night before the attack was already in custody, bringing the number of detained suspects to three. Their connection to the attack remains unclear.A previously unknown Tunisian extremist group claimed responsibility for the attack, and Tunisian and French authorities are investigating whether the claim is legitimate.In Issaoui’s hometown of Sfax, his family expressed shock and appealed for peace. But they also expressed bewilderment that this young man who drank alcohol and showed no outward signs of radicalism would flee to France and attack a church.“We want the truth about how my son carried out this terrorist attack. I want to see what the surveillance cameras showed. I will not give up my son’s rights outside the country. I want my son, dead or alive,” his mother Gamra told The Associated Press(AP), her words often interrupted by tears.His father and brother Wissem said that if Issaoui indeed carried out the attack, he should face justice.“We are Muslims, we are against terrorism, we are poor. Show me that my brother committed the attack and judge him as a terrorist,” Wissem said. “If he was the attacker, he will take his responsibility.”On the dusty Tina Street, amid low-rise homes in the working class Nasr neighborhood of Sfax, friends and neighbors said Issaoui sold gasoline for motorcycles and while not starving or homeless, he was poor like many in the area. That poverty is driving more and more young Tunisians to seek jobs and opportunity in Europe this year.He had small-time run-ins with the law as a teen, but nothing that alerted Tunisian authorities to possible extremist leanings.That meant that when he was served an expulsion order from Italy, he could go where he pleased.Italy’s interior minister, Luciana Lamorgese, told the AP that Italy’s overburdened repatriation centres had no place for him.“Obviously, we give precedence to people who are signalled by law enforcement or by Tunisian authorities,’’ Lamorgese said. “The number of spots are not infinite, and he could not therefore be placed inside a repatriation centre.’’A friend believed to have hosted Issaoui in Alcamo in western Sicily for a couple of weeks told police that Issaoui found work in the area for some days picking olives, then abruptly departed, Italian newspaper La Republicca reported Saturday. Police also searched the friend’s home, Italian media reports said.Meanwhile, anger at France remains high among many Muslims abroad over France’s defence of the prophet cartoons and President Emmanuel Macron’s pledges to crack down on Islamist fundamentalists.Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been at odds with Macron on several fronts lately, said Saturday: “All kinds of insults towards our prophet target all Muslims.”Indonesian President Joko Widodo, the leader of the world’s most populous Muslim nation, on Saturday strongly condemned terrorist attacks in France as well as comments by Macron seen as offensive toward Islam.The French Embassy in Jakarta issued a statement seeking to calm spirits, saying “there was no intention at all to generalize” and that Macron “clearly distinguished between the majority of French Muslims and the militant, separatist minority that is hostile to the values of the French Republic.”Macron himself gave an interview to broadcast network Al-Jazeera scheduled to air Saturday, and spoke with Pope Francis about the attack on the church and current religious tensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-church-attack-assailant-s-family-seeks-answers/story-eRoIXFUkTm7fb2EVoS0qvN.html
31-10-2020||World||Covid rates rising steeply among school children in England||Covid infections among secondary school children in England are sharply increasing, while the number of people who currently have the virus is now above half a million, according to new figures published Friday.The total rate of infections rose to one in 100 in the week through October 23, the Office for National Statistics said. Statisticians said older teenagers and young adults have the highest rates, and highlighted a sharp rise among 11-16 year olds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-rates-rising-steeply-among-school-children-in-england/story-IKwHV5TPOFwG0n0LMCQb0K.html
31-10-2020||World||French prez Macron says he understands Muslim feelings on Prophet image||French President Emmanuel Macron told Al-Jazeera Saturday he understood that cartoons of the Muslim Prophet Mohammed could shock people but that violence was unacceptable, days after a Tunisian migrant killed three people in an attack on a church in Nice.Macron’s interview comes amid widespread protests in Muslim countries and calls to boycott French products over the cartoons that many Muslims find offensive. A row is also escalating with Turkey, whose President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that the French leader needs to undergo a mental examination.Macron, who had earlier said Islam faced a “crisis,” told broadcaster Al-Jazeera that his remarks have been distorted to make it appear as though he were supportive of the cartoons, which he said were published by independent media.“I understand that one can be shocked by cartoons, but I will never accept that violence can be justified. Our freedoms, our rights, I consider it our vocation to protect them,” Macron told the broadcaster, according to an official at the presidency. Al-Jazeera will air the full interview later on Saturday.Macron’s government has vowed to crack down on Islamist radicals after an assailant beheaded a teacher in Paris earlier this month who had showed the cartoons in a class discussion about freedom of expression.Al-Jazeera reported that Macron said most victims of terrorism are Muslim, and the acts committed in the name of the religion were a blight on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-prez-macron-says-he-understands-muslim-feelings-on-prophet-image/story-Z15YBcxklPhgANk4aCRTBK.html
31-10-2020||World||‘Obamacare’ sign-ups begin as millions more are uninsured||Millions of Americans who have lost health insurance in an economy shaken by the coronavirus can sign up for taxpayer-subsidized coverage starting Sunday.It’s not a new COVID relief program from the government but the return of annual sign-up season under the Affordable Care Act, better known as “Obamacare.” Open enrollment runs through December15.The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which runs HealthCare.gov, says premiums are down slightly on average for 2021 and most people will have at least three insurers from which to pick plans. Lower-income people and even middle-class families may qualify for tax credits that can greatly reduce what they pay monthly for premiums.But President Donald Trump, unrelenting in his opposition to President Barack Obama’s signature domestic program, is asking the Supreme Court to overturn the entire law.Trump has been promising a much better replacement since before taking office, but never came out with his plan. The justices are scheduled to hear the case November 10, and the administration is doing little to promote sign-ups, having previously slashed the program’s ad budget.“Affordable health coverage is more essential than ever during the pandemic,” said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., who’s urging people to enroll even if Trump keeps trying to do away with the law.Hard numbers on how virus-related job losses have affected health coverage are not available because the most reliable government surveys will not be out until next year. Estimates range from 5 million to 10 million newly uninsured people.“There is a coverage crisis happening, ” said Stan Dorn, a health policy expert now with Families USA, a liberal advocacy group. “And there are fewer resources available to help, thanks to the Trump cuts.”Dorn worries that’s “a setup for epic failure,” and many people will remain uninsured even as states across the country are seeing alarming increases in coronavirus cases.Administration officials say HealthCare.gov is open for business and ready to handle sign-ups online or via its call center. “We’ll be working through the upcoming open enrollment period...to ensure a smooth user experience,” CMS Administrator Seema Verma said.More than 11 million people currently have coverage through HealthCare.gov and state-run health insurance markets offering subsidized private plans. The health law also covers another 12 million people through its Medicaid expansion, adopted by all but 12 states.Medicaid enrollment has gone up by nearly 4 million people since March, but it’s still unclear how many laid-off workers are coping after the loss of employer coverage in the coronavirus economy.Those who are healthy most likely have other priorities, such as finding another job. Workers who were furloughed, but not laid off, may have been able to keep their coverage. Some appear to have switched to a spouse’s plan, and those age 65 and older can get on Medicare.The nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that 80% of those who lost workplace health insurance are eligible for coverage under the law, either through the insurance markets or Medicaid.Some private businesses, such as HealthSherpa.com, have created a niche market helping people enroll in HealthCare.gov plans. Former Obama administration officials are trying to promote sign-ups through GetAmericaCovered.org. Community organizations also play a role helping people with paperwork.But, Dorn said, “a lot of people who need health insurance may not know there this is there chance to sign up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/obamacare-sign-ups-begin-as-millions-more-are-uninsured/story-v6qgCDtaAupAulmEtHI3vK.html
31-10-2020||World||Sean ‘James Bond’ Connery passes away at 90||Sean Connery, who epitomised the suave yet cold-hearted spy James Bond in seven iconic thrillers and won several awards, including one Oscar, has passed away aged 90, his family said on Saturday.Knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 2000, the Edinburgh-born Connery took up odd jobs in early years and appeared in some films, before James Bond happened. His dialogue, “Bond, James Bond”, defined his portrayal of the spy, widely considered the best among actors who played the iconic role.The seven films Connery appeared as James Bond are: Dr. No (1962), From Russia with Love (1963), Goldfinger (1964), Thunderball (1965), You Only Live Twice (1967) Diamonds Are Forever (1971) and Never Say Never Again (1983).Born Thomas Sean Connery on August 25, 1930, he was the son of a factory worker and a domestic cleaner. His initial years were difficult, working as a coffin polisher, delivering milk and briefly joining the Royal Navy.Connery took to bodybuilding and worked as a model at the Edinburgh College of Art. He briefly played for Manchester United, but driven by the acting bug, took to the stage. He was noticed while participating in the 1953 Mr Universe competition.One of his first appearances was as an extra in the 1954 film, Lilacs in the Spring, before he got his first lead role in Blood Money (1954). Then James Bond happened, with Connery selected to play the lead in Dr No, after other actors such as Cary Grant and Richard Burton were considered.His other notable films included The Hunt for Red October, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade and The Rock.Connery was married twice; first to Australian actress Diane Cilento, and then to Moroccan-French painter Micheline Roqubrune. He was a member of the Scottish National Party that seeks independence for Scotland, and funded it until 2001..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sean-james-bond-connery-passes-away-at-90/story-T0opOwm5pdyHYwDczFzzyJ.html
31-10-2020||World||England set to join EU nations in Lockdown 2||After new expert modelling showed a greater number of deaths and cases than the March lockdown, the Boris Johnson government was on Saturday considering another ‘fire-breaker’ lockdown for a month from next week, joining similar measures across Europe.The second lockdown is being considered for England, the largest and most populated constituent of the United Kingdom, with local lockdown and tighter restrictions already in place in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.Johnson has so far resisted the lockdown option, implementing a three-level alert level with varying degrees of restrictions regionally in areas with spike in new cases to ensure some areas of the economy continue to function. However, experts and the opposition Labour insist the regional approach has not been effective.As experts said the virus was now “running riot” across all age groups, official figures show that as of Friday evening, there were 24,405 new cases and 274 new deaths across the UK. The UK’s cumulative death figure of 46,229 is the highest in Europe.Latest modelling of deaths by experts at five centres, including at Imperial College London, University of Warwick and the University of Cambridge shows at least over 2,000 deaths per day – more than twice the peak earlier this year – by December, if lockdown is not imposed. One of the models envisages 4,000 deaths per day.Johnson is expected to announce the new lockdown, with exemptions for schools and universities, on Monday, if not earlier, reports said, adding that the cabinet is likely to meet over the weekend to consider various aspects, including its impact on an already battered economy.Epidemiologist and government advisor John Edmunds told BBC that the only way to have a “relatively safe” Christmas is to take “stringent” action now, while another advisor, Calum Semple, added that another month-long lockdown would bring new cases down dramatically.Semple said: “Unlike the first wave, where we had a national lockdown which protected huge swathes of society, this outbreak is now running riot across all age groups.”France, Belgium and Germany have already imposed tighter restrictions as the second wave of Covid-19 sweeps across Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/england-set-to-join-eu-nations-in-lockdown-2/story-3eeIn0JKHoVfrNwvNTFMrL.html
31-10-2020||World||Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s assault on Emmanuel Macron is the height of cynicism||Almost three decades after the late Samuel Huntington hypothesized a coming “clash of civilizations,” there are those who — for their own cynical purposes — would actually welcome exactly that. Among them is Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.This month, he has once again picked a fight with Europe, and specifically France. The country is constitutionally Islamophobic, he claims. President Emmanuel Macron should get a mental-health checkup, he has said repeatedly,and Muslims everywhere should boycott French goods, Erdogan has urged, pretending to speak on behalf of an entire faith.But Erdogan is picking this fight, like so many other unnecessary conflicts, only to distract Turks from his failure to govern, so that he can keep posing as the restorer of Turkish greatness, defined in opposition to the West. Neither Muslims nor Europeans of other faiths should fall for the provocation. It would be like stooping to the taunts of a bully in a sandbox — pointless, unedifying, and yet dangerous.To recap: In a suburb of Paris this month, a teenager born in Chechnya beheaded Samuel Paty, a schoolteacher. Paty had shown his students caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed in a civics lesson on free speech, which included a discussion of the terrorist attack five years ago on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. In an apparent copycat crime this week, a Tunisian in Nice decapitated a woman and killed two other people.In response, Macron has been cracking down on some of the extremist breeding grounds that produce such terrorists. Erdogan seized on this reaction to pretend that Macron, France and implicitly all Europe are enemies of Islam, like latter-day Crusaders. Let’s separate the strands of action and reaction. The decapitations and other murders are barbaric crimes in France just as they would be in Turkey or any other country. They must be prosecuted accordingly. Furthermore, Macron or any other leader is justified in clamping down on the extremism that motivates such atrocities, just as governments must pursue any variety of terrorism.Macron was also right to defend freedom of speech, which in his proudly secular country includes, as he put it, the “right to blaspheme.” But he then arguably overshot, as is his wont. It wasn’t for him to assert that Islam is “in crisis all over the world today.”The worst that can be said about Macron is that he’s tone deaf. By contrast, Erdogan is cynical in a more malevolent way.There was a time when Erdogan didn’t see the West as Turkey’s enemy and even wanted to join the European Union(EU), but, feeling spurned by Brussels, Berlin, Paris and other Western capitals, he has turned populist, irredentist, and belligerent. He used a failed coup attempt at home as his pretext to stamp out civil liberties including the freedom of speech for which France now stands, and he’s mismanaged Turkey’s economy.To distract Turks from these failures, he tries to claim the mantle of former Ottoman and Islamic grandeur. So he rejects the secular legacy of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (“father of the Turks”). That’s why, for example, Erdogan has turned Istanbul’s Hagia Sophia into a mosque. Built by the Byzantine emperor Justinian I in the sixth century, it was for centuries the largest church in Christianity, until the Ottoman sultan Mehmed II in 1453 converted it into a mosque. In 1934, Ataturk turned it into a museum. By making it a mosque again, Erdogan signals that he’s a new sultan.In his mind, Erdogan wants Turkey to replace Saudi Arabia and Egypt as the guardian power of Sunni Islam, as the Ottoman Empire once was. And he wants to project power in all directions, toward Moscow as to the West. This is why he’s meddling in conflicts around the region, from Syria to Libya and the eastern Mediterranean, and now also in the battles between (ethnically Turkic) Azerbaijanis and Armenians. In several of these conflicts he faces France on the opposing side.Nominally, Turkey is a member of The North Atlantic Treaty Organization(NATO)and still officially interested in applying to join the EU. In reality, Erdogan needs to portray Europe as the enemy. Because he’s weak at home, he’ll seize on any propaganda opportunity he gets. The danger is that in the process he might unleash passions and hatreds far beyond his or anybody’s control, potentially causing more violence, suffering, and perhaps war. Europeans and Turks of any faith should see through Erdogan’s vanity and cynicism — and tactically ignore him.(Andreas Kluth is a columnist for Bloomberg Opinion. He was previously editor in chief of Handelsblatt Global and a writer for the Economist. He’s the author of ‘Hannibal and Me’)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/recep-tayyip-erdogan-s-assault-on-emmanuel-macron-is-the-height-of-cynicism/story-8sIJxzQc17zCQ9750oF2kO.html
31-10-2020||World||Pakistani lawmaker Ayaz Sadiq stands by Indian Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman’s release statement||Pakistan lawmaker Ayaz Sadiq, who faced criticism from the Pakistan government and Army for revealing that Imran Khan-led govt had released Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman fearing an imminent attack from India, said he stands by his statement, adding that he knows “many secrets” but never made irresponsible statements.Speaking in the Pakistan National Assembly, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz leader Sadiq had recounted the events of the February 2019 meeting during a speech in the country’s National Assembly. He had revealed why Imran Khan’s government decided to release Abhinandan Varthaman, saying Pakistan Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa’s “legs were shaking” while Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi told the meeting of parliamentary leaders that India was about to attack their country.His statement was heavily criticised by ruling party ministers and also prompted the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) chief Major General Babar Iftikhar to hold a presser in which he sought to “correct the record” regarding the events.“But these are political differences. Their attempt to associate my statement with the armed forces of Pakistan was not a service to the country,” Dawn quoted Sadiq as saying. “You (the government) have played into the hands of Indian media and you have not done justice to Pakistan. I am standing by my stance and you will see in future, I have many secrets. I had been heading the National Security Committee,” it added.Information Minister Shibli Faraz has slammed PML-N leader Ayaz Sadiq for his remarks recalling the incident that led to the release of Abhinandan.“The remarks by Ayaz Sadiq are beyond apology. Now the law will take its course. Weakening the state is an unforgivable crime for which Ayaz Sadiq and his companions must be punished,” Faraz tweeted on Friday.Wing Commander Varthaman came into the limelight after he shot down a Pakistani aircraft F-16, which had transgressed into the Indian airspace during a dogfight between Indian and Pakistani air force on February 27, 2019 and in the process, his plane crossed over to the Pakistani side and was shot down.Abhinandan was returned to India from the Attari-Wagah border on March 1, 2019. He has been awarded the Vir Chakra on Independence Day by President Ram Nath Kovind for his exemplary bravery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-lawmaker-ayaz-sadiq-stands-by-indian-wing-commander-abhinandan-varthaman-s-release-statement/story-NbZVF2aVYoZNjl2erh6p8H.html
31-10-2020||World||Road to 270: Joe Biden has options, Donald Trump walks narrow path||President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden each has a path to the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House. Biden’s is appreciably wider.The former vice president is competitive in all the battleground states Trump carried in 2016 and has put a handful of traditional Republican states, including Georgia and Arizona, in play. That has Trump scrambling to defend a wide swath of territory and putting the incumbent’s hopes for reelection on two of the most populous swing states, Florida and Pennsylvania.A look at the most likely roads to victory:BIDENTRUE NORTHBiden can win an electoral majority most simply by carrying the three states where Trump stunned Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016: Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.Those states were carried by Democrats for decades before 2016. They would give Biden 279 electoral votes, as long as he wins all the other states in Clinton’s column. Under this scenario, Biden would not need to win any other states Trump won in 2016.The three northern industrial states have been Biden’s sharpest target for advertising dollars. He spent almost $150 million — 30% of his total national ad spending since June — in the three, according to Kantar/CMAG’s review for The Associated Press.The fiercest struggle among the three is in Pennsylvania. Biden has had a slight advantage in most polls, while some suggest Trump remains within striking distance. Biden, who was born in Scranton, claims some favorite-son status in the state. Trump’s hopes have been boosted by Biden’s recent call for phasing out fossil fuels, though Biden has said he would not ban fracking.___SOUTH BY SOUTHWESTIf Biden loses Pennsylvania, it would require him to find 11 electoral votes elsewhere.Once reliably Republican Arizona, offering exactly 11, and North Carolina, with 15, are states Trump won four years ago that are well within Biden’s reach.Democrats are particularly bullish about Arizona, last carried by a Democrat in 1996. Trump won the state in 2016 by 3.5 percentage points, the smallest margin in 20 years, and this year, the Democrats’ Senate candidate, former astronaut Mark Kelly, is running a strong race.The Arizona alternative supposes, as most of Biden’s paths do, that he also wins Nevada, last carried by a Republican in 2004. Trump has campaigned in the state, though Democrats say they are comfortable with their prospects there.The race for North Carolina appears tighter, but there is recent precedent for a Democrat carrying the state. In 2008, Barack Obama was the first Democrat to take it in 32 years. Although he narrowly lost there in 2012, as did Clinton in 2016, waves of college-educated newcomers are swelling its booming suburbs, a boost to Biden’s chances.THE REST IS EXTRAThere’s another scenario for Biden: a more comfortable Electoral College victory.Should Biden win Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, and either Arizona and North Carolina, he would capture at least 290 electoral votes.He’s also competing for Ohio, which Trump won by 8 percentage points in 2016; Iowa, which Trump won by nearly 10 percentage points; and Georgia, which Trump carried by 5 percentage points. Victories in those states would boost Biden’s electoral total above 300.Biden made two stops in Georgia this past this week and on Friday had his first fall campaign visit to Iowa. He’s spent almost $5 million but hasn’t visited Iowa since the state’s caucuses in February. Biden has campaigned lightly in Ohio but has spent almost $7 million in advertising. Surveys and operatives in both parties said the two states were very close heading into the campaign’s final weekend.Oh, and remember Florida? The perennial battleground offers 29 electoral votes and is, per usual, exceedingly close.There’s one more big prize on the table: Texas. Democrats have been eyeing the state for years, but this is the first year in decades where it may really be within reach for the party.The state’s new battleground status highlights not just Trump’s struggles in the suburbs, which are booming outside Texas’ major cities, but also his weaknesses in nearly every state with a diverse electorate.“Biden has more of an opportunity to win by a larger electoral number than Trump does,” said Republican pollster Glen Bolger, who is surveying in several battleground states but not for Trump’s campaign. “It doesn’t mean Trump can’t win.”___TRUMPFLORIDA OR BUSTTrump almost certainly cannot reach 270 electoral votes without carrying Florida, where polls show a tight race. Some have suggested a slight Biden advantage.Trump’s rally Thursday in Florida was his third campaign trip to the state this month, underscoring why Florida is so important to his reelection. He plans to return before Tuesday’s election.His stop Thursday was in swing-voting Hillsborough County, where Clinton beat him by about 41,000 votes. Hillsborough is next to — and shares a media market with — Pinellas County, the most populous county in the state to flip from Democratic in 2012 to Republican in 2016.Trump won some counties in the surrounding area by more than 60% of the vote, and his campaign hopes it can further run up the score with first-time and less regular voters in these places.Trump planned to accompany first lady Melania Trump when she votes Tuesday near Palm Beach County. The Trumps moved their residence from reliably Democratic New York to Florida last year.___PENNSYLVANIA AVENUEEven if Trump nets Florida and holds battlegrounds he won in the South and Southwest, he would still be short of 270 electoral votes.The president is wagering much on Pennsylvania as the best chance of moving within striking distance of that threshold. After a trio of rallies this past week, Trump was set to hold four more in the state on Saturday.He’s been making stops across Pennsylvania, from counties outside Philadelphia, the largest metro area, to the rural northwest corner of the state.Among his upcoming stops: Bucks County. It was once Philadelphia’s most GOP-heavy suburb but has been trending Democratic and is an example of the obstacles Trump is facing. He lost the county by less than 2 percentage points in 2016 and has seen his standing in the suburbs steadily erode since then.Trump’s argument to Pennsylvania voters was recharged after Biden, during their Oct. 22 debate, called for phasing out fossil fuels. That created an opportunity for Trump in a state with a robust natural gas industry.“Biden’s plan to abolish the entire U.S. oil industry — you saw that?” Trump noted at a rally last week in Lansing, Michigan, recalling Biden’s call for phasing renewable fuels in and fossil fuels out over time. “Will cripple our nation and send us into an absolute deep depression.”___THE REST ISN’T THE BESTEven if Trump wins Florida and Pennsylvania, he would still be short of the magic number if he can’t carry most of the states he won in 2016.He could nose ahead in Ohio, long one of his strongest states, but would still need to cobble together a series of states he won in 2016, such as Iowa, and some he lost narrowly and continues to trail.That more complicated path would include flipping Minnesota, Nevada and New Hampshire. That, however, would defy political logic for an incumbent to lose in places won four years ago and win in places lost back then.Grasping for every vote he can, Trump has even campaigned in Maine and Nebraska, where electoral votes are awarded by congressional district and to the overall state winner. A week ago, Trump was in Levant, Maine, near the hub of the state’s GOP leaning north, Bangor, hoping to hold the single electoral vote in its 2nd District, and in Omaha, Nebraska, on Tuesday, hoping to hold that metropolitan district’s single vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/road-to-270-joe-biden-has-options-donald-trump-walks-narrow-path/story-Bb2qHXHbcv9USzETHYAu1L.html
31-10-2020||World||Rescue efforts on as earthquake death toll rises to 27 in Izmir, Turkey||Turkish rescue workers searched through rubble for survivors on Saturday, as the death toll from a powerful earthquake that hit the Aegean Sea the previous afternoon rose to 27.Officials in the city of Izmir said 25 people were killed in coastal areas in Turkey’s west, while two teenagers - a boy and a girl - died on the Greek island of Samos after a wall collapsed on them.At least 20 buildings in the city were destroyed, authorities said, and the rescue work was punctuated by frequent aftershocks.Bulldozers were removing debris from collapsed buildings, and rescuers were dismantling walls to reach those stuck under the rubble, television images and videos showed. Environment Minister Murat Kurum said some 100 people had been rescued so far.More than 800 people were injured in Turkey, and the area had been hit by some 470 aftershocks, the country’s disaster agency said. In central Izmir, rescuers were seeking to save a mother and her four children from the remains of a building. Relatives waited outside another collapsed building. One Izmir resident, who didn’t want to be named, said both her parents were still trapped. “I couldn’t get any news. I couldn’t get any news,” the woman told Reuters, when asked about attempts to reach them. Search and rescue operations were complete in eight buildings, while operations continued in nine others, officials said.The leaders of Turkey and Greece - caught up in a bitter dispute over exploration rights in the eastern Mediterranean - spoke by phone late on Friday. In a rare show of warmth between the two countries, Turkish and Greek leaders exchanged solidarity messages. “I just called President (Tayyip Erdogan) to offer my condolences for the tragic loss of life from the earthquake that struck both our countries. Whatever our differences, these are times when our people need to stand together,” Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis tweeted.Erdogan responded in a tweet:“I offer my condolences to all of Greece on behalf of myself and the Turkish people. Turkey, too, is always ready to help Greece heal its wounds. That two neighbours show solidarity in difficult times is more valuable than many things in life.” Turkey is crossed by fault lines and is prone to earthquakes. Cooperation between the two countries after a devastating earthquake in 1999 led to a period of warmer ties between them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rescue-efforts-on-as-earthquake-death-toll-rises-to-27-in-izmir-turkey/story-zKZ0Eaqi3iwAM7QFMnmVdK.html
31-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Expect a lot more of the same if Donald Trump wins a second term||Expect to see a lot more of the same if there’s a second Trump administration.President Donald Trump has consistently pointed to tax cuts and regulatory relief as key successes of his first four years in office. He has repeatedly pushed for the end of the Obama-era health law but has yet to deliver a plan to replace it. And he has spent most of this year defending his response to the coronavirus pandemic while fighting openly with scientists and medical experts about vaccines, treatments and more.If he gets another four years in office, there’s no indication of any big policy shift.A glimpse at how a second Trump term might look:___ECONOMY, TAXES AND THE DEBTLow unemployment and a soaring stock market were Trump’s calling cards before the pandemic. While the stock market clawed its way back after cratering in the early weeks of the crisis, unemployment stands at 7.9%, and the nearly 10 million jobs that remain lost since the pandemic began exceed the number that the nation shed during the entire 2008-09 Great Recession.And by Friday, Wall Street had closed out another punishing week with the S&P 500 posting its first back-to-back monthly loss since the pandemic first gripped the economy in March. Much of the market’s focus has been on what’s to come for the economy when coronavirus counts are rising at troubling rates across Europe and the United States.Trump has predicted that the US economy will rebound in late 2020 and take off like a “rocket ship” in 2021. He promises that a coronavirus vaccine or effective therapeutics will soon be available, allowing life to get back to normal. His push for a payroll tax cut over the summer was thwarted by stiff bipartisan opposition. But winning a second term — and a mandate from voters — could help him resurrect the idea.An analysis from the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget estimates that Trump’s plan would increase the debt by about $5 trillion over 10 years. That’s on top of the $13 trillion in deficits the country is already expected to run up during that time.The national debt now stands at more than $20 trillion.___CORONAVIRUS PANDEMICTrump insists that the country is “rounding the corner” on the pandemic and has stepped up calls on Democratic governors to lift coronavirus restrictions in their states. But Trump’s sunny outlook belies the ground truth in many states — including several critical to his path to 270 Electoral College votes — that have seen a surge in the virus.The president has often disputed medical experts in his own administration, among them infectious disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci, on key issues surrounding the virus, including the timing of a vaccine, the need for social distancing and the importance of masks to contain the virus. His campaign rallies were filled with people gathered less than 6 feet apart without masks. His announcement of the nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court was widely regarded to be a super spreader event after he and several other people in attendance were diagnosed with the virus.Trump spent three days at Walter Reed National Medical Center after his diagnosis. One of the drugs he received, remdesivir, has since been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for treatment of Covid-19.Trump also says he’s “pretty damn certain” that vaccines and new treatments for the virus are coming in the not-so-distant future. Scientists are more cautious about the timing.Congress passed and Trump signed into law a more than $2 trillion coronavirus relief package earlier this year, but the two sides have been unable to agree on an additional aid package.___HEALTH CAREAs a candidate for the White House, Trump promised that he would “immediately” replace former President Barack Obama’s health care law with a plan of his own that would provide “insurance for everybody” with lower costs. Americans are still waiting for a pan that Trump has been teasing for many months.He may be counting on the Supreme Court, which is scheduled to hear a case challenging “Obamacare” soon after the election. The court now has a solid conservative majority with the confirmation of Barrett as a justice.Trump officials say the administration has made strides by championing transparency on hospital prices, pursuing a range of actions to curb prescription drug costs and expanding lower-cost health insurance alternatives for small businesses and individuals. But those incremental steps fall far short of the sweeping changes he promised.The number of uninsured people has gone up on Trump’s watch, from 27.6 million people under age 65 in 2017 to 29.2 million last year, according to the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. There are no solid statistics on uninsured Americans this year, after millions lost job-related coverage in the pandemic.On prescription drugs, Trump came into office promising change so Americans would see the lower costs common in other economically advanced countries. But he backed away from a 2016 campaign promise to authorize Medicare to negotiate prices. And a big, bipartisan deal with Congress to reduce costs for Medicare recipients and restrain price increases eluded him.His administration did reach a narrower, yet significant agreement with drug companies and insurers to limit out-of-pocket costs for insulin for seniors to $35 a month. A series of regulations to try to curb drug costs remains a work in progress.___IMMIGRATIONTrump worked through his first term to sharply curtail both legal and illegal immigration. Expect that to continue if he wins a second term.One of his top priorities would be to use agreements with Central American governments as models to get countries around the world to field asylum claims from people seeking refuge in the United States, a top adviser, Stephen Miller, recently told The Associated Press. He said the agreements would help stop “asylum fraud, asylum shopping and asylum abuse on a global scale.”Miller also forecast a broader offensive against so-called “sanctuary” jurisdictions that limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities, saying the administration would use its “full power, resources and authority.” He vowed more efforts toward legal immigration “based on merit.”Trump’s pledge to build a wall along the US border with Mexico was a hallmark of his first presidential campaign and four years in office. Trump is expected to continue to trumpet progress after having completed nearly 400 miles of wall construction, though most of that replaced existing smaller barriers.Trump has yet to outline second-term immigration priorities in detail, though he has openly toyed with trying to repeal a constitutional right to citizenship for anyone born in the United States.His administration has long pursued a zero-tolerance policy to crack down on illegal immigration, and thousands of children were separated from their parents after crossing the border illegally. The administration was roundly criticized for its actions.Administration officials also sought to restrict legal immigration, including higher fees and increased scrutiny for people seeking to legally emigrate to the US. The administration slashed the number of refugees allowed in the country by about three-quarters to its lowest level in decades.Trump has also sought to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, a program that allowed people brought to the United States illegally as children to remain as legal residents, though his effort was halted, at least temporarily, by the courts.___FOREIGN POLICY AND NATIONAL SECURITYTrump’s foreign policy centers on his mantra of “America First,” but in the months leading up to the election, he engaged in diplomacy.The Trump administration scored a big win in recent weeks by nudging three Arab states — Bahrain, Sudan and the United Arab Emirates — to normalize relations with Israel. Trump officials also brokered an economic cooperation agreement between Serbia and Kosovo, bitter foes in the Balkan wars.He counts as another major achievement his efforts to cajole more NATO members to fulfill their pledge to spend 2% of their gross domestic product on defense.Trump also pulled the U.S. out of the Iran nuclear deal, saying it was one-sided in favor of Iran. He’s announced that the U.S. is withdrawing from the intermediate-range nuclear missile treaty with Russia and the Open Skies Treaty, which permits 30-plus nations to conduct observation flights over each other’s territory. He later said he might reconsider pulling out of that treaty.The president has reduced to about 3,000 the number of troops in Iraq. The US plans to reduce the number of troops in Afghanistan to at least 4,500 in November, although Trump wants them all withdrawn by the end of the year. He also counts his engagement with North Korea’s Kim Jong Un as a foreign policy victory, yet he’s been unable to prod Kim to give up his nuclear program.___PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTA Trump second term would begin to see a US transformed by the scores of public health and environment rollbacks in Trump’s first term, when the administration weakened protections in landmark pollution laws that had stood for a half-century.Trump’s biggest environmental rollbacks include removing federal protections for millions of miles of wetlands and waterways. That means mining companies and other industries will be freer to dump waste into the fragile habitats or destroy them outright, removing buffers against storms and flooding and making it harder for cities downstream to clean public water supplies, environmental groups say.Another major rollback means neighborhoods nationwide will find themselves having less say about highways or other big projects tearing through their communities. Other rollbacks enacted in Trump’s first term — in regulations ranging from endangered species to oil and gas and mining in federal wilderness to power plant pollution to water-thrifty dishwashers — will take effect.On climate change, Trump’s withdrawal of the United States from the Paris global climate accord would become official Nov. 4, the day after the presidential election. Trump is still fighting California and other Western states over his plans to ease future vehicle mileage standards, undoing another legacy climate effort of the Obama administration.A Supreme Court made more conservative by Trump’s appointments will decide pending court challenges by states and environmental groups to many of the rollbacks.The Trump administration says it wants to focus on helping minority communities that are disproportionately harmed by polluting industries in a second term. Environmental groups point to the administration’s efforts to slash funding for such programs, and call it an empty election-year promise.___EDUCATIONTrump believes that a key to economic recovery from the virus is fully reopening schools, though Americans are wary. Only about 1 in 10 think day care centers, preschools or K-12 schools should open this fall without restrictions, according to a recent poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs.He is calling for the expansion of charter schools and school choice programs, including a proposed tax credit for people who contribute to scholarships sending students to private schools and other education options. Under his watch, the federal government has also increased funding for historically Black colleges and universities — an effort he often cites as one of the things he has achieved for Black Americans.Trump frequently rails against what he has described as “radical left indoctrination” in schools. He is pledging to create a commission to promote “patriotic education” in schools. Amid complaints that conservative voices are stifled on college campuses, he also sought to cut federal funding to colleges that do not protect speech rights.Trump’s administration has revoked several Obama-era initiatives, including guidance intended to curb racial disparities in school discipline and a rule that sought to cut federal funding to for-profit colleges that left students with heavy debt.The Education Department under Trump has also created rules telling schools and universities how to respond to sexual misconduct, with more protection for the accused.___ABORTIONBefore becoming a presidential candidate, Trump described himself as a strong abortion-rights proponent. But after coming to Washington, he pushed for overturning Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court ruling that 47 years ago established a constitutional right to abortion.Anti-abortion groups hope the addition of Barrett to the Supreme Court will provide a majority to overturn Roe. Barrett has declined to characterize Roe as a “super-precedent” that must not be overturned, although she says that she sets her personal views aside when weighing cases.Trump also has barred federally funded family planning clinics from referring women for abortions. He supports the Hyde Amendment, a series of federal laws that ban the use of taxpayer money to pay for abortions except in cases of rape or incest or to save the woman’ s life.___SOCIAL SECURITYEven before the coronavirus shutdown sent the economy on a roller coaster ride, government experts estimated that Social Security would be unable to pay full benefits starting in 2035. The program’s insolvency date is now likely closer than that, because layoffs have cut into Social Security tax collections from workers and employers.Trump kept his promise not to cut Social Security benefits, but this summer he sent confusing signals with a plan to temporarily suspend collection of certain taxes that fund the program. While the White House staff said it was a limited measure that would have no lasting impact, Trump kept hinting to reporters that he had much bigger tax cuts in mind. Early in the year, he told an interviewer he wanted to tackle “entitlements,” or benefit programs, in a second term.___GUNSTrump has flirted at times with tighter gun laws. After the Parkland school shooting in Florida two years ago, Trump chided Republican lawmakers for being too “scared” of the National Rifle Association to tighten gun laws. And after back-to-back mass shootings in Ohio and Texas in 2019, he embraced calls for “strong background checks.” He backpedaled quickly in each instance.In the campaign, the president has repeatedly promised to “defend our Second Amendment.” The NRA’s political action committee has endorsed Trump.___VETERANSTrump frequently touts an expanded program at the Department of Veterans Affairs passed by Congress in 2018 that allows veterans to choose a private physician outside of the government-run VA system and still receive taxpayer-paid medical care.The program, first passed as a temporary measure during the Obama administration, was spurred by a 2014 scandal in which veterans died while waiting months for appointments at the Phoenix VA medical center. Trump supports giving veterans wide access to private-sector care if they are dissatisfied with VA treatment, and he has suggested he may issue additional regulations in a second term that will make it even easier.Trump has boosted telehealth services at the VA and broadly promises an improved U.S. economy in a second term that will reduce veterans’ unemployment. He created a federal task force last year to address veterans suicide. In October, he signed into law a bipartisan bill that creates a new three-digit 988 phone line — similar to 911 — that will be reserved for mental health emergencies. It becomes active in fall 2021.About 20 veterans die by suicide each day, a rate basically unchanged during the Trump administration.___TRADETrump views the signing of two major trade deals — an updated pact with Mexico and Canada and the first phase of a China agreement — as signature achievements. The US and China signed in January, less than two months before the pandemic put an enormous strain on US-China relations. Trump says the first phase would lead to China buying roughly $200 billion over two years in US agricultural products, energy and other American products.In return, the US canceled or reduced tariffs on an array of China imports. So far, China is significantly behind in meeting its purchasing commitments, according to tracking from the Peterson Institute for International Economics.The second phase of the deal is expected to focus on tougher issues between the countries, including Trump’s wish to get China to stop subsidizing its state-owned enterprises. But for Trump, who has come to frequently refer to the coronavirus as the “China virus,” it remains to be seen whether he will be able to effectively reengage Beijing on trade. Trump recently said he’s “not interested” in talking to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-expect-a-lot-more-of-the-same-if-donald-trump-wins-a-second-term/story-nALsj2wvue7kOL8Ia9gZyH.html
31-10-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson considering a new national lockdown for England||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is considering imposing a new month-long national lockdown in England next week after scientists warned the coronavirus was spreading faster than their worst predictions, local media reported.The pandemic is spreading in most parts of Britain, where the official death toll of 46,299 is the highest in Europe.Johnson is expected to hold a news conference on Monday to announce the new measures, which would allow only essential shops and schools, nurseries, and universities to remain open, The Times reported.The new measures were still under discussion, and no final decision had been made, the paper said, citing a senior government source.The Prime Minister’s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Reuters.Currently, the government has a three-tier system of restrictions for local areas in England, with Level 3 the highest. Scotland, Wales and North Ireland run their own policies on fighting the pandemic.A member of the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) warned on Saturday that the virus was “running riot” across all age groups.“For the naysayers that don’t believe in a second wave, there is a second wave,” Calum Semple, a professor of outbreak medicine at the University of Liverpool, told the BBC.“And unlike the first wave, where we had a national lockdown which protected huge swathes of society, this outbreak is now running riot across all age groups.”A new lockdown would heap fresh pressure on finance minister Rishi Sunak and the Bank of England(BoE) to increase their already huge support for the UK economy, the world’s sixth biggest. The economy slumped a record 20% in the spring and has been struggling to maintain its recovery.In the current system, Tier 3 includes a ban on mixing of people in different households, pubs and bars are closed, wedding receptions are not permitted, and travel to or from the area should be avoided.The Government is also considering tougher regional measures, known as Tier 4, but ministers are said to be in favour of a nationwide policy, The Times said.The BoE is widely expected to increase its bond-buying programme on Thursday for the third time since the pandemic struck in March. Economists polled by Reuters mostly predicted a 100 billion-pound top-up. Some analysts have said the regional restrictions on businesses imposed in recent weeks will cause the economy to contract again in the fourth quarter and a national lockdown would inflict greater damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-considering-a-new-national-lockdown-for-england/story-CFD7qfhYBn6kWmzlepfbfI.html
31-10-2020||World||Death toll reaches 27 in earthquake that hit Turkey, Greek island||Rescue teams on Saturday plowed through concrete blocks and the debris of eight collapsed buildings in search of survivors of a powerful earthquake that struck Turkey’s Aegean coast and north of the Greek island of Samos, killing at least 27 people. More than 800 others were injured.The quake hit Friday afternoon, toppling buildings in Izmir, Turkey’s third largest city, and triggering a small tsunami in the district of Seferihisar and on Samos. The quake was followed by hundreds of aftershocks.Early on Saturday, onlookers cheered as rescuers lifted teenager Inci Okan out of the rubble of a devastated eight-floor apartment block in Izmir’s Bayrakli district. Her dog, Fistik, was also rescued, Sozcu newspaper reported. Friends and relatives waited outside the building for news of loved ones still trapped inside, including employees of a dentist’s surgery that was located on the ground floor.In another collapsed building, rescuers made contact with a 38-year-old woman and her four children — aged 3, 7 and 10-year old twins — and were working to clear a corridor to bring them out, state-run Anadolu Agency reported.Two other women, aged 53 and 35, were brought out from the rubble of another toppled two-story building earlier on Saturday.In all, around 100 people have been rescued since the earthquake, Murat Kurum, the environment and urban planning minister, told reporters.Some 5,000 rescue personnel were working on the ground, Kurum said.At least 25 people were killed in Izmir, including an elderly woman who drowned, according to Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency, or AFAD.Two teenagers were killed on Samos after being struck by a collapsing wall. At least 19 people were injured on the island, with two, including a 14-year-old, being airlifted to Athens and seven hospitalized on the island, health authorities said.The small tsunami that hit the Turkish coast also affected Samos, with seawater flooding streets in the main harbour town of Vathi. Authorities warned people to stay away from the coast and from potentially damaged buildings.The earthquake, which the Istanbul-based Kandilli Institute said had a magnitude of 6.9, was centred in the Aegean northeast of Samos. AFAD said it measured 6.6. and hit at a depth of some 16 kilometers (10 miles).It was felt across the eastern Greek islands and as far as Athens and in Bulgaria. In Turkey, it shook the regions of Aegean and Marmara, including Istanbul. Istanbul’s governor said there were no reports of damage in the city, Turkey’s largest.Turkey is crossed by fault lines and is prone to earthquakes. In 1999, two powerful quakes killed some 87,000 people in northwestern Turkey. Earthquakes are frequent in Greece too.Authorities warned residents in Izmir not to return to damaged buildings, saying they could collapse in strong aftershocks. Many people spent the night out in the streets, too frightened to return to their homes, even if they sustained no damage, the DHA news agency reported.More than 3,000 rescue personnel were sent to Izmir, as well as relief supplies. The Turkish Red Crescent set up kitchens.In a show of solidarity rare in recent months of tense bilateral relations, Greek and Turkish government officials issued mutual messages of solidarity while the presidents of Greece and Turkey held a telephone conversation.Relations between Turkey and Greece have been particularly tense, with warships from both facing off in the eastern Mediterranean in a dispute over maritime boundaries and energy exploration rights. The ongoing tension has led to fears of open conflict between the two neighbours and NATO allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-toll-reaches-27-in-earthquake-that-hit-turkey-greek-island/story-7SLMyfV4EC7HFFEsSemUZM.html
31-10-2020||World||New Zealand PM Jacinda Ardern secures Green Party’s support for new government||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has secured the backing of the Green Party for her next term of government.Ardern announced Saturday that her Labour Party entered a cooperation agreement with the Greens that gives the smaller party two ministerial posts outside cabinet in return for its support on matters of confidence and supply in parliament. Ardern will announce her new cabinet on Monday, with ministers to be formally sworn in on November 6.Ardern won an outright majority in the October 17 election, the first since New Zealand introduced proportional representation in 1996, and doesn’t need the Greens to govern. But the Greens supported her first administration and it is in her interests to maintain a good relationship with a party she may have to rely on again in the future.“This cooperation agreement reflects the positive working relationship between our two parties and our areas of shared interest, while respecting the mandate voters gave Labour to form a government,” Ardern said in a statement. “It will deliver stability and cooperation in key policy areas while allowing the Greens to take an independent position from the government on all other matters.”Green Party co-leaders James Shaw and Marama Davidson have been made ministers outside cabinet, with Shaw retaining his climate change portfolio, and Davidson to be appointed to the new position of minister for the prevention of family and sexual violence. She will also take on the role of associate minister of housing.Ardern said the agreement strengthens the government’s stability and will ensure a strong majority in parliament on the most important votes.“As we accelerate our recovery from Covid, strong stable government is essential to New Zealand,” she said. “Between this agreement and our existing parliamentary majority we won’t be held back from getting on with the work needed to rebuild our economy and continue to keep New Zealand safe from Covid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-pm-jacinda-ardern-secures-green-party-s-support-for-new-government/story-LUWNbVMqveF0dlmG4xBz9L.html
31-10-2020||World||Typhoon Goni to hit Philippines early Sunday after gaining strength||Typhoon Goni is expected to hit the Philippines earlier than expected on Sunday as it continues to gather strength, according to the Philippine Tropical Cyclone Advisories website.The storm may be upgraded to a super typhoon in the next 12 hours and could make landfall in the eastern provinces of Catanduanes and Camarines early Sunday, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration said in its 8 a.m. advisory. The typhoon was earlier predicted to reach the Philippines in the afternoon.Goni’s winds are forecast to hit 185 to 215 kilometers (115 to 134 miles) an hour as it moves inland. The cyclone comes days after Typhoon Molave lashed the country, leaving at least 22 dead and causing a minimum of 1.81 billion pesos ($37.4 million) of damage to crops.The Philippine weather bureau as of 2 p.m. placed Catanduanes province and parts of Camarines and Albay provinces under typhoon signal No. 3. Winds greater than 121 kilometers and up to 170 kilometers per hour are expected to hit these areas starting in at least 18 hours, it said.Beginning early Sunday, Goni will bring heavy-to-intense rains over the central and southern provinces of Luzon island, including Manila, the state weather bureau said. The center of the storm was 410 kilometers east-northeast of Catanduanes as of 1 p.m. local time, with maximum sustained winds of 215 kilometers an hour near the center and gusts of up to 265 kilometers per hour, it said. The U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center categorizes Goni as a super typhoon while at sea, according to its measurements. The storm will pass through Manila and most of the main island of Luzon, it said.About 159,000 people in Camarines Norte began evacuating from high-risk areas on Friday, the Philippine Daily Inquirer reported, citing provincial authorities. Quezon, a neighboring province, has been placed under red alert, it said.Another typhoon, Atsani, is forecast to enter Philippine territory Sunday but is less likely to bring severe weather over the next three days, according to the nation’s weather forecaster.Goni is the world’s strongest typhoon this year with sustained winds of 285 kilometers per hour as of Friday, putting it at Category 5-equivalent strength and surpassing Hurricane Laura, which was Category 4 at its peak, the Weather Network reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/typhoon-goni-to-hit-philippines-early-sunday-after-gaining-strength/story-s6bZJaX5HsFbKvzfMNaT7J.html
31-10-2020||World||Armenia PM asks Putin to start talks on providing security amid Karabakh war||Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan on Saturday asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to begin “urgent” consultations on providing security amid a conflict with Azerbaijan after fresh talks failed to agree a ceasefire.Pasninyan sent the letter to Putin after Armenia and Azerbaijan failed to agree a fresh ceasefire in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict during talks in Geneva on Friday and as fighting continued overnight and Saturday morning.The announcement, released by the Armenian foreign ministry, raised fears of an escalation in fighting between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Some observers are concerned it risks sucking Yerevan’s ally Russia and Turkey, which backs Baku, into the conflict.Armenia and Azerbaijan have been engaged in fierce fighting for more than a month over Nagorno-Karabakh, a region of Azerbaijan controlled by Armenian separatists in the wake of the break-up of the Soviet Union.The flare-up of the conflict has left more than a thousand dead, with world powers so far unable to persuade either side to stop fighting. Russia has a military base in Armenia and has a defence treaty with Yerevan.“The prime minister of Armenia has asked the Russian president to begin urgent consultations with the aim of determining the kind and amount of aid which the Russian Federation can provide Armenia to ensure its security,” the foreign ministry in Yerevan said in a statement. Russia has previously said that its defence pact with Armenia does not extend to the breakaway region of Nagorno-Karabakh.But Pashinyan in his letter to Putin said that hostilities were getting closer to Armenia’s borders and reiterated that Azerbaijan’s ally Turkey was backing Baku, according to the statement.He requested Moscow’s help, invoking the two countries’ close ties and a 1997 treaty on friendship, cooperation and mutual assistance.Armenian officials did not provide further details when reached by AFP.“One step closer to a wider war?,” tweeted Carey Cavanaugh, a former US ambassador and co-chair of the OSCE Minsk group.Armenian political analyst Hakob Badalyan told AFP that he did not rule out that Pashinyan’s plea for help was “for now a political step to stress Russia’s role in this region”.Hikmet Hajiyev, an aide to the Azerbaijani president, told AFP Baku would not comment.On Friday, mediators from France, Russia and the US said in a statement from Geneva that the warring sides had committed to “not deliberately target civilian populations or non-military objects in accordance with international humanitarian law”.But the defence ministry of the Karabakh separatist leadership on Saturday accused Azerbaijan of violating the Geneva agreements and targeting the main city Stepanakert and the strategically important town of Shusha.The ministry said there were “wounded among civilians” in Shusha. Baku denied targeting the Karabakh main city.Azerbaijan and Armenia have been locked in a bitter conflict over Karabakh since Armenian separatists backed by Yerevan seized control of the mountainous province in a 1990s war that left 30,000 people dead.The current clashes broke out on September 27 and fighting has persisted despite the repeated international attempts to secure a ceasefire.The warring sides have three times agreed to ceasefires during recent talks mediated by Russia, France and the United States but the truces have all quickly fallen apart.More than 1,200 people from both sides have been reported dead since the fighting began, but the actual death toll is believed to be substantially higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armenia-pm-asks-putin-to-start-talks-on-providing-security-amid-karabakh-war/story-0gQJCnhMVPjyj3aUHt8FEM.html
31-10-2020||World||Hong Kong media mogul Jimmy Lai distances his newspaper Apple Daily from Biden report||Hong Kong media mogul Jimmy Lai distanced himself and his newspaper, Apple Daily, from the funding of a report by a non-existent author to discredit US presidential candidate Joe Biden, saying his assistant had worked on the project.NBC reported on Friday that a 64-page document making claims involving Joe Biden’s son and business deals in China was produced by a “fake intelligence firm” called Typhoon Investigations.The author of the document is listed as Swiss security analyst Martin Aspen, which NBC said is a fabricated identity. Blogger and academic Christopher Balding took credit for contributing to the report and said it was commissioned by Apple Daily, according to the broadcaster.Lai said in a tweet on Friday evening that he had nothing to do with the document but that his assistant, Mark Simon, had been involved with it.“I’m sorry that Apple Daily was implicated by the NBC article. But Apple Daily has nothing to with it, I’ve nothing to do with it,” the Next Digital Ltd. founder said in the tweet. “My assistant Mark Simon now informed us that he worked with the project, although had not commissioned it.”NBC said an Apple Daily spokesperson had informed it that the newspaper had worked with Balding on the document. The Hong Kong-based media company issued a statement Friday saying it had never commissioned Balding or any anyone else to write the document.Simon used funds from Lai’s private company for the research, Lai said in a separate tweet. “It’s only US$10,000 so he didn’t have to have my approval,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-media-mogul-jimmy-lai-distances-his-newspaper-apple-daily-from-biden-report/story-yl9m48wBu8jPAakTXhej9O.html
31-10-2020||World||New Zealand PM Jacinda Ardern to announce government on November 2||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Saturday she will announce her new government on Monday after offering the Green Party two ministerial portfolios outside of cabinet as part of a proposed cooperation agreement.Ardern delivered earlier this month the biggest election victory for her centre-left Labour Party in half a century. Although she no longer needs support to govern, coalitions are the norm in New Zealand as parties look to build consensus.Under the agreement offered to the Green Party - one of Ardern government’s coalition partners prior to the election - the two portfolios would be held by the Green Party’s co-leaders.James Shaw would be minister for climate change and would be associate environment minister, while Marama Davidson would become the minister for the prevention of family and sexual violence.“On election night I said I wanted to govern for all New Zealanders and to reach as wide consensus on key issues as possible,” Ardern said at a televised news conference. “This agreement does that.”In return, Ardern said, the Greens would not oppose the government on confidence and supply votes. They would also support Labour on procedural motions in the parliament.The Green Party would be able to take their own position on issues not covered by the ministerial portfolios and areas of co-operation.The cooperation deal could still be rejected by the Green Party membership who were to vote on it on Saturday, but Ardern said she would announce the composition of the government on Monday regardless of the Green Party’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-pm-jacinda-ardern-to-announce-government-on-november-2/story-kwkX10K5ifnf5slSQGii9O.html
31-10-2020||World||Indian immigrants set new record for permanent residencies in Canada||Indian immigrants accounted for one-fourth of the total permanent residencies granted by Canada in 2019, setting a new record. India was easily the largest source country for permanent residents (PR), with 85,593 admitted last year, a number that is larger than the total for the next four nations taken together. The data was revealed as the 2020 Annual Report on Immigration to Parliament was tabled.India has been the biggest source country since 2017, when it overtook China among PRs, but the numbers have jumped in recent years, with an increase of over 20% between 2018 and 2019.Canada’s minister of immigration, refugees and citizenship Marco Mendicino also tabled the 2021‒2023 Immigration Levels Plan. The Canadian government is hiking the number of immigrants to be taken into the country between these years to make up for the projected shortfall this year due to the travel and other restrictions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.While the previous plan set targets of 351,000 PRs for 2021 and 361,000 for 2022, these have been increased to 401,000 and 411,000. The figure for 2023 is even higher at 421,000. The majority of the admissions, 60%, will be in the economic class, which has been dominated by Indians in recent years.“Immigration is essential to getting us through the pandemic, but also to our short-term economic recovery and our long-term economic growth. Canadians have seen how newcomers are playing an outsized role in our hospitals and care homes, and helping us to keep food on the table. As we look to recovery, newcomers create jobs not just by giving our businesses the skills they need to thrive, but also by starting businesses themselves. Our plan will help to address some of our most acute labour shortages and to grow our population to keep Canada competitive on the world stage,” Mendicino said in a statement.According to a statement from Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC), Canada’s population growth between 2018 and 2019 was at 1.4%, the highest among G7 nations and this was “overwhelmingly driven” by the “arrival of immigrants and non-permanent residents” who accounted for 82% of the rise.It also noted that by the early 2030s, Canada’s population growth will rely entirely upon immigration and with many of its major source countries for immigrants facing similar challenges of lower fertility rates and an aging demographic, “Canada must be prepared to compete internationally for young, skilled and mobile workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-immigrants-set-new-record-for-permanent-residencies-in-canada/story-hBJOtM4RA1mTQ6m4EV6BsL.html
31-10-2020||World||China suspends imports from Ecuadorian company after coronavirus found on seafood packaging||China suspended imports from FIREXPA S.A., an Ecuadorian seafood product manufacturer, after the novel coronavirus was found on the packaging of a batch of imported frozen fish, according to a notice by the General Administration of Customs.The suspension will last one week, according to the notice, which was posted online on Saturday.Chinese customs have said they will suspend imports from companies for a week if frozen food products tested positive for coronavirus and for a month if a supplier’s products tested positive for a third time or more.The pandemic has been largely controlled in China, with daily life in much of the country returning to normal, although an outbreak emerged recently in the western region of Xinjiang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-suspends-imports-from-ecuadorian-company-after-coronavirus-found-on-seafood-packaging/story-ZbSRivRW3dSfBYUAjyeudO.html
31-10-2020||World||Canada asks people to cut social contact amid spike in Covid cases||The Public Health Agency of Canada has asked citizens to reduce their social contacts by 25% as the country struggles to control a spiking second wave related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Canada recorded its highest single-day increase in cases of coronavirus infection on Friday at 3,457, an increase of over 20% over a fortnight.“If we increase, or if even maintain our current rate of contact, the epidemic in Canada is forecast to continue increasing steeply,” the country’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam said, during the course of a media briefing on the situation.To “bend the epidemic curve” and “reduce transmission to lower levels”, it was necessary to reduce the “number of contacts as much as possible,” she said.She also released new modelling projections which indicated that at current levels of the infection rate, Canada could record approximately 262,000 cases by November 8, up from 231,753 currently, with another 300 fatalities. The death toll from the crisis in Canada is at 10,100 at present.Several provinces in the country, including Ontario, Quebec, Alberta and Manitoba have witnessed steep rises in cases over recent days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-asks-people-to-cut-social-contact-amid-spike-in-covid-cases/story-7CZVX0gnOVFcqpmHt26JdK.html
31-10-2020||World||Trump addresses smallest rally, Biden hits him for blaming doctors for Covid toll||Deprived of the kind of raucous crowds that draw the performer in him, President Donald Trump delivered on Friday the shortest stump speech yet this cycle: around 21 minutes.Trump was speaking to an audience of merely 250 people in Rochester, Minnesota. And he was not happy about it. “Your far-left Democrat attorney general, Keith Ellison, and your Democrat governor (Tim Walz) tried to shut down our rally, silence the people of Minnesota, and take away your freedom of assembly,” Trump said to supporters. “They thought we would cancel—but I will never abandon Minnesota!”Trump lost Minnesota in the last election, but so narrowly that he has been tempted to seek a win there to offset vulnerabilities and potential reverses in his 2016 pathway to victory.But just four days from the close of polling on Tuesday, Trump is trailing Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee, in the state by a wide margin of 8.1 percentage points at this time, in the FiveThirtyEight weighted average of polls and by 4.7 points in the RealClearPolitics average of polls. The American president is behind Biden countrywide, in fact: by 8.9 percentage points in the FiveThirtyEight weighted average of polls and by 7.9 points in the aggregated average of RealClearPolitics, which also has the former vice-president in the lead by 3.2 points in the top battleground states — Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Florida and Arizona.Biden was in Minnesota earlier in the day at a drive-in rally, which he has preferred to Trump’s old-style rallies, with mask-less supporters packed in shoulder-to-shoulder.“And did you hear what he said again today?” Biden said, referring to remarks by the president earlier at another rally. “He said that our doctors who are putting their lives on the line busting their necks, are making up deaths from Covid because they “get more money”.”“Doctors and nurses go to work every day to save lives — they do their jobs.”The American president had alleged at an earlier rally that doctors were getting paid more to attribute deaths to Covid-19 as opposed to other causes as the reason for the high toll in the US, seeking to shift the blame for it at the same time from his administration’s shoddy handling of the crisis to medical professionals battling the deadly virus. Biden and Trump addressed rallies in Michigan and Wisconsin, the other battleground states, seeking the support of voters there as they presented their closing arguments in what has been a tumultuous campaign under the shadow of a devastating pandemic that has killed more than 230,000 Americans and infected 8 million, including the president, his wife Melania Trump and their son Barron Trump.Trump and Biden will be crisscrossing battleground states over the remaining four days, with more than 87 million Americans having voted already in person or by mail in what is proving to be an unprecedented turnout in early voting allowed in the wake of Covid-19.On Saturday, Biden will address a rally in Michigan along with his former boss and most popular surrogate, former president Barack Obama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-addresses-smallest-rally-biden-hits-him-for-blaming-doctors-for-covid-toll/story-BB1OsYiY4oRHp3VSK3LriO.html
31-10-2020||World||‘Remarks on French attacks taken out of context’: Mahathir Mohamad||Former Malaysian leader Mahathir Mohamad stood by his widely condemned comments on attacks by Muslim extremists in France, saying Friday that they were taken out of context and criticising Twitter and Facebook for removing his posts.Mahathir, 95, sparked widespread outrage when he wrote on his blog Thursday that “Muslims have a right to be angry and kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past.” Twitter removed a tweet from Mahathir containing the remark, which it said glorified violence, and France’s digital minister demanded the company also ban Mahathir from its platform.“I am indeed disgusted with attempts to misrepresent and take out of context what I wrote on my blog,” Mahathir said in a statement. He said critics failed to read his posting in full, especially the next sentence which read: “But by and large Muslims have not applied the ‘eye for an eye’ law. Muslims don’t. The French shouldn’t. Instead the French should teach their people to respect other people’s feelings.” He said Twitter and Facebook removed the posting despite his explanation, and slammed the move as hypocritical.“On the one hand, they defended those who chose to display offending caricatures of Prophet Muhammad ... and expect all Muslims to swallow it in the name of freedom of speech and expression,” he said.“On the other, they deleted deliberately that Muslims had never sought revenge for the injustice against them in the past,” thereby stirring French hatred for Muslims, he added. On Twitter, however, that sentence was not deleted. A Mahathir staff member said the entire posting was removed by Facebook. Facebook Malaysia said in an email that it removed Mahathir’s posting for violating its policies. “We do not allow hate speech on Facebook and strongly condemn any support for violence, death or physical harm,” it said.The comments by Mahathir, a two-time prime minister, were in response to calls by Muslim nations to boycott French products after French leader Emmanuel Macron described Islam as a religion “in crisis” and vowed to crack down on radicalism following the murder of a French teacher who showed his class a cartoon depicting Prophet Muhammad. His remarks also came as a Tunisian man killed three people at a church in Nice, France.The US ambassador to Malaysia, Kamala Shirin Lakhdir, said Friday that she “strongly disagreed” with Mahathir’s statement. “Freedom of expression is a right, calling for violence is not,” she said in a brief statement. Australian High Commissioner in Malaysia Andrew Goledzinowski wrote that even though Mahathir wasn’t advocating actual violence, “in the current climate, words can have consequences.” Mahathir’s second stint as prime minister lasted from 2018 until he quit in February 2020.He has been viewed as an advocate of moderate Islamic views and a spokesman for the interests of developing countries. At the same time, he pointedly criticised Western society and nations and their relationships to the Muslim world while he himself was denounced in Israel and elsewhere for making anti-Semitic remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/remarks-on-french-attacks-taken-out-of-context-mahathir-mohamad/story-v8NBu7WWpJ4DjV17V9RuvL.html
31-10-2020||World||Philippines orders evacuation as world’s strongest typhoon approaches||Philippine officials on Saturday ordered evacuation of thousands of residents in the southern part of the main Luzon island as a category 5 storm that is the world’s strongest this year approaches the Southeast Asian nation.Typhoon Goni, with 215 kph (133 miles) sustained winds and gusts of up to 265 kph (164 mph), will make landfall on Sunday as the strongest typhoon to hit the Philippines since Haiyan that killed more than 6,300 people in November 2013.Pre-emptive evacuations have started in coastal and landslide-prone communities in the provinces of Camarines Norte and Camarines Sur, while Albay provincial government would order residents in risky areas to leave their homes, Gremil Naz, a local disaster official, told DZBB radio station. “The strength of this typhoon is no joke.”Typhoon Molave last week killed 22 people, mostly through drowning in provinces south of the capital Manila, which is also in the projected path of Goni, the 18th tropical storm in the country.Authorities are facing another hurdle as social distancing needs to be imposed in evacuation centres to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The Philippines has the second highest Covid-19 infections and deaths in Southeast Asia, next only to Indonesia.Relief goods, heavy machinery and personal protective equipment are already positioned in key areas, Filipino Grace America, mayor of Infanta town in Quezon province, told DZBB radio. “But because of the Covid-19 pandemic, our funds for calamity concerns and expenses are insufficient.”Local officials cancelled port operations and barred fishers from setting sail.Typhoon Goni, moving westward at 20 kph (12 mph) from the Pacific Ocean, will bring intense rains over the capital and 14 provinces nearby on Saturday evening, and threats of floods and landslides.Another typhoon, Atsani, is gaining strength just outside the Philippines. Around 20 typhoons hit the Philippines every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-orders-evacuation-as-world-s-strongest-typhoon-approaches/story-QmaISB4S4Ruc4QIeifB8zO.html
31-10-2020||World||Austria’s Covid-19 cases rise as nation awaits new restrictions||Austria’s daily coronavirus infections jumped by more than a quarter to a new record on Friday, nearing the level at which the government says hospitals will be stretched beyond capacity, as it works on new restrictions to stem the surge.Friday’s official tally of 5,627 was a jump from Thursday’s 4,453, itself a record high, suggesting the conservative-led government is running out of time to bring the numbers under control. The peak of the first wave in March was 1,050.Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who has said hospitals would be stretched beyond capacity at around 6,000 daily infections, will announce new restrictions on Saturday afternoon. He has said an economically damaging second lockdown would be a last resort, but Austrian media reported tough measures in the works.Also Read| Britain may impose new national Covid-19 lockdown from Wednesday: Report“The dramatically rising infection numbers in Austria and many European countries will require restrictions on public life and also affect the domestic economy,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement, adding that it was working on additional economic aid measures to save jobs and keep companies afloat.Austria’s current anti-coronavirus measures are relatively loose - bars, restaurants and theatres remain open. Several Austrian media reported on Friday evening that a curfew from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. was planned, albeit with exceptions allowed for those going to work or simply exercising outdoors.Restaurants would no longer be allowed to serve guests but could provide take-away service outside curfew hours, theatres and cinemas would have to close and hotels could only accept new guests travelling for work or training, national broadcaster ORF said, citing a draft of the planned government decree.Several other media also said they had obtained the draft text and published extracts, saying it was due to expire at the end of November, but it was not clear when exactly it was intended to go into force.Influential tabloid Kronen Zeitung said ski lifts would only be open to top athletes and in exceptional cases such as rescues.Shops and schools would, however, remain open, several media reported, with shops having to limit the number of customers allowed in at one time to one person per 10 square metres of floorspace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/austria-s-covid-19-cases-rise-as-nation-awaits-new-restrictions/story-2BKMneyYgHrLqmhOgUJ53K.html
31-10-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine updates: J&J to test shots in children, Novavax plans an ethnicity-based study||Several countries across the world are witnessing a surge in their daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally as the winter season is approaching. Lockdowns, aggressive testing, timely provision of drugs or medicines are some of the ways in which governments are trying to avoid the recurrence of another spread of the viral disease, which has infected nearly 46 million people and killed 1,193,744.Another crucial factor that governments are taking into consideration to successfully combat Covid-19 is the development of a vaccine. Several companies and organisations, either independently or in collaboration with government authorities, have come up with vaccines which are undergoing a testing and approval process. They are yet to complete the several stages of trials. China, which has been the origin of Covid-19 and has been criticised by many for not revealing the spread of the disease on time, has also stepped up its vaccine research and production.Here are the latest developments of the Covid-19 vaccine:1. American medical device company Johnson & Johnson has planned to start its experimental vaccine in children falling under the age group of 12-18. The company in a statement said that it is currently in discussions with regulators and partners regarding the inclusion of the paediatric population in its vaccine trials. It also plans to include even younger children in its trials afterwards.2. Another American company in the vaccine race, Novavax Inc, has outlined specific diversity targets for its large-scale vaccine study which is expected to start next month in the United States and Mexico. The company at a meeting of advisers to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that it plans to include 10% to 20% Latinos, 15% Black or African Americans and 2% Native Americans in its study.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today3. In India, the Union health ministry has urged states and union territories (UTs) to set up committees in order to monitor and coordinate vaccination at ground level while ensuring that there are minute interruptions in other health care services. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to states and Union territories said the committees will coordinate cold chain augmentation, capacity building activities of vaccinators and field staff if required.4. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is likely to submit a proposal to its ethics committee in order to start the Phase 3 trial Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate in Delhi. Last week, Bharat Biotech got an approval from the drugs controller general of India (DGCI) to conduct phase 3 clinical trials of its vaccine candidate named Covaxin and AIIMS Delhi is one of the sites which has been selected for carrying out trials across India.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic5. The United Kingdom’s drug regulator has started accelerating reviews of Covid-19 vaccines under development from Pfizer Inc. and AstraZeneca Plc, as it gets ready to approve the first successful shot at the earliest. Pfizer and AstraZeneca are among the front runners that could have shots cleared for use this year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-updates-j-j-to-test-shots-in-children-novavax-plans-an-ethnicity-based-study/story-E61PWnKWvdFMFOq5hga2OL.html
31-10-2020||World||Britain may impose new national Covid-19 lockdown from Wednesday: Report||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is considering imposing new national lockdown measures next week, amid concerns that hospitals across the country are overwhelmed by a resurgence in Covid-19 cases, The Times newspaper reported on Friday.The new restrictions could be introduced on Wednesday and remain in place until Dec. 1, the Times said.Johnson is expected to hold a news conference on Monday to announce the new measures, under which everything could be closed except essential shops and “educational settings,” the newspaper said. However, the new measures were still under discussion, and no final decision had been made, the Times added, citing a senior government source. Cabinet Office officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Reuters. Also Read: UK accelerates reviews of Pfizer and Astra-Oxford Covid-19 vaccinesThe United Kingdom on Friday reported 24,405 new cases of Covid-19 and a further 274 deaths within 28 days of a positive test, according to government data. It has now recorded more than 20,000 new coronavirus cases a day on average over the last week.Covid-19 infections are rising so persistently in the United Kingdom that unless something can be done to reduce infections, the “reasonable worst case” scenario of 80,000 dead could be exceeded, scientists warned on Friday.Currently, the government has a three-tier system of restrictions for local areas in England, with Level 3 the highest. Scotland, Wales and North Ireland run their own policies on fighting the pandemic.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn the third tier of restrictions, household mixing is banned, pubs and bars are ordered to remain closed, wedding receptions are not permitted, and travel to or from the area should be avoided.The Times report added that the government is also considering tougher regional measures, known as Tier 4, but ministers are said to be in favour of a nationwide policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-may-impose-new-national-covid-19-lockdown-from-wednesday-report/story-QW0pqlQT9Tq5cOs3ewFMTN.html
31-10-2020||World||700-km traffic jams in Paris as residents flee ahead of 2nd Covid-19 lockdown||Parisians fleeing for the countryside jammed the roads ahead of France’s lockdown to slow the spread of resurgent coronavirus infections, and there was only a sprinkling of people hurrying along city sidewalks Friday as the nationwide restrictions went into effect.Dystopian images of logjams that stretched for 435 miles (700 kilometers) at one point Thursday evening — exacerbated by the upcoming long holiday weekend — were a grim sign of a return to the dark days of the spring, when virus cases first swelled in Europe and many countries kept their citizens inside for weeks on end. With infections hitting record levels in some countries, many are now resorting to severe restrictions again.Also Read: US may need France-like lockdown to beat Covid-19In France, concerns were growing that rising infections would swamp the country’s health system, so authorities ordered another four-week lockdown beginning Friday. Many areas of the French capital resembled a regular lazy weekend morning — on what would normally have been a bustling weekday. Those who were out frequently clutched permission forms proving they had an exemption that allowed them to to be on streets.The only places that were busy were grocery stores and markets as people stockpiled food and other necessities.All of France’s 67 million people have been ordered to stay at home at all times with no visitors, or risk steep fines or prosecution. There are a handful of exceptions, such as being allowed out for one hour of exercise a day within a half-mile (1 kilometer) of home, to go to medical appointments, to a place of work, or to shop for essential goods. Restaurants and cafés are shuttered, apart from those that offer takeout.“Going to friends’ houses, having friends over and moving around for anything other than the reasons set out” will be impossible, Prime Minister Jean Castex explained firmly on Thursday.That will hit hard for many.“It’s not nice because I left my country to enjoy the experience of living in another country,” said Laura Beimberg, 28, an intern at cosmetics giant L’Oreal who is from Mexico. “And this experience of being between four walls, far away from family and friends is so hard.”French President Emmanuel Macron implemented the lockdown as a last resort to curb the steep spike in infections across the country, where new daily cases are currently averaging around 50,000. That means that, on a per capita basis, France is seeing about two and a half times the number of new cases each day that the United States is.But France is not alone. Many of its European neighbors are experiencing rising infections, some even beyond what they saw in the spring. In Belgium, the average number of daily cases is around 150 per 100,000 people, compared to France’s approximately 62.The government in Belgium is meeting Friday to consider even tougher restrictions on movement that would amount to a quasi-lockdown. Germany, which is also seeing an increase in cases though on a much less dramatic scale, agreed this week to a monthlong shutdown of restaurants, bars, theaters and other leisure facilities, dubbed “lockdown light.”Such measures have taken a brutal toll on economies around Europe, and French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire gave grim predictions during an interview on France-Inter, raising his estimate for the depth of the recession. He forecasted an 11% fall in GDP this year.Also Read: Covid-19: French Prez Emmanuel Macron announces new lockdown rules amid surge in casesFrench residents could perhaps be forgiven for thinking it was groundhog day, just a few months after they emerged from one of the strictest lockdowns in Europe.Some were accepting of the reality.“We just have to live with it. You have resign yourself to it,” said Yoann Boullé, 28, a sanguine evening manager at a Parisian brasserie.But many Parisians, who had had enough last time around, didn’t wait to be confined to their typically cramped apartments for four weeks.Carlo Ponti, a 54-year-old interior decorator, was among those who fled Paris, but he did it by train. He called the departure of the Parisians a “historic exodus.”He left Friday morning with his husband after finding all trains were booked Thursday night.“The minute the French president gave his speech (announcing a lockdown), the entire national train website went down, was overloaded. Everyone wanted to book to get away,” Ponti said.He plans to stay in his second home in the French region of Burgundy until over Christmas.“During lockdown, the quality of life in the capital is terrible and so everyone who can do, tries to get away,” he said.Highways around the capital descended into scenes of traffic chaos during the night as residents fled the capital. French media reported that the logjams were more than double the usual in the region around Paris, reaching near record levels as many headed for country or family homes with more space.The traffic was worsened by the fact that many were also leaving for the Nov. 1 All Saints’ Day holiday.Macron said that authorities would be “tolerant” about families returning from the holiday on Monday, but otherwise interregional travel is strictly prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/700-km-traffic-jams-in-paris-as-residents-flee-ahead-of-2nd-covid-19-lockdown/story-bEy5Ldbywp8bhbnnRyhOcJ.html
31-10-2020||World||Growth in China’s services sector accelerates in October: Report||Activity in China’s services sector accelerated in October, official data showed on Saturday, as demand across the economy continues to recover from a coronavirus-induced slump.The official non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose to 56.2 from 55.9 in September, data from the National Bureau of Statistics showed. The 50-point mark separates growth from contraction on a monthly basis.China’s services sector, which includes many smaller, private companies, had been slower to recover from the health crisis than manufacturing, but consumption stepped up in the third quarter.The official October composite PMI, which includes both manufacturing and services activity, rose to 55.3 from September’s 55.1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/growth-in-china-s-services-sector-accelerates-in-october-report/story-yVzvX9kOf7Gnklk3tey46L.html
31-10-2020||World||Minnesota opts against asking Supreme Court to block mail-in ballots ruling||Minnesota officials decided on Friday not to seek emergency intervention from the conservative-majority Supreme Court over an appeals ruling that questioned the legality of their decision to count mail-in ballots received after Election Day.Thursday’s ruling by the 8th US Circuit Court of Appeals in favour of Republicans in the battleground state indicated that ballots received after Election Day, which is on November 3, would not be counted if the extended deadline was ultimately found to be unlawful.The ruling, which is not the final word in the litigation, requires that ballots received after Election Day be separated from other ballots.“While Minnesota will comply with the 8th Circuit’s ruling to segregate the ballots received after November 3, we need to emphasize that there is no court ruling yet saying those ballots are invalid,” said Minnesota Secretary of State Steve Simon, a Democrat.“We absolutely reserve the right to make every argument after Election Day that protects voters,” he added.Simon, who said he conferred with the state attorney general’s office, urged voters not to send ballots in the mail at this point but instead deliver them to county election offices or vote in person. Minnesota law requires that mail-in ballots be received by Election Day. But that deadline was extended through a settlement Simon reached with a citizens group that sued earlier this year.Under that settlement, which was approved by a judge, state election officials could count ballots received until November 10 as long as they are postmarked by November 3. Two Minnesota Republicans, James Carson and Eric Lucero, challenged the settlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/minnesota-opts-against-asking-supreme-court-to-block-mail-in-ballots-ruling/story-Iq643TAGIVwv4fnrmgVkTJ.html
31-10-2020||World||Georgia governor tests negative for Covid-19 after exposure||Republican Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp tested negative for Covid-19 after having had “direct exposure” to someone who tested positive, but he is quarantining as a precaution, according to a statement posted to his official Twitter account Friday.The statement said first lady Marty Kemp also tested negative and is “not known to have been exposed to a confirmed case.” It was unclear whether she was quarantining with her husband. An earlier statement from the governor’s spokesman Cody Hall said she was.In a separate announcement Friday, U.S. Rep. Drew Ferguson of West Point, Georgia, said he had tested positive for the virus.Both Kemp and Ferguson attended a Thursday night campaign event inside a barbecue restaurant in Hogansville, Georgia, with between 100-150 people in attendance, according to the LaGrange Daily News.Hogansville Mayor Bill Stankiewicz, who attended the event, said, “It was close quarters and Drew (Ferguson) did not have a mask on ... for much of the evening,” the newspaper reported.CDC guidelines state that anyone “who has had close contact with someone with Covid-19 should stay home for 14 days after their last exposure to that person.” People can test positive several days after exposure even if initial tests come back negative.It was not clear if Ferguson is the person Kemp’s statement was referring to. Hall did not respond to a phone call and text from The Associated Press seeking clarity.Ferguson said he would self-quarantine and work from home.Georgia has had nearly 360,000 confirmed cases of the virus. More than 7,950 people in the state have died after contracting the virus, according to data from the state Department of Public Health.Kemp has shied away from mandating restrictions to control the virus. He was among the earliest to allow businesses to reopen and has eschewed a statewide mask mandate, including during the summer, when Georgia recorded the highest per-capita number of new infections nationwide.Kemp did ban gatherings of more than 50 people when they can’t stay more than 6 feet (1.83 meters) apart, but the governor has repeatedly violated that order in recent weeks at political rallies, including the one with Ferguson.News of Kemp’s potential exposure comes three weeks into a new round of rising virus cases in Georgia. The daily average of newly reported Covid-19 infections was up 40% through Thursday from the most recent low on Oct. 8, according to figures kept by The Associated Press. Hospitalizations, which usually trail new infections, have been rising since Oct 12.Neither new daily reported infections nor the number of people hospitalized with Covid-19 is yet approaching the peaks of late July. But state public health officials agree the trend is real and worrying. Kemp has spoken little about the respiratory illness since he held a news conference on Oct. 7 touting “great progress” as cases were reaching a low point.Kemp on Friday signed a 15-day extension of the social distancing order and other rules regarding the operations of businesses and nonprofit groups. Those who live in nursing homes and assisted living facilities, as well as people deemed medically fragile, must continue to shelter in place. Kemp also extended a state of emergency through Dec. 9, which gives him the power to decide what restrictions will be put in place across the state.The governors of Oklahoma, Virginia and Missouri have previously tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-governor-tests-negative-for-covid-19-after-exposure/story-x5xAqa5TUweqI5Usod2ifP.html
31-10-2020||World||7.0 magnitude earthquake with 196 aftershocks kills 26 in Turkey, Greece||At least 26 people were killed and more than 700 injured in Turkey and Greece on Friday after a powerful earthquake levelled buildings and caused flooding. As many as 196 aftershocks were felt with 23 hitting over magnitude 4.0, news agency ANI said quoting Turkish media. According to the US Geological Survey, the major earthquake hit 14 kilometres (nine miles) off the Greek town of Karlovasi on Samos. Search and rescue operations are underway at Turkey’s Aegean resort city of Izmir, which suffered much of the damage.Here are the latest updates on the earthquakes:1. Turkey’s western Izmir province and Greek islands in the vicinity were rattled after an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.0 caused massive loss of life and property.2. As a result of the earthquake, a small tsunami struck the Seferihisar district south of Izmir province, causing floods in the area.3. One person died of drowning, according to Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency. 4. The World Health Organization’s (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the global body was “closely following” the situation in Greece and Turkey after the earthquake. “We will work with the two countries to ensure that emergency medical care is provided for those in need. Our thoughts are with all those affected,” he said.5. Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis called Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to offer his condolences and support. They also tweeted their support to each following the tragedy. “Whatever our differences, these are times when our people need to stand together,” Mitsotakis said on Twitter. “Thank you, Mr Prime Minister,” Erdogan tweeted in reply. “That two neighbours show solidarity in difficult times is more valuable than many things in life.”6. The United States hailed both leaders’ gestures of diplomacy. “It’s great to see both countries putting their differences aside to help each other during a time of need. The United States also stands ready to assist,” said Robert O’Brien, the national security advisor.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/7-0-magnitude-earthquake-with-over-100-aftershocks-kills-22-in-turkey-greece-latest-updates/story-LJTLAvG9ZAEL0UaI7mW1cN.html
31-10-2020||World||Johnson & Johnson plans to test its Covid-19 vaccine in ages 12-18 soon||Johnson & Johnson plans to start testing its experimental Covid-19 vaccine in youths aged 12 to 18 as soon as possible, a company executive said at a meeting held by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Friday.“We plan to go into children as soon as we possibly can, but very carefully in terms of safety,” J&J’s Dr. Jerry Sadoff told a virtual meeting of the CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Depending on safety and other factors, the company plans to test in even younger children afterwards, Sadoff, a vaccine research scientist at J&J’s Janssen unit, said.J&J started testing the vaccine in adults in a 60,000-volunteer Phase III study in late September. It had to pause the trial earlier this month because of a serious medical event in one participant. The study resumed last week.Rival drugmaker Pfizer Inc has already begun testing the Covid-19 vaccine it is developing with Germany’s BioNTech in children as young as 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/j-j-plans-to-test-its-covid-19-vaccine-in-ages-12-18-soon/story-AkRmQfO8e9RSaTz0V0rOFK.html
31-10-2020||World||Kamala Harris urges voters to vote in large numbers; bring change at White House||Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris has urged the Americans to come out and vote in large numbers to bring a change at the White House. Speaking at a rally in Texas on Friday, Harris, 56, accused the Republicans of creating a confusion on votes. “Everyone should vote to bring a change at the White House. Need to realise the power of vote and the opponents are for creating confusion on votes,” Harris, who is the first Democratic vice-presidential candidate to address an election rally in Republican stronghold Texas in decades, said. “They know our power. They know when we vote, things change. They know when we vote, we win. We vote to honour the ancestors. We vote because everything is at stake. Everything is at stake,” Harris added.She said the country is undergoing a major health crisis, with the death of more than 220,000 Americans due to coronavirus pandemic and blamed President Donald Trump for the situation.“We want to make sure we see it through and then let’s make sure on Election Day, everybody we know has made sure that their voice, their powerful voice, is represented in this election through their vote, because there is so much at stake and so many reasons to vote,” she said.US is the worst impacted nation by the coronavirus, with the total number of infections and deaths standing at 9,034,925 and 229,544, according to Johns Hopkins University.“We’re in the midst of a public health pandemic. You also have a situation where we have a president who, while we are seeing spikes around our country, talking about we’ve turned the corner, continuing to mislead the American people,” she said.She said that because of the pandemic, the worsening of the wealth gap in America has been such that over 30 million people in just the last several months had to file for unemployment insurance. “We are seeing numbers that tell us one in five mothers who has a child under the age of 12 is describing her children as being hungry,” she rued, adding that the US is in the middle of a hunger crisis.The Democratic Party under the leadership of Joe Biden, she asserted, is a plan to fight coronavirus, and is committed to not raising taxes ever on anyone making less than USD 400,000 a year, and is also committed in investing in working people in America.“Biden understands that we need to deal with these racial disparities. We need to acknowledge them, difficult though they may be, to think about, much less talk about. We need to address it in terms of what we’re doing around healthcare. We need to address it in terms of the racial wealth gap. We need to address it in terms of the gaps in our education system,” she said. She accused President Trump of ruining America. “A president of the United States who has called Mexicans rapists and criminals, who as his first order of business instituted a Muslim ban. America, we deserve better,” she said.“That does not reflect who we are as our values and priorities, as a nation that knows we are our strongest when we are unified, knows that we have so much more in common regardless of where you live, the race, your ethnicity, the language your grandmother speaks,” said the Senator from California.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-urges-voters-to-vote-in-large-numbers-bring-change-at-white-house/story-dhCEU17NFceJ5PStF09zxJ.html
31-10-2020||World||UN defeats Russia resolution promoting women at peace tables||The U.N. Security Council defeated a Russian resolution Friday to commemorate the 20th anniversary of a U.N. measure demanding equal participation for women in activities promoting global peace, with opponents objecting to its failure to adequately address human rights and the key role of civil society in pushing for gender equality.The email vote on the resolution was 5-0, with 10 countries abstaining, far less than the minimum nine “yes” votes required for adoption.Also Read: ‘UN needs to address crisis of confidence’: PM Modi calls for ‘reformed multilateralism’The Russian draft was supported by Russia, China, Vietnam, Indonesia and South Africa. The countries that abstained were the United States, United Kingdom, France, Belgium, Dominican Republic, Germany, Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Tunisia.Opponents said the Russian draft weakened the initial U.N. resolution adopted in 2000 and nine follow-up resolutions -- which Russia strongly denied.Germany’s U.N. Ambassador Christoph Heusgen said his calls for strong language on the human rights foundation of all the resolutions, and for “the adequate reflection of the critical role of civil society, women peacebuilders and human rights defenders” in implementing the measures were not reflected in the Russian draft.What is needed is “action and implementation,” he said, “not more words.”U.S. Ambassador Kelly Craft said the Trump administration and the other countries that abstained were protecting the women, peace and security agenda from an attack by Russia and China, which contributed to the draft resolution.She said the draft resolution “was designed to undermine and reverse the progress of the past 20 years,” and “it is evident that our Russian and Chinese colleagues ... do not believe women should be fully empowered to prevent conflict, or sit at the table to pursue peace and reconciliation.”Russia’s U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia, the current Security Council president, told a news conference after announcing the vote that the defeated draft did reaffirm and urge implementation of all 10 previous resolutions — and he dismissed claims that it was a step back or watered down as “not true.”“Civil society, human rights were all there,” he said. “We are for the civil society and human rights. To accuse us that we are trying to strike out the references to this is at best unworthy.”Civil society and human rights are mentioned in the defeated resolution’s introductory paragraphs -- but not in its binding operative paragraphs. They were in the operative paragraphs in earlier drafts, but diplomats said the were dropped at China’s insistence.The Russian resolution would have commemorated the 20th anniversary of the initial women, peace and security resolution and noted “with deep concern persistent barriers” to its implementation.At a council meeting Thursday commemorating the anniversary, the head of the U.N. agency promoting gender equality said the resolution’s demand for equal participation for women in peace negotiations has failed.Women still remain “systematically excluded” from talks to end conflicts where men make decisions affecting their lives, UN Women’s Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said.Also Read: The UN must reform to stay relevant | HT EditorialDespite some good initiatives, she said that in peace negotiations from 1992 to 2019 only 13 percent of negotiators, 6 percent of mediators, and 6 percent of signatories to peace agreements were women.Mlambo-Ngcuka said negotiations elevated and empowered “the actors that have fueled the violence,” instead of empowering women and others who are peace-builders — and women were either confined to “informal processes or relegated to the role of spectators.”U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres reiterated to the council that “gender equality is first and foremost a question of power, and wherever we look, power structures are dominated by men,” starting at the top where women lead only 7 percent of countries.Britain’s acting U.N. ambassador Jonathan Allen said after the vote that the UK held the widely shared view that the Russian draft lacked “sufficient language on implementation” and on women’s human rights and the protection of civil society.“The adoption of this text would have undermined the significant achievements made on this critical agenda and the enduring efforts of so many women’s rights activists,” Allen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-defeats-russia-resolution-promoting-women-at-peace-tables/story-LP65qD5sC5KVz5TQRCNqYN.html
31-10-2020||World||Donald Trump pitches ‘back to normal’ as Joe Biden warns of tough days||President Donald Trump dangled a promise to get a weary, fearful nation “back to normal” on Friday as he looked to campaign past the political damage of the devastating pandemic. It was a tantalizingly rosy pitch in sharp contrast to Democratic rival Joe Biden, who pledged to level with America about tough days still ahead after Tuesday’s election.In a campaign that has been dominated by the Covid-19 pandemic that has killed more than 227,000 Americans and staggered the economy, the candidates’ clashing overtures stood as a reflection of their leadership styles and policy prescriptions for a suffering U.S.A.Trump and Biden both spent Friday crisscrossing the Midwest, the hardest-hit part of the nation in the latest surge of virus cases. Trump was in Michigan and Biden in Iowa before they both held events in Wisconsin and Minnesota.With four days until the election and more than 86 million votes already cast, time is running out for Trump and Biden to change the contours of a race framed largely around the incumbent’s handling of the pandemic. Biden is leading most national polls and has a narrow advantage in many of the critical battlegrounds that could decide the race.Trump, billing himself as an optimist, says the nation has “turned the corner” from the outbreak that still kills about 1,000 Americans each day. He speaks hopefully of coming treatments and potential vaccines that have yet to receive approval. Biden dismisses Trump’s talk as a siren song that can only prolong the virus, and pledges a nationwide focus on reinstituting measures meant to slow the spread of the disease.“He said a long dark winter,” Trump scoffed Friday at a rally in Michigan. “Oh that’s great, that’s wonderful. Just what our country needs is a long dark winter and a leader who talks about it.”Trump’s rallies, which draw thousands of supporters, have served as representations of the sort of “reopening” he has been preaching. With spotty use of masks and a lack of social distancing, they flout state and local guidelines that he deems too onerous as he speaks as though the virus has largely disappeared.Trump and his aides speak openly about seeking the backing of those “fed up” by state restrictions, and he has encouraged chants among his supporters calling for the imprisonment of local officials who have instituted them. The president believes they represent part of a “silent majority” that will help him pull off another come-from-behind victory on Tuesday.Biden, for his part, referenced Trump’s comments last summer that the virus “is what it is.” He told supporters in Des Moines, Iowa, that “it is what it is because he is who he is! These guys are something else, man.”Biden has seized on comments by Trump’s chief of staff that the virus can’t be controlled and that the administration is focused instead on vaccines and therapeutics. By contrast, Biden is promising to step up the fight to contain the spread, including a mask mandate on federal property and pressure on governors to apply it in their states, and pledging to follow the advice of public health professionals on potentially strict safety rules.Still, Biden appeared sensitive to Trump’s closing cry that the Democrat would impose draconian measures more damaging than the the virus itself.“I’m not going to shut down the country. I’m not going to shut down the economy,” Biden tweeted Friday, responding directly to Trump’s attack lines. “I’m going to shut down the virus.”Trump’s closing appeal to “Make America Great Again, Again” paints a bright image of the nation ‘s condition during pre-coronavirus times that contrasts with Biden’s charge to “Build Back Better.” The president’s focus on returning the nation’s economy to the boom times of 2019 resonates with some voters, but overlooks the divided and rancorous politics that swirled around impeachment and the persistent problems of inequality.As the nation set new records for confirmed cases, Wall Street closed out a punishing week Friday with the S&P 500 posting its first back-to-back monthly loss since the pandemic first gripped the economy in March.Friday marked the beginning of the critical final stretch before the election. Trump’s closing sprint includes four stops in Pennsylvania on Saturday and nearly a dozen events in the final 48 hours across states he carried in 2016.Biden, after visiting Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota on Friday, will hit Michigan on Saturday, where he’ll hold a joint rally with former President Barack Obama.Biden will close out his campaign Monday in a familiar battleground: Pennsylvania, the state where he was born and the one he’s visited more than any other in his campaign. The Biden team announced the candidate, his wife Jill, running mate Sen. Kamala Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, plan to “fan out across all four corners of the state.”After stopping in Green Bay on Friday, Trump will be back in Wisconsin on Monday for a visit to Kenosha. He appears to lag in recent polling behind his 2016 numbers in the GOP-leaning suburbs around Milwaukee, a key area for successful Republican campaigns in the state.A new Marquette University Law School poll shows Trump with support from 52 percent of likely voters in the eight counties that form the half-ring around Milwaukee. In 2016, he received a combined 61 percent of the vote in the eight counties when he won the state by fewer than 25,000 votes.Attendance at the president’s later stop in Rochester, Minnesota, has been capped at 250 people at the insistence of state and local officials.“We have 25,000 people in Minnesota, which is our last stop today — 25,000 people want to be there. And they say you can only have 250 people,” Trump told reporters on the South Lawn of the White House. “They thought I’d cancel. But I’m not canceling and we’ll find out what happens.”The Minnesota Department of Health has linked 28 coronavirus cases to other recent Trump campaign events in the state.Biden aims to hold his election night event in his hometown of Wilmington, Delaware. Trump, who had been scheduled to hold a party at his Washington, D.C., hotel, appeared to be rethinking his plans as a result of the city’s Covid-19 restrictions.“So we have a hotel, I don’t know if you’re allowed to use it or not, but I know the mayor has shut down Washington D.C.,” Trump said as he headed out from the White House. “And if that’s the case, we’ll probably stay here or pick another location.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-pitches-back-to-normal-as-joe-biden-warns-of-tough-days/story-zEGKVdf33KzHXlGaX4xYxM.html
31-10-2020||World||WHO closely following situation in Greece, Turkey after deadly earthquake||The World Health Organization (WHO) is closely monitoring the situation in Greece and Turkey, where powerful quakes struck earlier in the day, and stands ready to provide assistance, if necessary, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Friday.Earlier in the day, a magnitude 6.6 earthquake hit Turkey’s western Izmir province and parts of the Greek islands in the vicinity. Greek seismologists said the magnitude reached 6.9. Multiple casualties and fatalities are being reported by the two countries as crisis control works continue.“I want to start by noting that WHO is closely following the unfolding situation in Greece and Turkey after the earthquake today. We will work with the two countries to ensure that emergency medical care is provided for those in need. Our thoughts are with all those affected,” Tedros told a virtual briefing.Two children were found dead under a collapsed wall in the Greek Island of Samos. The search operation continues.The death toll from the quake in Izmir has reached 12 at the time of the writing and 419 people were confirmed injured. Numerous buildings have collapsed and rescue teams are still underway sorting out the rubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-closely-following-situation-in-greece-turkey-after-deadly-earthquake/story-DoYiSuIBYvAs43dNRqdDLL.html
31-10-2020||World||How the Google litigation may play out in US court||Alphabet Inc’s Google and the US Justice Department are set to face each other in court on Friday for the first time since the government sued the company for illegally monopolising internet search.The hearing marks the first time attorneys for Google and the government will come together to start mapping out the litigation process.“We’re at the top of the first inning of a very long game,” said Mark McCareins, a professor at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management.The government’s first task is to convince the court that the markets laid out in the complaint are the right markets to assess the case. It then must demonstrate that Google has monopoly power in one or more of them.The government says Google has monopoly power in three markets: general search services, search text advertising, and search advertising.General search services is the market for search queries through search engines, which includes competitors like Microsoft Corp.’s Bing. Search text advertising consists of ads sold by search engines that are designed to resemble organic search results. Search advertising is made up all types of ads generated in response to search queries.“If the government can’t prove monopoly power in any of those markets, then the case is over,” said Sam Weinstein, a former Justice Department antitrust official.Google likely will counter by pushing to expand the scope of what’s included in the three markets.Google, which controls some 90% of web search, will have a tough time rebutting claims that it dominates the general search services market because it would have to show that there are venues other than search engines where consumers can perform an internet search, said Jennifer Rie, a litigation analyst for Bloomberg Intelligence.Google is likely to say that a large percentage of product searches begin on online retail giant Amazon.com Inc. Google earned 73% of US search advertising revenue, according to a 2019 report by EMarketer, but Amazon’s share has been rising steadily.Exclusionary dealsIf the Justice Department can prove Google is a monopoly in at least one market, it will then have to show that Google illegally keeps control of the markets by using a web of exclusionary agreements to block rival search engines from competing.Google uses agreements, under which device makers can get a cut of Google’s advertising revenues in exchange for making Google the default search engine.Google is expected to show that its agreements with device makers serve a variety of business purposes other than squashing competing search engines.Federal district court judge Amit Mehta will have to weigh the two sides’ arguments in what’s called a “rule-of-reason” analysis, in which he will balance the pro-competitive and anti-competitive effects that each side demonstrates, said Peter Mucchetti, an antitrust lawyer at Clifford Chance.Harming consumersTo prove that Google’s agreements are illegal, the Justice Department must show that they have harmed competition.Competing search engines don’t have access to the same distribution channels on mobile devices because of Google’s exclusive partnerships, according to the government. The harms to rival search engines have in turn hurt consumers, the US says. The search engine’s conduct also harms advertisers, which must “pay a toll” in the form of higher prices, the US says.“What the government has to do is say that consumers are injured, but not in price,” said John Lopatka, an antitrust professor at Penn State Law.In this scenario, Google will probably argue that its distribution agreements aren’t the reason rival search engines have failed to win market share. Instead, Google is expected to say its product is superior.The precedentThe Google complaint mirrors arguments the government made against Microsoft in 1998, the last major monopoly case brought in the US.In that case, the Justice Department successfully argued that Microsoft illegally maintained its monopoly in computer-operating systems by requiring computer makers to set its web browser as the default on their machines.Google will try distinguish itself from Microsoft. For one, consumers can switch to another search engine more easily than they could switch browsers on their PCs two decades ago, said Cardozo Law’s Weinstein.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-the-google-litigation-may-play-out-in-us-court/story-MgsiiNglwAjJRrdPA5RubN.html
31-10-2020||World||Covid-19: Third American wave breaking all records||A record surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the US is pushing hospitals to the edge, and has taken the death toll again to around 1,000 people a day, even as the attention of much of the country is focused on Tuesday’s presidential election.A look at how the outbreak is expanding for the third time in the country worst hit by the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-third-american-wave-breaking-all-records/story-MskLu7MGImJwrS9IIsG5TL.html
31-10-2020||World||US passes 9 million reported coronavirus cases: Johns Hopkins||The United States passed nine million reported coronavirus cases on Friday, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University, as infections spike days before the nation chooses its next president.The country, which has seen a resurgence of its Covid-19 outbreak since mid-October, has now charted 9,007,298 cases, according to a real-time count by the Baltimore-based school. Donald Trump is battling to hold on to the White House against challenger Joe Biden, who has slammed the president’s virus response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-passes-9-million-reported-coronavirus-cases-johns-hopkins/story-kYSiujBFqQ1o4jmEydqwoI.html
31-10-2020||World||US judge orders ‘extraordinary measures’ to ensure ballot deliveries||US District Judge Emmet Sullivan on Friday ordered the US Postal Service (USPS) to adopt “extraordinary measures” at some processing locations to ensure the timely delivery of millions of ballots before the Nov. 3 presidential election.Sullivan said he was ordering the measures in places where Election Mail processing scores for completed ballots returned by voters were below 90% for at least two days from October 26-28.The list includes Alabama, Alaska, Atlanta, Central Pennsylvania, Colorado/Wyoming, Detroit, Ft. Worth, Greater Indiana, Greater Michigan, Greater South Carolina, Louisiana, Mid-Carolinas, Mississippi, Northern New England, Oklahoma, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-judge-orders-extraordinary-measures-to-ensure-ballot-deliveries/story-Gp68Z1e4eoPU7Ja1B8t7gI.html
31-10-2020||World||On election night, Donald Trump says he would probably stay at White House||US President Donald Trump on Friday said he would probably stay at the White House on Election Night, if there are restrictions on celebrations at his Trump International hotel here. Trump is facing Democratic nominee Joe Biden in the November 3 presidential elections. “We haven’t made a determination. We have certain rules and regulations. You know Washington DC is shut down. The mayor has shut it down. So we have a hotel (Trump International Hotel).. I don’t know if it’s shut, if you’re allowed to use it or not, but I know the mayor has shut down Washington DC,’ Trump told reporters here, when asked where would he be staying on Election Night “And if that’s the case, we’ll probably stay here (White House) or pick another location. I think it’s crazy Washington DC is shut down,” said the president. On Election Night in 2016, Trump was in New York. After becoming the president in 2017, he moved his residence from New York to Florida. On Friday, Trump is travelling to Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. The president has been carrying out on an average three election rallies everyday, each of them attracting thousands of supporters. “We’re doing a lot of travelling. We’ll be doing a lot of rallies. We have some big ones. We’re having a problem with some people in Minnesota where they have a cap because Biden goes there and he can’t draw flies; he can’t draw anybody. Gets a few cars, I guess, and they honk their horn,” he said. “We’ve got the biggest crowds in the history of politics, and I think you will all be witness to that because there has never been anybody that has ever had bigger crowds or more enthusiasm than we have,” he said, adding that there will be 25,000 people at the rally in Minnesota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-election-night-donald-trump-says-he-would-probably-stay-at-white-house/story-Yyw1Ud2StRhgJ1Mrh2R3FM.html
31-10-2020||World||Twitter deletes former Malaysian PM’s tweet for glorifying Nice knife attack; France seeks account suspension||Social networking platform Twitter on Thursday removed former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad’s tweet, for violating its rules banning the glorification of violence, shortly after a violent knife attack in Nice, which left three people dead.In a series of tweets, Mahathir Mohamad had said that “Muslims have a right to be angry and kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past”. It sparked an angry outburst on social media with many users calling out the former Malaysian prime minister.Cedric O, France’s Secretary for Digital Sector also condemned the post and urged Twitter to suspend the account of the former Malaysian prime minister and said in a tweet: “If not, Twitter would be an accomplice to a formal call for murder.”“I just spoke with the Managing Director of Twitter France. The account of former Malaysian PM Mahathir Mohamad must be immediately suspended. If not, Twitter would be an accomplice to a formal call for murder,” Cedric O tweeted.Twitter first labelled the tweet with a disclaimer stating that the posting violated its rules but was being left up because it was in public interest. The networking site later completely deleted the tweet but left the remaining of the Twitter thread intact.Earlier today, Mahathir Mohamad had asserted that Muslims have a right to be angry and “kill millions of French people” for the “massacres of the past”. This comes following French President Emmanuel Macron’s criticism of radical Islam after a school teacher, was beheaded by an 18- year old for showing cartoons depicting Prophet Mohammed in class.In a series of 13 tweets, Mahathir Mohamad posting from his personal Twitter handle lashed out at Macron for not being “civilised” and for being “very primitive in blaming the religion of Islam and Muslims for the killing of the insulting school teacher”.“Muslims have a right to be angry and to kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past. But by and large the Muslims have not applied the “eye for an eye” law. Muslims don’t. The French shouldn’t. Instead the French should teach their people to respect other people’s feelings,” he said.He further said, “Since you have blamed all Muslims and the Muslims’ religion for what was done by one angry person, the Muslims have a right to punish the French. The boycott cannot compensate the wrongs committed by the French all these years.”France’s Secretary of State’s remarks comes after another attack was witnessed on Thursday where a knife-wielding man killed two women and a man at the Notre-Dame Basilica in Nice and injured several others. The police detained the attacker and launched an investigation on terrorism grounds.The attack in Nice was followed by a knife-stabbing attempt in France’s southeastern city of Avignon and another one at the French Consulate in Saudi Arabia.A few days ago, Samuel Paty, a school teacher, was beheaded by an 18-year-old teenager on the outskirts of Paris after he showed cartoons depicting the Prophet during a lesson. Paty was posthumously granted France’s highest award, the Legion d’Honneur, and commemorated in the national ceremony at the Sorbonne University in Paris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-deletes-malaysian-pm-s-tweet-for-glorifying-nice-knife-attack-france-seeks-account-suspension/story-IIZUvGsPbZLkCzvRGUUfHO.html
