19-01-2022||World||Explained: Why major airlines suffered disruptions due to US 5G 'nightmare'||Multiple airlines had their services affected on Wednesday, with dozens of flights getting cancelled or rescheduled, as the on-off rollout of 5G mobile in the United States triggered what an airline pilot called a “nightmare” of scheduling for carriers coming to terms with rapidly changing airplane restrictions.BackgroundA dispute between airlines and telecom companies in the US has been going on for weeks now over the speed of deployment of 5G mobile services in the country.US airlines and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) have said frequencies and transmission strength being deployed in the country could interfere with the precise height readings needed for bad-weather landings on some jetliners. The tensions have also been mirrored by regulators of other economically sensitive industries.What caused the latest outage?A decision by two US wireless carriers – AT&T and Verizon Communications – to delay switching on the powerful new 5G telecom masts near key airports came too late to avoid a ripple of cancellations on Wednesday.Airlines across Asia and several in the Middle East and Europe said they were cancelling some flights or switching models, with much of the initial disruption hitting the Boeing 777, for decades a workhorse of long-distance air travel.Dubai's Emirates, the largest user of the Boeing mini-jumbo, kicked off a slew of industry cancellations or aircraft changes late on Tuesday, saying it would suspend nine US routes.Why are airlines afraid?The C-Band frequencies used for 5G networks are close to those used by the altimeters of airplanes.US telecom operators were allocated frequencies between 3.7 and 3.98 gigahertz for their 5G networks -- a right that cost the companies tens of billions of dollars.But the aviation sector is concerned that the frequencies used by the mobile companies are too close for comfort to those used by aircraft's radio altimeters, which operate between 4.2 and 4.4 GHz.Altimeters measure the distance between an aircraft and the ground, a vital instrument when landing at night or during bad weather."The concern is that the smaller gap between the upper 5G frequency in the US and these frequencies is small enough to potentially cause interference as aircraft are on approach to land," Nigel Linge, a telecommunications professor at the University of Salford in the UK, told AFP.What have US authorities decided?Aircraft makers Airbus and Boeing had voiced concerns about the potential risks of interferences to the US transportation secretary in December.The 5G rollout was then delayed until January 19 following a request from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to ensure the system is safe."If there's the possibility of a risk to the flying public, we are obligated to restrict the relevant flight activity until we can prove it is safe," the FAA says on its website.The FAA approved two models of radio altimeters and gave the green light to 48 of the 88 US airports most directly linked to 5G risks.Other countries at risk?The concerns are confined to the United States."It's not a global or European issue. It's really an issue specific to the use of 5G and its rollout in the United States in terms of frequency bands and power," Airbus chief Guillaume Faury said earlier this month.In Europe, 5G networks were given C-Band frequencies ranging between 3.4 and 3.8 GHz, thus providing more distance to those used by aircraft."Europe has been transmitting 5G on their frequencies for many months and no reports of problems have been made in respect of airlines," Linge said.South Korea, a leader in the new-generation mobile technology, gave 5G networks a ceiling of 3.7 GHz.But the US telecom industry's lobby group, CTIA, has pointed to another example: Japan, where 5G networks have been given a frequency spectrum as high as 4.1 GHz."There have been no claims of interference" in Japan, the CTIA has said.What are the measures to mitigate risks?In France, buffer zones were created around 17 large airports, restricting the strength of 5G signals and ensuring mobile base station antennas do not broadcast upwards, according to French authorities.The areas extend several kilometres from landing trips.The FAA says the mitigation measures in the US are partly similar to those in France, with "significant differences".The buffer zones for US airports only protect the last 20 seconds of flight, compared to 96 seconds in France, according to the FAA.The temporary lower power levels in the United States are 2.5 times higher than in France. And in the United States, mobile base station antennas are not required to be tilted downward, the FAA says.(Information sourced from Reuters and AFP)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/major-airlines-disrupted-worldwide-by-us-5g-nightmare-what-are-the-concerns-101642604015188.html
19-01-2022||World||China forced return of nearly 10,000 nationals in overseas crackdown, says report||China has coerced nearly 10,000 Chinese overseas nationals to return since 2014 using means and methods outside the justice system, a new report by the Spain-based rights group Safeguard Defenders said.The figure could be the “tip of the iceberg”, the group has said, given that China is increasingly pursuing its nationals aggressively overseas.The report said China is expanding its policing powers overseas and conducting illegal operations on foreign soil.The Chinese foreign ministry dismissed the report, saying the drive to bring back fugitives is part of the government’s anti-corruption campaign, carried out overseas with international consensus. “Combating transnational corruption crimes through cooperation is an international consensus,” foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday.“This is a just cause that has won full support from the Chinese people and wide praise from the international community,” Zhao added.Zhang was repeating China’s official narrative: The targets are people wanted by the Chinese judicial system as part of President Xi Jinping’s ongoing anti-corruption drive.The Safeguard Defencers’ report from Spain, however, paints a grim picture, detailing cases where those who criticised the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) had relatives in the country harassed and detained in attempts to coerce them to return. “Through two programmes, Operation Fox Hunt and Operation Sky Net, targeted individuals were pressured to return to China against their will due to a combination of non-judicial methods, including kidnappings, harassment and intimidation,” the report said.“With the Chinese diaspora growing at an ever faster rate as more people seek to leave China... Beijing has never been more motivated to expand the powers of its security forces overseas,” the report said.The group cited government data in its estimate that almost 10,000 Chinese nationals had been forcibly returned since 2014.Official figures from the government’s anti-graft watchdog show Beijing returned around 2,500 targeted individuals in the past two years, according to agency reports.But the numbers do not include suspects apprehended for non-economic crimes or those who are not members of China’s ruling Communist Party.The NGO’s report alleges intimidation of suspects’ family members in China is widespread and Chinese agents are sent to threaten targets in foreign countries.Sometimes overseas nationals are lured to third countries that have extradition agreements with China, the rights group said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-forced-return-of-nearly-10-000-nationals-in-overseas-crackdown-says-report-101642603521606.html
19-01-2022||World||Taslima Nasreen ‘resurrected’ by Facebook after it ‘memorialised’ her account||Controversial Bangladesh-born author Taslima Nasreen tweeted to inform she has been ‘resurrected’ on Meta Platforms, formerly known as Facebook, after her account on the social media site was ‘memorialised’ by the Menlo Park, California-headquartered company.“Resurrected on facebook,” Nasreen tweeted on January 18, ending the post with a winking smiley. Resurrected on facebook. 😉On Tuesday, she tweeted that Facebook has ‘killed’ her. “I am alive. Not even sick or bedridden or hospitalized, but facebook memorialized my facebook account.” #Facebook killed me. I am alive. Not even sick or bedridden or hospitalized, but facebook memorialized my facebook account.In a subsequent tweet, she posted the screenshot of her ‘memorialised’ Meta account. “@Meta, @fb security @facebookapp @MetaNewsroom @Facebook I am very much alive. But you memorialized my facebook account. What a sad news! How could you do that? Please give me back my account,” the author, who has been living in exile since 1994, requested.  😮 @Meta @fbsecurity @facebookapp @MetaNewsroom @Facebook I am very much alive. But you memorialized my facebook account. What a sad news! How could you do that? Please give me back my account. pic.twitter.com/mwZNbcOopyThe writer, who left her home nation due to troubles over her controversial novel ‘Lajja,’ also claimed that ‘Jihadists are celebrating my death, eating and distributing sweets, as facebook declared I am dead and memorialized my fb account.’
19-01-2022||World||2021 was among the seven hottest years on record, says UN body||NEW DELHI: Last year was one of the seven hottest years on record, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), a United Nations body, said on Wednesday.Although La Niña conditions between 2020 and 2022 had a cooling effect on the global average temperatures, 2021 was still one of the seven hottest years on record, six international data sets consolidated by the WMO have revealed. La Niña refers to a large-scale cooling of the ocean surface temperatures in the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean. It has a temporary global cooling effect.The average global temperature last year was 1.11 (± 0.13) degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, spanning the period from 1850 to 1900. Last year was the seventh consecutive year, starting with 2015, when the global average temperature was more than 1 degree Celsius above pre-industrial levels, the data sets compiled by the WMO show.The Copernicus Climate Change Service estimated that 2021 was the fifth hottest year on record, and marginally hotter than 2015 and 2018. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and Berkeley Earth found that 2021 was the sixth hottest year on record. Nasa GISTEMP and HadCRUT also said that 2021 was the sixth hottest year on record. Data from the Japanese Meteorological Agency (JMA) Reanalysis Rank 2021 show that last year was indeed the seventh hottest year on record.Also Read: Centre lists districts vulnerable to climate crisis in 1st weather hazard atlasThe differences in the data sets indicate the margin of error for calculating the average global temperature. Since the 1980s, each decade has been hotter than the previous one, according to the data put together by the UN body, and the trend is likely to continue.The hottest seven years have all been recorded since 2015, with 2016, 2019 and 2020 topping the list. A strong El Niño event occurred in 2016, which had sparked record global average warming.“Back-to-back La Niña events mean that 2021 warming was relatively less pronounced compared to recent years. Even so, 2021 was still warmer than previous years influenced by La Niña. The overall long-term warming as a result of greenhouse gas increases is now far larger than the year-to-year variability in global average temperatures caused by naturally occurring climate drivers,” said WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas.“The year 2021 will be remembered for a record-shattering temperature of nearly 50 degrees Celsius in Canada, comparable to the values reported in the hot Saharan desert of Algeria, exceptional rainfall, and deadly flooding in Asia and Europe as well as drought in parts of Africa and South America. Climate change impact and weather-related hazards had life-changing and devastating impact on communities on every single continent,” Taalas said.Last year was also the fifth hottest during the past 121 years for India, after 2016, 2009, 2017 and 2010, according to the Annual Climate Statement 2021 released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) last week.The annual mean air temperature was 0.44 degrees Celsius above normal in 2021, while in 2016, it was 0.71°C above normal; 0.55°C in 2009; 0.54°C in 2017 and 0.53°C in 2010.“This is certainly an impact of global warming. The fact that the most recent years after 2000 are recorded to be the warmest years is not just true for India but also globally. That is why we are preparing better forecast strategies in view of global warming,” said M Mohapatra, director general of the IMD.The Paris Agreement aims to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels while pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2021-was-among-the-seven-hottest-years-on-record-says-un-body-101642585339685.html
19-01-2022||World||Explained: Why Tonga volcano eruption was so big and what's next||People around the world looked on in awe at the spectacular satellite images of an undersea volcano erupting in a giant mushroom cloud in the Pacific. Many wondered why the blast was so big, how the resulting tsunami traveled so far, and what will happen next. New Zealand scientists Shane Cronin, a volcanology professor at the University of Auckland, and Emily Lane, a tsunami expert at the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, help explain.Explosive but briefThe eruption on Saturday was incredibly explosive but also relatively brief. The plume rose into the air more than 30 kilometers (19 miles) but the eruption lasted only about 10 minutes, unlike some big eruptions that can continue for hours. Cronin said the power of the eruption of the Hunga Tonga Hunga Ha’apai volcano ranks among the world's biggest over the past 30 years, and the height of the plume of ash, steam and gas was comparable with the huge 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines, which killed several hundred people.Why so big?The magma inside the volcano was under enormous pressure and had gasses trapped within it. A fracture in the rock likely induced a sudden drop in pressure, allowing the gas to expand and blast the magma apart. Cronin said the crater was sitting about 200 meters (650 feet) below the sea surface, a kind of Goldilocks depth for a big explosion in which seawater pours into the volcano and turns instantly into steam, adding to the rapid expansion and energy of the explosion. Any deeper and the extra pressure of the water would have helped contain the eruption.Explained: Scientists struggle to monitor Tonga volcano after massive eruptionFarflung tsunamiMany scientists were surprised that a single eruption could produce a Pacific-wide tsunami of about 1 meter (3 feet) that smashed boats in New Zealand and caused an oil spill and two drownings in Peru. Lane said that oceanwide tsunamis are usually triggered by earthquakes that extend across huge areas rather than from a single volcano, essentially a tiny dot in the ocean. She said other factors may have been at play, such as an underwater flank of the volcano collapsing and displacing water. She said one interesting theory is that the shock wave, or sonic boom, from the volcano that traveled twice around the world may have pumped more power into the tsunami waves.Tonga mainly sparedAnother mystery is why the tsunami wasn't bigger and more destructive in Tonga, which sits almost on top of the volcano.“That's the million dollar question,” Cronin said. “Looking at the images so far, the level of devastation is less than I was fearing.”Authorities by Wednesday had confirmed three deaths in Tonga, with concerns remaining about people on some of the hard-hit smaller islands. Dozens of homes were destroyed.Lane said that Tongans at least got some warning, both from the increased activity at the volcano the day before the eruption and from the incredibly loud bang when it erupted but before the tsunami hit, allowing many to scramble to higher ground. She said reefs, lagoons and other natural features may also have protected parts of Tonga, while amplifying the waves in certain areas.Falling ashThe ash that has coated Tonga is acidic but not poisonous, Cronin said. Indeed, he has been advising Pacific responders that people may still be able to drink from their rainwater supplies even if some ash has fallen in, which will make the water more acidic and salty. He said it was a question of applying the taste test and if water became scarce, it would be better drinking ash-tainted water than stagnant water that might be contaminated with bacteria. New Zealand and other nations are trying to get water and other supplies to Tonga as quickly as possible. Cronin said all of Tonga's soil comes from volcanic ash and the latest dump of ash would quickly wash into the ground and make the nation more fertile.No global coolingHuge volcanic eruptions can sometimes cause temporary global cooling as sulfur dioxide is pumped into the stratosphere. But in the case of the Tonga eruption, initial satellite measurements indicated the amount of sulfur dioxide released would only have a tiny effect of perhaps 0.01 degree Celsius (0.02 Fahrenheit) global average cooling, said Alan Robock, a professor at Rutgers University.What's nextCronin envisions two main scenarios for the volcano. The first is that it has exhausted itself for now and will go quiet for the next 10 to 20 years as magma slowly returns. A second scenario is that new magma rises up quickly to replace that which exploded, in which case there might be ongoing eruptions. But he believes the cracks and rifts caused by Saturday's big explosion will allow more gas to escape, and subsequent eruptions won't be as big, at least for now. Both Cronin and Lane agree there needs to be much better monitoring of the volcano — and others in Tonga — to help better predict future events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-why-tonga-volcano-eruption-was-so-big-and-what-s-next-101642572448039.html
19-01-2022||World||Beijing adds 3 more Covid-19 cases weeks ahead of Winter Olympics||China's capital Beijing has reported three more Covid-19 cases since Monday, weeks before the Winter Olympics are scheduled to kick off in the capital on February 4.Health authorities have been stepping up anti-epidemic measures such as locking down places where the three visited recently and carrying out PCR tests targeting those who may have come into contact with the infected people, raising tensions in the city, Kyodo News reported.Beijing on Saturday reported the first local infection of the highly transmissible Omicron variant, involving a person who had visited multiple malls and restaurants in the previous 14 days. The person had not left the city since the start of this year, reported Taipei Times.The Covid-19 Omicron variant has been cropping up across China in recent days, including in major port cities like Dalian and Tianjin.Meanwhile, China on Monday announced that it will restrain selling tickets to the general public for the Beijing Winter Olympics and Paralympics.As per the organizers, the move comes amid community infections of the highly contagious Omicron coronavirus variant that have been expanding in China, reported Kyodo News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-adds-3-more-covid-19-cases-weeks-ahead-of-winter-olympics-101642568190559.html
19-01-2022||World||Russia can invade Ukraine at any moment, warns US||WASHINGTON: In a clear escalation of the tensions over Ukraine, the United States warned on Tuesday that Russia could, at any point, attack Ukraine. But while terming it an “extremely dangerous” situation, Washington kept the doors for diplomacy open with Moscow – with US secretary of state Antony Blinken speaking to his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, and both leaders agreeing to meet in Geneva this week.White House press secretary, Jen Psaki, blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin or having created the crisis by amassing 100,000 Russian troops along Ukraine’s border, and added, “This includes moving Russian forces into Belarus recently for joint exercises and conducting additional exercises on Ukraine’s eastern borders. Let’s be clear. Our view is that this is an extremely dangerous situation. We are now at a stage where Russia could, at any point, launch an attack in Ukraine…That’s more stark than we have been.”Psaki reiterated the US position that Russia would face “severe consequences” if it chose not to pursue the diplomatic path.Blinken will first visit Ukraine – where, according to a senior state department official, he planned to emphasise “US support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine”. He will then visit Germany – where, according to the same official, Blinken will continue intensive consultations with European allies and partners “as part of our unified response to Russia’s actions”. Also Read: Russia moves more troops westward amid Ukraine tensionsOn Friday, he will meet Lavrov in Geneva. The senior official said, “The United States does not want conflict. We want peace. President Putin has it in his power to take steps to de-escalate this crisis so the United States and Russia can pursue a relationship that is not based on hostility or crisis.”In recent weeks, US officials have stepped up their warnings over Russian actions. Recent talks held between the US and Russia bilaterally in Geneva, between NATO and Russia in Brussels, and under the auspices of the Organisation of Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) – of which both US and Russia are members – in Vienna failed to break the stalemate.The latest trigger for the crisis is Russian troop movement to Belarus. A second senior state department official said, “Reports of Russian troop movements towards Belarus, which these movements are supposedly under the auspices of regularly scheduled joint military exercises, are concerning. The timing is notable, and of course raises concerns that Russia could intend to station troops in Belarus under the guise of joint military exercises in order, potentially, to attack Ukraine from the north.”The official claimed that Belarus’s upcoming changes to its constitution included “language that could be interpreted as paving the way for Russia to garrison forces on Belarusian territory”; this could indicate Belarus’s plans to “allow Russian conventional and nuclear forces” to be stationed on its territory. The official added that more than a question of Kremlin’s intent, the issue was of capabilities. “What it represents is an increased capability for Russia to launch this attack, increased opportunity, increased avenues and increased routes.”The first official said that the US was concerned that Russia was creating a pretext for an invasion. “This idea that Russia could be laying the groundwork to have the option of fabricating a pretext for invasion – whether it’s through sabotage activities, information operations, or troop movements – this is something we are paying very close attention to.” Giving a more specific timeline, the official said, “Russian military plans to begin activities several weeks before a military invasion are something we have been watching closely, and our assessment has been that could happen anytime between mid-January and mid-February.” The Pentagon, while reiterating that Russians showed no signs of de-escalating, appeared more circumspect about Putin’s ultimate goal. Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told reporters, “It would be difficult for us to say with specificity and certainty what we know Mr. Putin is driving at here. He clearly is building up a force posture there that provides him multiple options. It’s just difficult to know right now what options he’s going to choose and we still don’t believe that he’s made a final decision.”
19-01-2022||World||Website for free Covid tests launched in US. How does it work?||Under criticism after weeks of shortages, President Joe Biden's administration is working to make Covid-19 rapid test kits more available and accessible to Americans by boosting supply and lowering costs. A new federal website to request free test kits officially launches Wednesday — but was available to use Tuesday — with the first shipments going out to U.S. households by the end of the month. In addition, most Americans are now able to get reimbursed for tests that they purchase.Key details about the new programs:How can I request a free test?Free tests can be ordered at covidtests.gov or at usps.com/covidtest. The first tests will ship by the end of January. The White House says “tests will typically ship within 7-12 days of ordering” through the U.S. Postal Service. USPS reports shipping times of 1-3 days for its first-class package service in the continental United States. Shipments to Alaska, Hawaii, Army Post Office (APO), Fleet Post Office (FPO) and Diplomatic Post Office (DPO) addresses will be sent through Priority Mail.Importantly, given the shipping and process times, Americans will need to request the tests well before they meet federal guidelines for requiring a test.Does the website work?The White House emphasized that the website was in “beta testing" when it made tests available for ordering for the first time on Tuesday. At points, more than 750,000 people were accessing the website at the same time, according to public government tracking data, but it was not immediately known how many orders were placed.There were isolated reports Tuesday afternoon of issues relating to the website’s address verification tool erroneously enforcing the four-per-household cap on apartment buildings and other multi-unit dwellings. A spokesperson for the Postal Service said in a statement that the error was “occurring in a small percentage of orders.” He said any user needing assistance could file a service request at emailus.usps.com/s/the-postal-store-inquiry or contact a help desk at 1-800-ASK-USPS.When should I test?The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends at-home testing when people experience COVID-19 systems including fever, cough, sore throat, respiratory symptoms and muscle aches; five days after a potential COVID-19 exposure; or as part of test-to-stay protocols in schools and workplaces.How many tests can I order from the website?The White House says that “to promote broad access," shipments from covidtests.gov will initially be limited to four rapid tests per residential address, no matter the number of occupants.Is there another way to get a test kit for free?Starting on Jan. 15, private insurers have been required to cover the cost of up to eight at-home rapid tests per month per insured person, under a new Biden administration rule.People have the option of buying tests at a store or online, then seeking reimbursement from their health insurance provider. Insurers are being incentivized to work with pharmacies and retailers to develop plans to cover the cost of the tests with no out-of-pocket cost to customers, but those programs will not be immediately widespread.Those with public health insurance through Medicare, or without insurance, are being directed to covidtests.gov to order tests or to community health centers in their area offering free testing.How will I be reimbursed?The Biden administration says the procedures will differ from insurer to insurer, and it is encouraging Americans to save receipts from rapid test purchases for later reimbursement and to reach out to their insurance providers for information.Critically, the requirement only covers purchases on or after Jan. 15. Insurers are not expected to retroactively reimburse the cost of tests purchased earlier.What are other testing options?The Biden administration is emphasizing that the website is just one tool for Americans to access COVID-19 testing. Millions of free tests are available at participating pharmacy locations, community health centers and Federal Emergency Management Agency-backed sites in some parts of the country experiencing a surge in cases.Which home test will I get?That will vary. The federal government has secured more than 420 million tests for distribution through covidtests.gov already, with plans to increase the order to 1 billion tests in the coming weeks. All of the tests supplied will be authorized by the Food and Drug Administration and are capable of detecting the more-transmissible omicron variant of Covid-19, which is the dominant strain in the U.S. While they are packaged differently and may use slightly different procedures, officials said, the test mechanisms of detection and effectiveness are generally the same. All tests will come with detailed instructions.Why is Biden buying these test kits?It represents an acknowledgement by the president that the administration needs to do more to increase access to Covid-19 testing, which is an important tool to help slow the spread of the coronavirus.In cases where infected people show symptoms or not, testing is the only way to find out if they have the virus so they can avoid being out and about and potentially spreading disease.Demand for test kits soared as the holidays neared and people grew eager to test themselves and their families before traveling and as the omicron variant spread rapidly in just a few weeks to become the dominant strain in the U.S.Biden's promise of 1 billion test kits is in addition to the administration's earlier pledge to send 50 million rapid tests to community health centers across the country.How much will the program cost?The White House estimates the cost of purchasing and distributing the first 500 million tests at about $4 billion. That will be paid for with money from the $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief bill Biden signed into law in March.Will the government program make it harder for me to find a test at the drugstore?White House officials say the covidtests.gov tests are coming from new manufacturing capacity and should not interfere with existing supplies that drugstores, health clinics and state governments are relying on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/website-for-free-covid-tests-launched-in-us-how-does-it-work-101642557867193.html
19-01-2022||World||Hong Kong to cull 2,000 hamsters amid Covid-19 risk||In Hong Kong, some hamsters tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a pet store and authorities will now cull as many as 2,000 rodents "as a precautionary measure". Officials will also stop the sale and import of rodents in the city. The move came after one of the employees of the pet shop contracted the disease.According to the reports, authorities are also working to track customers who purchased hamsters from the affected store after January 7 and are asking the owners to quarantine as per the mandate. They will also undergo a mandatory Covid test.Authorities acknowledged that there is “no evidence” that pets can transmit the coronavirus to humans, but for now, they would not rule out the possibility. They are "acting out of caution even though there was no evidence domestic animals can infect humans," Health secretary Sophia Chan said in a news conference.The thousands of hamsters will be culled in a humane manner, authorities have said. Other pet stores in the nearby areas are also asked to stop selling hamsters in Hong Kong.Speaking on the matter, agriculture, fisheries and conservation department director Leung Siu-fai said the Hong Kong hamsters had to be put down as it was impossible to quarantine and observe each one.He also asked people to "avoid kissing" their pets. "Pet owners should keep a good hygiene practice, including washing hands after touching the animals, handling their food or other items, and avoid kissing the animals," Leung said, as per Reuters report.Around the world, Covid-19 in dogs and cats have been reported since the emergence of the virus in 2019. However, scientists say there is no evidence animals play a major role in human contagion.Last year, Denmark culled millions of minks to curb Covid-19 mutations. Mink easily become infected by Covid-19 and infection is exacerbated because they are bred in large numbers and kept in cramped living conditions, the World Health Organization has said. The mammal is also expected to host future mutations.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-to-cull-2-000-hamsters-amid-covid-19-risk-101642559379724.html
19-01-2022||World||US Supreme Court to determine fate of $30 mn Pissarro painting looted by Nazis||The US Supreme Court on Tuesday weighed the fate of a painting by Camille Pissarro looted by the Nazis in 1939 and currently on display at a gallery in Spain.The 1897 painting, "Rue Saint-Honore in the Afternoon. Effect of Rain," like some other works by the French impressionist, is at the heart of a long legal battle with international ramifications.The painting, now estimated to be worth around $30 million, once belonged to Lilly Cassirer Neubauer, a member of a prominent German Jewish family.Neubauer was forced to hand it over for a pittance to the Nazis in 1939 in exchange for the visa which allowed her to leave Germany.The Neubauer family lost track of the painting after World War II and accepted compensation of $13,000 from the German government in 1958 but did not waive their rights to the artwork.The painting changed hands several times in the ensuing decades before ending up with the Thyssen-Bornemisza museum in Madrid.It was acquired in 1976 by Baron Hans-Heinrich Thyssen Bornemisza, heir to the Thyssen industrial group, from the Stephen Hahn Gallery in New York.Claude Cassirer, Neubauer's grandson, discovered in 2000 that the painting was on display in Madrid and launched legal efforts in Spain and California to recover it.Cassirer died in 2010 at the age of 89 but his children, David and Ana, have pursued the court challenges.After suffering defeats in courts in Spain and California, the Supreme Court represents their final hope.The highest US court will decide whether Spanish law or US state law applies in the case.Under Spanish property law, a purchaser is not required to return an item if it was not known at the time that it may have had illegal origins and they have possessed it for at least six years."At no point were the Baron's title to the painting nor his good faith in its acquisition called into question," according to a statement by the museum.Under California law, a looted or stolen item cannot be passed on even if it was purchased in good faith.The court heard technical arguments on Tuesday as to which law should apply and is expected to render its decision in several months.The Nazis are estimated to have plundered some 600,000 artworks in Europe, according to a US congressional report, and courts on both sides of the Atlantic have regularly heard cases designed to restore items to their original owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-to-determine-fate-of-30-mn-pissarro-painting-looted-by-nazis-101642552850230.html
19-01-2022||World||US finds more cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza of H5N1 in wild birds||The US department of agriculture on Tuesday reported two more cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza in wild birds, days after it detected the first case of a Eurasian H5 type of the virus since 2016. Two cases of Eurasian H5 avian influenza have been detected in Colleton County of South Carolina while one case has been reported from Hyde County in North Carolina.All three cases — reported in American wigeon, blue-winged teal, and northern shoveler — are of the H5N1 strain which has caused a wave of bird flu outbreaks in poultry across Europe and Asia. Even as H5N1 is one of the few bird flu strains that has passed to humans, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention considers the risk to the general public to remain low.The animal and plant health inspection service (APHIS) said in a release that no human infections with Eurasian H5 viruses have been reported in the United States. As a precautionary measure, poultry and eggs should be properly handled and cooked to an internal temperature of 165˚F at which bacteria and viruses get killed.The US agency has advised people to minimise direct contact with wild gloves by using gloves since wild birds can get infected with H5N1 without appearing sick.“If contact occurs, wash your hands with soap and water, and change clothing before having any contact with healthy domestic poultry and birds. Hunters should dress game birds in the field whenever possible and practice good biosecurity to prevent any potential disease spread,” the release said.The USDA has advised poultry producers to prevent contact between their birds and wild birds, and report sick birds or unusual bird deaths to state or federal officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-finds-more-cases-of-highly-pathogenic-avian-influenza-of-h5n1-in-wild-birds-101642549632271.html
19-01-2022||World||All homes on one of Tonga's islands destroyed, three dead||All the homes on one of Tonga's small outer islands have been destroyed by a massive volcanic eruption and tsunami, with three people so far confirmed dead, the government said on Tuesday in its first update since the disaster struck.With communications, information on the scale of the devastation after Saturday's eruption had so far mostly come from reconnaissance aircraft.But the office of Prime Minister Siaosi Sovaleni said in a statement that every home on Mango island, where around 50 people live, had been destroyed, only two houses remained on Fonoifua, and Namuka island had suffered extensive damage.Tonga’s deputy head of mission in Australia, Curtis Tu’ihalangingie, earlier said pictures taken by the New Zealand Defence Force (NZDF) showed "alarming" scenes of a village destroyed on Mango and buildings missing on Atata island, which is closer to the volcano."People panic, people run and get injuries. Possibly there will be more deaths and we just pray that is not the case," Tu’ihalangingie told Reuters.Sovaleni's office said a 65-year-old woman on Mango and a 49-year-old man on Nomuka island had been killed, in addition to the British national whose body was found on Monday. A number of injuries were also reported.Tsunami waves reaching up to 15 metres hit the Ha’apia island group, where Mango is located, and the west coast of Tonga’s main island, Tongatapu, the office said. Residents were being moved to evacuation centres as 56 houses were destroyed or seriously damaged on that coast.Atata and Mango are between about 50 km and 70 km from the Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai volcano, which sent tsunami waves across the Pacific Ocean when it erupted with a blast heard 2,300 km (1,430 miles) away in New Zealand.ASH COVERSatellite images from Sunday show the caldera of Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha’apai has collapsed and the island has lost a substantial percentage of its initial surface area, said the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).A rescue operation began on Sunday for Atata, which has a population of about 100 people, with an evacuation under way."Challenges to sea and air transportation remain due to damage sustained by the wharves and the ash that is covering the runways," the PM's office said.A thick layer of ash blankets the islands, the aerial images provided to Tonga by New Zealand and Australia showed.The archipelago's main Fua’amotu International Airport was not damaged but the ash was having to be manually cleared from the runway, with the earliest opening being on Wednesday, the OCHA said.As well as the damage locally, scientists say the eruption could have a long lasting impact on coral reefs, coastlines and fisheries in the wider region, as well as causing acid rain.Parts of Peru's coast were dirtied by oil spilled from a discharge ship rocked by waves caused by the eruption, Peruvian Environment Minister Ruben Ramirez said.Clean water sources remain a concern and Tonga's government has advised people to drink only bottled water as sources may be contaminated with ash, debris and the sea, the OCHA said.The Tongan navy has deployed with health teams and water, food and tents to the Ha'apai islands, with more aid sent on Tuesday, the prime minister's office said.The NZDF images, posted on Facebook and confirmed by Tu’ihalangingie, showed tarpaulins being used as shelter on Mango, one of the kingdom's 176 islands.UNDERSEA CABLETonga is expected to issue formal requests for aid soon but in the meantime New Zealand said two ships, HMNZS Wellington and HMNZS Aotearoa, had set off with water supplies, survey teams and a helicopter. UN teams are on standby, the OCHA said.Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said C-130 aircraft from Australia could deliver humanitarian assistance including water purification kits, while the HMAS Adelaide, which would take five days to get to Tonga, was ready to take engineering and medical teams and helicopter support.The PM's office said some limited communications had been made with satellite phones, but some areas remained cut off.For families waiting for news, the silence was deafening. "The worst fear is always that you're not going to see the people that you love again," said Seini Taumoepeau, a Tongan-Australian in Sydney who has relatives across the islands.International mobile phone network provider Digicel has set up an interim system on the main island using the University of South Pacific’s satellite dish, New Zealand said.Subcom, a U.S. based private company contracted to repair subsea cables in the Asia-Pacific, said it was working with Tonga Cable Ltd to repair the link that runs from Tonga to Fiji.Samiuela Fonua, the chair of Tonga Cable, said there were two cuts in the undersea cable that would not be fixed until volcanic activity ceased, allowing repair crews access.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/all-homes-on-one-of-tonga-s-islands-destroyed-three-dead-101642550207016.html
19-01-2022||World||Xi Jinping’s Covid defense gets weaker with every Omicron case||More than two years into the pandemic most countries are striving to live alongside Covid, accepting the virus as part of everyday life. China, where the pathogen first emerged, exists in an alternate reality, wedded to a zero-tolerance strategy that’s growing harder to maintain.Despite firmly closed borders and a vaccination rate near 90%, the highly transmissible omicron variant has been reported in seven out of 31 provinces and all of China’s biggest cities. Port disruptions and citywide shutdowns are increasingly common, and on Monday, the government signaled it’s bracing for more: The central bank cut its key interest rate after the economy posted its weakest quarter since the beginning of the pandemic.The human costs are rising, too. In the city of Xi’an, at least two people died and two women miscarried, barred from medical treatment by zealous enforcement of Covid lockdown protocols that began just before Christmas. The official tally of daily infections there, on the other hand, remains in the dozens, with zero deaths.“I understand they take these measures to keep everybody safe,” said He Kun, a 55-year-old general manager of an electric vehicle company just outside Xi'an. “If it takes a month or so I think that's OK. But if it lasts half a year, then everyone will lose their job and companies will shut down.”In the most literal sense, China hasn’t been Covid Zero for months, and with every new mutation, the stakes rise for President Xi Jinping and the rest of the world. On a list of the top global political risks in 2022, the Eurasia Group put the failure of China’s pandemic strategy at No. 1.The country won’t be able to fully keep out omicron and subsequent mutations, the report predicted, requiring more lockdowns and further disruption of the supply chain: “Low growth, high inflation, and growing inequality will exacerbate public frustration with governments and stoke political instability to a degree we haven’t seen since the 1990s,” the report said.The spread of the delta and omicron variants make that conflagration increasingly likely. Goldman Sachs and Nomura have predicted China will stay the course through late 2022 — after Xi is expected to secure an unprecedented third term — and possibly into spring 2023.At such a politically sensitive moment, Xi hasn’t wavered from a strategy that, by Beijing’s accounting, has worked. Cases have been at or near zero once the initial outbreak in Wuhan ended. The delta variant breached China’s border controls in May and flare-ups followed, but according to official reports, daily domestic cases have mostly stayed under 200. In the past two years, Chinese authorities have reported fewer than 5,000 Covid deaths, compared with 831,000 fatalities in the U.S., a country one-quarter the size.As a result, China’s population has almost none of the natural immunity that previous waves of infection have conferred on survivors elsewhere, making Chinese people reliant entirely on their vaccines for protection. The omicron variant may be relatively mild, but it’s also much more transmissible. A small number of cases could trigger an outbreak that sets the whole country’s immune system on fire.Meanwhile, the government has criticized policymakers elsewhere, saying they’ve prioritized normality over human lives. A recent editorial in the state-backed China Daily slammed the countries that have “succumbed to the notion of the survival of the fittest to justify their lack of fortitude and failures of governance.”“China holds firm to the belief that each life counts,” it concluded. “It will do all it can to ensure none of its people are left to fend for themselves and no one is left behind in the fight against the virus.”Through the first 18 months of the pandemic, China’s Covid Zero measures let most people return to their pre-pandemic lives and, while the rest of the world suffered shortages and job losses, China pulled off a swift, enviable recovery. Even with the occasional abrupt and unpredictable factory shutdown, the nation’s companies set a record for exports in the first 10 months of 2021, with shipments up 31% by value compared with the same period a year earlier.Keeping the country Covid-free got harder after the delta variant cropped up in May. On the border with virus-ravaged Myanmar, the town of Ruili went so far as to install spiked iron wire atop its border fence to deter unsanctioned border crossers who might be carrying coronavirus. Still, Covid cases still triggered four lockdowns in seven months, and the curbs forced many small businesses to close. Residents lived with frequent testing, no exceptions: one of the city’s youngest residents, a two-year-old, was swabbed for Covid as many as 74 times, local media reported.Ruili boasted a vaccination rate around 97% and reported zero Covid deaths in 2021. “Every lockdown is a severe emotional and material loss,” Dai Rongli, the town’s former deputy mayor and now a senior executive at a state-owned rail construction firm, wrote on his social media account. “Every battle against Covid adds a layer of unhappiness.”Over the summer, periodic shutdowns and transit delays mostly tapped into citizens’ well-developed sense of patriotic duty. By mid-October, the country’s streaks of zero-case days were gone, and the efforts to stop the virus’ spread turned increasingly hardcore. On Halloween, Shanghai Disneyland detained 34,000 guests for mass testing after a park visitor tested positive. A small county in eastern China responded to a single case by turning its traffic lights red, permanently, to keep people from moving around.When a Beijing teacher and student tested positive in November, the government ordered snap lockdowns for hundreds of students and staff. Anxious parents waited outside the schools through the night. Some eventually brought pillows and blankets to join their kids in quarantine.In December, the delta variant hit Xi’an, China’s 10th biggest city, and the government response triggered new wrath. Authorities banned people from shopping for groceries, then failed to deliver food to residents. Some started trading with neighbors, swapping cigarettes for instant noodles and other shelf-stable foods. One tearful woman posted a video online, pleading with local Covid containment staff to let her leave her apartment to buy period supplies.Two pregnant women miscarried after hospitals refused to let them in, citing Covid containment protocols. A man in his 60s died after suffering a heart attack. He was turned away by several hospitals because he hadn’t taken a Covid test. By the time he took one and it came back negative, it was too late.All that, even before omicron emerged. The new variant cropped up first in Tianjin, next to Beijing, then in Anyang in Central China, then in the northeastern port city of Dalian. The Tianjin local government ordered citywide Covid testing, closing companies and government offices for half a day. Toyota and Volkswagen halted production at their factories in the city to accommodate mandatory testing campaigns. Airbus, which has a major aircraft assembly hub in the city, also warned of omicron's impact on its production and demand in China.Now omicron cases have been reported in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. The Lunar New Year holidays, traditionally China’s biggest travel season, are less than two weeks away, and local governments have warned residents that if they leave, Covid containment measures might block their return. Transportation services are suspended in places with confirmed cases. Testing is mandated, creating long lines in in bitter winter weather. Workers tasked with enforcing the curbs and testing are also under increasing strain; some have reported passing out from stress and long hours.Part of China’s problem lies with its vaccines. Initially, China led the world in the race for a Covid vaccine. By early 2020, pharmaceutical companies Sinovac and Sinopharm were testing shots based on small, inactivated doses of the virus, and China was the first to approved them for front-line workers.Later that year, China started to ship hundreds of millions of doses around the world, making its shots the mainstay of inoculation programs in Indonesia, Chile, Brazil, the U.A.E. and elsewhere. Efficacy rates for Sinovac’s CoronaVac in particular ranged wildly in different trial sites, but the inactivated vaccines offered decent protection against severe disease and death. Crucially, they were widely available to the developing world at a time when the U.S. and European countries had cornered the market on the newer, more effective mRNA vaccines.Through the first six months of 2021, Sinovac recorded $11 billion in revenue, a whopping 161% increase over the same period a year earlier. It also warned that the future isn’t likely to be so rosy, nodding to the competition from more effective foreign shots that use newer technologies.The emergence of new variants raises fresh questions as to how well China’s vaccines are holding up, and so far, there’s no definitive answer. Research from Hong Kong University concluded even three doses of Sinovac's inactivated shot produced insufficient antibodies to prevent infection against the new variant. But a preliminary study from Chile, where more than half the vaccines come from China, found that Sinovac’s jab does trigger a cellular immune response, which indicates that the shot should still shield against severe disease caused by omicron.  “The scientific and clinical evidence undoubtedly makes CoronaVac an excellent candidate to be applied as a second booster dose,” said Alexis Kalergis, a professor at the Universidad Católica de Chile and director of the Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy. “Even more so when worldwide there has been an increase in cases due to the omicron variant, and we must maintain a high immune response to be protected.”As countries like Australia and Singapore have learned, the transition away from Covid Zero is rough. There’s no clear path for China. By one official estimate, the strategy has avoided 1 million deaths and 50 million illnesses. While the new variant has been relatively mild in the countries where it’s spread, those are also places with some preexisting immunity from infection or inoculation, and even then, the virus has still spread quickly and widely enough to clog hospitals.Liang Wannian, the senior official who’s led the national pandemic response since 2020, said stronger efforts are needed to fight omicron, but others would like to consider the end-game. China should learn from how others are opening up and consider changing tacks when the cost of Covid Zero outweigh the benefits, Zeng Guang, the former chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention said in an interview with domestic media in August. Hu Xijin, an influential commentator who recently retired from his editor-in-chief post at the state-backed Global Times, also pointed out that Chinese people have legitimate concerns about the policies that aren’t being addressed, warning that support for measures will wear thin.Pharmaceutically, China doesn’t have many immediate options. It could offer third or even fourth doses of the inactivated vaccines. The mRNA vaccines from Pfizer and BioNTech have also cleared regulatory review in China and could, in theory, be offered as boosters. But politically, making the Western vaccines available now would undermine China’s narrative of self-reliance and the superiority of homegrown technology. The Communist Party would also want reciprocity – if China approves a foreign vaccine, it would want the same treatment for its shots.The government is more likely to wait for a new inactivated vaccine that targets omicron specifically, similar to how the flu vaccine is tailored each year. “Get it approved fast,” said Jin Dong-Yan, a virologist at Hong Kong University. “This is a very mature vaccine platform – even if there are challenges, they can be addressed.”Longer term, China has an mRNA vaccine in late-stage trials overseas, and a separate domestic study is looking at the additional protection it might offer as a booster. Sinopharm also has a new vaccine based on recombinant protein technology that’s been approved in the U.A.E. A dose of that shot adds protection against omicron for people who have had two doses of inactivated vaccines, the company says.China’s latest economic results and the reaction by the central bank show how much strain the government is under. Beijing’s longer-term goals call for stronger domestic consumption, less dependence on overseas demand. Covid Zero has given it the opposite. Even if domestic demand weren’t flagging, the strategy increases China’s dependence on exports. It’s bad timing – the rest of the world has begun to spend money on services again – and it makes the country more vulnerable to tariffs and trade policy, not less.Frustration is rising among Chinese citizens, but for now, there’s little they can do but wait. With worsening outbreaks, the consequences for rule-breakers have grown harsher. Last week, three people were sentenced to four-plus years in prison for violations that, the government said, led to a Covid outbreak. “I just keep watching what's going and following the rules,” said He Kun, the automaker in Xi’an. The lockdown measures there meant he couldn’t get critical parts — truck drivers didn’t want to get caught making deliveries in an outbreak zone — and his company missed its production and sales targets in December and January. “If you operate in China then you have to obey the laws of this country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-s-covid-defense-gets-weaker-with-every-omicron-case-101642549702268.html
19-01-2022||World||Microsoft to buy gaming giant Activision Blizzard for $69 bn||Microsoft on Tuesday announced a landmark $69 billion deal to buy US gaming giant Activision Blizzard, betting big on the prospects of the video game market by scooping up the scandal-hit "Call of Duty" maker.Acquiring the troubled but highly successful Activision will make Microsoft the third-largest gaming company by revenue, behind Tencent and Sony, Microsoft said -- a major shift in the booming gaming world.If the deal is confirmed, it will be the largest acquisition in the industry, far ahead of Take-Two's $12.7 billion purchase of Zynga announced last week."Gaming is the most dynamic and exciting category in entertainment across all platforms today and will play a key role in the development of metaverse platforms," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said, referring to the virtual reality vision for the internet's future.Activision, the California-based maker of "Candy Crush," has been hit by employee protests, departures, and a state lawsuit alleging it enabled toxic workplace conditions and sexual harassment against women.Over the past seven months, the company has received about 700 reports of employee concerns over sexual assault, harassment or other misconduct, The Wall Street Journal has reported. In some cases, separate reports about the same incident have been received.Nearly 20 percent of Activision Blizzard's 9,500 employees have signed a petition calling for CEO Bobby Kotick to resign.Kotick will continue to serve as CEO of Activision Blizzard, but is expected to depart after the deal closes, the Journal reported.The transaction -- which is expected to be finalized by June 2023 -- is subject to customary closing conditions, regulatory review and approval from Activision Blizzard's shareholders."Acquiring Activision will help jump start Microsoft's broader gaming endeavors and ultimately its move into the metaverse, with gaming the first monetization piece of the metaverse in our opinion," Wedbush analysts said after the news broke."With Activision's stock under heavy pressure (CEO related issues/overhang) over the last few months, Microsoft viewed this as the window of opportunity to acquire a unique asset that can propel its consumer strategy forward."- Troubled Activision -This would be the largest buyout ever for the Redmond, Washington-based giant, well ahead of LinkedIn in 2016 for $26.2 billion."This is the largest acquisition in the games industry to date, said Daniel Ahmad, an analyst at Niko Partners. "An acquisition of this nature is a clear endorsement of the importance of the games industry globally."Microsoft has just marked 20 years of the "Halo" video game franchise that turned its Xbox console into a hit.Xbox remains a key player in a video game industry now thought to be larger than the movie sector, with market research firm Mordor Intelligence valuing it at $173.7 billion in 2020.The sector is booming with publisher Take-Two announcing a deal last week to acquire "Farmville" creator Zynga for $12.7 billion, in a major mobile gaming push by the maker of "Grand Theft Auto."Troubles, meanwhile, have stacked up for Activision over its sex harassment and discrimination scandal.In July, California state regulators accused the company of condoning a culture of harassment, a toxic work environment, and inequality.In September, the US Securities and Exchange Commission launched a probe into the company over "disclosures regarding employment matters and related issues."And two months later, the Journal reported that Kotick, accused of mishandling the harassment complaints, had signaled he would consider stepping down if he failed to quicky fix the company culture. He has led Activision for more than three decades.Late last year, chief operating officer Daniel Alegre pledged a 50 percent increase in the number of female and non-binary staff over the next five years so that they will account for more than a third of Activision's workers.Nadella spoke of safety and inclusivity in his statement announcing the Activision deal."We're investing deeply in world-class content, community and the cloud to usher in a new era of gaming that puts players and creators first and makes gaming safe, inclusive and accessible to all," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/microsoft-to-buy-gaming-giant-activision-blizzard-for-69-bn-101642545896313.html
19-01-2022||World||Russia moves more troops westward amid Ukraine tensions||Russia is a sending an unspecified number of troops from the country’s far east to Belarus for major war games, officials said Tuesday, a deployment that will further beef up Russian military assets near Ukraine amid Western fears of a planned invasion.Amid the soaring tensions, the White House warned that Russia could attack its neighbor at “any point,” while the UK delivered a batch of anti-tank weapons to Ukraine.Russia's Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin said the joint drills with Belarus would involve practicing a joint response to external threats.Ukrainian officials have warned that Russia could launch an attack on Ukraine from various directions, including from its ally Belarus.The US again stressed its concern Tuesday, with White House press secretary Jen Psaki describing the Russian forces' move into Belarus as part of as “extremely dangerous situation.”“We’re now at a stage where Russia could at any point launch an attack in Ukraine,” she said.A series of talks last week between Russia, the US and NATO failed to quell the tensions over Ukraine. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will meet his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Geneva on Friday in another attempt to defuse the crisis.Ukraine's Defense Ministry said Tuesday it has received a shipment of anti-tank weapons from the UK, noting that they will help “strengthen our defense capability.” The statement didn't say how many weapons were delivered.Russia already has started moving troops for the war games in Belarus. Fomin said it would take through Feb. 9 to fully deploy weapons and personnel for the Allied Resolve 2022 drills, which are expected to take place Feb. 10-20.Fomin didn't say how many troops will be involved in the drills, but mentioned that Russia will deploy a dozen Su-35 fighter jets and several air defense units to Belarus. The deployment would bolster an estimated 100,000 Russian troops with tanks and other heavy weapons who are already amassed near Ukraine in what the West fears could be a prelude to an invasion.Russia has denied an intention to attack its neighbor but demanded guarantees from the West that NATO will not expand to Ukraine or other ex-Soviet nations or place its troops and weapons there.Washington and its allies firmly rejected Moscow’s demands during Russia-US negotiations in Geneva and a related NATO-Russia meeting in Brussels last week.Fomin said the drills in Belarus, which involve an unspecified number of troops from Russia's Eastern Military District, reflect the need to practice concentrating the country's entire military potential in the west."A situation may arise when forces and means of the regional group of forces will be insufficient to ensure reliable security of the union state, and we must be ready to strengthen it," Fomin said at a meeting with foreign military attaches. “We have reached an understanding with Belarus that it's necessary to engage the entire military potential for joint defense.”Belarus' authoritarian president, Alexander Lukashenko, said the joint maneuvers will be conducted on Belarus’ western border and also in the country’s south, where it borders Ukraine.Amid the tensions, Ukraine's Defense Ministry said Tuesday it was speeding up efforts to form reserve battalions that would allow for the rapid deployment of 130,000 recruits to expand the country's 246,000-strong military. The battalions from the newly formed Territorial Defense Forces could include reservists from aged 18 to 60.The United States and its allies have urged Russia to deescalate the situation by calling back the troops amassed near Ukraine.“In recent weeks, more than 100,000 Russian troops with tanks and guns have gathered near Ukraine without an understandable reason, and it’s hard not to understand that as a threat,” German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters Tuesday after talks in Moscow with her Russian counterpart, Lavrov.Lavrov responded by restating Moscow's argument that it's free to deploy its forces wherever it considers it necessary on its territory.“We can’t accept demands about our armed forces on our own territory,” Lavrov said, adding that “troops’ training is something that every country does.”“We aren’t threatening anyone, but we are hearing threats to us," he added. "We will decide how to react depending on what specific steps our partners will take.”Baerbock emphasized that the West was ready "for a serious dialogue on mutual agreements and steps to bring everyone in Europe more security.”NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg met with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in Berlin on Tuesday. He said “the main task now is to make progress on the political way forward” to prevent a military attack against Ukraine.“NATO allies are ready to meet with Russia again, and today I have invited Russia and all the NATO allies to attend a series of meetings in the NATO-Russia Council in the near future to address our concerns but also listen to Russia’s concerns," Stoltenberg said.He added that NATO “in the near future” will deliver its written proposals in response to Russian demands and "hopefully we can begin meeting after that.”“We need to see what Russia says, and that will be a kind of pivotal moment,” the NATO chief said.Lavrov, meanwhile, reaffirmed that Russia wants a quick Western answer to its demand for security guarantees that would preclude NATO's expansion to Ukraine and limit its presence in Eastern Europe. He repeated that in a phone conversation with Blinken, who will visit Ukraine on Wednesday and meet with Lavrov on Friday.Lavrov also urged Blinken “not to spread speculation about the alleged ‘Russian aggression’ being prepared," the Russian Foreign Ministry said.Speaking on a visit Tuesday to Ukraine, Canadian Foreign Minister Mélanie Joly denounced the Russian troop buildup as unacceptable. She noted Canada's efforts to help train Ukraine's military, adding that it's currently considering Ukraine's demand to provide it with military equipment and will make “a decision in a timely manner.”Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 after the ouster of Ukraine’s Moscow-friendly leader and also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency that took over large sections in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-moves-more-troops-westward-amid-ukraine-tensions-101642536455561.html
19-01-2022||World||AT&T agrees to delay 5G implementation near some airports in US||AT&T will delay activating its 5G network on a "limited number of towers" near some airport runways following warnings from US airlines, a spokesperson for the telecommunications company said Tuesday.The move comes after the chief executives of the largest airlines in the United States warned Monday of a "catastrophic disruption" to travel and shipping operations if the rollout set for Wednesday went as planned. Verizon did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Verizon and AT&T have already twice delayed the launch of their new C-Band 5G service, due to warnings from airlines and aircraft manufacturers concerned that the new system might interfere with the devices planes use to measure altitude.AT&T described its latest move as voluntary and temporary, and added it is working with airline industry and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) "to provide further information about our 5G deployment, since they have not utilized the two years they've had to responsibly plan for this deployment," the AT&T spokesperson said."We are launching our advanced 5G services everywhere else as planned with the temporary exception of this limited number of towers."The FAA said Sunday it had approved some transponders to be safely operated within areas where 5G will be deployed, clearing "as many as 48 of the 88 airports most directly affected by 5G C-Band interference."But the airlines are worried that the remaining limitations at those airports, as well as a large amount of equipment still uncertified, could trigger a crisis that would ground thousands of flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/att-agrees-to-delay-5g-implementation-at-some-airports-101642531911435.html
19-01-2022||World||Pak sent ISI official to Turkey to meet Afghan leaders, offer talks with Taliban||A senior Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) official recently travelled to Turkey to convey to Afghan political leaders an offer from Pakistan to host them for talks with the Taliban, people familiar with the matter said.The ISI official, who was in Turkey during December, was in contact directly with several Afghan leaders, including former ministers, or with their aides to convey the offer from Islamabad. Significantly, most of the leaders contacted by the intelligence operative are perceived to be anti-Taliban or friendly towards India.Among the leaders the ISI official reached out to were Abdul Rasul Sayyaf, former foreign minister Salahuddin Rabbani and Abdul Rashid Dostum, the people cited above said. It was not immediately clear how the Afghan leaders, who view the Pakistani leadership with deep suspicion, responded to the overture from Islamabad.Sayyaf, believed to be in his mid-70s, moved to New Delhi following the fall of the Ashraf Ghani government and the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban in mid-August 2021. He left India for Turkey only last month as he believed more could be done to forge an anti-Taliban movement by networking with other Afghan leaders already in that country.Dostum is perceived as a key player in efforts to put together a government-in-exile or to create a resistance force in Afghanistan.The fresh move by Pakistan appears to be aimed at completely shutting out India as a player in Afghanistan, the people cited above said. After an interregnum of several months following the Taliban takeover, the Indian side recently resumed contacts with elements from the former government of Ashraf Ghani and other political leaders who fled Afghanistan, the people added.Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has been criticised by Afghan politicians for acting like “Afghanistan’s foreign minister” by advocating on behalf of the Taliban setup, which is yet to be formally recognised by any country.The move by Pakistan also came ahead of a visit this month by Taliban acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi to Iran, where he met Ahmad Massoud, who heads the National Resistance Front (NRF), and former minister Ismail Khan and urged them to end their resistance and return to Afghanistan. Muttaqi has said he assured the Afghan leaders that they could “come back to live freely and safely in Afghanistan”.“Clearly, the Taliban want to shut down any form of resistance and their backers in Pakistan are seeking to bolster these efforts,” one of the people cited above said.Sameer Patil, senior fellow at the Observer Research Foundation, said the effort by the ISI shows “who is the real driver in shaping political developments in Afghanistan post-August 2021”.“This appears to be a response to the international criticism that the Taliban’s interim cabinet is not inclusive and didn’t have representation from other Afghan factions. This is an effort to suss out a response from the other factions on how amenable they are to cooperate with the Taliban,” Patil said.
19-01-2022||World||WHO says ‘no evidence at all’ healthy kids need booster shots against Covid||World Health Organisation (WHO) chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan on Wednesday said there is “no evidence at all” that healthy children and adolescents need booster doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Addressing a press conference, Swaminathan said that while there seems to be some waning of vaccine immunity over time against the rapidly spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus, more research needs to be done to ascertain who needs booster doses.“There is no evidence right now that healthy children or healthy adolescents need boosters,” she said. “No evidence at all.”The statement from the WHO chief scientist comes as a direct challenge to Covid-19-related measures that several countries are adopting, including the initiation of a separate vaccination schedule for booster shots in view of the waning immunity from the primary dosages.The United States is leading the drive on administering booster doses to kids, as the country's top regulator, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), approved earlier this month the use of a third dose of the Pfizer and BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine as a “booster” shot for children aged 12 to 15 years.Israel, too, is offering booster doses to children aged 12 years amid criticisms from opposing quarters that claim booster shots are just profit-making ventures for pharmaceutical companies.Last week, Germany became the latest country to join the list with its drug regulator recommending a booster shot for all children aged between 12 and 17 years. Another European nation, Hungary, has also authorised similar booster shots for its adolescent population.The WHO has, however, not completely dismissed the need for administering booster shots to certain vulnerable sections of the population. Swaminathan said a group of leading experts will meet later this week to consider the specific question of how countries should consider giving boosters to their populations.“The aim is to protect the most vulnerable, to protect those at the highest risk of severe disease and death,” she said. “Those are our elderly populations, immuno-compromised people with underlying conditions, but also healthcare workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-no-evidence-at-all-healthy-kids-need-booster-shots-against-covid-101642581732258.html
