30-01-2022||World||WHO’s push for 70% vaccination, equitable use of strategies on 2 years of Covid-19 pandemic||Director-general of the World Health Organization (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Sunday said that the world can end the acute phase of the Covid-19 pandemic this year if every nation could vaccinate 70% of their populations against the disease, particularly the at-risk populations. He also called for the strategies and the tools available to be used in a “comprehensive and equitable” way.The remarks from the UN health body’s chief came on Sunday, a day on which the WHO declared the Covid-19 pandemic a public health emergency of international concern two years ago in 2020.This year we could end the acute phase of the #COVID19 pandemic if we vaccinate 70% of the population of every country, with a focus on the most at-risk groups, and use all strategies and tools in a comprehensive and equitable way. pic.twitter.com/XX8Sb2faMU“#OnThisDay 2 years ago I declared the #COVID19 outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern to alert the world to this threat. @WHO had been sharing advice with countries to help them respond since early Jan 2020 & we haven't stopped since,” Ghebreyesus wrote in a tweet.He also reiterated his previous remarks where he said that countries must strive towards vaccinating 70% of their populations to end the pandemic as a global health emergency.Also read | ‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHO“This year we could end the acute phase of the #COVID19 pandemic if we vaccinate 70% of the population of every country, with a focus on the most at-risk groups, and use all strategies and tools in a comprehensive and equitable way,” Ghebreyesus said in a subsequent tweet.Earlier on January 24, during his opening remarks at the 150th session of the WHO’s executive board meeting, he said that the world would be living with Covid for the “foreseeable future”. He also said that in two years the world has seen nearly 350 million cases and 5.5 million deaths, numbers which he called an “underestimate”.He said that the WHO has been providing strategies, tools, technical and operational support to countries during the pandemic. “If countries use all of these strategies and tools in a comprehensive way, we can end the acute phase of the pandemic this year - we can end Covid-19 as a global health emergency, and we can do it this year,” he said.Further, he also noted that countries must aim for “reducing mortality through strong clinical management, beginning with primary health care, and equitable access to diagnostics, oxygen and antivirals at the point of care.”While vaccines alone were not a “golden ticket” out of the pandemic, there is no other path out if the target of 70% vaccinations in every country was achieved, he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/whos-push-for-70-vaccination-equitable-use-of-strategies-on-2-years-of-covid-19-pandemic-101643563045281.html
30-01-2022||World||What is MERS-CoV, first identified in 2012, which has a link with NeoCov?||With Wuhan scientists alerting the world about the NeoCov virus which has been reported among bats in South Africa, a fresh apprehension was born. But scientists have assured that NeoCov should not be a cause of concern as it can't infect humans in its present form. NeoCov is also not a variant of SARS-Cov-2 and has been linked to MERS, an old coronavirus -- not the one which is driving the pandemic in the past two years.Here is all you need to know about MERS:1. The full form of MERS is Middle East respiratory syndrome. It was first identified in Saudi Arabia in 2012.2. It is also a coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause from common cold to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). SARS-CoV outbreak was reported in 2002 which was quickly contained. SARS-CoV-2 was first reported in Wuhan in December 2019, and then the pandemic began.NeoCov: What WHO says on this new coronavirus variant found among bats in Wuhan3. After MERS was first identified in 2012, 27 countries reported MERS cases, including Algeria, Austria, Bahrain, China, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, and Yemen.4. MERS is a zootonic virus which means it can transmit between animals and people. Dromedary camels were the major host of the virus at that time. According to WHO information, people in Saudi Arabia mostly got infected through unprotected contact with infected dromedary camels.5. MERS had symptoms like fever, cough, shortness of breath etc.MERS has come into discussion in the last few days as scientists have said that this NeoCov is a close relative of this MERS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-mers-cov-first-identified-in-2012-which-has-a-link-with-neocov-101643560632045.html
30-01-2022||World||Qatar approves Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for children aged 5-11 years||Qatari Ministry of Health approved the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 5 to 11 years, it said on Sunday.In November, Gulf states Bahrain and Saudi Arabia approved the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use for children in the same age category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/qatar-approves-pfizer-biontech-vaccine-for-children-aged-5-11-years-101643557763543.html
30-01-2022||World||Scientists on alert over rising cases caused by Omicron subvariant BA.2||The highly transmissible Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus - the most common form of which is known as BA.1 - now accounts for nearly all of the coronavirus infections globally, although dramatic surges in Covid cases have already peaked in some countries.Scientists are now tracking a rise in cases caused by a close cousin known as BA.2, which is starting to outcompete BA.1 in parts of Europe and Asia. The following is what we know so far about the new subvariant:‘Stealth subvariant’ Globally, BA.1 accounted for 98.8% of sequenced cases submitted to the public virus tracking database GISAID as of Jan. 25. But several countries are reporting recent increases in the subvariant known as BA.2, according to the World Health Organization.In addition to BA.1 and BA.2, the WHO lists two other subvariants under the Omicron umbrella: BA.1.1.529 and BA.3. All are closely related genetically, but each features mutations that could alter how they behave.Trevor Bedford, a computational virologist at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center who has been tracking the evolution of SARS-CoV-2, wrote on Twitter on Friday that BA.2 represents roughly 82% of cases in Denmark, 9% in the UK and 8% in the United States, based on his analysis of sequencing data from the GISAID database and case counts from the Our World in Data project at the University of Oxford.The BA.1 version of Omicron has been somewhat easier to track than prior variants. That is because BA.1 is missing one of three target genes used in a common PCR test. Cases showing this pattern were assumed by default to be caused by BA.1.BA.2, sometimes known as a "stealth" subvariant, does not have the same missing target gene. Instead, scientists are monitoring it the same way they have prior variants, including Delta, by tracking the number of virus genomes submitted to public databases such as GISAID.As with other variants, an infection with BA.2 can be detected by coronavirus home tests kits, though they cannot indicate which variant is responsible, experts said.More transmissible?Some early reports indicate that BA.2 may be even more infectious than the already extremely contagious BA.1, but there is no evidence so far that it is more likely to evade vaccine protection.Danish health officials estimate that BA.2 may be 1.5 times more transmissible than BA.1, based on preliminary data, though it likely does not cause more severe disease.In England, a preliminary analysis of contact tracing from Dec. 27, 2021, through Jan. 11, 2022, by the UK Health Security Agency (HSA) suggests that household transmission is higher among contacts of people infected with BA.2 (13.4%) compared with other Omicron cases (10.3%).The HSA found no evidence of a difference in vaccine effectiveness, according to the Jan. 28 report.A critical question is whether people who were infected in the BA.1 wave will be protected from BA.2, said Dr. Egon Ozer, an infectious disease expert at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago.That has been a concern in Denmark, where some places that saw high case counts of BA.1 infections were reporting rising cases of BA.2, Ozer said.If prior BA.1 infection does not protect against BA.2, "this could be sort of a two-humped camel kind of wave," Ozer said. "It's too early to know if that will happen."The good news, he said, is that vaccines and boosters still "keep people out of the hospital and keep people from dying."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-on-alert-over-rising-cases-caused-by-omicron-subvariant-ba2-101643551692029.html
30-01-2022||World||'Unacceptable': Canada to appoint representative to fight Islamophobia; Pakistan welcomes decision||The Canadian government on Sunday announced its intention to appoint a special representative to combat Islamophobia in the country as part of its anti-racism strategy. "Islamophobia is unacceptable. Full stop. We need to put an end to this hate and make our communities safer for Muslim Canadians. To help with that, we intend to appoint a Special Representative on combatting Islamophobia," Justin Trudeau tweeted.Islamophobia is unacceptable. Full stop. We need to put an end to this hate and make our communities safer for Muslim Canadians. To help with that, we intend to appoint a Special Representative on combatting Islamophobia. More details here: https://t.co/sEiOYlLRawThe decision comes as the country marked the National Day of Remembrance of the Québec City Mosque Attack and Action against Islamophobia on January 29. In the statement, the government also reaffirmed its "commitment to denounce and tackle Islamophobia and hate-fueled violence.""This year, on the eve of the five-year anniversary of this act of terror, the Government of Canada stands with and supports Muslim communities across Canada and reaffirms its commitment to take action to denounce and tackle Islamophobia and hate-fueled violence," it also said.The government noted that Islamophobia is a "concrete and daily reality" for Muslim communities across the country and around the world. It then underlined that it is their responsibility to build a more inclusive country to combat discrimination.The special representative appointment is one of the recommendations put forward during the virtual National Summit on Islamophobia, which was held in July 2021. It will be an additional step in the government’s ongoing work through Canada’s Anti-Racism Strategy to tackle Islamophobia in all its forms, the government said.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan welcomed the decision and write, "I welcome Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau's unequivocal condemnation of #Islamophobia & his plan to appoint a Special Representative to combat this contemporary scourge. His timely call to action resonates with what I have long argued. Let us join hands to put an end to this menace."I welcome Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau's unequivocal condemnation of #Islamophobia & his plan to appoint a Special Representative to combat this contemporary scourge. His timely call to action resonates with what I have long argued. Let us join hands to put an end to this menaceIn 2017 on January 29, six worshippers were killed and five others got seriously injured after a 27-year-old opened fire in a mosque during evening prayers. The shooting, which Prime Minister Trudeau denounced as a terrorist attack, provoked debate over the treatment of new arrivals at a time when Canadians were being tested by a growing number of migrants crossing from the United States into the province of Quebec.In the same year, an anti-Islam rally was held in the London city of Ontario, which was organized by a group called the Patriots of Canada Against the Islamization of the West (PEGIDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/-unacceptable-canada-to-appoint-representative-to-fight-islamophobia-pakistan-welcomes-decision-101643552587815.html
30-01-2022||World||3 Brazilians tested Covid positive continuously for over 70 days: Reports||A new study published in the Frontiers in Medicine Journal has claimed that the SARS-CoV-2 virus may remain active for more than what is now believed. These are, however, not regular cases and have been terms as atypical cases. Out of 38 Brazillian patients, who have been tracked for this study, two men and a woman were continuously found positive for more than 70 days."Based on this result, we can say that about 8 per cent of people infected by SARS-CoV-2 may be able to transmit the virus for more than two months, without necessarily manifesting any symptoms during the final stage of the infection," said Marielton dos Passos Cunha, first author of the article.The aim of the study was to assess whether a period of 14 days is adequate as the quarantine period. The author said though these atypical cases were few, they have concluded that 14 days are not enough to be sure that the person can't spread the infection. . It can take a month for a patient to test negative, and in some cases included in our study the patients remained positive for 71 to 232 days, the researchers said.The patients who participated in the study were tested until they tested negative.In these three atypical cases, the virus remained detectable for 71 days in the woman and 81 days in one of the two men. None of them had comorbidities and all had mild symptoms of Covid-19. The other man who continued to test positive for coronavirus for 232 days had HIV but he had no viral load as he had already undergone treatment. All of them were infected by lineage B.1.1.28, which entered Brazil at the start of 2020, reports said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-brazilians-tested-covid-positive-continuously-for-over-70-days-reports-101643542572711.html
30-01-2022||World||Russian foreign minister Lavrov suggests Moscow will wait longer before Ukraine response||Russia wants an explanation of European security obligations from western nations before making its next proposals on the Ukraine crisis, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said. Moscow is asking Nato members and countries in the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe to clarify how they intend to fulfill OSCE obligations not to strengthen security at the expense of the security of others, Lavrov said on Russian state television. Their answers to the Foreign Ministry’s official request will be “key to determining our future proposals, which we will report to Russian President Vladimir Putin,” Lavrov said.The U.S. has warned repeatedly in recent weeks that Russia may be preparing to invade Ukraine after massing more than 100,000 troops near their border. The Kremlin denies this, while also demanding binding security guarantees from Washington and its Nato allies that Ukraine will never be allowed to join the military alliance.Russia’s Patrushev calls Ukraine invasion threat ‘absurd’: IFXRussia also wants the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to withdraw its forces to positions held in 1997 before central and eastern European countries became members. While the U.S. and Nato have rejected these demands, they sent written proposals for strengthening European security to Moscow in the past week, including on missile deployments and military maneuvers.Russian President Vladimir Putin told his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron in a “lengthy” phone call Friday that the proposals failed to answer Russia’s main concerns, though Moscow would study them further before deciding on its next step, according to a Kremlin statement. He said the U.S. and Nato had “ignored a key question” on ensuring indivisible European security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-foreign-minister-lavrov-suggests-moscow-will-wait-longer-before-ukraine-response-101643542503765.html
30-01-2022||World||H-1B visa registration for fiscal year 2023 from March 1 to 18: Details here||The initial registrations for H-1B visas for the fiscal year 2023 will open on March 1 and will go on till March 23. In a press release, the US Citizenship and Immigration Services said during this period, prospective petitioners and representatives will be able to complete and submit their registrations using the online H-1B registration system. H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa with many Indian takers for this visa programme. US companies can hire Indians through this visa programme. In a financial year, which starts in October in the US, 65,000 H-1B visas are issued while 20,000 visas are kept reserved for US Masters' degree holders.Amazon, Infosys, Tata Consultancy Services and Cognizant were the top recipients of H-1B visas in the fiscal year 2021.Here is all you need to know about the initial registration process1. After the registration, the immigration department will assign a confirmation number to track registrations. This number is not for applicants to track the status of the registrations.2. Prospective H-1B cap-subject petitioners or their representatives are required to use a myUSCIS online account to register each beneficiary electronically for the selection process and pay the associated $10 H-1B registration fee for each registration submitted on behalf of each beneficiary.3. Prospective petitioners submitting their own registrations (U.S. employers and U.S. agents, collectively known as “registrants”) will use a “registrant” account. Registrants will be able to create new accounts beginning at noon Eastern on Feb. 21.4. The department said if enough registrations are received by March 18, then it will randomly select registrations and send selection notifications via users’ myUSCIS online accounts.In December 2021, the US waived the in-person interview requirement for H-1B visa applicants given the pandemic situation.In 2021, the number of H-1B visas dropped the most in a decade, according to analysts. US employers’ preliminary applications submitted for engineering and mathematics jobs under the H-1B visa program fell 12.6% in the fiscal year ending September 2021 compared to the previous year, a Bloomberg News analysis said. The drop was attributed to the slow visa processing during lockown and also to the rising popularity of Canada visas among Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/h1b-visa-registration-for-fiscal-year-2023-from-march-1-to-18-details-here-101643532528414.html
30-01-2022||World||Canada PM Trudeau moved to secret location as protests flare-up: Reports||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his family have left their home in the country's capital and shifted to a secret location after a large-scale protest opposing Covid vaccine mandates converged on Parliament Hill, media reports said on Saturday.What started as a protest dubbed as 'Freedom Convoy' against a vaccine requirement for cross-border truckers has grown into a large demonstration against the Trudeau government's coronavirus regulations.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his family have left their home in the country's capital and shifted to a secret location after a large-scale protest opposing Covid vaccine mandates converged on Parliament Hill, media reports said on Saturday.What started as a protest dubbed as 'Freedom Convoy' against a vaccine requirement for cross-border truckers has grown into a large demonstration against the Trudeau government's coronavirus regulations.|#+|Thousands of truckers and other protesters converged in the Capital city on Saturday to call for an end to Covid-19 vaccine mandates and other public health restrictions, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation reported.Among the people were some kids with their kids, elderly and disabled people. Some even carried signs with aggressive and obscenity-laced rhetoric directed mostly at the Canadian prime minister, according to The Globe and Mail newspaper.Some of the protesters were seen dancing on the prominent war memorial, prompting condemnation from Canada's top soldier Gen. Wayne Eyre and Canadian Defence Minister Anita Anand.Police are on high alert for possible violence after hundreds of protesters flooded into the parliamentary precinct, despite an extreme cold warning."I am sickened to see protesters dance on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and desecrate the National War Memorial. Generations of Canadians have fought and died for our rights, including free speech, but not this. Those involved should hang their heads in shame," General Wayne Eyre tweeted.Anita Anand also condemned this incident saying this "behaviour we're seeing today is beyond reprehensible.""The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and National War Memorial are sacred sites for our country. I urge all Canadians to treat them with solemnity, out of respect for those who have fought and died for Canada," she said.Police said nearly 10,000 people were expected to be on hand by day's end. Media reports say that by Saturday evening the force did not have an official estimate of the crowd's size.On Friday, Trudeau told media he was concerned the protest would turn violent, but said the convoy represented a "small fringe minority" who "do not represent the views of Canadians."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-pm-trudeau-moved-to-secret-location-as-protests-flare-up-reports-101643517143393.html
30-01-2022||World||Carbon monoxide poisoning at US hotel; 7 in critical condition||Seven people were hospitalized in critical condition Saturday after suffering from carbon monoxide poisoning at a Hampton Inn in Ohio, local officials said.A total of nine people were taken to local hospitals, according to The Columbus Dispatch. Marysville Fire Chief Jay Riley told the newspaper that the source of the carbon monoxide was unclear but everyone who was hospitalized had been in the hotel's pool area.Riley said the victims included both children and adults. He did not provide exact ages.Authorities said they received a 911 call Saturday evening about a 2-year-old girl who had either fallen into the pool or was found in the pool unconscious at the Hampton Inn in Marysville. More 911 calls soon followed about unconscious people or others who reported symptoms such as dizziness and a burning in the throat, Marysville Police Chief Tony Brooks said.The hotel was evacuated shortly after. Brooks told the newspaper that all of the injured were alive when they were transported and that seven of the patients were in critical condition.Two others were treated at the scene, and five more later sought treatment on their own at a hospital, Brooks said.The Dispatch could not reach any members of the hotel management late Saturday. Riley said a Hampton Inn maintenance team was en route from out of state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/carbon-monoxide-poisoning-at-us-hotel-7-in-critical-condition-101643515529403.html
30-01-2022||World||Donald Trump says he would pardon Jan 6 rioters if he runs and wins||US former President Donald Trump said on Saturday if he were to run for president and win in 2024, he would pardon people charged with criminal offenses in connection with the deadly Jan 6 assault by his supporters on the US Capitol.Trump, who has not said whether he will run for president again after his defeat by Democrat Joe Biden in the 2020 election, was speaking at a rally in Conroe, Texas."Another thing we'll do, and so many people have been asking me about it, if I run and if I win, we will treat those people from Jan. 6 fairly," Trump said to applause. "We will treat them fairly. And if it requires pardons we will give them pardons. Because they are being treated so unfairly."Thousands of Trump supporters stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, the worst assault on Congress since the War of 1812. Fueled by Trump's false claims that his November 2020 election defeat was the result of fraud, the attackers sought to stop Congress from certifying Biden's victory.One police officer who responded to the scene died the day after the attack, while four others who guarded the Capitol died later by suicide. About 140 police officers were injured during the hours-long attack. Four rioters also died. More than 700 people have been charged with joining in the assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-he-would-pardon-jan-6-rioters-if-he-runs-and-wins-101643515422310.html
30-01-2022||World||Snow 'bomb' unleashes blizzard in US; New York, other states declare emergencies||Blinding snow whipped up by powerful winds pummeled the eastern United States on Saturday, as one of the strongest winter storms in years triggered transport chaos and power outages across a region of some 70 million people.Major cities like New York and Boston bore the brunt of the blizzard, which the National Weather Service (NWS) confirmed intensified Saturday into a "bomb cyclone" -- characterized by the explosive power of rapid drops in atmospheric pressure.The heaviest-hit parts of New York and Massachusetts received two feet (61 centimeters) of snow by early evening, with more than 95,000 homes in Massachusetts reported without power.Cold weather stretched as far south as Florida, where the NWS warned of "scattered to isolated falling iguanas from trees" as plunging temperatures temporarily paralyzed the large lizards.Residents in towns and cities across the eastern seaboard were urged to avoid all unnecessary travel for a second night of whiteout conditions, with additional snowfall expected to be heaviest across New England.In Long Island, officials said a woman had been found dead in her car by a snowplow operator.Salt machines and snowplows crawled along the streets of New York City, where Central Park was covered in 7.5 inches of snow and regional train lines were partially shut down.In Times Square, the famous neon billboards formed glowing halos in the snowy air. But the frigid temperatures didn't stop Robert Burck, a Times Square fixture known as the "Naked Cowboy."Wearing only his underwear, a cowboy hat and cowboy boots, he strolled through the nearly empty tourist hotspot, strumming his guitar."It's fantastic," one undaunted tourist, Gonzalo Vazquez of Spain, told AFP in Times Square. "It's like skiing, surrounded by lights and awesome LED screens."In the trendy Cobble Hill neighborhood in Brooklyn, the sidewalks were almost deserted and many businesses were closed. But the few who did brave the elements smiled as they wished each other, "Happy snow day!"New York and the neighboring state of New Jersey plus Virginia, Maryland and Delaware declared emergencies for all or part of the states.New York Governor Kathy Hochul said the storm's perils were not over yet, warning residents Saturday that "the most dangerous phase of the storm is now.""Please continue to avoid any unnecessary travel while our crews are working to clear the roads," she said.Getting 'quite uglyIn Boston where a snow emergency was declared, Mayor Michelle Wu tweeted a reminder Saturday "to stay off the roads if you can."Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker said there had been "serious whiteout conditions for most of the midday today," and that there was still "pretty limited visibility out there."Eric Calessandro, a homeowner in the town of Marshfield near Boston said he had just lost power, but was optimistic his 8,000-watt generator would pull him through.He said he "should be able to bear it out for a couple days without power," adding that he had stocked up on food and water in advance.Boston Public Works said 900 snow plows were hard at work on the city streets.Plow driver Mark Burns, working in Boston's South Shore area, said the snow had gotten heavy: "It was supposed to be light and fluffy, but it's a little wet now."More than 3,500 flights were cancelled for Saturday travelling within, into or out of the United States, according to flight tracker FlightAware, and just over 1,000 flights have already been canceled for Sunday.Cancellations on Friday totaled more than 1,450.The blizzard comes on the heels of a similar winter storm that blanketed a swath of Eastern North America -- from Georgia to Canada -- just two weeks ago, cutting power to thousands of homes and also disrupting thousands of flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/snow-bomb-unleashes-blizzard-is-us-new-york-other-states-declare-emergencies-101643502633811.html
30-01-2022||World||US woman led all-female Islamic State unit, charged with planning attacks||A woman who once lived in Kansas has been arrested after federal prosecutors charged her with joining the Islamic State group and leading an all-female battalion of AK-47 wielding militants.The US Attorney in Alexandria, Virginia, announced Saturday that Allison Fluke-Ekren, 42, has been charged with providing material support to a terrorist organization.The criminal complaint was filed under seal back in 2019 but made public Saturday after Fluke-Ekren was brought back to the US Friday to face charges. Her alleged participation in the Islamic State had not been publicly known before Saturday's announcement.Prosecutors say Fluke-Ekren wanted to recruit operatives to attack a college campus in the US and discussed a terrorist attack on a shopping mall. She told one witness that “she considered any attack that did not kill a large number of individuals to be a waste of resources,” according to an FBI affidavit.That affidavit from FBI Special Agent David Robins also alleges that Fluke-Ekren became leader of an Islamic State unit called “Khatiba Nusaybah” in the Syrian city of Raqqa in late 2016. The all-female unit was trained in the use of AK-47 rifles, grenades and suicide belts.In all, the affidavit cites observations from six different witnesses, including some who have been charged with terrorism offenses and some who were held at prison camps for former Islamic state members.A detention memo filed Friday by First Assistant US Attorney Raj Parekh states that Fluke-Ekren even trained children how to use assault rifles, and that at least one witness saw one of Fluke-Ekren's children, approximately 5 or 6 years old, holding a machine gun in the family's home in Syria.“Fluke-Ekren has been a fervent believer in the radical terrorist ideology of ISIS for many years, having traveled to Syria to commit or support violent jihad. Fluke-Ekren translated her extremist beliefs into action by serving as the appointed leader and organizer of an ISIS military battalion, directly training women and children in the use of AK-47 assault rifles, grenades, and suicide belts to support the Islamic State’s murderous aims,” Parekh wrote.According to court papers, Fluke-Ekren moved to Egypt in 2008 and traveled frequently between Egypt and the US over the next three years. She has not been in the US since 2011.Prosecutors believe she moved to Syria around 2012. In early 2016, her husband was killed in the Syrian city of Tell Abyad while trying to carry out a terrorist attack, prosecutors said. Later that year, prosecutors say she married a Bangladeshi ISIS member who specialized in drones, but he died in late 2016 or early 2017.Four months after that man's death, she again remarried a prominent Islamic state leader who was responsible for the Islamic State group's defense of Raqqa.She told one witness in 2018 that she instructed a person in Syria to tell Fluke-Ekren's Family she was dead so the US government would not try to find her, according to Parekh's memo.Photos from a family blog called 4KansasKids show her and her children in the years they traveled between Kansas and Egypt, posing at the base of the pyramids in Egypt and playing in the snow in the U.S.A 2004 article about homeschooling in the Lawrence Journal-World featured Fluke-Ekren and her children. She told the paper she pulled her kids from public school because she was dissatisfied with how her children were performing in public and private schools. Homeschooling allowed her to teach Arabic to her kids.Court papers do not indicate how she was captured, or how long she was in custody before being turned over to the FBI Friday.She is scheduled to make an initial appearance at US District Court in Alexandria on Monday, at which time she would likely be appointed an attorney.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-woman-led-all-female-islamic-state-unit-charged-with-planning-attacks-101643501090239.html
30-01-2022||World||Thousands protest Covid vaccine mandates and curbs in Canada's capital Ottawa||Thousands of protesters gathered in Canada’s capital on Saturday to protest vaccine mandates, masks and lockdowns.Some parked on the grounds of the National War Memorial, others carried signs and flags with swastikas and some used the statue of Canadian hero Terry Fox to display an anti-vaccine statement, sparking widespread condemnation.“Parking on this sacred ground that includes the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier was a sign of complete disrespect,” Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson tweeted.Protestors compared vaccine mandates to fascism, one truck carried a Confederate flag and many carried expletive-laden signs targeting Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.The statue of Fox, a national hero who lost a leg to bone cancer as a youngster, then set off in 1980 on a fundraising trek across Canada, was draped with a upside down Canadian flag with a sign that said “mandate freedom.”Trudeau retweeted a statement from The Terry Fox Foundation that said “Terry believed in science and gave his life to help others.”Eric Simmons, from Oshawa, Ontario, said all vaccine mandates should be ended.“They’re not effective, they’re not working. It’s not changing anything. We can’t keep living like this. People are losing their jobs because they don’t want to get the vaccine,” Simmons said.The convoy of truckers and others prompted police to prepare for the possibility of violence and warn residents to avoid downtown. A top Parliament security official advised lawmakers to lock their doors amid reports their private homes may be targeted.Trudeau has said Canadians are not represented by this “very troubling, small but very vocal minority of Canadians who are lashing out at science, at government, at society, at mandates and public health advice.″The prime minister's itinerary for the day usually says he is in Ottawa if he's at home, but on Saturday it said "National Capital Region" amid a report he's been moved to an undisclosed location. One of Trudeau's kids has COVID-19 and the prime minister has been isolating and working remotely.Canada has one of the highest vaccination rates in the world and the premier of the province of Quebec who is proposing to tax the unvaccinated is popular.Some are, in part, protesting a new rule that took effect Jan. 15 requiring truckers entering Canada be fully immunized against the coronavirus. The United States has imposed the same requirement on truckers entering that country.The Canadian Trucking Alliance said a great number of the protesters have no connection to the trucking industry, adding they have a separate agenda to push. The alliance notes the vast majority of drivers are vaccinated.The organizers of the protest have called for the forceful elimination of all COVID-19 restrictions and vaccine mandates and some called for the removal of Trudeau.Some opposition Canadian Conservative lawmakers served coffee to the protesters including Michael Cooper, who did a live television hit while a person with a upside down Canadian flag with a swastika walked by. Conservative party leader Erin O'Toole met with some truckers. The protest has also attracted support from Donald Trump Jr. and some Fox News personalities.“Today the threat against democracy isn't only happening in America,” former U.S. Ambassador to Canada Bruce Heyman tweeted.“Both the use of the swastika and the confederate flag are symbols of hate. So very sad to see these symbols anywhere and especially in Canada.”The Parliamentary Protective Service expects as many as 10,000 protesters as part of a weekend-long rally.“I’m locked into my own country right now,” said Tom Pappin, an unvaccinated man who came from just outside Ottawa. “I can’t go on a holiday. I can’t go to a restaurant, I can’t go bowling. I can’t go to a movie. You know, these are things that it’s just gotten out of control.”The 52-year-old said attendees are likely to stay parked by Parliament until vaccine mandates are lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-protest-covid-vaccine-mandates-and-curbs-in-canada-s-capital-ottawa-101643500952021.html
30-01-2022||World||North Korea may have fired ballistic missile, most powerful since 2017||North Korea has fired a projectile that may be a ballistic missile, Japan’s coast guard said Sunday. The projectile has likely already fallen, the coast guard said, while warning ships to not approach they get near it. The launch comes after North Korea this month set off one of its biggest series of missile volleys since August 2019. It also threatened to end its nearly four-year hiatus on tests of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles designed to deliver warheads to the US mainland.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un told a top-level meeting of his ruling party at the end of 2021 that he was more interested in bolstering his arsenal than returning to nuclear disarmament talks with the US, which have been stalled for nearly three years.While Kim has stayed away from such talks, he has been steadily increasing his nuclear arsenal, testing new systems for quick strikes and those that can maneuver in flight to avoid U.S.-operated interceptors in the region. These have included long-range cruise missiles that could hit almost all of Japan, a new submarine-launched ballistic missile and a hypersonic system designed to use high speeds and maneuverability to deliver a warhead.North Korea has also resumed plutonium-producing operations at its main Yongbyon nuclear site last year, while satellite imagery shows it expanding a plant that enriches uranium for weapons. The latest launch provides a reminder to the Biden administration that Kim’s nuclear arsenal remains among the US’s biggest foreign policy challenges despite former President Donald Trump’s decision to hold face-to-face summits with the North Korean leader. Although Kim made a vague commitment in 2018 to “work toward complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula,” he has continued to advance his nuclear weapons program.The North Korean leader is facing one of the most difficult periods during his decade in power. Sanctions have helped push his economy to its smallest since he took charge and his closure of borders about two years ago due to the coronavirus slammed the brakes on the little trade he had.But Kim’s regime has also found ways to evade sanctions, with the US and United Nations Security Council accusing it of stepping up its cybercrimes to fill its depleted coffers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-may-have-fired-ballistic-missile-japan-says-101643500393226.html
