14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers remind govt of promise to double their income, hold lalkar rallies in 5 Punjab districts||Thousands of farmers from 10 organisations under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordinator Committee (AIKSCC) held rallies in five districts of Punjab against three agriculture ordinances and campaigned for the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 on Monday.The farmers assembled at the Barnala grain market to participate in the lalkar (challenge) rally to protest against what they said were the Centre’s three anti-farmer ordinances introduced amid the Covid-19 pandemic. These were the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance.Farmer leaders Buta Singh Burjgill, Ruldu Singh Mansa, Jaipal Singh and Baldev Singh Nihalgarh said in a joint statement that the Central and state governments were pursuing and implementing anti-farming policies mandated by the World Trade Organisation. The government wanted to hand over agriculture to national and international corporates, they alleged.“The BJP had promised to implement the Swaminathan Commission recommendations during the Parliamentary election campaign in 2014. Also, the Central government promised to double the farmer’s income by 2022. We want to remind the government of these promises,” said Burjgill.“A large number of farmers are protesting outside Parliament and thousands of farmers held protests in Amritsar, Jalandhar (Phagwara), Barnala, Patiala and Moga districts of Punjab. The Central government has enlisted these ordinances to present on the very first day of the Parliament session. It was just a symbolic rally but we have asked our cadre to prepare for September 16 action when we may block rail or other places,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda).Accusing the Shiromani Akali Dal of taking “U-turns” and asking its leaders to “stop shedding crocodile tears,” Jagmohan Singh said if the party shared the farmers’ concerns it should withdraw its support to the Central Government and come forward openly to support the farmers’ agitation.Bridge over Beas blockedMeanwhile, in their campaign against the ordinances, farmers from Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur districts laid siege to the Tanda-Sri Hargobindpur road and blocked the bridge over the Beas river. Led by the Kisan Sangharsh Committee state general secretary Sawinder Singh Chutala, the farmers started their dharna at about 11 am, which continued till late in the evening. However, despite heavy police presence and prohibitory orders in place the agitators were allowed to give speeches. Chutala said the agitation would be intensified if the Centre did not repeal the ordinances and lower diesel rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-remind-govt-of-promise-to-double-their-income-hold-lalkar-rallies-in-5-punjab-districts/story-mlDIPHmrHm72shvjoJwURN.html
14-09-2020||Lifestyle||Google doodle goes all hearts for frontline warriors as it honours them in the fight against coronavirus||We are highly indebted as a community to our doctors, nurses, delivery staff, farmers, teachers, researchers, sanitation workers, grocery workers, househelps, chefs, firefighters, journalists, police and other emergency services workers who have kept the world going amid the raging coronavirus pandemic while we snuggled inside the security of our homes with our loved ones. From working for inhumane hours to bearing salary crunch and skipping of meals, these workers have been on the frontline and Google could not stay back from appreciating them through its signature doodle. Google doodle’s quirky appreciation for those on the front lines is exactly the peppiness our Monday morning needs. The search engine’s homepage today reminds users of the coronavirus helpers’ fight against the crisis and urges all to stay at home in honour of their tireless unconditional work. The doodle features the double ‘o’ in its name as a funky caricature of all the frontline warriors with red hearts floating above them.Though the doodle was initially shared by Google in April this year, another appreciation and reminder was needed given the alarming increase in COVID-19 cases and extention of the pandemic with no vaccine in sight. Google elaborated, “As COVID-19 continues to impact communities around the world, people are coming together to help one another now more than ever. We’re launching a Doodle series to recognize and honor many of those on the front lines. Today, we’d like to say: To all coronavirus helpers, thank you.” The best way to say thank you to all those on the front lines is by staying at home.Together, we will move past this. ❤️❤️❤️#GoogleDoodle pic.twitter.com/EXSihXojhfAt the bottom of the message, Google also listed ways to help stop the spread of COVID-19. They included simple but compulsory steps like, “Wear a mask. Save lives. Wear a face cover. Wash your hands. Keep a safe distance.” It is important to clean your hands often with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand rub and not touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Stay home if you feel unwell and cover your nose and mouth with your bent elbow or a tissue while coughing or sneezing. Seek medical attention at the earliest if you experience fever, cough and difficulty breathing.Wear a mask when physical distancing is not possible and maintain a safe distance from anyone who is coughing or sneezing. We’ll get through this.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/google-doodle-goes-all-hearts-for-frontline-warriors-as-it-honours-them-in-the-fight-against-coronavirus/story-TuLmSU89LeQqeZEovpvjXK.html
