18-09-2020||India||‘Will suffer big defeat’: Digvijaya Singh warns Dushyant Chautala against supporting BJP on ‘anti-farmer’ bills||Amid protests by farmers in Punjab and Haryana against the central government’s three new farm bills, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday ‘warned’ Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala not to support the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the ‘anti-farmer bills.’Singh also ‘congratulated’ Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal for resigning from the Union cabinet in protest against the legislations.“I want to congratulate Harsimrat Kaur Badal for resigning from the government in support of farmers and would want Dushyant Chautala not to support the BJP on these anti-farmer bills, otherwise he will suffer big defeat in future. He should support farmers,” the senior Congress leader said. Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) is in alliance with the BJP in Haryana and Punjab’s SAD, meanwhile, is the BJP’s oldest ally. Badal was the sole SAD representative in the central government, holding the food processing industries portfolio.Singh further praised his party for ‘making the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act pro-farmers.’ “Congress government had made APMC Act in favour of farmers. But now, any big trader can open a mandi and under these new anti-farmer bills, any dispute at mandi will be handled by officials. All these four anti-farmer ordinances should be seen in totality,” he further said.Farmers are against these bills as, according to them, these would lead to complete dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system. Opposition parties, including the Congress, have vociferously protested against these legislations in Parliament. However, PM Modi has assured farmers MSP would not be withdrawn. The three contentious bills are: The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.While the Lok Sabha passed the latter two on Thursday, the former was passed by it on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-suffer-big-defeat-digvijaya-singh-warns-dushyant-chautala-against-supporting-bjp-on-anti-farmer-bills/story-KiYFHt5deZTHqFh74OlgzI.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Out of compulsion’: Punjab Congress chief Jakhar on Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Friday called Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet over the Centre’s farm bills a ‘compulsion.’Jakhar further said the SAD has, in fact, ended up ‘making a laughing stock of themselves.’ “It was a compulsion. It wasn’t out of any love for farmers. For four months they tried to fool farmers but ended up making a laughing stock of themselves. I think people have seen through it,” he said.“In process, they also lost their respect in the NDA. Precisely because they have no backing from farmers, Modi ji thought it well to dump them because without support from farmers, the SAD is nothing but a burden for them,” the Congress leader added.  In the process, they also lost their respect in NDA. Precisely because they have no backing from farmers, Modi ji thought it well to dump them because without support from farmers, Shiromani Akali Dal is nothing but a burden for them: Sunil Jakhar, Punjab Congress chief https://t.co/7rzIkmZOAjCongress leaders have been among vocal critics of the bills, with four MPs from Punjab burning copies of the legislations inside the Parliament premises on Thursday. They have called the bills a ‘death knell for the future of farming.’Farmers across Punjab and Haryana have been protesting for the last few weeks against the central government’s three new farm bills, which, they say, will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP), thus leaving them at the ‘mercy’ of big corporates.The government, however, says the bills will help farmers across the country get a better market and price for their produce. Prime Minister Modi has himself given assurance the MSP will stay.The SAD, which will continue to support the government from outside, for now, is the oldest ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in power at the Centre.Badal was the sole representative of the Punjab-based party in the central government, as food processing industries minister. Her portfolio has been allocated as an additional charge to Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-compulsion-punjab-congress-chief-jakhar-on-harsimrat-kaur-badal-s-resignation/story-Ckzrcj85idFRt2HWl8fupO.html
18-09-2020||India||Kept pleading with govt not to go ahead with farm bills: Harsimrat Kaur Badal||Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader who stepped down as the Union food processing minister on Thursday night, said on Friday that she kept pleading with the government not to go ahead with farm bills until all apprehensions and fears of farmers are cleared.“I kept on protesting ever since these ordinances were circulated for comments in the Cabinet. I was acting like a bridge between farmers and the government to clear all doubts and fears of farmers. I kept on pleading that the government should not bring these bills until all apprehensions and fears of farmers are cleared,” Badal told PTI in an interview.She said she feels saddened that her voice in support of farmers was not heard and demanded that the government should pause on these legislations by referring them to a parliamentary panel for wider consultations. “I left my mother in ICU in the hospital to fulfill my duty to attend Parliament debate on these three legislations and register my protest. Thereafter, I resigned in protest against these proposed legislations,” Badal said.She said there is no point in bringing these bills while presenting them as being in the interest of farmers when the farmers themselves have apprehensions about these measures. “I feel very saddened about the fact that my voice was not heard in the Cabinet and the government did not send it to a parliamentary select committee for consultations with all stakeholders including farmers. If my voice had been heard, farmers would not have come out on roads to protest,” she added.Badal resigned soon after her husband and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal strongly opposed the bills in Lok Sabha on Thursday night, claiming these proposed legislations will destroy the agriculture sector in Punjab, and announced that Harsimrat Kaur Badal will quit the government in protest against these three bills.Badal, who first became Union Minister for Food Processing in 2014 and retained the portfolio in the second term of the BJP-led NDA government starting 2019, said she kept on pleading with the government not to move ahead with these bills without taking farmers on board. SAD voted against the three bills -- Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, which were passed by voice vote in Lok Sabha. Congress and several other opposition parties are also opposing these bills, while SAD is the only NDA member to come out against these proposed legislations that seek to replace the ordinances already promulgated by the government.Emphasising that the government should not rush with these bills, Badal said it should be referred to a select committee of Parliament and all stakeholders should be consulted on these proposed legislations.On her resignation, Harsimrat said, “Please don’t see this as a resignation, as this was my duty as a representative of Punjab and of farmers.” On Punjab chief minister and Congress leader Amarinder Singh calling her resignation a ‘drama’, hitting back at him she said, “He himself is the biggest drama and the biggest liar.” “Amarinder Singh and Congress are doing double-speak. When these ordinances were planned, all chief ministers were consulted and he had concurred. Also, these three bills were part of the Congress party’s manifesto for the 2017 assembly elections manifesto and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” she added. Badal said Singh failed to fulfil all other promises made in the Congress party’s manifesto, barring this one and farmers in Punjab are now on roads and are paying the price for his misdeeds.Asked whether SAD would pull out of the NDA also, Badal said it was for the party to decide and a collective decision would be taken on that issue by all senior leaders together.Badal had also recalled this decades-old association between the two parties in her resignation letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. Describing her tenure as minister as ‘a remarkable and most memorable period of my life’, Badal said she was satisfied that the NDA-led government delivered on many critical and long-standing issues of the Sikh community, including justice for 1984 riots victims.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kept-pleading-with-govt-not-to-go-ahead-with-farm-bills-harsimrat-kaur-badal/story-q3Ukn1UgCxj40dKbNJOCTM.html
18-09-2020||India||‘They are spreading lies’: PM Modi messages farmers amid row over farm bills||Be cautious against those trying to mislead you by creating doubts, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi to farmers on Friday, a day after BJP’s oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal pulled out its only minister from the union cabinet over the farm bills. The PM, without naming anyone, said some are “bent upon spreading lies”.The farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) bill, 2020 and the farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services bill 2020, were passed by the Lok Sabha on Thursday that led to opposition by the Congress and resignation of Union minister Harsimar Kaur Badal of the Akali Dal.“Those who did nothing for decades when they were in power are today opposing the bills for agriculture reforms aimed at deregulating the farm sector to give farmers better options and opportunities. The bills are aimed at unshackling the farmers and protecting them from middlemen. They can now sell their produce anywhere, anytime on their own terms,” the PM said.Modi was speaking at the launch of 12 railways projects, including the long-awaited Kosi Rail Mahasetu connecting Kosi and Mithila regions, in Bihar through video conferencing.Aware of the opposition to the farm bills, especially by the Congress and also from SAD, Modi congratulated the farmers for the bills that he said would usher in greater freedom and returns for their produce and work as a ‘protective cover’ for them.“Some people are bent upon spreading lies and siding with middlemen despite having done nothing for farmers for decades when they had the opportunity. They also talked about it, mentioned it in their manifestoes before elections and conveniently forgot about it later, but when the NDA government has done it, they have problems. They have developed a tendency of opposing for the sake of opposing,” he added.Modi said the farmers of the country need to be cautious against those trying to mislead them by creating doubts. “They are spreading rumours that the government will not procure foodgrains at the minimum support price (MSP). Let me tell you, it is wrong. The government is committed to ensuring MSP to farmers. The government procurement will also continue as it is today,” he added.Referring to CM Nitish Kumar, Modi said Bihar understood the problems of farmers due to agriculture produce market committee (APMC) Act quite early and now the Centre was following the Bihar model. Bihar had dissolved all agriculture marketing committees and marketing boards in the state in 2006 after repealing the state government’s then APMC Act.Modi said that the NDA government had done so much for the farmers in the last six years that was never done earlier. “We have looked into each problem the farmers have to face. To prevent farmers from falling into loan trap, the PM Kisan Kalyan Yojana was launched and so far over 10-crore farmers have benefited from it, wherein over Rs 1-lakh crore has been directly deposited into their bank accounts without any middleman,” he added.Modi said that aware of the irrigation problems, Rs 1-lakh crore is also being spent on the Kisan Sinchai Yojana. “The first Kisan rain also ran from Bihar to Maharashtra. A lot has been done and a lot more will be done for the welfare of the farmers. They need to guard against those who don’t want betterment of farmers. We want to unshackle farmers so that they could have multiple options and opportunities to increase their income,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-are-spreading-lies-pm-modi-messages-farmers-amid-row-over-farm-bills/story-u0g3G7QFlB132g2DFV7sCL.html
