19-09-2020||India||Farm bill row: How will the new laws work?||The government’s ambitious farm-liberalisation agenda in the form of three bills, currently being enacted into laws, could see new ways of engagement between producers of food and their buyers. How will the new system work? “The government’s design is that all three bills will work towards the same goals i.e. removing inefficiencies through efficient investment and enabling freer trade. Big companies will meet small farmers,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity. The three bills are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The first two were passed by a majority voice vote on Thursday in the Lok Sabha, while the third had already been passed on Tuesday. They will now have to be passed by Rajya Sabha. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 is a law that creates a new legal framework for contract farming. It is this law that has the biggest potential to change the game. The contract farming bill provides for a national framework on farming agreements. According to the bill’s preamble, it seeks to protect and empower farmers to engage with agri-business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for farm services and sale of future farming produce at a mutually agreed remunerative price. Also read: Why farmers are opposing ‘pro-farmer’ reformsContract farming is not new to the country but has seen limited success. Snacking firms, for instance, often enter into contracts with farmers for produce for potato wafers and crisps. However, the new legislation seeks to create a new legal framework. Currently, in states permitting the practice, contract farming requires registration with the agricultural market produce committees (APMCs), which also act as dispute settlers. Market fees and levies are to be paid to these APMCs. The new law frees up farmers and agri-business companies to engage directly, bypassing APMCs. Agribusinesses are quite cautious about entering into contracts because of the way the political economy works. “They feel if farmers fail to deliver or violate the contract, the political system will always side with farmers. There are issues with prices agreed to be paid. If they are set too low, it could attract political criticism,” said Amira Tandon, partner, Agstock, a firm that offers agri-consultancy. Last year, PepsiCo sued Gujarat farmers for almost Rs 1 crore for illegally growing and selling a potato variety registered by PepsiCo. PepsiCo withdrew the cases after the state government intervened. The new contract farming law’s intent is to make sure investment flows into farms. By clearly defining the legal framework, the new law could inspire confidence of both the farmers and agribusinesses. Once contract farming becomes mainstream, agribusinesses will pool farmers together, invest in their land, provide them with know-how and technology without farmers having to fear adverse impact on land titles or corporations fearing sunk investments. According to the government’s report on doubling farmers’ income, the Dalwai committee report, contract farming “will allow smallholders to integrate their production into the supply chains of processing plants” leading to efficient supply chains. The report notes that the poultry business in India already runs on a successful contract farming model. According to the Dalwai committee’s report, 66% of poultry production in the country is under contract farming. Under the new law, a dispute mechanism can be triggered with the local magistrate, who can then call for the dispute to be settled through reconciliation or settle the dispute within 20 days. The main operative clauses of the contract farming law are that a farmer may enter into a written agreement to supply produce at a future date at a mutually agreed price. The contract can range from 1 to 5 years. The agreement must include the price or a price band. If any extra amount over the agreed price is to be paid, the prevailing price in APMC markets will be counted. A big advantage of contract farming is that investments in the farm will come from the agri-business company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bill-row-how-will-the-new-laws-work/story-An3EcV7sbgebbc0yu6PjhO.html
19-09-2020||India||Opposition in favour of middlemen who loot farmers: PM Modi in fresh pitch for farm bills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hailed the passage of agriculture bills in the Lok Sabha and slammed the Opposition for not supporting reforms that he claimed will prove to be “farmers’ shields” against middlemen.Farmers will have more opportunities to sell their produce without having to worry about middlemen and this will result in increased profits, PM Modi said in a virtual message after inaugurating Kosi rail mega bridge via video-conferencing.Also read: Agriculture bills passed in Lok Sabha, farmers protest: All you need to know“Farmers have been given new independence in agriculture. They’ll now have more options and opportunities to sell their produce. I congratulate them on the passage of the bills. It was necessary to bring these to protect them from middlemen. These are farmers’ shields,” he said.Taking a swipe at those protesting against the bills, PM Modi said that many forces were trying to “mislead” farmers on this issue.“Beware of the politics of those who ruled the country for decades and did nothing to empower farmers. These people are in favour of middlemen who unfairly loot the profit of farmers,” PM Modi said. His statements came in the backdrop of protests across the country against the passage of the bills. While Congress MPs from Punjab burnt copies of the bills inside Parliament complex on Thursday, farmers of the state said they will stage a ‘rail roko’ agitation from September 24 to September 26 .Also read: PM dedicates Kosi rail mega bridge to nation, inaugurates several rail projects in BiharHarsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as the Union minister for food processing industries in protest against the bills and her party Shiromani Akali Dal has, along with Congress, Trinamool Congress and Revolutionary Socialist Party, opposed them.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill was passed in the lower house on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-in-favour-of-middlemen-who-loot-farmers-says-pm-modi-in-fresh-pitch-for-farm-bills/story-qQjR8kDAmwfaLu1rWY1dTL.html
