20-09-2020||India||Haryana farmers block highways including NH 344 over farm bills||Thousands of farmers have blocked most of the national and state highways including NH 344 also known as Ambala-Roorkee national highway near Milk Majra village of Yamunanagar district in Haryana to oppose the farm reform bills under consideration in the Parliament .Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni led the protest in Yamunanagar and thanked the farmers for coming out in large numbers and extending support to the agitation against the three farm ordinances, which the central government is trying to pass as bills in the current session of Parliament. Addressing the farmers, Charuni said that the state government used police force, registered false cases and farmers and also tried to divide farmers but it failed on all fronts.“I want to assure the farmers of the state that the agitation will continue till the Central government withdraws its ordinances and the government cannot suppress the voice of the farmers,” he added.In Kaithal, the farmers blocked Ambala-Hisar highway near Titram Mor of Kaithal. The farmer leaders made it clear that the highway will remain blocked for three hours and further decisions will be taken after a state-level meeting on September 25. In Kurukshetra, district farmers blocked national and state highways at Ladwa, Kurukshetra and Shahbad towns. The commission agents have also extended support to the farmers. The police were deployed but they did not stop the farmers. The police were seen managing the traffic which has been diverted on the link roads. While farmers were protesting on the roads, the commission agents held a meeting in the grain market and assured their support to the farmers’ protest. Farmer leaders have got huge support from farmers, commission agents and the protests had spread leading to the blocking of highways at five locations in Kurukshetra district, which was the epicenter of September 10 protests. Similar protests were witnessed in Karnal, Yamunanagar and Kaithal districts.Protests are also being backed by the opposition parties like the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and the Congress. The opposition leaders were seen at the protest sites extending support to the farmers. Ram Karan Kala, Shahbad MLA of Jannayak Janta Party, which is in the ruling alliance with the BJP, was seen among the protesting farmers, assuring to take up their issue with the state government. He did not give any satisfactory answer when the farmers asked him to resign and support the agitation, saying, “ I have come here to extend my support to the farmers and will take up their concern with the government”.Meanwhile in New Delhi, Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar moved two farm bills in the Rajya Sabha, reported agencies. Farmers’ and Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed by Lok Sabha with a voice vote a couple of days back.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 permits the electronic trading of farmers’ produce and allows the setting up of transaction platforms for facilitating direct online buying and selling of farm products.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 provides for a farming agreement prior to the production or rearing of any farm produce. A guaranteed price to be paid for the purchase of farming produce will be mentioned in such agreements.Farmers’ bodies in some states and the Opposition parties have alleged that the two bills are aimed at benefitting big corporates and ending the minimum price based procurement of farm produce by the government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-block-highways-including-nh-344-in-ambala-as-protests-swell/story-h0ej96QmELA6X9f4cn2zNM.html
20-09-2020||India||Haryana farmers eyeing highway blockade to oppose farm reform bills||Farmers in Haryana have set in motion their planned protest against the three farm reform bills by mobilising to block national and state highways on Sunday even as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar made an appeal asking farmers not to block highways and invited their leaders for a talk to clear alleged misgivings on the bills, as per reports.Farmers in Kurukshetra, Karnal, Yamunanagar and a few other districts of the state were using tractor-trailers, bikes and cars to reach protest spots with an aim to block the highways, reported agencies. NH 344 between Ambala and Roorkee had been blocked by farmers as per the latest reports. Several farmer leaders were also using social media platforms to mobilise more farmers to join the protest.As per the initial reports, focus of farmer unions will be in the northern districts of Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Ambaka, Karnal and Kaithal and the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni will lead the agitation in Yamunanagar by blocking the NH 344, near Milk Majra toll plaza.Charuni uploaded several video messages on social media urging farmers not to get misled by the government and join the protests.“News is being spread that the national highways will not be blocked, this news is fake and I appeal to the farmers to block all national and state highways except for the Chandigarh-Delhi highway (NH 44),” Charuni told his supporters in a video message on Sunday morning.Following instructions by the state home department, the district administrations have made heavy police deployment to ensure people do not face any problem due to the planned blockade of the highways. Talking to Hindustan Times, Yamunanagar superintendent of police, Kamaldeep Goyal said, “Our priority will be to convince the farmers and we will request them not to block the highway, but if they will continue with the blockade we have also made arrangements to divert the traffic if required, so that commuters do not face any problem”.Since Kurukshetra remained the hotspot for protests, where a lathi charge on farmers on September 10 had led to criticism of the police, the district police have made elaborate arrangements to avoid a repeat of the clashes.Also Read: Khattar urges farmers to defer agitation, invites them for talksKurukshetra SP Astha Modi told HT that seven points have been identified in the district where the farmers are likely to hold protests and block traffic before adding that the district police have made elaborate arrangements to divert the traffic and ensure that the protests remain peaceful.“Even, we have made a plan to divert the traffic on the NH 44 from Pipli to avoid traffic jams as there were reports of protests by a political party in Ambala,” she added.Also Read: Vij appeals to farmers to not block Highways, takes a dig at BadalsIn a statement issued late night Saturday, the chief minister said that in a democracy, everyone has a right to express views, but maintaining peace in the state is also the utmost duty of any government.He assured that the farm ordinances are entirely in the interest of farmers and it is unfortunate to see that the opposition parties are blatantly politicizing the issue so as to achieve their vested interests by misleading the farmers.The farmer leaders said that they did not get any invitation for talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-eyeing-nh-blockade-to-oppose-central-farm-ordinances/story-rlYhb0iDv58JVn4EYnFWwM.html
20-09-2020||India||Beginning of unprecedented era in agriculture sector: Amit Shah hails farm bills, says ‘MSP will remain’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday hailed the passage of two farm bills in Rajya Sabha, calling it the beginning of an “unprecedented era towards the development of agriculture sector”.  In a series of tweets, Shah also applauded PM Modi and said that passage of the bills show his unwavering determination to strengthen India’s agriculture sector.“The passage of two important bills related to agriculture in Parliament today shows PM Narendra Modi’s unwavering determination towards the development of our farmers and strengthening the agriculture sector. This is the beginning of an unprecedented era of development in India’s agricultural sector,” the BJP leader wrote on Twitter in Hindi.On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha passed two bills -- Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The government says that these bills will help boost the farming sector through private investments. During the farm bills debate in the Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) today, a lot of ruckus and uproar took place as several Opposition parties raised strong objection against the bills. Slamming the lawmakers, Shah further said, “For decades, people who took farmers’ votes and kept them in darkness and poverty, are again trying to provoke and mislead them by opposing the biggest decision in the interest of farmers.I assure the farmer brothers that if anyone thinks for your interests, it is Prime Minister Narendra Modi.”“These agrarian reforms by the Modi government will free our farmer brothers from the clutches of middlemen who kill their profits, and will also play a positive role in increasing their income by selling their produce anywhere and getting the right price for it. Even after this decision, the system of MSP (Minimum Support Price) will remain and government procurement will also continue,” he further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-era-amit-shah-hails-farm-bills-says-msp-will-remain/story-OVcRt7ONlKVkrpEpCaD7lN.html
20-09-2020||India||This kind of attack on the Chair...: Smriti Irani on Opposition’s ruckus in Rajya Sabha||Union minister Smriti Irani on Sunday strongly condemned the ruckus created by Opposition parties in Rajya Sabha as the Upper House of the Parliament cleared the farm bills.Calling the whole incident saddening, Irani slammed the lawmakers for breaking the microphone of deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha. “The kind of attack on the Chair of Deputy Chairman, is saddening incident. Is it befitting to the politics of this nation? Is it right to go and break the mic at a chair on which not only deputy chairman but also the Vice President of the nation sits?,” the BJP leader was quoted by ANI as saying.A major ruckus was created in Rajya Sabha by Opposition parties over farm bills on Sunday. Many lawmakers firmly protested against the bills in the House.  Some MPs broke the microphones on the chairman’s desk. The camera showed some MPs tearing papers and protesting near the chair in Rajya Sabha on Sunday.The Opposition has moved a no-confidence motion against the Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh Narayan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddening-incident-smriti-irani-on-opposition-s-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha/story-ar0zCLoMQCxcqrpoKd5MdK.html
20-09-2020||India||Be assured, MSP will continue, says Rajnath Singh on farm bills||With all the ongoing uproar over farm bills that were passed in the Upper House of Parliament on Sunday, defence minister Rajnath Singh at a press conference assured farmers that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue. “I want to assure farmers that minimum support price and APMC will continue. These will never be removed at any cost,” the defence minister said at the press conference.Apart from Rajnath Singh, Prakash Javadekar, Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Thawarchand Gehlot and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi were also present at the press conference.At the media briefing, Rajnath Singh strongly asserted that such conduct by Opposition parties was not expected in a healthy democracy.The government has been on the receiving end ever since the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were approved in Rajya Sabha on Sunday.Condemning Opposition’s ruckus in Parliament, Rajnath Singh said, “What happened in Rajya Sabha today was saddening, unfortunate and shameful. It is the responsibility of the ruling side to enable discussions in the House but it is also the duty of the Opposition to maintain decorum.”The government says the farm bills will help boost the farming sector through private investments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-assured-msp-will-continue-says-rajnath-singh-on-farm-bills/story-CjEOQl0I87MAKHHz3Enn1H.html
20-09-2020||India||After ruckus in Rajya Sabha, Venkaiah Naidu to take a call on unruly behaviour of MPs||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu will take a call on the action that could be taken against the opposition MPs who trooped into the well of the House on Sunday while protesting against the farm bills. According to people aware of the details, the chair has called a meeting with the parliamentary affairs minister to discuss the issue. While protesting, some MPs broke the microphones on the chairman’s desk; and were seen on camera tearing papers. Some MPs were caught on camera protesting near the chair.While Derek O’Brien from the TMC was caught waving the rule book at the chair, AAP’s Sanjay Singh was carried out by the marshals later. At least 12 Members of the Opposition later sat in protest in the House, after the proceedings were over; they also moved a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh. BJP MP and national general secretary, Bhupender Yadav critcised the “unruly behaviour” of the opposition members. He said the “chair is competent” to take a decision on what action should be taken.As per the rules of the House, the decision to ask an MP to leave is taken by the Chairman. Rule 256 provides for suspension of member; it says, “If the Chairman may, if he deems it necessary, name a member who disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the Council by persistently and willfully obstructing the business thereof. Rule 256 (2) says if a member is so named by the Chairman he shall forthwith put the question on a motion being made, no amendment, adjournment or debate being allowed, that the member (naming him) be suspended from the service of the Council for a period not exceeding the remainder of the Session: Provided that the Council may, at any time, on a motion being made, resolve that such suspension be terminated; while 256 (3) says a member suspended under this rule shall forthwith quit the precincts of the Council.While several MPs complained the audio system was turned off, hampering the live proceedings of the House through the Rajya Sabha TV; there was no clarity on whether the mikes were turned off on the instruction of the chair. “There was a lot of disruption. After the mikes were broken, the sound system was affected, so even inside the House, the members could not hear the proceedings,” said a functionary aware of the details. Speaking outside Parliament, Prahlad Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister criticised the behavior of the Opposition. The people of the country have given a mandate to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and “this (ruckus) is an insult of the people’s mandate,” he said. He went on to add, “Opposition has showed height of intolerance in Parliament today. They think of themselves as baadshah (king). We condemn the unruly behaviour of the opposition and we will never budge to such threats,” he said. Questions were also raised about the propriety of MPs shooting videos inside the House. O’Brien who tweeted a video from inside Parliament, told mediapersons that recordings were made by MPs to put on record the proceedings. He said he did not tear up the rule book and will put out the proof at the right time.A person familiar with the rules of the house said, the MPs have privileges, but if the chair deems fit, it can seek an explanation. “It is considered unethical, but since this an extra ordinary situation, the MPs may have recorded the visuals for the record. However, since the videos include what was expunged or not allowed to go on record; these cannot be used by the media,” the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-venkaiah-naidu-to-take-a-call-on-unruly-behaviour-of-mps/story-UZPCIwBkybnRh9C1b84GJN.html
20-09-2020||India||PM Modi calls passage of farm bills ‘watershed moment’ for agricultural sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the passage of the farm bills in the Rajya Sabha, saying these bills will revolutionise the agriculture sector.With this, the government’s proposed reforms for the agriculture sector have cleared the legislative hurdle. These bills will now go to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent after which they will become law.The prime minister pointed out that the farming sector in India is in need of technological and structural upgrades citing that the bills will pave a path for farmers to increase their yields by using better tools. In a series of tweets, PM Modi assured India’s farmers that the Centre aims to serve the farmers and build a stronger agricultural industry for future generations. PM Modi wrote on Twitter, “Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of the latest technology that assists the industrious farmers. Now, with the passage of the bills, our farmers will have easier access to futuristic technology that will boost production and yield better results. This is a welcome step.”Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of latest technology that assists the industrious farmers. Now, with the passage of the bills, our farmers will have easier access to futuristic technology that will boost production and yield better results. This is a welcome step.2 farm bills clear Rajya Sabha hurdle amid protestsA watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture! Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers.He also highlighted the need of removal of middlemen in the farming industry. He said that for many decades farmers in India have been ‘bullied by middlemen.’ For decades, the Indian farmer was bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen. The bills passed by Parliament liberate the farmers from such adversities. These bills will add impetus to the efforts to double income of farmers and ensure greater prosperity for them.Modi said, “For decades, the Indian farmer was bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen. The bills passed by Parliament liberate the farmers from such adversities. These bills will add impetus to the efforts to double income of farmers and ensure greater prosperity for them.”Farm bills passed in Parliament: Which party stands whereThe prime minister reiterated his assurance regarding the system of minimum selling price (MSP) and government procurement saying that these systems will continue unhindered and the passage of the bills do not affect them in any manner. He said the bills are intended to transform the sector and empower farmers to lead a better life. The opposition has targeted the government over the minimum selling price (MSP) and government procurement systems saying that the passage of the bills will affect these processes. MPs from several opposition parties feared that these bills will benefit private players and give rise to contract farming. The Upper House was also adjourned as MPs from the opposition parties created a ruckus during the seventh day of the Parliament’s Monsoon Session on Sunday when the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman disagreed to send the bills to a select panel. Several farmer leaders and farmer unions have begun staging protests across Punjab and Haryana. The government has assured that the bills will not affect the minimum selling price and the system of public procurement will not be affected by these bills. It has maintained that the APMC laws which state governments have implemented will not be affected by the bills but will only bring trade done outside the APMC farm yards under the ambit of the legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-farm-bills-passed-in-parliament-will-not-only-bring-radical-changes-in-agriculture-sector-but-will-also-empower-farmers-tweets-pm-modi/story-Wsi1df81nxjXQFeAHXPVtI.html
20-09-2020||India||‘Can govt assure no farmer will commit suicide after passage of farm bills?’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut took a stand against the farm bills that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seeks to get passed in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, demanding that a special session must be called to discuss them.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, have been tabled in the Rajya Sabha after being passed in the Lok Sabha last week.Also read: Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar moves crucial farm bills in Rajya SabhaRaut asked the government whether it could assure the nation that no farmer will commit suicide and the farmers’ income will increase after the passage of the bills. “Can the government assure the country that after these agriculture reform bills are passed, farmers’ income will double and no farmer will commit suicide? A special session should be called to discuss these bills,” Raut said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured the nation on Friday that after these bills become laws, farmers will have more opportunities to sell their produce without having to worry about middlemen and that this will result in increased profits.Also read: ‘Defeat them, this is what farmer wants’: Kejriwal on farm bills in Rajya SabhaOn September 17, the PM also told farmers that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system will remain unchanged. “A lot of power is engaged in confusing the farmers. I assure my farmer brothers and sisters that the system of MSP and government procurement will remain. These bills are really going to empower the farmers by giving them many more options. #JaiKisan,” he tweeted.“PM has said that the government is not ending the MSP system and it is just a rumour. So, did a union minister resign on the basis of a rumour?,” Raut said in his pitch against the bills in the Rajya Sabha.He was referring to Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who had resigned as the Union minister for food processing industries earlier this week in protest against the bills. Her party, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), is an old ally of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-govt-ensure-no-farmer-will-commit-suicide-after-farm-bills-are-passed-sanjay-raut/story-QeARLObo8Nog9SqZNjX1PI.html
20-09-2020||India||BJP, Opposition seek to rally support as farm bills reach Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha is likely to take up the contentious farm bills on Sunday with the Congress and many opposition parties trying to put a united front to oppose these proposed legislations terming them as anti-farmer and pro-corporate, even as the ruling BJP is also reaching out to several regional outfits for support. The numbers, however, appear to be in favour of the ruling dispensation to get these bills passed from Rajya Sabha, while the lower house has already cleared them despite a key NDA member Shiromani Akali Dal vehemently opposing them.Also read: Why western UP farmers are silent on Centre’s new farm bills Some key BJP leaders are said to be in touch with various non-Congress opposition parties to seek support from their Rajya Sabha members for these bills. While the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance is yet to have a clear majority of its own in the 245-member Rajya Sabha, many regional parties have backed it for the last several sessions to ensure passage of various legislations proposed by the government. BJP leaders expressed confidence that they will get the support of over 130 members, including nine of the AIADMK and six of the YSR Congress -- both of whom are not part of the ruling alliance if a division of votes is sought on these bills. Another regional party, Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) was also being wooed by the BJP, but its chief and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday asked his party MPs to vote against these bills, alleging these would cause great injustice to farmers in the country. The BJP itself has the highest tally with 86 seats, followed by 40 of the Congress. The three members of the SAD are sure to vote against the bills, but Shiv Sena, a former BJP ally and now in opposition, has expressed it support for these bills. The Maharashtra party has three members in Rajya Sabha. Several other regional parties, including three-member Aam Aadmi Party, Samajwadi Party with eight seats, and BSP with four, have joined the opposition’s ranks in protest against these bills but it may not prove enough to hinder their passage. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s forceful defence of the three bills and blistering criticism of the Opposition for protesting against them on Thursday made it clear that he remains unfazed by the opposition and that his government will press on to get Parliament’s nod for these measures aimed at opening private avenues for farmers to sell their produce.Also read: PM Modi defends farm bills, says critics misleading farmers His assertion came amid Congress and several other parties besides the SAD coming out strongly against these bills, calling them “anti-farmers”. Farmers in states like Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these proposed laws which, their leaders allege, will end up dismantling the existing government-backed support system they have.    A number count of parties that have come out against these draft legislations suggests that there are as of now nearly 100 MPs opposing them. There is no clarity about the stand of some small parties which have around a dozen members put together. Since the Modi government assumed office for its second time in 2019, its rivals have not been able to scuttle any of its major bills due to a rise in the ranks of treasury benches and a corresponding fall in the opposition ranks. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday, while the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill was passed on Tuesday. These bills seek to replace ordinances already promulgated by the government.  With opposition parties dubbing the three bills as “anti-farmers” and the SAD quitting his government to protest them, Modi refuted their criticism, describing these proposed laws as “historic” and stating that they will unshackle farmers by allowing them to sell their produce anywhere at a better price. A day after resigning from Union Cabinet, senior SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said she feels “saddened” that her voice in support of farmers was not heard and demanded that the government should pause on these legislations by referring them to a parliamentary panel for wider consultations.Also read: Agriculture bills passed in Lok Sabha, farmers protest: All you need to know  The government has presented these bills as pro-farmers, saying these will ensure that farmers get better prices for their produce and do not get subjected to regulations of ‘mandis’. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said on Thursday in Lok Sabha that farmers will be free to sell their produce to anyone and these bills will increase competition and promote private investment, which will help in the development of farm infrastructure and generate employment. However, opposition parties have slammed the bills as “anti-farmers”, claiming that the agriculture sector will be left to the fate of corporate interests. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal also appealed to all non-BJP parties to unite in Rajya Sabha and oppose the three bills that he claimed would leave farmers in the hands of big companies for exploitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-opposition-seek-to-rally-support-as-farm-bills-reach-rajya-sabha/story-EcgwrMK0EJnzIwWlII73XM.html
20-09-2020||India||Critics cite crucial loopholes in farm bills||The National Democratic Alliance government termed the two farm bills passed by Parliament on Sunday to liberalise the agriculture sector as “historic”, but farmers’ groups and activists opposing them allege the bills will create a system lacking adequate oversight and make cultivators vulnerable to exploitation. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims to ease all restrictions on trade of agriculture produce. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, lays down a new architecture for contract farming in the country so that agribusiness and farmers can engage with one another more confidently, enable modern supply chains and investments by agribusinesses in cultivation. Farm produce, under a decades-old system, are sold and bought in wholesale markets run by so-called agricultural produce marketing committees, or APMCs, under state laws. This is the mandi system. The bill enables food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, outside the purview of APMCs, rather than be bound to a specific market where they are licensed to operate. Ushered in during the 1960s, APMCs were originally meant to protect farmers from distress selling by creating a system of notified markets that records all transactions and prices. Over time, however, these have often acted as monopolies, evidence suggests. In December 2010, when onion prices peaked, a probe by the country’s statutory anti-monopoly body, the Competition Commission of India, revealed that one firm accounted for nearly a fifth of the total onion trade for that month at Lasalgoan APMC, Asia’s largest onion market in Maharashtra’s Nashik. While the APMC system is cartelised, bypassing it altogether will leave farmers vulnerable to big food corporations and the country will have no way of knowing what is being traded and at what price, critics argue. Intelligence on price and stock are critical to protect farmers and consumer interests both, they say. “The govt is abdicating all oversight responsibility since it is not prescribing a system of registration of all traders of farmers’ produce,” says Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture. “Nor does it want to build a price intelligence system even as it weakens the mandi system. How and when will it intervene then?” On Sunday, parties such as the Congress and Biju Janata Dal said the government ought to have included federally-fixed “minimum support prices” as the benchmark for any farm trade. The lack of any mention of MSP, which is considered as a basic remunerative price mandated by the government and federally fixed, in any of the legislations has given rise to suspicion that the new system will weaken the existing MSP regime. It’s not surprising that farmers and middlemen have come together to oppose the bill. Critics say the bill doesn’t consider the realities of interlocked farm markets. In India farmers typically are “locked” in with middlemen because the latter loans farmers money to meet cultivation costs with an assurance to buy their produce. HT research shows that farmers value MSPs highly and negatively view middlemen (https://bit.ly/35SWAIU). The bill allows tax- or levies-free markets, whereas APMCs charge between 4.5% to 8% in mandi levies. This will lead to a loss in revenue. Critics say the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which brings a new contract-farming regime, doesn’t adequately protect the farmer. Sections 19 states that “no civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings in respect of any dispute which a Sub-Divisional Authority or the Appellate Authority is empowered by or under this Act to decide”. This bar of jurisdiction will hurt interests of farmers, they argue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/critics-cite-crucial-loopholes-in-farm-bills/story-cXkw5I5xHpSpjwEDJxhCxK.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Passing of two farm bills in Rajya Sabha triggers protests in Ludhiana||The passing of two contentious farm bills in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday spurred protests by farmers in various parts of the district. Farmers organisations in Samrala, Khanna and Jodhan also burnt the effigies of the central government while raising slogans against the legislations – the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.In Samrala, farmers took out a mock funeral procession to condemn the government’s alleged anti-farmer moves. Members of various Bhartiya Kisan Unions displayed anti-farmer bills and anti-government slogans at the entrance of various villages. “Jehra kisana naal kharu ohi pinda which varu (Only those who stand by farmers will be allowed to enter the villages),” read the slogans. “Farmers are witnessing overwhelming support from all sections of society. Sportsmen, art and cultural organisations and various NGOs have also stood in our support. Besides, even farmer organisations from the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states are united with us in our cause,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal). Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), said, “As many as 31 unions have united to oppose the bills. Several business organisations have also backed our bandh call for September25.” ‘Sunny Deol should resign’Lakhowal demanded that following the lead of Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol should also resign to support the farmers. “Deol’s statement that the ordinances were a boon for the farmers is highly condemnable. He was projected as the son of a farmer ahead of the elections, which helped him defeat senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar. Now, he has forgotten that it was farmers who backed him in the 2019 elections. Despite hailing from a farming background, Deol has failed to understand the pain of farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/passing-of-two-farm-bills-in-rajya-sabha-triggers-protests-in-ludhiana/story-oiqGEViLCHvLnMRLJWcxIN.html
20-09-2020||Editorials||The govt’s rush to pass key farm bills and the Opposition’s conduct were wrong||On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha passed The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. This newspaper has supported the government’s efforts to bring about a new legislative and policy architecture for agriculture as a method to empower farmers. But as far as legislation is concerned, there is both content and process. And on Sunday, there is little doubt that the process was undermined, reflecting poorly on India’s parliamentary democracy.The reforms are significant, affecting a range of stakeholders, particularly farmers. They have also generated a political backlash, with even partners in the ruling coalition such as the Shiromani Akali Dal resigning from the Cabinet on the issue. The Opposition was keen on sending the bills to a select committee. Ideally, this should be done — for the committee process provides an opportunity to examine legislation, refine it, and allows parliamentarians to speak up without being confined to party positions. But if the government was not willing to embark on that process, there should have been a discussion in the House where members got a chance to offer their perspectives and the government listened to feedback and made modifications accordingly. And along with this, there should have been a clear voting process — a division as it is called in parliamentary parlance — to get an accurate sense of the mood of the House.Unfortunately, none of this was done. The discussion in the House was rushed — since the government wants to push through other legislations quickly, before the session is brought to an early end. And there was no division, but a voice vote — prompting genuine questions about whether the government had the numbers at all. So it was with one eye on the clock and another eye on the numbers that the government rushed through the process on Sunday — but this was wrong.The Opposition was wrong too — in being disruptive, creating a din, tearing documents, and creating a difficult situation for the presiding officer, perhaps indicating that it too was not confident of the numbers. The responsibility for what happened on Sunday rests with both sides. The government’s victory in getting the bills passed will be tainted by the way it was done, and the Opposition’s response will dilute its legitimate right to protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-govt-s-rush-to-pass-key-farm-bills-and-the-opposition-s-conduct-were-wrong/story-4zJVOLkZubT7J5ZqjlIP4O.html
20-09-2020||India||Farm bills passed in Parliament: Which party stands where||The Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on Sunday passed two contentious farm bills amid uproar by Opposition members. The bills have triggered protests by farmers at several places.The two bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 - were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday.These bills will now be sent to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent.The Opposition parties protested against the bill, criticising the manner in which they were passed in Parliament. In fact, the Opposition members who had earlier moved amendments refused to participate in the proceedings when the bill was being put to vote.Here’s the stand taken by the various Opposition parties:Bharatiya Janata PartyBJP president J P Nadda hailed Parliament’s nod to two farm sector reform bills on Sunday, saying they will give farmers freedom in selling their produce and rid them of middlemen.He also hit out at the opposition parties over the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha after the Chair proceeded to take up the bills for passage as he termed the behaviour “highly irresponsible” and an attack on democracy.YSRCPThe party led by Jagan Mohan Reddy announced its support for the bill. YSRCP MP Vijaysai Reddy slammed the Congress and said that there is no reason for it to oppose agriculture-related bills. “I want to bring the hypocrisy of Congress party. In their manifesto of Lok Sabha elections, they have said the same things which are in the bills and now they are not supporting the bills,” he said.Janata Dal (United)Ram Chandra Prasad Singh of the JD(U), while supporting the bills, said it is for the first time that a farmers’ policy has come after a long time. He said in 1991 when the country saw liberalisation, it missed bringing agriculture reforms.He cited the example of Bihar where the Nitish Kumar government has abolished the APMC Act in 2006 and yet farmers are getting good price for their produce through MSP and farmers are producing more.CongressThe Congress has targeted the government on the issue of Minimum Support Price (MSP), calling the farmer bills introduced by the government as “black laws”. “Why the government is running away from providing legal obligation for MSP. Who will take a guarantee of MSP outside ‘Mandi’,” Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. The Centre has tried to allay the concerns of the farmers that the MSP will remain intact and slammed the Opposition parties for misleading the farmers for their political gain.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted to say on Sunday afternoon that the MSP will remain intact, and hailed the passage of the bills in Parliament.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)SAD, the oldest constituent in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), said that there can’t be any talks with the Centre unless the agriculture bills are taken back. This stand was announced by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday.Punjab food and civil supplies minister BB Ashu took a dig at SAD for taking a “U-turn” on the issue. He accused Akali Dal of changing their position on the Bills after “realising the seriousness of the matter.”Trinamool Congress, DMK and CPMThese parties wanted the bill to be sent to a select committee of Rajya Sabha for greater scrutiny. Deputy Chairman Harivansh put their demands for vote and said the motions have been negated by voice vote. There was then slogan-shouting as the members tried to heckle the presiding officer who was protected by House marshals.Rashtriya Janata DalHitting out at the Modi government over the issue of the farm bills, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said on Sunday that his party has always fought for the rights of farmers and will fight “tooth and nail” against this “corporatisation of the agriculture sector”.Why did a Union cabinet minister resign if the bills were not “anti-farmer”, he said while speaking to news agency PTI. Yadav was referring to SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal quitting the Cabinet last week over the farm bills issue.Shiv SenaThe Maharashtra party took a stand against the farm bills with its leader Sanjay Raut demanding a special session to discuss them. Raut also asked the government to guarantee that no farmer will commit suicide after the bills are passed, and that their incomes will increase.AIADMKThe Tamil Nadu party, part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), opposed the bills. It claimed the bills will favour the corporate houses.Telangana Rashtra Samiti TRS chef and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had said he is against the bills, alleging these would cause great injustice to farmers in the country.Major farmers’ organisations, such as the Bharatiya Kisan Union and the umbrella All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a front for nearly 200 farmers’ groups, have also opposed the bills.Aam Aadmi PartyThe AAP has opposed the farm bill. The party’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh lashed out at the government alleging it wants the corporates to take over the agriculture sector of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bill-passed-in-parliament-which-party-stands-where/story-YVY2L8aXinQ99lcx4KLw4O.html
20-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes two key farm bills amid protests||The Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed through a voice vote two key agricultural reforms bills, which have been opposed by farm groups, even as the opposition protested against the legislations and stormed the well of the House.Opposition members from the Trinamool Congress and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam were seen on camera tearing documents – some reports claimed it was the rule book --- and rushing to the chairman to register their protest. This led the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to demand action over violation of rules. No division of votes was sought as opposition members continued to oppose the chair’s decision of extending the house beyond the scheduled 1pm closing time to complete the voting process.On Thursday, the Lok Sabha passed by a majority voice vote the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Also Read: Haryana farmers block highways including NH 344 over farm billsIn the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, a section of the opposition demanded that the two bills be sent to a select committee for further scrutiny. The opposition members, who had earlier moved amendments, refused to participate in the proceedings when the bill was being put to vote. Earlier in the day, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar introduced the legislations in the House. “The two bills are historic and will bring a change in the lives of the farmers. The farmers will be able to freely trade their produce anywhere in the country,” Tomar said in the House, reassuring farmers.Speaking to the media outside Parliament, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the people of the country have given a mandate to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and “this (ruckus) is an insult of the people’s mandate”. If the Opposition wanted, they could have asked for a division, the minister said. The deputy chairperson was ready, he added.BJP president JP Nadda said the bills will bring in historic reforms in the agriculture sector and those opposing these bills have proved that they are “anti-farmer”. Commenting on the protest by opposition MPs, he said their behaviour was “irresponsible and condemnable”, and that they broke the rules for physical distancing imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: Delhi Police on alert amid farmers’ protests on agriculture billsTrinamool’s Derek O’Brien said 12 MPs will sit in the Rajya Sabha chambers till 3pm to protest the passage of the bills. He said the MPs had to record evidence inside Parliament and denied that he tore the rule book. “We have all the footage with us and we will release it at the right time,” he said.The main opposition Congress and a clutch of smaller parties are opposed to the government’s farm liberalisation plan. A key opposition to the bills came on Thursday from BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal, whose minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet over efforts to unshackle the farm sector. PM Modi has accused detractors of spreading “misinformation and lies”, while reassuring farmers the reforms were in their best interests. Modi has called the reforms a “protective shield” around farmers, which would bring “more options and opportunities”. The two legislations seek to liberalise farm trade, enable modern supply chains, allow agribusinesses and farmers to engage with one another more confidently, break interlocked markets and create a seamless commodities trade, currently fragmented. India’s agricultural trade still requires licenced traders who must operate out of notified markets allotted to them. The bills aim to sidestep this system, called agricultural produce market committees (APMC), and free up market restrictions. But critics argue the new system will lack adequate oversight in its current form. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, allows buyers of farm produce to trade outside the mandi system or wholesale markets run by states under APMCs, which have become cartelised over time. APMC laws require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where the farmers reside, rather than in open markets, which economists say scuttles price discovery, hurting farm profits. The bill enables farmers and buyers of their produce to trade outside these markets without any taxes and will therefore open up APMCs to competitions.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, lays down a new architecture for contract farming. It provides for a national framework on farming agreements, enabling a farmer to engage with agri-business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for sale of future farming produce at a mutually pre-agreed price. Major farmers’ organisations, such as the Bharatiya Kisan Union and the umbrella All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a front for nearly 200 farmers’ groups, have opposed the bills.After the Upper House passed the bills, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “The dictatorial attitude of the Chair in not wanting to get a sense of the House, which is the convention to extend the session beyond the scheduled 1 pm, led to bedlam & chaos. The anti-farmer Bills were passed in the din without voting. Why the tearing urgency? On whose orders?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-two-key-farm-bills-opposition-triggers-ruckus/story-jpMTI6jsavLUnsU7Bi1BoI.html
20-09-2020||India||Kejriwal asks non-BJP members to unite against farm bills in Rajya Sabha||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to members of all opposition parties to vote against three controversial agriculture bills in the Rajya Sabha.“The BJP does not have a majority in the Rajya Sabha. It is my appeal to members of all non-BJP parties to join hands against the bills. This is what the farmers of the nation wants,” said Kejriwal, the national convener of the Aam Aami Party (AAP) , which has three members in the Upper House.The bills were tabled in the Rajya Sabha for discussion and passage on Sunday.Also Read: Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar moves crucial farm bills in Rajya SabhaThe Lok Sabha, where the BJP and its allies enjoy a brute majority, passed two of these bills --- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 --- through a voice vote on Thursday. It has earlier passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.The AAP, which has one MP in the Lok Sabha, voted against the three bills.The main opposition Congress and a clutch of smaller parties are opposed to the reforms. A key opposition to the bills came on Thursday from BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal, whose minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet over efforts to unshackle the farm sector.Also Read: BJP, Opposition seek to rally support as farm bills reach Rajya SabhaIndia’s agricultural trade still requires licenced traders who must operate out of notified markets allotted to them. The bills aim to sidestep this system, called agricultural produce market committees (APMC), free up market restrictions, enable farmers and agribusinesses to engage more confidently under a new contract farming law and help to create modern supply chains. Critics argue the new system will lack adequate oversight in its current form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-asks-non-bjp-members-to-unite-against-farm-bills-in-rajya-sabha/story-unJdgB9bNJNk84KgEIS9ZI.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers buying 20,000 tractors a year; experts say encourage cooperatives||Ten lakh farmers in Punjab, one-third (33%) or 3.6 lakh small scale agriculturists among them, bought 20,000 new tractors every year, on average since 2016, data available with the Punjab state transport department shows. Small farmers own less than 5 acre. The cost of a tractor starts from ₹6 lakh, going up to ₹12 lakh. The numbers bought were 19,210 in 2016; 20,327 in 2017; 19,700 in 2018 and 13,645 till September 2020. Experts claim tractors were being bought for residue management machines; social reasons; due to lower tractor availability with co-operative societies and attractive offers being offered on purchase. State agriculture department director Sutantar Kumar Arri said, “The need of the farmers has changed. When we are providing heavy machines for residue management, naturally to deal them they requires big tractors, which is the main reason of buying new tractors. We have conveyed to the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to make new machines compatible with old tractors so that farmers do not bear the extra burden.” Punjab Agricultural University principal economist Sukhpal Singh said of small farmers, 1 lakh small farmers owned tractors. “Of the small farmers who owned tractors, the maximum were under debt or were the ones who have committed suicide. Secondly, they helped the rest of their 2 lakh small farmers in the profession. Smaller farmers faced unfavourable market terms and lower profit.” He added that to prevent their suicide, at least half of the state’s villages must have tractors in co-operative societies.”Punjab co-operative department registrar Vikas Garg said, “The state has 3,500 co-operative societies with just 1,200 tractors with societies. We have been increasing the number of tractors as per demand, with the majority added over the past 2-3 years.” Iqbal Singh, employee of a tractor agency in Moga district, said, “Farmers preferred heavy horsepower tractors, claiming that at least 50-60hp was needed to deal with the new equipment, especially related to stubble burning.” PAU professor, Sarabjeet Singh said social reasons prompted farmers, as they copied other richer farmers. Agricultural expert Ramandeep Singh Mann the state government needed to frame a policy or encourage co-operatives. “There are mainly social reasons behind farmers buying tractors,” he claimed. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said newer machines, especially for crop residue management, required heavy horsepower tractors. “Banks and financial institutions have made loans easy. They are giving Rs 6 lakh loan to a farmer, who owns just two acres. Surplus machinery is not a good trend. Farmer unions need to think about it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-buying-20-000-tractors-a-year-experts-say-encourage-cooperatives/story-wCc6nAX8SO73T0cwLn0b6K.html
