21-09-2020||India||Youth Congress protests farm bills in Jammu, threatens mass agitation in J-K||The Youth Congress unit of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday staged a protest against the farm bills passed in the Parliament on Sunday, stating that the bills were against the farmers of the country. Dozens of Youth Congress leaders and activists assembled at the Jammu Press Club while holding anti-BJP posters and raised slogans against the BJP-led Central government. The protest was led by Uday Bhanu Chib, president J&K Youth Congress. The protesters said that these laws were ill- conceived and the central government should take back the twin farm bills passed on Sunday since these are against the land owners of the nation. “Farm bills are against the federal cooperative spirit,” the protesters said and questioned the need to bring these bills during the Covid-19 pandemic. Chib said that the bills have been brought with an intention to end the Minimum Support Price (MSP) operations and were against the economic interests of the farming sector. The Youth Congress demanded the immediate roll back of the farm bills and threatened mass agitation across the union territory if the rollback demand is not met.The Indian Youth Congress is also going to stage a “Parliament Gherao” for the rights of unemployed youth and farmers of the country on Tuesday under the leadership of IYC in-charge Krishna Allavaru and IYC president Srinivas BV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-congress-protests-farm-bills-in-jammu-threatens-mass-agitation-in-j-k/story-De1cDxEABauDgSo0Z6kGDK.html
21-09-2020||India||Maximum good for farmers, says PM Modi on agri bills. Ally Nitish Kumar agrees||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday reiterated that the system of minimum support price (MSP) and procurement of foodgrains would continue under the latest farm sector reforms that seek to liberalise agricultural markets. NDA alliance partner and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar backed the reforms amid opposition protest.“I want to assure farmers that minimum support price, government procurement of their produce will continue,” said PM Modi.The PM’s assertion followed launching of work on nine national highway (NH) projects in Bihar and the ambitious project to link up villages with optical fibre network to ensure high-speed internet facility through video conferencing from Delhi.Accusing the opposition of misleading the farmers about new agricultural reforms, PM Modi said that some people were creating a hue and cry over it as they saw their interests getting hampered in the Centre’s move to empower the farmers.“Agricultural mandis will not be closed. Instead the new reform would allow farmers to reap maximum benefits by selling their products at whichever market they find the best for their produce,” underlined the PM.Dismissing the opposition’s claim that the farmers’ interest would be compromised in the wake of reforms, PM Modi clarified that ownership of land would not be impacted due to their direct access to big players in the farm sector. Rather, those engaged in contract farming would be accountable for protection of ownership to farmers, arrange modern technological intervention and cater to other needs of the farmers, he said. The opposition parties have been protesting over the new reforms initiated by the passage of two farm sector legislation in Rajya Sabha on Sunday. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in a series of tweets, alleged that the Centre was working under a design to enslave farmers to capitalists.The PM laid the foundation stone of three four-lane bridges, two on Ganga and one on Kosi, and widening of six stretches of the national highway (NH) being executed at the cost of Rs 14,258 crore. As many 45,945 villages of the state will be connected through optical fibre internet service under the project that was launched today.In a string of events earlier this month, the PM had laid foundation stone or inaugurated schemes worth more than Rs 1,700 crore in Bihar ahead of the assembly election. Chief minister Nitish Kumar lauded the PM for introducing the farm sector reforms, saying that he had in 2006 abolished the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) Act, which was in no way in favour of the farmers.“People of Bihar are unfazed by the campaign launched by the opposition. Rather, they are happy to see the developments being executed in Bihar under the leadership of PM Modi,” said the CM, adding that people of the state would give a befitting reply to the undignified acts resorted to by the opposition in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maximum-good-for-farmers-says-pm-modi-on-agri-bills-ally-nitish-kumar-agrees/story-OJJN5G9yFaWGDhEiyR9KsL.html
21-09-2020||India||Farm bills will empower farmers, says PM Modi amid opposition protests||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed the passage of the two contentious farm bills in the Rajya Sabha and congratulated all farmers. He was speaking at a virtual event after inaugurating ‘Ghar Tak Fibre’ scheme and other development projects in Bihar.Also read: PM Modi calls passage of farm bills ‘watershed moment’ for agricultural sectorHe said that the bills were the need of the 21st century and will help increase the farmers’ income.“These bills will empower farmers to freely trade their produce anywhere. I want to make it clear that these bills are not against the agriculture mandis. They were the need of the present hour and our government has brought this reform for the farmers. Farmers can sell their produce wherever they see more profit,” said PM Modi.The Prime Minister reiterated his assurance regarding the system of minimum selling price (MSP) and said that it will continue unhindered. “I want to assure every farmer that the Minimum Support Price system will continue as before,” he said.Also read: ‘Step towards making India’s villages self-reliant’: PM Modi inaugurates highway projects, fibre scheme in BiharEight opposition MPs -- Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien, the AAP’s Sanjay Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah, CPI(M)’s KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem and Trinamool’s Dola Sen -- were suspended from the Rajya Sabha for a week under Rule 256(2) on Monday for their “unruly behaviour” a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-will-empower-farmers-says-pm-modi-amid-opposition-protests/story-wGv5rUhGgmlispPJUImNFM.html
21-09-2020||India||8 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended over chaos on 2 farm bills: 10 points||Eight opposition lawmakers in the Rajya Sabha, including Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien, were on Monday suspended for a week for “unruly behavior” that took place as the House passed two controversial agriculture sector related bills on Sunday.The government moved a motion for their suspension for “bringing disrepute” to the House for the rest of the monsoon session of Parliament.The motion was approved by the House through a voice vote amid protests from opposition leaders. TMC’s Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) were among those who were suspended.Also read: Parliament monsoon session: Naidu rejects no-confidence motion against HarivanshThe Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed the two contentious farm bills by voice vote as the House witnessed chaotic scenes after some slogan-shouting opposition members lead by the Trinamool Congress climbed on to the chairperson’s podium demanding a discussion.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, was passed by the upper house. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, part of the broader farm liberalisation plan, could not be taken up.Click here for LIVE updates on Parliament proceedingsHere are 10 points as the Upper House was adjourned for the day:* The Rajya Sabha was adjourned till Tuesday after the suspended members refused to leave the House. The chair insisted that business could be taken up only after the 8 members suspended for a week under Rule 256(2) leave the House. It was adjourned several times before as well amid continuous protest by opposition members over the suspension of the eight MPs.* During the third time, the proceedings of the Upper House was adjourned by deputy chairman Harivansh till 11:07am. Bhubaneshwar Kalita was in the chair during the resumption of proceedings amid the sloganeering by opposition MPs. Kalita asked suspended members to leave the House as Opposition leaders continued sloganeering. “LoP (Leader of the Opposition) will speak but suspended members should be out of this House. House has to be in order. Also, request MPs to follow COVID protocol,” Kalita said.* Earlier, the House was adjourned till 10:36am and by chairman M Venkaiah Naidu till 10:30am after announcing the one-week suspensions unruly behaviour with the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman on Sunday. Naidu had also rejected the no-confidence motion moved by the Opposition against Deputy Chairman Harivansh saying that it is “not admissible under the rules”.* On Sunday, as many as 100 members from 12 opposition parties had submitted a no-confidence motion against Harivansh after he overruled opposition pleas for postponing agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s reply to the debate on the two farm bills till Monday since the sitting time scheduled of the House was over.* Chief minister of West Bengal and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Monday that the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members reflects the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s “autocratic mindset”. “Suspension of the 8 MPs who fought to protect farmers interests is unfortunate & reflective of this autocratic Govt’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms & principles. We won’t bow down & we’ll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets,” Banerjee tweeted. * Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, the Trinamool’s chief whip of Trinamool Congress in the Upper House, said the role of the chair in the suspension of the opposition MPs was “ex facie partisan, unprecedented and unlawful”.* “Amendments of several members for referring the matter to Select Committee were not taken up for disposal before passing of the bill by so-called voice vote. The role of the Chair in this context was ex facie partisan, unprecedented and unlawful. Without considering this illegality committed yesterday giving birth to strong protests from the Opposition, their voices have further been throttled when some of them have been suspended today for the remaining period of the current session,” Ray said in a statement.* “This way the Upper House is not run. If Constitutional Authorities, in this case, the Deputy Chairman of the Upper House of the Parliament, act as per their whims and fancies in blatant violation of rules and in detriment to the laid down procedures of the parliamentary democratic system, the country is destined to fall prey to majoritarianism, if not fascism,” he added. Ray said such developments must be condemned by all.* The suspended MPs later sat outside Parliament to protest, carrying placards with “We Will Fight For Farmers” and “Parliament Assassination” written in English, Hindi and Bengali.* Rajya Sabha witnessed unruly scenes on Sunday as opposition members stormed the well and reached the deputy chairman’s seat to protest against the farm bills debated and passed by the Upper House through voice vote.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-mps-suspended-from-rajya-sabha-for-a-week-after-chaos-over-2-farm-bills/story-p9AdsZqQ9sQJ5tWZf4ivgI.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Cong leaders protest against farm bills outside Panchkula DC’s office||Congress leaders on Monday protested outside the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office here and demanded immediate withdrawal of the agricultural bills introduced by the Union government. Holding placards, the Congressmen leaders raised slogans against the Central government though they could not enter the DCs office because of heavy police presence.An official received a memorandum by the protesters to hand over to the DC.Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta, who has recently recovered from Covid-19, demanded that the government withdraw the bills or bring about a fourth amendment to ensure stringent punishment to those buying products at a lesser cost than the minimum sale price.Strict checks should also be imposed on black marketing, she said.The bills will only benefit rich businessman and the poor farmer will be made to suffer, Mehta added. A common farmer was not that educated to understand the technicalities of the bills.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, passed in Parliament on Sunday, aims to ease all restrictions on trade of agriculture produce.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, also passed on Sunday, lays down a new architecture for contract farming in the country to ensure farmers can engage with one another more confidently, enable modern supply chains and investments by agribusinesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-leaders-protest-against-farm-bills-outside-p-kula-dc-s-office/story-s2gpHRxw8677NR8znFwNTL.html
21-09-2020||India||BJP used force to push through farm bills, alleges Mamata Banerjee||The farm bills passed by Parliament on Sunday will trigger a food pandemic in the country and wipe off small and marginal farmers, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged at the state secretariat on Monday afternoon. She accused the ruling BJP at the Centre of using force to push the bills through.“The Centre has bulldozed democracy and the federal structure of the country. Voting was not allowed on the farmers’ bill although the Constitution says that it has to be allowed if someone demands so. But they bulldozed the rights of farmers and passed the bill through voice vote. This must be condemned,” said Banerjee.While the government blamed the Opposition for not seeking a division of votes, a few opposition MPs said they had put forth the demand, but it was not accepted.Amid pandemonium in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, Parliament passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. While addressing the media at the secretariat, Banerjee did not specify which of these bills she was referring to but called it “black Sunday.”“A fascist government is controlling our lives,” she quipped. “All powers over land and agricultural produce have been given to landlords and middlemen. In whose interest have so many agricultural products, including onion, been taken out of the list of essential commodities? Farmers will no longer be able to fix the price of their crop. The states can no longer control the price of crops or monitor their supply,” said the chief minister. “A conspiracy is on to take land away from farmers. There is a conspiracy to pass on these lands to landlords. Being in majority does not mean the entire country can be sold. I call all parties to unitedly oppose this. We will stay behind them and support the movement,” said the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) countered Banerjee by calling her “anti-national and anti-farmer.”“The chief minister is a proponent of double standards as far as farmers are concerned. She is opposed to their empowerment. She did not allow the Prime Minister’s Kishan Nidhi Yojna scheme to be implemented in Bengal. It would have benefited farmers,” said Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-used-violence-to-push-through-farm-bills-alleges-mamata-banerjee/story-uTQyhWNqj2b1CMOcIPI1UN.html
21-09-2020||India||8 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs’ protest stretches into the night||The eight members of Parliament (MPs), who were suspended by Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, have been protesting near the Gandhi statue in the premises.Their protest has been going on since the time Naidu ordered their suspension for unruly behaviour in the House during the passage of two farm bills on Sunday.These MPs - Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) - are sitting with placards which read ‘we will fight for farmers’.They were suspended for a week under Rule 256(2).West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee said that she is in touch with the MPs and the protest will continue through the night. “In Delhi also, the protest is going on under Gandhi Murti and it will continue the entire night, I am in touch with them,” Banerjee said in Howrah.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday that the conduct of Opposition leaders on Sunday was “shameful” and “irresponsible”.Stating rule 256, Prasad said a member is expected to leave the House immediately if suspended by the Chairman but the Opposition leaders did not pay heed to Naidu’s words.The Congress has, meanwhile, announced it will take to the streets, launching a mass movement across the country from September 24 to demand withdrawal of the agricultural bills.“The decision was taken at a meeting of members of the auxiliary committee, the general secretaries and the state in-charges,” former Union Minister AK Antony said in a press conference.The party has set a target of collecting signatures of 2 crore farmers and handing them over to the President on November 14.It has termed the suspesion of the MPs, including three of its own, as “undemocratic” and “one-sided”.Rajya Sabha witnessed unruly scenes on Sunday as Opposition members stormed the well and reached the deputy chairman’s seat to protest against the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. These legislations were passed through voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-protest-stretches-into-the-night/story-fuJe59rM8gxwtxXQFdMLuK.html
21-09-2020||India||Amid protests over farm bills, Delhi civic body clarifies social and political gatherings are banned in national capital till Sept 30||The DDMA on Monday clarified that all social, cultural and political functions along with large gatherings and congregations in Delhi are prohibited till September 30.In view of several protests against farm bills in the city, the Delhi Police also said demonstrations cannot be allowed till September 30, citing an earlier order of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) which prohibits such activities.In a communication to Delhi government’s Deputy home secretary, DDMA additional CEO Rajesh Goyal on Monday said the order of the Authority, dated June 6, will continue till September 30.As per the DDMA order on June 6, all social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions as well other gatherings and congregations were prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi.Also, the order restricted marriage related gatherings to 50 persons and funeral and last rites gatherings to 20 persons.“The said position has been continued till September 30, vide DDMA order dated September 3, 2020,” Goyal stated.“It is therefore quite clear that at present, all social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions, other gatherings and congregations are prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi,” he said.The Delhi Police also said in a tweet that all political, cultural and social gatherings in NCT of Delhi will remain suspended till September 30.  On Monday, the police also detained over 40 Delhi Congress workers, including state president Anil Kumar, who were marching towards Parliament to protest the farm bills. PTI VIT TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-protests-over-farm-bills-delhi-civic-body-clarifies-social-and-political-gatherings-are-banned-in-national-capital-till-sept-30/story-ow2FXFXsut7Ael3dX9IlKM.html
21-09-2020||India||All-India protest against farm bills from September 24, says Congress||The Congress on Monday decided to launch a nationwide agitation from September 24 against the government for passing farm bills in Parliament.The two agricultural reform bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — were cleared by voice vote in Parliament even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee.The authorities called in marshals to form a double-layered barricade to protect Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh and remove an MP, muted live telecast of the proceedings, and refused to accept the Opposition’s demand for a division (voting through paper ballots) on the legislation.The agitation will continue till the government repeals the “anti-farmer, anti-poor and anti-people laws”, said senior Congress leader AK Antony, addressing the reporters after a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states at the party headquarters in Delhi.“From September 24 onwards, Congress will launch an all-India agitation asking the government to repeal the black laws,” said Antony.Senior leader Ahmed Patel told reporters that the Congress will take this issue to the people of the country. “The meeting was held under the directions of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” he added. The six-member special committee formed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to help her in organisational and operational matters chaired the meeting in her absence. Accompanied by her son and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi had last week left for the United States for a routine health check-up.Giving details of the agitation, Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal said the party will have a series of nationwide programmes in support of the farmers.Apart from a chain of press conferences across the country, Venugopal said state unit chiefs and legislature party leaders along with former ministers, MPs and MLAs will walk to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum to Governors to be passed on to President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-india-protest-against-farm-bills-from-september-24-says-congress/story-KtE1j8qVdl4jnWcwTrIR6N.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Shameful day in Parliament history’: Ravi Shankar Prasad slams Opposition leaders for creating ruckus over farm bills||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday slammed the Opposition leaders for their unruly conduct in the Parliament during the passage of two key farm bills on Sunday and their refusal to leave the Rajya Sabha despite the Chairman’s order to suspend them this morning. On the Opposition’s claim that the bills were passed without voting on Sunday, Prasad said deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh had asked the members of Parliament (MPs), who went to the well of the house, to return to their seats 13 times.“How can voting take place when you won’t go to your seats,” he said. Pointing to the possibility of the Chairman being physically attacked, the Union minister said, “Yesterday was a shameful day in Parliament’s history. Mic was broken, a leader of a party tore a rule book while some leaders stood on chairs.”He also told reporters about the dismay among the people of Bihar over the treatment Singh faced in the house. “Harivansh ji is an eminent writer, we have all felt very bad at the treatment meted out to him. An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar was humiliated, the people of Bihar will give a response. Harivansh ji remained dignified. The Opposition parties will have to answer in Bihar. We will not make it a political issue but people are hurt,” he said. Earlier in the day, the upper house Chairman M Venkaih Naidu suspended eight MPs over their misconduct on Sunday. TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) were suspended for a week under Rule 256(2).The suspended MPs, however, refused to leave the house which Prasad said is a violation of rules and patently illegal.Referring to the MPs’ conduct on both days, the Union minister said, “they know the rules, propriety but behaved like this. The conduct of leaders is shameful and shows utter disregard for norms.”Stating rule 256, Prasad said a member is expected to leave the House immediately if suspended by the Chairman but the Opposition leaders did not pay heed to the Chairman’s word. “They stayed and shouted in the house. What does this mean? You flouted norms yesterday and again today. And then you talk of democracy,” he added. He also accused the Congress and RJD of encouraging the bad behaviour against the deputy Chairman.The minister dismissed Opposition claims that the bills were passed “forcefully” or “without voting” saying that the Centre had a clear majority with 110 members in favour while 72 opposed. He said the Opposition’s agenda was to not to let the bill pass and took a swipe at them saying, “If you had gone to your place there would have been voting.”The BJP leader also invoked Arun Jaitely who he said had spoken of tyranny of minority. “You will not follow rules, break mics, attack deputy Chairman and then talk of democracy, this won’t do.”He also said the government’s Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers this year is ready and those who are claiming that it will end don’t know what to say. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured MSP will go on and we have implemented it from today itself. On Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation over farm bills, Prasad said she had been a a distinguished colleague. She had asked if it was legally possible. As the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 have been cleared by both houses, the Union minister said, “This is in the interest of farmers. The President will act in his wisdom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shameful-day-in-parliament-history-ravi-shankar-prasad-slams-opposition-leaders-for-creating-ruckus-over-farm-bills/story-4edDp1b39HtPUb84dTBW6N.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Anti-farmer’: SAD team meets President Kovind, requests him not to sign farm bills passed by Parliament||A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) met President Ram Nath Kovid on Monday requesting him to not give his nod to the farm bills passed by the Rajya Sabha (or Upper House of Parliament) on Sunday.These bills have already been passed by the Lok Sabha and await President’s nod before becoming law.Speaking to reporters after meeting Kovind, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said the party’s delegation requested the President to not sign on the “anti-farmer” bills that were “forcefully” passed in the Rajya Sabha. “We requested him to send back the bills to Parliament,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Badal had on Saturday said that there can be no talks with the Centre until the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 are taken back.On Sunday, he said that the passage of bills marked a “sad day” for democracy and millions in the country.“Urging President of India not to sign the Bills on farm issues and return them to #Parliament for reconsideration. Please intervene on behalf of farmers, labourers, arhtiyas, mandi labour and Dalits, or they will never forgive us,” the SAD leader had said in a statement on Twitter shortly after Rajya Sabha passed two of the three bills.“Democracy means consensus, not majority oppression,” he added.Also, in line with her party’s dissent over the bills, SAD leader and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from her post on Thursday following the passage of bills in the Lok Sabha.Apart from SAD, which is part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led NDA government, 12 Opposition parties have also sought time to meet Kovind over the agri bills cleared by the Rajya Sabha.According to news agency PTI, leaders of various political parties including the Congress, the Left parties, NCP, DMK, SP, Trinamool Congress and the RJD have in a memorandum to the President sought his intervention in the matter and asked him not to sign the bills, which will become a law after the President grants his assent to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-farmer-sad-team-meets-president-kovind-requests-him-not-to-sign-farm-bills-passed-by-parliament/story-QyjyYpGebxAtVwd5Rpv2IL.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Commission agents’ strike enters fourth day, farmers unable to sell produce||Even as the prices of Basmati have declined to around Rs 1,000 per quintal, paddy growers in Haryana are unable to sell their produce—thanks to the indefinite strike of the commission agents, which entered the fourth day on Monday.Due to the strike, the commission agents have not allowed traders to procure paddy and made farmers wait in the mandis for the past three days. Thousands of migrant labourers have been sitting idle since the procurement operations were stopped on September 18.The growers of early varieties of paddy like PUSA 1509 of Basmati and PR 126 of Parmal are bearing the brunt as the strike may cause a glut in the mandis, leading to a further fall in the prices.Also Read: Farm bills: PM Modi says farmers to get better prices because of reforms“My produce from four acres of land is lying unsold in the mandi for the past three days. There are no buyers because of the strike. I am unable to pay the labourers who harvested this crop,” said Sandeep Kumar, a farmer of Nilokheri, Karnal district.According to the farmers and the commission agents, there are no buyers despite the prices of some varieties of Basmati have declined to below Rs 2,000 per quintal. Last year, the price was Rs 3,000 per quintal.The farmers fear that the prices may drop further due to the ongoing strike as the government does not have any control over the private buyers and there is no Minimum Support Price for the Basmati varieties. Also Read: Congress MP says 12 parties have sought time to meet president over passage of farm bills, request him to not give his assentMoreover, the All India Rice Exporters’ Association (AIREA) has also extended its support to the commission agents as it has decided not to procure paddy until the government exempts the market fee even on paddy procured from the grain markets.In this regard, the AIREA has issued an advisory to private traders not to procure paddy till the government decides to withdraw the Market Fees and Rural Infrastructure Development Fee, which is around 4% on the paddy procured in the mandis of the state.However, the ahartia (commission agents ) had declared an indefinite strike, demanding the government withdraw the three ordinances passed by the Centre, but now that the bills have been passed in both the Houses, there is no clarity on how long the strike will continue.“The government has become uncontrollable and it is misusing the mandate to enact such anti-farmer anti-ahartia laws. But this will spread the agitations further if the government fails to resolve this issue,” said Ashok Gupta, state president of Haryana Anaj Mandi Ahartia Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/commission-agents-strike-enters-fourth-day-farmers-unable-to-sell-produce/story-LiW1reTT4l8Or7pvyGJdIP.html
21-09-2020||India||‘The farm bills are just creating procedural clearances’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Bhupender Yadav has blamed the Opposition for the disruption in Rajya Sabha during the discussion and passage of the two of the contentious farm Bills on Sunday. In an interview with Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Yadav said the government is open to addressing all concerns about the Bills, which he insisted are aimed at protecting the rights of the farmers. Edited excerpts:The Opposition is alleging the government bulldozes its way through in Parliament. It prefers to take the ordinance route. In the case of the farm Bills, they felt more scrutiny was needed, which was denied. How will you counter that?To bring an ordinance is the right of the government and to get it passed within six months from the date from which it was issued is the government’s mandate. The government is seriously taking care to ensure that all procedures are followed. These Bills have been discussed at the government as well as non-government level.As far as issues like contract farming are concerned, they are already being implemented in states like Punjab, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, and Odisha. There are not issues that have never been implemented before or are completely new.Also Read: ‘Will fight in Parliament and on streets’: Mamata Banerjee on suspension of 8 Rajya Sabha MPsAs far as concerns about the sale of crops go, this [legislation]...does not put an end to the system of selling grains in Mandis. We are only creating an alternative for the farmers.These Bills are just creating procedural clearances. There has been a long debate on these issues in the country. What these bills will do is streamline what is already being implemented.The Bills talk about procedures, about giving the farmers a new and additional way [to sell their produce]. Today, we have proposals to open 10,000 new FPOs [farmer producer organisations] and 1,000 new Agro start-ups. A digital revolution is happening. So, in such a situation to deprive the farmers of the benefits of digital transactions is not right. How can we stop farmers and their children from accessing the benefits of the digital revolution? The Opposition is looking to stall the Bills using excuses.Why did the government turn down the demand for sending the Bills to the select committee?These Bills only created procedural ways to benefit farmers. These are not Bills that needed to be sent to the committee. These have been discussed in Parliament and the due process that has to be followed for the passage of a bill was adhered to. ...we stuck to the democratic system. It was the Opposition that disrupted the process and insulted the process.Also Read: Endless arrogance of BJP govt has brought economic disaster: Rahul GandhiThe responsibility of running the House rests with the government. There is a sense that if the Opposition was seeking more discussion or division of votes, then the demand should be met, but it was not done on Sunday and on many occasions in the past...When these Bills were taken up for discussion at the business advisory committee [meeting] to decide how much time should be allocated for discussion, both the Opposition as well as the government agreed that there will be four hours allocated for these two Bills. It was the Opposition that said that both Bills should be taken up together for discussion and passage. The BJP cut short the time of its own MPs [members of Parliament] to allow the Opposition members to speak... The government was ready to seek a division of votes, but that can happen only when the members are on their seats. The Opposition came into the Well of the House. They climbed on the tables of the secretariat staff, tore papers. They broke the chairperson’s mike so that his voice could not be heard. All this shows that they did not want a division. And as for the...[complaints] that these bills were tabled on a Sunday, it was already decided that both Houses will function for four hours each day including on Saturday and Sunday...The Opposition has also alleged that on Sunday when the Bills were passed by a voice vote, voices of the opposition MPs sitting in the Lok Sabha were not taken into account...This is again baseless. All voices were being recorded and carried forth between the Houses. When the speeches they made while sitting in the Lok Sabha could be heard and recorded, how is it that the secretariat could not hear their voices while the voice vote was being counted. Again, before seeking a division of votes, the Opposition started the ruckus and the blame for what happened in Parliament rests on them. The government was ready for a division of votes.Also Read: Farm bills: PM Modi says farmers to get better prices because of reformsYour ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is against the Bills. The affiliates of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh have concerns too. How is it that the government has failed to convince its own allies and friends?The government is ready to address the concerns of everybody including the SAD. ...when the Manmohan Singh government was in power, there was a committee that was formed under the chairmanship of the then Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, which also had Prakash Singh Badal [of SAD] as a member. In chapter 5 of the report that was prepared by them, there is a mention of these laws and about the need to repeal the Essential Commodities Act. If they [SAD] are objecting to the Bills now, it can only be [for] political [reasons].The government has never said no to an open debate on these Bills, which are entirely based on the protection of the farmers’ interests. As far as the merits of the Bills are concerned, the government has never shied away from discussing the concerns that people have.The Opposition is complaining about the suspension of MPs and planning an all-night protest...If a decision... has been taken in the House, then it is the responsibility of the Opposition to adhere to it. Parliament is run in accordance with rules and regulations. There is a certain decorum that has to be maintained. Rajya Sabha is the House of the elders. You cannot have hooliganism on the floor of the House; pushing and jostling. You cannot refuse to abide by the ruling. It is an unfortunate situation. And if nothing else, the Opposition should listen to their inner voice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-farm-bills-are-just-creating-procedural-clearances/story-3KDj3xdggcGO8FfSYG2KYJ.html
21-09-2020||India||Parliament being run at the behest of PMO, alleges Adhir Chowdhury||The Congress on Monday alleged that Rajya Sabha (RS) deputy chairman Harivansh tried to “muzzle and throttle the voices of the opposition parties at the behest of” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Addressing reporters outside the Parliament House Complex after Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu suspended eight opposition lawmakers for creating ruckus in the Upper House on Sunday, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the move was against the procedures and rules of the parliamentary system. “We have some entitlements. We are entitled to ask for division according to the rules and procedures enshrined in the parliamentary system. But at the behest of the PMO, the House is being run,” he alleged. Also Read: Farm bills: PM Modi says farmers to get better prices because of reformsChowdhury alleged that the newly-elected Harivansh had certain obligations towards the government. “That is why at the behest of the PMO, he tried to muzzle and throttle the voices of the opposition parties. This is the reason that triggered the commotion inside the RS,” he alleged. On Sunday, Harivansh had rejected the opposition’s demand for a division on the two farm bills, which were later passed by a voice vote. He had argued that a division could not take place because of the ruckus. “Now, in order to divert the attention from the poor plight of farmers, the government has been projecting the commotion inside the RS as if that we do not know how to run Parliament and participate in the parliamentary system,” Chowdhury said. Also Read: ‘Will fight in Parliament and on streets’: Mamata Banerjee on suspension of 8 Rajya Sabha MPs“I would like to remind them (government) that before you came to Parliament, the Congress has been very much accustomed, acclimatised and adapted to the practices of the House. We sought a division following that practices. It is our entitlement,” he added. “We are also entitled to move a no-confidence motion against the RS deputy chairman if it is found and perceived that he has been playing a partisan role. The onus is on us to check the deputy chairman also by applying the instruments that are available to us and we have done so. It is within the ambit of our democratic right and parliamentary system,” the Congress leader said. Chowdhury said the Congress would continue to protest until the decision of suspension of the opposition members of Parliament (MPs) in “such a brazen and undemocratic manner” is not revoked. The suspended members have been protesting Naidu’s decision, first inside the House and later outside the Parliament building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-being-run-at-the-behest-of-pmo-alleges-adhir-chowdhury/story-TSm46aaCTbiWzqATW5nBZN.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Some people losing control’: PM Modi takes swipe at Opposition on farm bills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that the farm sector reform bills passed by Parliament were the need of 21st century India.Addressing a virtual ceremony to lay foundation stones of nine highway projects in Bihar, the prime minister also took a dig at the Opposition saying some people are trying to mislead the farmers because they are losing the control of the agricultural sector.“After these historical changes in the agricultural sector, some people are losing their control of it. So now these people are trying to mislead farmers on MSP (minimum support price). They are the same people who sat for years on the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee on MSP,” PM Modi said.He said a “clique” of people exploited farmers for long as they remained in shackles of rules regulating the sale of their produce and stated that this needed to change, which his government has done.The prime minister described the legislations as “very historic”, and said that if people say that government-regulated agriculture markets will be finished after these reforms, then they are “blatantly lying”.Seeking to dispel concerns among a section of farmers, PM Modi said he wanted to make it clear that the bills are not against ‘mandis’ (agricultural markets) and they will continue like they always have. “No government has done as much to boost MSP and government procurement of farmers’ produce than his dispensation,” the prime minister said.The bills were passed by the Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) amid ruckus. The Opposition members who were against the legislations wanted them to be sent to a parliamentary panel for greater scrutiny.The bills were passed through voice vote, after which the Opposition called it a “black day”.Meawhile, PM Modi inaugurated nine infrastructure development projects worth Rs 14,000 crores for Bihar through video conferencing on Monday.He also inaugurated the ‘Ghar Tak Fibre’ Project under which all 45,945 villages of Bihar will be connected through optical fibre internet service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-people-losing-control-pm-modi-takes-swipe-at-opposition-on-farm-bills/story-NDy9ibfaAF43f1iFM79DhO.html
21-09-2020||India||Farm bills: PM Modi says farmers to get better prices because of reforms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called the two farm bills passed by Parliament on Sunday “historic”, addressed key concerns around each of the three bills that seek to liberalise agricultural trade in the country and criticised opponents for “misleading” farmers even as Opposition parties slammed the government for hurriedly passing the legislations. Modi spoke on how each of the three bills bought by his government would help farmers in multiple ways, seeking to dispel “misinformation” being spread around them while unveiling new projects in poll-bound Bihar through a video address. Also read: Congress MP says 12 parties have sought time to meet president over passage of farm bills, request him to not give his ascentThe Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, passed on Sunday, aims to ease all restrictions on trade of agriculture produce. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, also passed on Sunday, lays down a new architecture for contract farming in the country to ensure farmers can engage with one another more confidently, enable modern supply chains and investments by agribusinesses. In a speech aimed at putting a lid on concerns of farmers’ groups, Modi said the existing agricultural state-regulated mandis -- also known as agricultural produce market committees or APMCs -- would continue to function. He also said the government would continue to buy farm produce at minimum support prices (MSPs). Also Read: On agricultural reforms, it’s important to tread with caution“APMCs will not shut down. The new laws are not against mandis and I also want to assure the country that the government will continue to buy farm produce at MSPs in every (farm marketing) season,” Modi said. The PM said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had strengthened the APMC system. “Every market has been computerised,” he said. To allay fears over an alleged weakening of the MSP mechanism, Modi said: “MSPs will continue like before. The proof for our commitment to MSP will come from a comparison of prices paid by our government with that of previous regimes.” MSPs are federally fixed statutory prices, mainly for rice and wheat, at which the government buys from farmers. Also Read: Endless arrogance of BJP govt has brought economic disaster: Rahul Gandhi“Our government has purchased 24% more oilseeds and pulses at MSPs. Even when the country was under the lockdown because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, there was record wheat procurement. The procurement of wheat, oilseeds and pulses was 30% more and farmers were paid a total of Rs 1,13,000 crore in MSPs,” Modi said. The new set of laws brought by the government allows direct purchase of produce from farmers outside APMCs. APMCs have enjoyed a monopoly in farm produce trade so far and there is evidence that trader cartels have often manipulated wholesale prices to the disadvantage of farmers and consumers. In December 2010, when onion prices peaked, a probe by the country’s statutory anti-monopoly body, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), had revealed that one firm accounted for nearly a fifth of the total onion trade for that month at Lasalgaon APMC, Asia’s largest onion market in Maharashtra’s Nashik. Modi said farm produce would travel freely across states and farmers were already reaping benefits of open markets to get higher prices. “Ground reports tell us how the reforms have benefited farmers,” Modi said. In Bihar, traders bought potatoes directly from farmers for storage in cold chains at higher prices, the PM said. In Madhya Pradesh (MP), oil processing mills bought oilseeds from farmers paying between 20% and 30% more in June and July, he said. Modi said growers of pulses would get better prices in states such as Uttar Pradesh (UP), Chhattisgarh and West Bengal because of the freedom to directly sell to traders. Farmer organisations, such as the umbrella outfit, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, said they would continue to protest these reforms, as the government passed them without adequate consultations, farm leader VM Singh said. The bills were passed amid stiff opposition in the Upper House and an ensuing chaos during a voice vote, which opposition parties said was unfair and unsound. The opposition said the deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha, Harivansh, did not allow detailed voting on the bills, called “division”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-pm-modi-says-farmers-to-get-better-prices-because-of-reforms/story-bsfDEu6UKP0ALU9YXBWL3I.html
21-09-2020||India||Congress MP says 12 parties have sought time to meet president over passage of farm bills, request him to not give his assent||Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil on Monday said that 12 parties have sought time to meet President Ram Nath Kovind over the passage of farm bills in the Rajya Sabha.The parties have requested the President to not give his assent to the bills that were passed by the upper house of Parliament on Sunday “without voting”, news agency ANI quoted Gohil as saying. The bills were cleared in the Rajya Sabha by voice vote amid unruly conduct by Opposition members who protested against the passage of the bills and demanded that the proposed legislation be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny.Also read: Farm bills will empower farmers, says PM Modi amid opposition protestsFollowing the passage of the bills, Opposition called it a “black day” while the ruling party members sought action against those who created ruckus in the Rajya Sabha premises. On Monday, eight members of Parliament (MPs) - TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) - were suspended by the upper house chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for a week under Rule 256(2).These MPs, however, refused to leave the House and remained present protesting against the ruling. They are now staging a protest in Parliament premises. They were seen holding placards and pamphlets that read ‘we will fight for farmers’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-says-12-parties-have-sought-time-to-meet-president-over-passage-of-farm-bills-request-him-to-not-give-his-ascent/story-eLIulWKXM8ByVD0WC2ds3L.html
21-09-2020||India||Endless arrogance of BJP govt has brought economic disaster: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre for continuing “muting” of democratic India, “turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns” over the contentious farm bills and bringing “economic disaster” for the country.“Muting of Democratic India continues: by initially silencing and later, suspending MPs in the Parliament & turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns on the black agriculture laws. This ‘omniscient’ Govt’s endless arrogance has brought economic disaster for the entire country,” tweeted Gandhi, who is away in the US accompanying his mother and Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, for a health check-up.’Muting Of Democratic India’ continues: by initially silencing and later, suspending MPs in the Parliament & turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns on the black agriculture laws.This ‘omniscient’ Govt’s endless arrogance has brought economic disaster for the entire country.The tweet came after Rajya Sabha chairperson, M Venkaiah Naidu, suspended eight opposition lawmakers over protests on Sunday against the government’s move to rush through the contentious farm reform bills.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill were cleared by voice vote in Rajya Sabha even as the Opposition members protested. The members stormed the Well of the House demanding that the bills be sent to a select committee for a review. Opposition leaders charged towards Rajya Sabha’s deputy chairman Harivansh’s seat as he was presiding over the proceedings. They jumped onto tables and shot videos of the ruckus.Also Read: Rajya Sabha: 8 Opposition MPs suspended for a week after protests over farm billsThe bills seek to allow farmers more flexibility in selling their produce. Many experts have hailed the reforms as significant, but some farmer bodies and opposition parties have insisted the new laws would only benefit corporate entities and traders and not the farmers.The minimum support price (MSP) regime has not been mentioned in the legislation. It has triggered fears the new laws will weaken the existing regime set by the government to purchase produce directly from farmers.In a series of tweets related to the legislation, Congress leader P Chidambaram separately questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government how will they guarantee the MSP to the farmers.Also Read: Democracy is ashamed of govt’s ‘death warrant’ against farmers: Rahul Gandhi on farm bills“The PM [Modi] and other ministers have promised that MSP will be guaranteed to the farmer. Pray tell us HOW? How will the government know which farmer sold what produce to which trader?” he asked. “There will be millions of private transactions every day in thousands of villages all over India. How will the government guarantee MSP is paid in these transactions? Under which law is a private purchaser obliged to pay MSP to the farmer in a private transaction?”Chidambaram said the Modi government should stop lying to the farmers and making false promises. “The promise of guaranteeing MSP in private transactions is like the promise to deposit Rs 15 lakh in the bank account of every Indian,” he said.Chidambaram was referring to a speech Modi gave in 2014 election as the prime ministerial candidate in which he promised to bring back black money stashed in foreign banks within 100 days of coming to power. He had said that if all the black money was brought back, it would be enough to deposit Rs 15 lakh in every poor person’s bank account.The Congress has separately called a meeting of its general secretaries and in-charges of states to discuss the future course of action on the farm bills and give a final shape to its proposed nationwide agitation on the farm reforms issue. The meeting will be held in the absence of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi at the party headquarters in Delhi. Six members of the party’s special committee--AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik, and Randeep Singh Surjewala--will attend the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/endless-arrogance-of-bjp-govt-has-brought-economic-disaster-rahul-gandhi/story-19rOJtoGIk36GyDikNbzNL.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Will fight in Parliament and on streets’: Mamata Banerjee on suspension of 8 Rajya Sabha MPs||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Mamata Banerjee on Monday called suspension of eight Rajya Sabha MPs, including ywo from her party, over Sunday’s chaos in the House ‘unfortunate.’Banerjee further vowed to fight the ‘fascist’ Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Parliament and on the streets. “Suspension of the eight MPs who fought to protect farmers’ interests is unfortunate and reflective of this autocratic government’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms and principles. We won’t bow down and we’ll fight this fascist government in Parliament and on the streets,” Banerjee tweeted.TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen were among eight opposition MPs suspended for a week by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Monday for ‘unruly behaviour’ with deputy chairperson Harivansh Narayan Singh a day ago. Congress’ Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh, and CPI(M) leaders KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem are six other members of the House who have been suspended for a week.The suspensions came after the dramatic scenes in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, as opposition leaders, with TMC’s O’Brien at the forefront, stormed the well of the House to protest against the passage of the two of the three contentious farm bills introduced by the Narendra Modi government.Farmers in both Punjab and Haryana have taken to streets against the bills, alleging that these would lead to dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system. However, the government, including Prime Minister Modi, has repeatedly assured the farmers the MSP system will not be withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-fight-in-parliament-and-on-streets-mamata-banerjee-on-suspension-of-8-rajya-sabha-mps/story-nk49F2vY482EreNQA7bimM.html
21-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha: 8 Opposition MPs suspended for a week after protests over farm bills||Eight opposition MPs, including Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and AAP’s Sanjay Singh, were suspended from Rajya Sabha for a week under Rule 256(2) on Monday for their “unruly behaviour” during the fierce protests over the farm bills on Sunday. The government moved a motion for their suspension for “bringing disrepute” to the House. The motion was approved by the House amid protests from Opposition leaders. However, the no-confidence motion against deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh filed by the Opposition was not accepted by the chair.Also Read: Stormy Sunday in House as 2 farm bills go throughApart from O’Brien and Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah, CPIM’s KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem and Trinamool’s Dola Sen were suspended. The suspended MPs initially refused to leave and shouted slogans, prompting Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to adjourn the House till 10am. When the House resumed, the suspended MPs continued their protests and the House was adjourned for another half an hour.Naidu, visibly upset over Sunday’s development, made an observation at 9.30am, at the end of the zero hour, listing all “unruly offences” committed by the Opposition MPs in the House. He said that apart from shouting slogans and “dancing on the table”, some MPs even tried to “physically harm the deputy chairman”. During his speech, O’Brien and others started protesting. Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: Naidu rejects no-confidence motion against HarivanshNaidu named O’Brien and asked him to leave the House. Minutes later, the government moved a resolution seeking the suspension of eight MPs who led the protests on Sunday. The resolution was adopted through a voice vote. The suspended MPs didn’t leave the House and instead started a new round of protests. The chair has the option of calling the marshals to forcibly evict the MPs but so far, Naidu has not opted for that extreme step. Rajya Sabha was then adjourned till Tuesday after Members who were suspended refused to leave the House. The chair insisted that business could be taken up only after the members leave the house. Bhuwaneswar Kalita, who was in the chair, said a statement by Congress MP and Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad could only be allowed once the MPs leave the house.This is not the first time a number of MPs have been suspended in the House. During the Telangana issue, a large number of MPs were suspended in Lok Sabha. During the debate on the women’s reservation bill during the UPA 1 regime, MPs were suspended in the Rajya Sabah for unruly behaviour.On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha turned into a battlefield. Senior leaders charged towards the deputy chairman, gheraoed him, uprooted microphones, jumped up on tables, flouted rules to shoot videos of the ruckus and shouted slogans. Authorities called marshals to form a double-layered barricade to protect the Chair, remove an MP from the table, muted live proceedings and refused to accept the Opposition’s demand for a division—voting through paper ballots—on the bills. The high-pitched protests were also the most aggressive in recent years and continued even after the House was adjourned at 1pm. Opposition parties sat in Rajya Sabha for the next two hours and drafted a no-confidence motion against newly re-elected Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh before firing salvoes against the government on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-8-opposition-mps-suspended-for-a-week-after-protests-over-farm-bills/story-ImR5VMKW92ONwgKZ7txaNJ.html
21-09-2020||India||No-trust motion moved against RS dy chairman||As many as 100 members from 12 opposition parties moved a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh on Sunday, shortly after the House passed two key bills aimed at ushering in agricultural reforms. Harivansh was re-elected as the deputy chairperson on September 14, when the House convened after a six-month break following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. While the two farm bills were passed through a voice vote, the opposition claimed that the due process of allowing a detailed discussion on the bills was not followed. A ruckus erupted in the Upper House soon after the deputy chairman, who was presiding over the proceedings, took the decision to put the bills to vote even as opposition members demanded more time to discuss the legislation, which they wanted to be scrutinised by a select committee.The signatories to the no-confidence motion included MPs from the Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) , Trinamool Congress (TMC), Janata Dal (Secular), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Samajwadi Party (SP), Communist Party of India,Communist Part of India (Marxist), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).“This day will go down in history as a black day. The way these bills have been passed goes against democratic processes and amounts to killing democracy,” senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel told reporters outside Parliament. “The deputy chairman should safeguard the democratic traditions but instead he harmed the democratic traditions and processes. So, we have decided to move a no-confidence motion against him,” he added. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi claimed that no bill was passed by the Rajya Sabha. “The government is claiming that the bills were passed by the Rajya Sabha. It’s black day for democracy. Whoever was present in the House knows that no such bill was passed. This is death and murder of democracy,” he added. Singhvi said the minister started replying to the debate at 12.45 pm, 15 minutes before the House was scheduled to be adjourned for the day. “It is not possible to end the debate within 15 minutes without division and pass the bill by 1.15 pm. Not one but at least 10 members demanded division. Why was no division allowed? Many members had also moved amendments. Not one was allowed to speak. So, how did this bill get passed? Was there any magic wand,” he said. The opposition is also planning to move the court against the legislation. “These are unconstitutional bills. These are against the Constitutional provisions. I am sure that these unconstitutional legislation will not only be challenged but will be quashed by the Supreme Court,” Singhvi said. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for its part, said the opposition was trying to stall business and created the ruckus because it was not confident about the numbers. “They could have pressed for division, but they lacked confidence. It was shameful conduct and they should apologise for their behaviour in the House,” BJP MP Bhupender Yadav said. Addressing the media, defence minister Rajnath Singh said it is the prerogative of the chairman of the RajyaSabha to look into the no-confidence motion against the deputy chairperson.“The farmers grow gold from land, but the arrogance of the Modi government is making farmers shed tears of blood. Democracy has been shamed by the manner in which the government passed death warrants against farmers in the form of two farm bills in Rajya Sabha,” tweeted former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. PDT Acharya, a former Lok Sabha secretary general, said there is no precedent of a motion of no-confidence against the deputy chair. “As far as I know, there has been no such motion against the deputy chair in the Rajya Sabha. As per the constitutional provision, the notice period for such a motion is 14 days; which means if it is submitted today, it can be taken up after 14 days. Now if the house adjourns before that, we don’t know if the notice can be kept alive till the House reconvenes,” he said,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-trust-motion-moved-against-rs-dy-chairman/story-8QCDFzEl2aL7iDhfId3zhM.html
21-09-2020||India||One in five bills sent to panels during NDA’s 2nd term: Data||Just one in five proposed laws during the second term of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government have been routed through Parliamentary committees for in-depth reviews, according to the data available with the PRS Legislative Research, echoing concerns of the Opposition over the bypassing of an important check-and-balance method in the Indian parliamentary system.The government has so far introduced 82 bills in Parliament since it won the general elections in 2019. Only 17 of them have been referred to various standing committees for in-depth reviews, the data says.To be sure, older version of some bills — such as Protection of Transgender Rights bill or the Wage Code was referred to standing committees during the previous Lok Sabha. But for many such bills, that came with heavy changes, the review route was not opted for.On Friday, the demand for review rocked the Rajya Sabha when the government tried to push two farm bills to replace related ordinances ignoring demand to send them to Select Committees. As the government pressed for a quick passage, fierce protests erupted in the House.The PRS data also shows that in the first term of the Narendra Modi government, 25% of the bills introduced were referred to committees. “The figure, however, is much lower than 71% and 60% in the 15th and 14th Lok Sabha respectively,” said a PRS note. The Manmohan Singh-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was in power in the 15th and 14th Lok Sabha. In the past, the Modi government had cleared the J&K reorganisation bill or the Triple Talaq bill directly without seeking reviews. In the budget session of 2019, the first one after the NDA won the national polls in 2019-- 38 Bills were introduced in Parliament (excluding the Finance and Appropriation Bills). Twenty-eight of these bills were passed, setting record for the highest for any session in the last 10 years. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi didn’t respond to the specific question of this larger trend, but refuted the impression that the government avoided scrutiny with the passage of the farm bills. ‘They [Opposition] didn’t even discuss the select committee properly. They just created a din. The question of division comes if they sit in their seats and ask,” he said.While standing committees have been formed to review work and bills of different ministries, there is no violation of rules if a bill is not sent to a House panel. The government can always seek the Speaker or the Chairman’s permission to pass the bills quickly if any urgent need arises. There are also instances such as the 2016 surrogacy bill, in which the government agreed for further scrutiny by the select committee even after the standing committee had reviewed it. While the UPA has sent more bills for review, it also holds the infamous record of pushing as many as eight bills without debate in 17 minutes in the winter session of 2008. It was the last full session before next year’s general elections and despite protests by the BJP (then the principal Opposition party), Speaker Somnath Chatterjee allowed bypassing the debates and hurriedly passed the bills.P Sreedharan, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha, said, “The departmentally related standing committee system, established since 1993, is now an integral part of our parliamentary procedure. There is a qualitative difference in the deliberations on bills in the House and within the committees. In the past, those committees have generally made substantial contributions in refining the bills. The standing committees should be got involved in the legislation process, as far as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-five-bills-sent-to-panels-during-nda-s-2nd-term-data/story-HtXilveLrWAfzWEAkk8nnI.html
21-09-2020||India||Stormy Sunday in House as 2 farm bills go through||New Delhi The government rushing through two contentious farm bills, and fierce protests from the Opposition — senior leaders charged towards the seat of deputy chairman Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings; jumped onto tables; and shot videos of the ruckus — turned the Rajya Sabha into a battleground on Sunday.The authorities called in marshals to form a double-layered barricade to protect Harivansh and remove an MP, muted live telecast of the proceedings, and refused to accept the Opposition’s demand for a division (voting through paper ballots) on the legislation.The two agricultural reform bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — were cleared by voice vote in Parliament even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee. The high-pitch protests were the most aggressive in recent years, and continued even after the House was adjourned at 1pm. Opposition parties sat in the Rajya Sabha after the House was adjourned and drafted a no-confidence motion against Harivansh, who was elected deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha on September 14, the opening day of the curtailed monsoon session, before posting comments and releasing videos on Twitter.Among the leaders who were seen on camera protesting near the chairperson’s desk were DMK leader T Siva, TMC MP Derek O’Brien, the Congress’s KC Venugopal and the AAP’s Sanjay Singh. Some other Opposition members were seen tearing pages, and rushing to the chairman’s desk to protest.“If Babasaheb Ambedkar was alive, he would have hung his head in shame seeing what tactics BJP used today, in an Independent India, to forcefully pass bills pertaining to farmers. Only a heartless and anti-farmer government like the colonial British can do this,” said senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel outside Parliament.The BJP hit back and slammed the “intolerance” of opposition parties. “The Opposition has showed height of intolerance in Parliament today. They think of themselves as baadshah (kings). We condemn the unruly behaviour of the Opposition and we will never budge to such threats,” said parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi.The Narendra Modi government had brought amendments to three farm bills through ordinances in June to unleash reforms in agriculture and allow farmers more flexibility in selling their produce. Many experts had hailed the reforms as significant, but some farmer bodies and opposition parties alleged that the new laws would only benefit corporate entities and traders but not the farmers.Prime Minister Modi later described the passage of the bills — they now need to be signed by the President to be ratified as laws — a “watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture”.“Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers,” the PM tweeted.In the House on Sunday morning, the trouble started when the allotted time to discuss the two bills was reduced from four hours to three-and-a-half hours. Opposition leaders including the TMC’s O’Brien and DMK’s Siva gave notices to send the bills to a select committee of Parliament, but the government rejected the demand.Their second demand — for a division on the bills — too was rejected as the government was in a hurry to clear the bills amid indications that the monsoon session may be cut short because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ruckus began when agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was replying in the House and the chair announced that the voting will be conducted the same day. The government side said the Opposition disrupted the House. It also said as per rules, division can’t take place amid ruckus. Trinamool floor leader O’ Brien, quoting the rulebook, later said, “This was clear breach of parliamentary procedure. You can’t brazenly break the rule and expect us to sit in our seats as you murder democracy.”Before the commotion erupted, several opposition parties including the Biju Janata Dal, which is considered friendly to the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), urged the government to consider the option of sending the bills to a select committee. The government’s ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, has already put on record its opposition to the bills; and the only minister from the party in the cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur, resigned in protest last week. Outside of the NDA, the YSR Congress Party that has six MPs in the House and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), which has nine MPs, supported the government. As the government tried to push the bills through, the Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh, Trinamool’s Dola Sen and other MPs started raising slogans. Soon, other parties joined them and surrounded the Chair.Four motions to send the two bills to a House panel for greater scrutiny were negated by voice vote, but the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam members sought a division of votes on the issue. The chair pointed out that the division can only be done once the House is in order and the MPs in their respective seats.The Opposition alleged that Rajya Sabha TV chose to show only the floor of the Lok Sabha, where some Upper House members were present in line with new seating arrangements. Audio of the channel, too, was muted, they alleged.Quickly realising that their protests would not be recorded on the channel, Opposition MPs started taking videos of the action, which is not allowed on the floor of the House. While the government blamed the Opposition for not seeking a division of votes; a few opposition MPs said they had put forth the demand, but it was not accepted. “The government had the numbers, we were sure of getting about 120 votes in favour. If the Opposition was confident of the numbers, it should have sought a division,” said a BJP MP on condition of anonymity. The MP added that over 20 bills have to be taken up for discussion during the ongoing session of Parliament, which leaves little time for discussion.Outside Parliament, the Congress’s Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the bills should not have been passed, as the voice of the members seated in the Lok Sabha could not be heard in the Rajya Sabha because of the din. The ruckus that ensued in the House brought back memories of the pandemonium that erupted when the Women’s Reservation Bill was tabled in Parliament. In May 2008, when the Bill was introduced in the Rajya Sabha, there were scuffles and pushing and jostling by members. Samajwadi party MPs tore up the bill, after snatching it from the then law minister HR Bhardwaj. During HD Deve Gowda’s regime, when then law minister M Thambidurai introduced the bill in July 1998, RJD MPs who went to the well of the House, snatched it from speaker GMC Balayogi and tore it to bits. In 2013, five Congress MPs from Andhra Pradesh announced they would sit in for a 48-hour-long protest at the main entrance of Parliament to push for the creation of a separate state of Telangana. A year later, the Lok Sabha was disrupted when pepper spray was used in the House following a ruckus over the introduction of the Telangana bill. Congress member L Rajagopal, who was protesting against the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, had carried the spray into the House, which led to several MPs needing treatment. In 2015, the Lok Sabha against saw scenes of disruption play out when Congress members tore papers and threw them towards then deputy speaker M Thambi Durai. The Congress was protesting over the issue of Lalit Modi, the fugitive Indian businessman and cricket administrator, and alleged irregularities in the conduct of an examination and MP government recruitment. P Sreedharan, former secretary general, Lok Sabha, said, “Expression of protest in a proper manner is legitimate in a Parliamentary democracy. But it should not degenerate to unruly demonstrations.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stormy-sunday-in-house-as-2-farm-bills-go-through/story-Xfs0yTd8O0aTAxURSDaUQO.html
