22-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha holds crucial meeting as Opposition boycotts Parliament proceedings||The Rajya Sabha has called its Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting on Tuesday after a day-full of hectic activities, protests and passage of several bills. But the Opposition, which announced to boycott the Upper House for the remainder of the session, will not attend the meeting. TMC’s Derek O’Brien, SP’s Ram Gopal Yadav, Congress’s Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh and RJD’s Manoj Kumar Jha are the five Opposition leaders who will skip 11-member committee meeting. The BAC is a panel led by Rajya Saha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to discuss the weekly agenda of the House. The meeting has been called amid indications that the House might be adjourned in a day or two. The Opposition parties also alleged that they were informed just an hour ago about the BAC meeting, leaving them little time to attend the meeting. Rajya Sabha officials pointed out that the meeting was decided at a short notice and all efforts were made to inform the members of the panel as quickly as possible. On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha passed the two key farm bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, amid fierce protests in the house. While the Opposition claimed that the bills were anti-farmer, the government says that these bills will help boost the farming sector through private investments. On Monday, eight Opposition MPs were suspended for unruly behaviour. On Monday, the opposition demonstrated its disapproval in the Upper House of Parliament against the suspension of MPs and passage of these bills and boycotted the Rajya Sabha for the remaining part of the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-opposition-boycotts-parliament-proceedings-rajya-sabha-business-advisory-committee-meet-called-at-6-pm/story-BLnEc2atHd0kSKWKkb3xRI.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Not fighting for tea’: AAP leader Sanjay Singh tweets after refusing tea by Harivansh||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh on Tuesday tweeted eight opposition MPs, including him, suspended for Sunday’s unprecedented chaos in the Rajya Sabha, were not fighting for tea but for the welfare of the farmers.“Mr. Modi, we are not fighting for our tea. We are fighting for the welfare of our farmers, which you have taken away. I humbly request you - I am returning your tea with all due respect, please return my farmers’ morsel,” Singh tweeted on Tuesday. मोदी जी, हम अपनी चाय के लिए नहीं लड़ रहे। हम अपने किसानों के निवाले के लिए लड़ रहे हैं, जो आपने छीना है। मेरी आपसे विनम्र बिनती है - मैं आपकी चाय पूरे आदर के साथ लौटा रहा हूँ, आप कृपया मेरे किसानों का निवाला लौटा दीजिए। https://t.co/o2QUsu0BdbHe was responding to PM Modi’s praise for Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh, who had offered tea to the suspended MPs. Harivansh is at the centre of the entire controversy.“To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji,” the Prime Minister had tweeted earlier. To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji.Singh and seven other opposition party MPs were on Monday suspended for a week by Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu for ‘heckling’ Harivansh during the passage of two of the three contentious farm bills on Sunday. The suspended MPs staged a sit-in protest throughout the night and on Tuesday morning, refused tea offered by the deputy chairman.Harivansh, meanwhile, has started a 24-hour fast of his own, which he will observe until Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/please-return-my-farmers-niwala-aap-s-sanjay-singh-responds-to-pm-modi/story-nU3AZFqYEopZTTRb0cwGpK.html
22-09-2020||India||Farm bills row: Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh to observe 24-hour fast||Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh on Tuesday said he will observe a 24-hour fast as a mark of protest against ‘unruly behaviour’ with him by Members of Parliament from opposition parties on Sunday during the passage of two of the three contentious farm bills.In a letter to vice president Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chairperson of the Upper House, he said he was ‘unable to sleep’ for two nights due to Sunday’s unprecedented chaos in the House. “In the name of democracy, honourable members of the House indulged in physical violence,” he wrote.  Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh to observe one-day fast against the unruly behaviour with him in the House by Opposition MPs during the passing of agriculture Bills on 20th September pic.twitter.com/cphCDVHrqMDescribing the events that transpired on the day and talking about his humble background, Harivansh wrote he is inspired by Lord Buddha and, as such, will observe a one-day fast hoping that this might inspire ‘self-purification’ among those who ‘mistreated’ him.Also mentioning that September 23 is the birth anniversary of legendary poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, who was a two-term Rajya Sabha MP, he further said he will observe a 24-hour fast from September 22 to September 23. He, however, added he will participate in the Rajya Sabha proceedings for the day.Harivansh even met the suspended MPs, who are staging a sit-in protest in Parliament premises, and offered them tea, which they refused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-row-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairperson-harivansh-to-observe-24-hour-fast/story-XucAoTWMb6YL4bT0SfnztK.html
22-09-2020||India||As 8 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs continue protest, deputy chairman Harivansh offers tea||Eight opposition members of the Rajya Sabha, who were suspended on Monday over the chaos in the House when the two contentious farm bills were passed on Sunday, spent the night outside Parliament as to continue with their protest. On Tuesday morning, they were offered tea by Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh.Harivansh met Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Karim of the CPI(M). He was seen sitting on the ground and having tea with the MPs on the lawns near the Gandhi statue in the Parliament premises. “Harivansh ji said he came to meet us as a colleague and not as the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. He also brought some tea and snacks for us. We started this sit-in demonstration yesterday as a protest against our suspension. We have been here all night,” Bora said, according to news agency ANI.“No one from the government has come to enquire about us. Many opposition leaders came to enquire about us and to show solidarity with us. We are going to continue this demonstration,” Bora added.The MPS were suspended for a week by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for “unruly behaviour” with deputy chairman Harivansh Singh. They had refused to leave the House after their suspension, which was adjourned several times amid opposition protest.On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha had witnessed unruly scenes as opposition members stormed the well and reached the deputy chairman’s seat to protest against the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and passed by the Upper House through voice vote.Both the farm bills were earlier passed by the Lok Sabha through voice votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-8-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-continue-protest-deputy-chairman-harivansh-offers-tea/story-EgfTy0zGAZl1jAfVkXqMIN.html
22-09-2020||India||As Oppn boycotts Parliament over farm bills, LS Speaker calls them for meeting||The opposition on Tuesday boycotted the Lok Sabha session over Centre’s refusal to accept its demand for withdrawal of farm bills passed by Parliament. The lawmakers also protested in solidarity with the eight Rajya Sabha members who were suspended for “misbehaving” with the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman during farm bills debate on Sunday.Opposition parties, including Congress, TMC, TRC and BSP, walked out of the Lok Sabha, according to a PTI report.“You have compelled us to do so,” Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said in Lok Sabha as opposition boycotted the house.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla is holding a meeting in the Parliament premises with leaders of opposition, including Congress’ Adhir Ranjan Choudhary and NCP’s Supriya Sule after the parties boycotted Tuesday’s session. The Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on Sunday passed the two key farm bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, amid protests and ruckus in the house.These bills have already been passed by the Lok Sabha and are awaiting President’s nod.The government says that these bills will help boost the farming sector through private investments.The opposition had demonstrated its disapproval in the Upper House of Parliament against the suspension of MPs and passage of these bills, with TMC MP Derek O’Brien indicting to the media that the opposition parties were likely to boycott the Lok Sabha session as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-boycotts-lok-sabha-over-centre-s-refusal-to-withdraw-farm-bills/story-bcO0RmmIXFOUz8pyEUpRFP.html
22-09-2020||India||Sonia, Rahul return to India amid Opposition’s standoff with government over farm bills||Congress president Sonia Gandhi accompanied by her son Rahul Gandhi returned to India on Tuesday morning after undergoing a routine health check-up in the United States, people familiar with the development said. The two had left for the US on September 12. Both of them missed a major part of the monsoon session of Parliament that began on September 14. The session is likely to be curtailed in view of the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country with several Members of Parliament (MPs) and the Parliament staff having tested positive. Confirming their return, an aide of Rahul Gandhi said the two leaders reached Delhi at around 7am on Tuesday. Also Read: Opposition to boycott Rajya Sabha until MPs’ suspension is revoked“Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi is travelling today onwards for a routine follow up & medical check-up, which was deferred due to the pandemic. She is accompanied by Sh. Rahul Gandhi. We take this opportunity to thank everyone for their concern & good wishes,” the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had tweeted on September 12. Before leaving, Sonia Gandhi had carried out major organisational changes, reconstituted the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and her team of office bearers, and also formed a special panel to help her in organisational and operational matters till the next session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), to be held within six months. Apart from Surjewala, the committee comprises AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal and Mukul Wasnik. She had also chaired a meeting of the party’s parliament strategy group. Also Read: Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs on sit-in outside Parliament refuse deputy chairman’s teaIt was decided in the meeting that the Congress will raise the issues of the India-China border standoff, the Covid-19 situation across the country, the impact of lockdowns, the current state of the economy, the decline in GDP, GST compensation to states, job losses, agrarian distress and restoration of Question Hour during the session. The party had also decided to oppose the three farm bills. The two agricultural bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — were cleared by voice vote in Parliament on Sunday even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee. The ruckus resulted in the suspension of eight lawmakers — Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) and Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Parliament on Tuesday also passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill after the Opposition staged a walk-out and decided to boycott the entire session till the suspension of the eight MPs was revoked. And from September 24 onwards, the Congress will hit the streets across the country against the government for passing “anti-farmer and anti-poor” bills in Parliament. The party will also launch a campaign to collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed legislations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-return-to-india-amid-opposition-s-standoff-with-government-over-farm-bills/story-h1ggdtY3RkYo2RGDo9BeyJ.html
22-09-2020||Today's||Farm bills, sifting the grain from the chaff||After two of the three contentious agriculture bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday by voice vote amid protests from the Opposition, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, calling it a “watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture”. Similar media and government hype followed the three ordinances in June, branding them transformational for the uplift of agriculture. This rhetoric notwithstanding, most farmer organisations, barring a handful owing allegiance to the RSS and BJP, hit the streets in protest against the ordinances. Lathicharge and use of force on a peaceful assembly of farmers at Pipli near Kurukshetra recently was saddening and depressing in equal parts, exposing the repulsive face of the regime in Haryana. Farmers’ anger is on the boil, forcing the BJP’s docile and loyal ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, to exit the Union cabinet, exposing the limits to which the attractive package of government propaganda and media hype can conceal hideous reality. DISSENT UNDER LOCKDOWN If eyebrows are being raised at the haste with which the Centre issued these ordinances in June during the lockdown without waiting for detailed deliberations or approval for these ordinances from Parliament, the worst was yet to come. Unsure of its numbers, the ruling party was rescued by the fiat of the deputy chairman getting the farm bills rushed through the Rajya Sabha via a voice vote, short-circuiting the Opposition protests or pleas for a division of vote. On a black Sunday, it appeared free discussion and dissent was under lockdown in our polity. By getting these farm bills passed by Parliament, the Centre has transgressed into the states’ domain of managing agriculture, which is on the concurrent list under the Constitution. GOVERNMENT INTENT SUSPECT The two controversial farm bills deregulate the stipulation of farmers having to sell their crops in mandis designated under the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, giving them liberty to sell their crops in agricultural trade areas. Corporate players can now buy farmers’ produce in these agri-trade areas, obviating the intermediary layer of arhtiyas/commission agents and APMC mandis. While mandis would continue to levy market fee, cess and other charges, all agricultural transactions in the agri-trade areas are exempt from such charges. Vesting of powers to resolve payment and other disputes with the local SDMs and revisionary/appellate jurisdiction with senior government officers under the new legislation, bypassing the judicial hierarchy, makes the government intent to ensure fairness of procedure suspect, as government officers have less autonomy as compared to judicial officers. SPOOKED BY BIHAR EXPERIMENT An arhtiya acts as a non-formal bank, financing the farmer for family emergencies besides fending for sundry arrangements for crop such as weighing, cleaning, transporting and coordinating with procuring agencies. Instead of addressing the infirmities of the arhtiya system, dismantling the same without an alternative would be painful to all stakeholders. Though the government maintains that the MSP regime would remain intact in mandis, it’s clear that on account of the huge tax differential between the mandis and new agri-trade areas, mandis will wither away in a short period. The farmers are spooked by a similar Bihar experiment in 2006, where farmers are exploited and fleeced by private businessmen with mandis out of the procurement equation. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, is an enabling legislation for facilitating contract farming. Past experience shows that in a surplus year when there is glut in supply of agricultural produce in markets, rates tend to nosedive below rates contracted between farmers and companies. Instead of honouring the contract and incurring loss, companies adopt the stratagem of nitpicking in quality such as moisture, lustre, and shrivelled grain, harassing farmers. IN INTEREST OF CORPORATE SHARKS Section 4 of the Essential Commodities Act has already been amended, deregulating stock limits on cereals, pulses, onions, potatoes, edible oil and oilseeds, except for dire situations of war, natural calamity or inordinate price rise. It is feared that big corporate sharks will hoard these essential commodities on the arrival of crops, create artificial scarcity and sell at exorbitant rates later, hitting the average consumer the hardest. Through the new agriculture legislation, the government has furthered the interests of corporate sharks at the cost of farmers, denying them statutorily guaranteed procurement of crops at the MSP. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has given an apt description of these black laws, calling them “death warrants against farmers”. choudhrykiran@gmail.com The writer is a senior Haryana Congress leader and MLA from Tosham. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-bills-sifting-the-grain-from-the-chaff/story-1NMooadf1QgVKqxFEocKIM.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Shows his greatness’: PM Modi praises Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson after suspended MPs snub tea offer||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday Harivansh, the deputy chairperson of the Rajya Sabha, is blessed with a “humble mind and a big heart” after he went to meet the protesting MPs from the opposition parties and offered them tea.Harivansh met the protesting member of the Rajya Sabha from the opposition parties, who spent the night on the lawns of Parliament to protest the passage of two contentious farm bills without a division of votes on Sunday in the Upper House. He was seen sitting and drinking tea with the MPs on the ground.“To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji,” he tweeted. To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji.“For centuries, the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Shri Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesman like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud,” he added.Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) Sanjay Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Karim of the CPI(M) were suspended for a week by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for “unruly behaviour” with Harivansh.They had refused to leave the House after their suspension, which was adjourned several times amid opposition protest.“Harivansh ji said he came to meet us as a colleague and not as the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. He also brought some tea and snacks for us. We started this sit-in demonstration yesterday as a protest against our suspension. We have been here all night,” Bora said, according to news agency ANI.“No one from the government has come to enquire about us. Many opposition leaders came to enquire about us and to show solidarity with us. We are going to continue this demonstration,” Bora added.The sit-in protest by eight suspended MPs on Parliament premises continued for the second day on Tuesday after they spent the night in the lawns near Mahatma Gandhi’s statue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shows-his-greatness-pm-modi-praises-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-after-suspended-mps-snub-tea-offer/story-KloHcbzx16P6yWGdImUenK.html
22-09-2020||India||Trinamool Congress to launch series of protests against farms bills from today||The ruling party in West Bengal, Trinamool Congress, will hit the streets to protest the passage of contentious farm bills starting from Tuesday in Kolkata. Parallel protests are going on outside the Parliament. Two of the party’s senior Rajya Sabha members – Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen – were suspended for a week on Monday for “unruly behaviour” that took place as the upper house of the Parliament passed two controversial bills relating to the agriculture sector on Sunday. Condemning the two bills, chief minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee said that the TMC will launch a series of protests against the bills every day starting from Tuesday. “The party will stage continuous protests starting from Tuesday. On September 22, the party’s women wing will hold a dharna near Gandhi statue in Kolkata. The youth wing will stage a protest on Wednesday followed by farmers and labourers,” Banerjee said. Also read: Despite BJD’s opposition to twin farm bills, Odisha farmer leaders aren’t impressedTuesday’s protests in central Kolkata would be led by Chandrima Bhattacharya, the minister of state for health in West Bengal. The TMC chief also called on all parties to unitedly oppose the farm bills and assured her party’s support. Meanwhile, the Congress and the Left Front have also decided to hit the streets on September 25 to protest the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Among the eight suspended MPs, while two were from the TMC, three were from the Congress party and two were CPI(M) lawmakers. One was from the Aam Aadmi Party. In the Unlock 4 guidelines, the Union home ministry had earlier said that political functions could be held with a ceiling of 100 people from September 21. “Because of the pandemic, there is a restriction on the number of people that can gather. Hence, we will stage the protest following protocols and not bring in a large number of people,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-to-launch-series-of-protests-against-farms-bills-from-today/story-1FRr9gMa6sMXuy68QVm8WM.html
22-09-2020||India||Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs on sit-in outside Parliament refuse deputy chairman’s tea||Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh on Tuesday met eight opposition lawmakers, who staged an all-night sit-in on the lawns of Parliament after they were suspended a day earlier for the remainder of the ongoing monsoon session for charging at him during protests against the passage of two of the three contentious farm bills in the upper House on Sunday. He offered the lawmakers tea and snacks. The lawmakers declined the refreshment and appeared unwilling to end their protest even as Harivansh said he will undertake a day-long fast over the “humiliating conduct against him”.Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh, who is among the eight, said the issue is not about personal equations but concerns for farmers. He added they are protesting to protect the farmers’ rights and against the way “black laws“ were passed in Parliament in violation of rules and procedures following the rejection of their demand for putting the bills to vote.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about Harivansh’s large-heartedness in offering tea to the suspended lawmakers and congratulated him.To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji.Singh reacted to Modi’s tweet saying they are not fighting for tea. “We are fighting for the welfare of our farmers, which you have taken away. I humbly request you - I am returning your tea with all due respect, please return my farmers’ morsel,” he tweeted.मोदी जी, हम अपनी चाय के लिए नहीं लड़ रहे। हम अपने किसानों के निवाले के लिए लड़ रहे हैं, जो आपने छीना है। मेरी आपसे विनम्र बिनती है - मैं आपकी चाय पूरे आदर के साथ लौटा रहा हूँ, आप कृपया मेरे किसानों का निवाला लौटा दीजिए। https://t.co/o2QUsu0BdbSingh, Derek O’Brien, and Dola Sen (Trinamool Congress); Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain, and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (M) were suspended for seven days for “gross disorderly conduct”. They stormed the Well of the House and charged towards Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings on Sunday. Parliament marshals formed a double-layered barricade to protect Harivansh. The lawmakers were angry as their demand for the division of votes on the bills was ignored. The bills were passed by voice vote while the opposition wanted them to be referred to a select committee.Harivansh wrote to Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Rajya Sabha chairman about the fast citing anguish over the “humiliating” conduct against him.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Shobha Karandlanje lauded Harivansh for his magnanimity in offering the suspended parliamentarians tea. “A magnanimous Gesture by Harivansh Ji! Deputy Chairman of RS [Rajya Sabha] brings tea for the same MPs who heckled, ill-treated & carried out undignified attack on him in the house. Committed Gandhian met those who targeted him & told that he’s here as a friend of them!” she tweeted.Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill tweeted, “Offering Tea will not whitewash the act of Curbing Democracy-Voices raising issues of 62 Crore Farmers cannot be muted & attention cannot be diverted #FarmBill2020 #FarmersProtest.”Naidu called Sunday a “really a bad day for the Rajya Sabha” and said he was worried that Harivansh would have been harmed also. He said his deputy was also abused and the Rule Book was thrown at him.Naidu on Monday named O’Brien and repeatedly requested him to leave the House. O’Brien refused to go, while opposition members demanded that they be heard as well. Naidu also rejected the no-confidence motion against Harivansh.Also Read: Oppn MPs hold first-ever night protests near HouseThe suspended lawmakers refused to leave the House on Monday calling the action against them unilateral. They said the version of what had transpired was not considered. They brought bedsheets, snacks, and water, and began the sit-in near the Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Parliament House.The suspension triggered a fresh confrontation between BJP and the opposition Congress as they accused each other of violating democratic norms. The Congress said the lawmakers were suspended without being heard and accused Harivansh of muzzling and throttling the voices of the opposition parties at the behest of the Prime Minister’s Office.This is the highest number of lawmakers to be suspended from the Upper House since 2010. Seven lawmakers from three parties were barred for the rest of their session over their protests against the Women’s Reservation Bill in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harivansh-meets-opposition-mps-who-camped-overnight-at-parliament-lawns/story-Zxm5u00qg8HiZUiwftP5HL.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Half-hearted’: Despite BJD’s opposition to twin farm bills, Odisha farmer leaders aren’t impressed||A day after Biju Janata Dal opposed the twin bills on farming in Rajya Sabha, arguing that it did not have any provisions for small and marginal farmers, several farmer leaders in the state alleged that the party’s opposition was half-hearted and it was indulging in doublespeak.The BJD on Sunday had opposed the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of the Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, alleging that it had little provision for small and marginal farmers as well as sharecroppers. “We can’t support the bill till we are sure that farmers’ interest will be protected,” said BJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Prasanna Acharya.Incidentally, the party had not supported the bill in the Lok Sabha as there was no voting on it with party MP Anubhav Mohanty urging the government to send the bills to select committee of the House. In the Rajya Sabha too, where the party has nine parliamentarians, there was no voting.Also read: ‘Govt didn’t talk to us, it should consult farmers’ - Sukhbir Singh BadalBJD’s opposition to the twin farm bills came as a surprise to several political analysts who were taken aback by the party’s stand considering that the party had supported the NDA on CAA, demonetisation, revocation of Article 370 and Triple Talaq Bill. Political analysts Satya Prakash Dash of Sambalpur University said BJD’s opposition to the central bill was a clever ploy to guard its support among farming community who have supported it over the years. “As close to 70 percent of the state’s population are farmers and many of them are BJD’s supporters, the party perhaps wanted to send a message that it is ready to oppose the BJP when it comes to agriculture,” said Dash.But despite the party’s opposition to the twin farm bills, farmer leaders did not seem to be impressed with the BJD’s stand with many of them calling it a half-hearted attempt. “The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 which is almost similar to the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 was brought in at least three weeks before the central ordinance. The BJP and the BJD are hand in glove when it comes to sacrificing the interest of farmers at the altar of the marketplace,” said Lingaraj, convenor of Paschim Odisha Krushak Sangathan Samanwaya Samiti, an umbrella body of various farmer organisations.Lingaraj said while the central Act ensures that no market fee, cess levy can be collected from farmers, traders and e-trading platform for the trade of scheduled farmers produce in the trade area, the Odisha ordinance(to be brought in as bill in the coming monsoon session) has provision of market committee collecting fee on notified commodities within the market yard. “The most important part is both the state and central ordinances and Acts support contract farming which would prove to be harmful for farmers of the state,” he said.Another farmer leader Akshay Kumar of Navanirman Krushan Sangathan said on principle both the BJP and the BJD are on the same page when it came to contract farming. “For the last several years, Odisha has been trying to get contract farming knowing that it would not be beneficial to small and marginal farmers. Yet they brought in an ordinance and now would make it an Act. There is not much to choose between the two parties when farmers’ interest is concerned,” said Kumar.Also read: ‘UN needs to address crisis of confidence’: PM Modi calls for ‘reformed multilateralism’Noted farmer leader Ashok Pradhan of Sambalpur said BJD’s opposition to the bill did not carry any meaning as the party has hardly done anything for the farmers in last 20 years of its rule. “BJD is also bringing two bills on farming that are in essence similar to central ones. When the BJD brought in the two ordinances in May this year we had warned of its disastrous consequences. While northern Indian states have some sorts of infrastructure for farmers, Odisha farmers do not have that luxury. The central Act, as well as the Odisha ordinances, would not help the farmers here anyway. The BJD opposition looks like some kind of deal,” said Pradhan.Pradhan further said in the last many years, many paddy farmers of Odisha do not get the minimum support price despite the state government’s regular announcement. Unlike northern and central states, Odisha farmers don’t get any bonus. “Farming is totally unremunerative and there is no incentive for farmers. The central Act, as well as the proposed Odisha Bill on farming, would ensure big business houses would make the farmers agricultural labourers in their own fields,” he said.Agriculture expert Devjit Sarangi, who has studied the central bill, as well as the Odisha ordinance, said a farmer can enter into a written farming agreement for any farming produce as per central bill, the proposed Odisha Bill has similar provisions. “The Odisha one only talks about state government collecting a facilitation fee of maximum 4 percent from the corporate houses that come for contract farming while there are no such features in the central bill. But if one looks at the central and state laws, there is hardly any difference,” he said.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated by the state government on May 13, aims at registration of farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity by way of land, soil management, seeds, saplings, fingerlings, inputs, feed and fodder, technology and other such services. The ordinance covers sale and purchase of 50 varieties of plant produce and 5 varieties of animal produce.The Odisha ordinance, like the central bill, would provide for geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce, including livestock, across the State and country to give freedom to the farmers to sell their produce in a better manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-hearted-despite-bjd-s-opposition-to-twin-farm-bills-odisha-farmer-leaders-aren-t-impressed/story-TimSbHwegLX713LBe0Uh4K.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD to hold 3-hour chakka jam on September 25, lead kisan march from three Takhts on October 1||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday announced a three-hour chakka jam (road blockade) across Punjab on September 25 to protest the farm bills and a simultaneous kisan (farmer) march from three Sikh religious Takhts to Mohali on October 1 to hand over a memorandum for President Ram Nath Kovind to the state governor. This was decided at a meeting of the SAD core committee presided over by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday night. It was also decided that Sukhbir would visit various parts of the state to interact with the party cadre from September 26 to 29, according to party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema. The core committee also decided to contact all like-minded regional parties across the country to evolve a joint strategy to forge a united fight to get the “anti-farmer bills” revoked. Cheema said that party leaders and workers have been asked to undertake the ‘chakka jam’ from 11am to 2pm in all constituencies in league with farmers, farm labourers and commission agents but asked not to come in the way of emergency services. He said the farmer march will be held from Akal Takht, Takht Damdama Sahib and Takht Keshgarh Sahib. Sukhbir would lead the march from Damdama Sahib, while former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal would lead the march from Akal Takht Sahib, and Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema would lead the marches from Keshgarh Sahib. Other senior party leaders would also participate in the march. He said the march would culminate at Dussehra Ground in Mohali, following which a delegation of senior party leaders would hand over a memorandum to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore for the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-to-hold-3-hour-chakka-jam-on-september-25-lead-kisan-march-from-three-takhts-on-october-1/story-NVYDiikYJ2PzjkqNqfo7EK.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Govt didn’t talk to us, it should consult farmers’: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal, whose wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as the food processing industries minister to protest contentious farm bills, speaks to Sunetra Choudhury about SAD’s resistance to the bill. Edited excerpts: We have to try our best to stop it. The bill doesn’t become an Act till the President signs it. We are representing the farmers and on their behalf we are requesting the President, please reconsider signing the bill. Please send it back to Parliament and let it be properly debated there... There was no voting, it was just bulldozing of the bills taking place over there [in Rajya Sabha]. I feel that the government should talk to the farmers. There’s no point of putting ministers on TV giving clarifications. The same ministers should be deputed to meet the farmers and listen to them... Whether you make it private or not, middlemen will stay. You think {Mukesh} Ambani or {Gautam} Adani will go directly to the farms and buy it {farm produce}? Obviously they will have their layer of middlemen. Secondly, the mandi system as it exists is such that anyone can come and buy from there... Farmers feel that big corporate houses will take them over. They {government} say farmers can take legal recourse...You can’t make a farmer fight a big corporate house... They are poor people who want a sense of security which they get from the government mandi system...I feel the arguments are being made without consulting stakeholders. We are part of the NDA, they could have at least consulted us. We were never told. We got to know about the ordinance when it came to the cabinet. There itself she {Harsimrat Kaur Badal} said, please do not pass it as from the look of it, they {farmers} are going to have issues with it. But they passed it, saying we’ve got three months till the Act comes, we will talk to them...They have curtailed government APMC’s jurisdiction to 5-7 acres. They said parallel to the APMC, private people can open the mandis on their own, they will not have to pay tax. Government mandis charge 7-8% tax ... Basically, they {corporate houses} have been given tax-free incentives to buy. Outside {Parliament}, rights of farmers {are} being bulldozed, inside rights of MPs {are} being bulldozed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-didn-t-talk-to-us-it-should-consult-farmers/story-ZXzQ11KkwI7S9KqJD6PhYN.html
22-09-2020||India||Cong plans campaigns, month-long protest across India from Sept 24||The Congress on Monday decided to hit the streets across the country from September 24 to protest against what it described as anti-farmer and anti-poor bills passed in Parliament by the government. The party will also launch a campaign to collect 20 million signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed laws. The two agricultural reform bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — were cleared by voice vote in Parliament on Sunday.Opposition members stormed the well of the House, insisting on a division of votes and demanding that the proposed laws be sent to a select committee for greater scrutiny. The authorities called in marshals to form a double-layered barricade to protect Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh and remove an MP, muted live telecast of the proceedings, and refused to accept the Opposition’s demand for a division (voting through paper ballots) on the legislation. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has described the two farm bills passed by Parliament on Sunday to liberalise the agriculture sector as “historic,” but farmers’ groups and activists opposing them allege that the legislation will create a system lacking adequate oversight and make cultivators vulnerable to exploitation.“The nationwide agitation will continue till the government repeals the black laws,” senior Congress leader AK Antony told reporters after a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states at the party headquarters in Delhi. A resolution condemning the bills was also passed at the meeting, which was attended by all the office bearers except Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Jitin Prasada who joined it virtually. Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh could not attend because he was out of Delhi for personal reasons. By announcing a nearly two-month-long protest calendar, the principal opposition party is seeking to regain some of the political space it has lost over the years by tapping the 146 million farmers who have operational land holdings, according to the agriculture census of 2015-16. The Congress is also seeing the issue as a potential replay of the 2015 moment when party chief Sonia Gandhi played a key role in bringing 14 opposition parties together against the proposed land acquisition bill that forced the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government to withdraw a controversial ordinance and shelve the idea of bringing a new legislation to replace a 2013 law. Senior leader Ahmed Patel said the meeting was held under the directions of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, who are in the US for a medical checkup of the Congress’s interim chief . “It is going to be a people’s movement against this government,” he added. The six-member special committee formed by the Congress president to help her in organisational and operational matters chaired the meeting in her absence. Besides Antony and Patel, the other members of the special committee are Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik, and Randeep Singh Surjewala Venugoipal, who is the Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation, said the party will organise a series of programmes across the country in support of farmers. Apart from a chain of press conferences across the country starting from September 24, Venugopal said senior leaders from states will on September 28 walk to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum on the farms bills to Governors to be handed over to President Ram Nath Kovind. On October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe a Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day). “There will be protests and demonstrations in every district across the country demanding immediate withdrawal of agriculture bills,” he added. On October 10, Surjewala said state level conferences will be held and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures from 20 million farmers across all parts of the country. On November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, a memorandum with signatures of 20 million farmers will be submitted to the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-campaigns-month-long-protest-across-india-from-sept-24/story-5ZL3JcCoAruzptKWzGX2kK.html
