23-09-2020||India||Kerala to move Supreme Court against farm bills, says move violates federal structure||The CPI (M)-led Kerala government on Wednesday decided to move the Supreme Court against the agriculture bills passed by the Parliament three days ago saying the move was a violation of the federal structure as agriculture falls into the concurrent list.Earlier state agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar had sought legal opinion and got advice that these bills can be challenged in the apex court. The state cabinet which met on Wednesday discussed the issue in detail and felt that the Union government’s decision was interference into powers of states and against the spirit of federalism.“Agriculture falls into the state list as per the seventh schedule of the Constitution. Not a single state was consulted before bringing these bills and farmers’ bodies were also kept in the dark. We feel these legislation will only benefit big corporates engaged in the sector,” said Kumar who attended the cabinet proceedings online after he tested Covid-19 positive. He is the third minister to test positive for Covid-19 after finance minister Thomas Issac and industry minister EP Jayarajan.The minister said the state will introduce an alternate mechanism roping in agriculture co-operative societies and self-help groups in a big way. “Lakhs of farmers across the country are eking out a miserable life and many have committed suicide. Reeling under the pandemic, now the Modi government has brought in a fresh set of policies in the name of reforms. They will only serve interests of big farming corporates,” said the minister. Though Kerala is not an agrarian state many farming bodies have pledged their support to the nationwide stir called on September 25. Two left MPs from the state, KK Ragesh and Elamarom Kareem, were among eight members from the Rajya Sabha suspended for making a noisy protest over the passage of these bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-move-supreme-court-against-farm-bills-says-move-violates-federal-structure/story-ylcsdaPvNddgTGuh8NHO2L.html
23-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition leaders to meet President at 5pm on farm bills and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition leaders to meet President today amid Parliament boycott over farm billsOpposition parties will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday amid the ongoing row over farm bills. Only five opposition leaders will be allowed to meet the President at 5 PM , reports said. Read more‘Not joined any party as of now’: Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey after voluntary retirementFormer Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey on Wednesday said he is yet to join any political party and has also not taken any decision in this regard. Pandey was speaking to media after opting for voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) in a sudden development on Tuesday evening. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘They were all just personal runs’ - MS Dhoni batting at No. 7 ‘makes no sense’ to Gautam GambhirFormer India batsman Gautam Gambhir was surprised to see MS Dhoni bat so down the order, despite Chennai Super Kings chasing a huge 217-run target to win. In a still chase on Tuesday night, the likes of Sam Curran, Ruturaj Gaikwad and Kedar Jadhav batted at No. 4, 5 and 6 respectively while Dhoni reserved himself for No. 7. Read moreAyushmann Khurrana only Indian actor on Time’s 100 most influential list, Deepika Padukone praises actorAyushmann Khurrana has been named among world’s 100 most influential people by the Time Magazine. The actor took to Instagram to share how “honoured” he was to be a part of the group. He shares the honour with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who, too, has been named in the list. Read moreToyota Urban Cruiser SUV launched in India at ₹8.40 lakhToyota on Wednesday launched the Urban Cruiser SUV in the Indian market starting at ₹8.40 lakh. The company has announced that the deliveries of the new SUV will start from mid-October. Read moreEngrave Apple devices in 6 Indian languages, other perks you can get from Apple’s India online store from todayApple’s online store in India is all set to go live today. The site still mentions it’s ‘coming soon’ for now and is expected to go live ‘shortly’, but a quick glance tells you that the store, when it goes live, will offer shopping assistance, free no-contact delivery, different payment options, free sessions to understand how to use your device better, being able to engrave your Apple devices in six Indian languages, etc. Read moreHave the Covid-19 numbers dropped in India?Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; government’s 5-pt plan to check oxygen shortage; HC stays order on 80% Covid quota in hospitals; Air India discusses flights overs scenic spots after Qantas flies over barrier reef. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-leaders-to-meet-president-at-5pm-on-farm-bills-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fytz3Dd38j6MhyJEMu8UVJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Statewide bandh in Karnataka next week against farm bills||A joint forum of several farmers, labourers and Dalit organisations have called for a statewide bandh in Karnataka on September 28 after the state government went ahead and tabled a bill to amend the APMC act. President of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Kodihalli Chandrashekar, State president of Confederation of Farmers Association Kuruburu Shanthakumar, Hasiru Sena (Green Army) Chief Badgalapura Nagendra and others said that a state wide bandh would be observed on Monday to protest against what they said was ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the state and Central governments.Farmer organisations have been protesting against some of the recent changes in the state like allowing non-agriculturists to buy farmland, amendments to the electricity act and now the APMC act which would allow farmers to sell outside of mandis to private players.Chandrashekar said on Friday that there would be statewide protests against the proposed farm bills but on Monday there would be a complete statewide bandh. Except essential and emergency services, all other services would be shut on the day of bandh. Shanmugappa, president of the Karnataka unit of Lorry Owners and Agents association, claimed that five lakh trucks and lorries would come to a standstill. A few autorickshaw and taxi app based aggregator (like Ola and Uber) organisations have also extended support for the proposed bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statewide-bandh-in-karnataka-next-week-against-farm-bills/story-X0eKVEoZ5MTDFlfr8vsION.html
23-09-2020||News||BJP’s one market for farmers is a myth | Opinion||Should India’s farmers have the economic freedom to market their produce to whoever and wherever they want at an agreed price? Unequivocally yes. Will the government’s recently-legislated farm bills grant this freedom to farmers? The answer is an unequivocal no.Let us understand this through the example of Prashant Gawande, a small farmer in Akola, Maharashtra, with a three-acre farm. He has just harvested soyabean and needs to sell his produce quickly so as to repay the debt taken to produce the crop. The nearest Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market yard for Gawande is 25 km away where licenced traders will bid for his produce, starting with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) declared by the government. He can sell his produce to the highest bidder — whether a government procurement agency or a private trader — and collect his money.Ninety-four per cent of India’s farmers sell their produce for non-MSP prices. Official data disclosed in Parliament showed that, in the last season, only 1.24 crore paddy farmers and 44 lakh wheat farmers got the MSP. The reason is that farmers do not have an ecosystem with multiple, easily accessible and competitive markets. The painful conclusion is that, notwithstanding the operation of APMC Acts for a few decades, only a fraction of the farmers get MSP. The Bharatiya Janata Party government has passed new farm sector laws which it claims will establish a “One Nation, One Market” for agriculture produce and liberate farmers. “One Market” is a myth. Can you imagine Gawande in Maharashtra loading his soyabean crop onto a tractor and driving to Madhya Pradesh because he has learned that he can get a better price there! Or imagine Gawande pulling out his computer, log into the e-commerce market place, and complete a digital sale and purchase!! Neither the current APMC system nor the “One Nation, One Market” dream will serve the small farmer. Eighty-five per cent of farmers are small farmers, holding one hectare or less and with little surplus to sell in the market. He/she can be lured to a market only if there are, multiple, easily accessible and competitive markets in the area where the farmer produces his/her crop.Under the new laws, anyone can now operate outside the auspices of APMC and procure from farmers without the need for a licence or payment of a fee. Most traders will then abandon APMC and set up their own informal markets outside to avoid APMC transaction costs and regulations. Lack of activity will eventually lead to the shutdown of APMCs which means that the bidding process to establish the highest price for the produce will also vanish. Independent traders will collude to set up many fragmented thin markets for procurement which will lead to price gouging of farmers, most of whom are small and do not have collective bargaining powers. This is how the APMC and MSP systems will be slowly dismantled. When the MSP system is dismantled, farmers lose a very important price signal that can help them get better prices. The experience of Bihar after the Nitish Kumar government repealed the state’s APMC Act bears out this apprehension. Bihar farmers get a whopping 30% less as the price for their produce than the notified MSPs.If the government was indeed keen on retaining the MSP system, as it claims, then why is it not so stated explicitly in the new laws? Nothing would have been easier than to add a clause that a private transaction would be valid only if the price paid “is not less than the MSP”. MSPs play a vital role as an emitter of a price signal. The farmers face a real risk of exploitative prices without a proper price signal and an assured market place to sell their produce. Today, farmers neither have access to multiple markets nor the bargaining power to negotiate fair-price contracts.Farmers have seen through the falsity of the government’s propaganda and that is why farmers across the country are on the streets protesting against these laws.The objective to provide economic freedom to farmers through more choices of buyers is a laudable pursuit that the Congress supports fully. Farmers such as Gawande can be liberated only when they have access to multiple markets where different buyers compete for their produce and offer the highest price.Renowned agriculture expert Dr MS Swaminathan and scholars such as Sudha Narayanan and Mekhala Krishnamurthy have argued that the number of APMC market yards per square km is inadequate and severely inhibits market access for India’s farmers. Recognising the severe limitations of the APMC system, the Congress party’s manifesto for the 2019 elections clearly laid out the need to establish thousands of markets “in large villages and small towns with adequate infrastructure and support” as a pre-condition to free trade in agriculture procurement. The key word is markets, not One Market.Six years of the Narendra Modi government has revealed one clear pattern of governance — to confuse and conflate lofty goals and objectives with ill-thought-out policy execution. Eliminating black money was a lofty objective; but demonetisation as a policy to achieve that was disastrous. Ease of inter-state trade was a laudable goal; a plethora of Goods and Services Tax (GST) rates was not the way to achieve it. Flattening the Covid-19 curve was a worthy pursuit, but a draconian lockdown was imprudent. Similarly, giving economic freedom to our farmers is a desirable goal, but the hastily-passed farm laws will not help achieve this. P Chidambaram is a Member of Parliament and the former finance minister. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office bearer of the Congress||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/bjp-s-one-market-for-farmers-is-a-myth/story-woADapDkiZS7aWU6lJn1CK.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Congress has always been anti-farmer: Himachal BJP spokesperson||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Randhir Sharma on Wednesday said the Congress had always been anti-farmer when they had been in power. “The Congress never did anything for farmers and now when the Prime Minister is trying to double the income of farmers, they are staging protests to confuse the general public and the Opposition,” he said. Addressing a press conference in Shimla he said the farm bills passed will benefit farmers. “Now, the farmers of India can send their producers to anywhere with the get better prices” he said.The second bill helps farmers will ensure farmers do not lose their land and own their produce. The government wants to ensure that farmers at least earn 50% of their investment. The increase in MSP is the first positive impact of the bill. The increased MSP of six rabi crops will lead to a 106% profit.The Swaminathan Commission’s report had come during the UPA government’s regime but its recommendations were not executed to protect middleman and brokers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-has-always-been-anti-farmer-himachal-bjp-spokesperson/story-BFYWwCy2z3nipJtm4SNroN.html
23-09-2020||India||Ahead of nationwide stir, Youth Congress takes out tractor rally against farm bills||Indian Youth Congress (IYC) members, led by its national president Srinivas BV, took to the streets on Wednesday, a day ahead of the party’s nationwide agitation against the passage of anti-farmers’ bills during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament.In the second phase of the Kisan Aakrosh rally, the IYC supporters had taken out a tractor march from Panipat in Haryana to Delhi on Wednesday.Also read: Ghulam Nabi Azad to meet President over farm billsHowever, Haryana Police prevented the IYC members from entering Delhi. “Thousands of farmers and youth had joined our protest rally. We were stopped by Haryana Police as they used water canons and force on us. But this will not deter us from raising our voice. Enough is enough. Nobody can stop us now,” Srinivas said. The IYC national president and other members were also detained by Delhi Police on Tuesday when they had tried to march towards the Parliament building in protest against the passage of the farm bills. Srinivas claimed that the new laws would make farmers dependent on corporate houses. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks about Atmnirbhar Bharat, or self-reliant India, but the farm bills of his government will make farmers dependent on corporate houses,” he alleged. In Amritsar, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the party protest in support of farmers. Similar protests were also held in some other parts of the country, including Haryana and Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-nationwide-stir-youth-congress-takes-out-tractor-rally-in-support-of-farmers/story-yREp7eogc1xxnKxJZuMleN.html
23-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Ghulam Nabi Azad to meet President today||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad will meet President Ram Nath Kovind at 5pm on Wednesday to request him, on behalf of 18 political parties, to not give his assent to farm bills passed by the Upper House on Sunday amid a ruckus. Azad will also apprise the President about the Rajya Sabha passing important legislations in both Houses of Parliament in the absence of Opposition parties, which boycotted the rest of the monsoon session after the government rejected their demands to withdraw the farm bills. They had also requested Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to revoke the suspension of eight members—Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Also Read: Rajya Sabha adjourns sine die; second-shortest monsoon session so farThe two agricultural bills—the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020—were cleared by voice vote in Parliament on Sunday even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee. The ruckus resulted in the suspension of the eight members. Parliament on Tuesday also passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. On Tuesday, Azad had said that the opposition will not end its boycott till the government introduces another bill making it illegal for private players to buy food grains from farmers below the minimum support price (MSP), and making it mandatory for all state agencies to comply by the MSP and fix the procurement price as per the Swaminathan panel’s recommendations. Representatives of the Opposition parties met in the Parliament House on Wednesday to chalk out their future strategy. It was decided at the meeting that a delegation will meet the President in a delegation and hand over a memorandum to him, urging him not to give his assent to the farm bills. Also Read: Claim pro-farmer reforms, but no data on their suicides: TMC attacks CentreRepresentatives of the Opposition parties then sought time from the Parliament and were told that only five leaders would be allowed to meet the President in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a Congress leader said. He said the leaders of the 18 Opposition parties then decided that only Azad would meet the President on their behalf. The standoff between the government and the Opposition over the farm bills has escalated with both sides taking a hard stand on the issue. While the Rajya Sabha adjourned sine die on Wednesday afternoon, the Lok Sabha will follow suit in the evening. While the Congress has decided to hit the streets across the country to protest against the farm bills Thursday onwards, other regional Opposition parties are planning an agitation against the farm bills in their respective states too. Earlier in the day, Opposition leaders, including Azad, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh (Congress), Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress and Samajwadi Party member Jaya Bachchan, took out a protest march from the Mahatma Gandhi statue to the Ambedkar Statue at the Parliament house complex. The leaders carried placards with messages such as ‘Save Farmers’, Save Workers’ and ‘Save Democracy’. Prior to their protest, the leaders had also written to the Rajya Sabha chairman urging him not to pass the three labour codes in the Upper House in the absence of Opposition parties. “It will be a blot on democracy if the bills are passed unilaterally,” they wrote in the letter. Azad later said he would meet the President and tell him that there was no division of votes during the passage of bills in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-ghulam-nabi-azad-to-meet-president-today/story-KXHeku1NnQI514ysbcJbsI.html
23-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand assembly session: Congress, AAP protest over ‘anti-farmer policies’||The one-day session of the Uttarakhand assembly in Dehradun on Wednesday saw a stormy start with protest by the Opposition Congress lawmakers against the recently passed farm bills in Parliament. The Congress members of the Uttarakhand legislative assembly (MLAs), including the state party president Pritam Singh, Qazi Nizamuddin, Manoj Rawat and Aadesh Singh Chauhan along with the Dehradun city unit chief Lal Chand Sharma, headed towards the assembly in a tractor in a symbolic protest against the farm bills that were passed by Parliament earlier this week. However, the protesting lawmakers were prevented by the police personnel from entering the assembly premises. Initially, though the opposition MLAs argued with the police, later they sat on a dharna in front of a barricade. MLA Nizamuddin attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre. “The government is anti-farmer, which has been proved in the farm bills passed in Parliament. The government is not only against farmers but everything related to them such as tractors due to which we have been barred from entering the assembly premises,” he alleged. “All gates would have opened had we come to the assembly in an expensive car instead of a tractor,” he further alleged.The protesting Congress legislators ended their stir after the police allowed them to proceed towards the assembly in the tractor.The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Uttarakhand unit also tried to gather at the assembly against the “anti-farmer policies of the Central government and the growing unemployment issue in the hill state”. AAP members tried to reach the assembly on foot from various parts of Dehradun such as Fawwara Chowk, Shastri Nagar and Defence Colony.The police barred them from proceeding towards the assembly following which they sat on a sit-in protest.“The recently passed farm bills will gravely impact the livelihood of farmers in the state and the country. These laws will end the concept of minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce,” alleged SS Kaler, state president of the AAP. “Besides, Uttarakhand is facing a major unemployment crisis, as the state government has failed to provide jobs to the youth. Chief Minister CM Trivendra Singh Rawat’s priorities are all mixed up. Instead of providing jobs to the state’s youth, he is busy focusing on hemp cultivation to push them in the drug trade,” he further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-assembly-session-congress-aap-protest-over-anti-farmer-policies/story-0i8XcLq732RdMat197SmlL.html
23-09-2020||India||Claim pro-farmer reforms, but no data on their suicides: TMC attacks Centre||Firing fresh salvo at the Centre, the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal attacked the Narendra Modi-led government for claiming to champion pro-farmer reforms through the agricultural bills passed in the Rajya Sabha, but drawing a blank when questioned about the farmer suicides. “@narendramodi ji’s regime is making a mockery of our nation! They fail to record the no. of farmer suicides in their reign and then claim to implement Pro-Farmer laws, while thwarting every rule in Parliament. We’ll not stay quiet & take this battle head-on! #WeStandForDemocracy,” tweeted Abhishek Banerjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool MP. This comes two days after G Kishan Reddy, union minister of state for home affairs, had informed the Rajya Sabha that national data on causes of suicide in farming sector was untenable and not published separately, as many states and union territories had reported ‘Nil’ data to the National Crime Records Bureau. In a counter offensive, a delegation of the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to apprise him of the TMC’s alleged double standards on the issues related to the contentious farm bills that were passed in the Rajya Sabha. “The price of potato in West Bengal has shot up because of the middlemen backed by the TMC. While farmers are selling potatoes at Rs 8–Rs 10 per kilo, in the markets each kilo of potato is being sold at Rs 30–Rs 40 per kilo. The TMC will never act against these middlemen as the money is going to the party’s coffers. While farmers are being cheated, the chief minister is spreading lies against the farm bills,” said Jai Prakash Majumdar, state vice president of BJP, who led the delegation to Raj Bhavan. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had condemned the farm bills passed in the Upper House of Parliament on Sunday and had said that these bills would trigger a food pandemic in the country and wipe off small and marginal farmers.The TMC has already started staging protests since Tuesday in Kolkata against the farm bills. While on Tuesday, the party’s women wing led by Chadrima Bhattacharya, minister of state for health in West Bengal, staged a protest in central Kolkata, on Wednesday the youth wing took out a rally. On September 9, Banerjee had written to the Centre that she was open to implementation of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers if the funds were transferred directly to her government for disbursement. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, however, criticised the state government, saying that funds for Central welfare schemes go directly to the beneficiaries and not routed through the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/claim-pro-farmer-reforms-but-no-data-on-their-suicides-tmc-attacks-centre/story-Rfxs9vjDVMuSrg7Z7ZITwK.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer killed, 17 BKU activists injured after bus rams into truck near Bathinda||A farmer was killed and 17 others were injured when a private bus rammed into a truck parked on the roadside near Kot Fatta village in Bathinda district on Tuesday night. Police said all victims were Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) activists who were returning after the eight-day protest against the farm bills outside former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s house in Badal village of neighbouring Muktsar district ended. Mukhtiar Singh, 62, of Kishangarh village in Bathinda died during treatment in the local civil hospital. The injured are undergoing treatment at the civil hospital and a private health institute. The farmers were returning to their respective villages in a private bus that broke down. They were headed home in another bus that rammed into the truck on the roadside. BKU activists alleged delayed medical attention to the accident victims and blocked traffic at the busy ITI Chowk, the intersection connecting Bathinda with Haryana and Rajasthan besides Talwandi Sabo and Mansa districts of Punjab. BKU leader Jasgeer Singh complained that no district official visited the injured at hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-killed-17-bku-activists-injured-after-bus-rams-into-truck-near-bathinda/story-hzdPz4aCO05xZX5xnVo9RM.html
23-09-2020||India||Opposition leaders to meet President today amid Parliament boycott over farm bills||Opposition parties will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday amid the ongoing row over farm bills. Only five opposition leaders will be allowed to meet the President at 5 PM , reports said.On Tuesday, the opposition boycotted the ongoing session over Centre’s refusal to accept its demand for withdrawal of farm bills passed by Parliament.On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha passed two contentious key farm bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020) through voice vote. Also Read | Rajya Sabha: 8 Opposition MPs suspended for a week after protests over farm billsOn Wednesday, the MPs of the Opposition parties which boycotted Parliament met at the chamber of Ghulam Nabi Azad, Leader of Opposition in the House. Following the ruckus in the Upper House on Sunday, eight Opposition MPs, including Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and AAP’s Sanjay Singh, were suspended from Rajya Sabha for a week under Rule 256(2) on Monday.Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh who was at the chair when the Opposition MPs created a furore inside the Rajya Sabha observed a one-day fast protesting the unruly behaviour of the Opposition MPs. The two farm bills are presently awaiting President’s nod.Meanwhile, the government has recommended the adjournment of the Rajya Sabha sine die, Union minister of state (MoS) for parliamentary affairs, V Muraleedharan informed the House.“I have to inform members that the government has decided to recommend adjournment of the House sine die today. Some important legislative business passed by Lok Sabha has to be disposed of before the adjournment,” the MoS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-to-meet-president-amid-parliament-boycott-over-farm-bills/story-AShXSAZvwzMsYq22i1hblL.html
23-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP delegation to meet Governor over TMC’s ‘double standards’ on farm bills||A delegation of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal unit is likely to meet Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at around 11 am on Wednesday to apprise him about the alleged double standards being maintained by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) regarding the farm bills. The passage of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 during the ongoing 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session of Parliament has riled opposition parties, including the TMC-run government in Bengal.The BJP delegation, led by Jay Prakash Majumdar, state vice-president, will comprise other senior members of the opposition party, who will meet Governor Dhankar. Also Read: Trinamool Congress to launch series of protests against farms bills from todayThe TMC has since started staging protests in Kolkata from Tuesday against the contentious farm bills passed in the Rajya Sabha (RS) on Sunday and the Industrial Relations Code Bill, 2020 in the Lok Sabha (LS). In the latter, the government has proposed to introduce more conditions that will restrict the rights of workers to strike coupled with an increase in the threshold relating to layoffs and retrenchment in industrial establishments, which have 300 workers from the existing rule of 100 employees. These measures are likely to provide more flexibility to employers for hiring and firing of workers without government’s permission.On Wednesday, the TMC’s youth wing is scheduled to hold a rally against these new laws. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has condemned the legislations. Also Read: Sonia, Rahul return to India amid Opposition’s standoff with government over farm billsShe has said that the passage of farm bills would trigger a food pandemic in the country and wipe off small and marginal farmers. On September 9, Banerjee had written to the Centre suggesting that she was open to implementation of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers and the Ayushman Bharat Yojana healthcare scheme if the funds were transferred directly to her government for disbursement. However, Governor Dhankhar, a trenchant critic of the Banerjee-led dispensation, targeted the state government over the CM’s proposal. He cited that funds for Central welfare schemes go directly to the beneficiaries and never routed through the state government for disbursal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bjp-delegation-to-meet-governor-over-tmc-s-double-standards-on-farm-bills/story-8EJWyYThqLgWKGToI7oB8N.html
23-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: What to expect today||An action-packed Wednesday is expected in Parliament with several bills to be passed, protests and a meeting of Opposition parties with the President of India on the cards before the two Houses end the curtailed monsoon session.Representatives of Opposition parties plan to gather near the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex at 12pm Wednesday—the same place where the eight suspended Opposition MPs protested overnight on Monday—to oppose the farm bills, the three labour codes and other policies of the Narendra Modi government.Also Read: New Parliament to cost Rs 971 crore, Centre informs ParliamentThey will, however, not go inside the Rajya Sabha, where the three labour codes—on occupational safety, industrial relations and on social security—are expected to sail through smoothly without any opposition. The Congress, Samajwadi Party, Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Left parties had declared on Tuesday they will boycott the rest of the session in the Upper House over farm bills.Representatives of the Opposition will meet the President of India at 5pm Wednesday to urge him not to give his assent to the farm bills to turn them into laws.The Opposition had decided to oppose the three labour codes inside the House, but the quick passage of the farm bills coupled with the suspension of the eight MPs changed their plans.Also Read: Rajya Sabha holds crucial meeting as Opposition boycotts Parliament proceedingsThe monsoon session of Parliament is expected to end on Wednesday after another round of bills is cleared. The session had started on September 14 with a logistical overhaul due to the Covid-19 pandemic, including two separate shifts in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, the MPs of one House sitting in the other House to maintain social distance, a new sit-and-speak order and restrictions on the entry of visitors.The Rajya Sabha will discuss passing five bills, including the labour codes, while the Lok Sabha, that will convene at 6pm to accommodate the sine die adjournment process in the Upper House, will discuss passing the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020, the Major Port Authorities Bill, 2020 and the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020.The Upper House will also take up the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill and the Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-what-to-expect-today/story-KpkkKk22G45TZ8uv9y9XjJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Govt pushes flurry of bills as Oppn boycotts||At least seven Opposition parties boycotted proceedings in both Houses, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said they would go on a fast, and the government hurriedly pushed through key bills on an action-packed Tuesday — with the possibility of the monsoon session being cut short and ending on Wednesday. The eight members of Parliament (MPs) suspended for the commotion during the controversial passage of farm reform bills in the Rajya Sabha, spent Monday night protesting outside Parliament, rebuffed a conciliatory gesture by Harivansh (who went to meet them with tea in the morning), but ended their vigil after Opposition parties decided to boycott the Lok Sabha for the remainder of the session. The Rajya Sabha, where the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) does not have a majority, passed at least seven bills in just three-and-a-half hours in the absence of Opposition voices, making Tuesday’s session one of the most productive in its history. The Lok Sabha, where the NDA has a clear majority, took up three important labour reform bills, and cleared them, with the Congress and some other opposition parties boycotting the day’s proceedings to protest the happenings in the Upper House.  The Lok Sabha will meet around 6pm on Wednesday and is likely to cut short the session, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The Rajya Sabha’s business advisory committee met without the Opposition’s participation on Tuesday evening. The Upper House, which will convene at 9am, is set to adjourn sine die after taking up remaining bills on Wednesday, the people added. The monsoon session of Parliament, which began on September 14, was supposed to end on October 1. HT reported on Sunday that the session may end as early as on September 23 after many parties agreed to cut it short amid a rising number of Covid-19 cases linked to the Parliament House complex; 32 Parliamentarians, including two ministers, and more than 100 officials have tested positive for Covid-19 in a testing drive in Parliament ever since the session began. The Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Trinamool Congress, CPI (M), Aam Aadmi Party, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, and Samajwadi Party all boycotted the session citing the suspension of the MPs, and the way the farm bills were pushed through, without a division or voting. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) too walked out of the two Houses with its members saying they were not part of the Opposition but have done so on their own, alleging that the government was only trying to “bluff” the farmers. “We will not end our boycott till the government brings another bill making it illegal for private players to buy food grains from farmers below the MSP, all state agencies comply by the MSP and the procurement price is fixed as per the Swaminathan panel’s recommendations,” Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad told reporters outside the Parliament building. He also said the revocation of suspension of the Opposition members was not a demand but a request. Azad said the House should run in coordination between the government and the Opposition. “But there should not be coordination between chair and government,” he said, referring to Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh pushing through the two contentious farm bills on Sunday while allegedly ignoring Opposition voices. “President Ram Nath Kovind should not give assent to the bills as proper procedure was not followed in their passage in the Rajya Sabha,” he added. In its reply, the government said it was not keeping the suspended MPs away from the House but they should express regret over their behaviour. “Let them apologise, we will consider withdrawing the suspension,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters. On Monday, Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and his colleague Dola Sen; Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh; Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) were suspended for seven days each for “disorderly conduct”. Vice-president and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday rejected a notice for a no-confidence motion against Harivansh as it was not in proper format and did not give a 14-day notice period. Among the seven bills passed by the Upper House were The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, approved by the Lower House on September 15, seeks to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities, replacing an ordinance promulgated in June. It is the third bill in the government’s farm liberalisation plan. The Lok Sabha, too, witnessed uproarious scenes with the Opposition demanding that the government should roll back the farms bills and withdraw the suspension of the eight Rajya Sabha members. “Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha are like twin brothers...if one is in pain, the other has to be concerned. Our issue is related to the farm bills; we want them be taken back,” Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, the Congress’s leader of the House, said. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said it is unfortunate that the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha were discussed in the Lok Sabha. “Whatever happens in one House, it has never been discussed in another House. It is unfortunate that this thing is being discussed now.” Harivansh, meanwhile, wrote a letter — addressed to the President and Vice-President — invoking his humble origins in Bihar and went on a day-long fast on Tuesday to protest “humiliating” conduct towards him by some MPs.“In the name of democracy, members of the House indulged in violent behaviour. There was an effort to intimidate the person in the chair. All norms of the Upper House were disregarded. The rule book was torn and thrown over me...,” he wrote.Congress member Satav, one of those suspended members, said: “We are equally pained and hurt over the way the deputy chairman conducted the proceedings in the House on Sunday. Seeking a division or amendments are our Parliamentary rights that were denied to us by him...”NCP chief Pawar, too, said he was observing a day-long fast to protest the suspension of the eight members of the Upper House. Addressing a press conference in Mumbai, Pawar, a Rajya Sabha member, also bemoaned the conduct of Harivansh and the government’s decision of “bulldozing” the Opposition in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pushes-flurry-of-bills-as-oppn-boycotts/story-MoFJc6C3b6VCw2ORTrGGcL.html
23-09-2020||India||‘Bihari pride’ in focus amid uproar in House||The uproar in Parliament over the controversial passage of farm bills resonated in poll-bound Bihar with senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that the Opposition’s protests against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh hurt ‘Bihari pride’. Harivansh, a member of the Janata Dal (United) who was a journalist and writer, hails from Bihar and the government has sought to corner the Opposition for the “heckling”, “abuse” and “disrespect” shown to the senior Bihar politician. The controversy began on Sunday when the government rushed through two contentious farm bills amid fierce protests from the Opposition. Senior Opposition leaders charged towards Harivansh, jumped onto tables; and alleged that their demand for a division of votes was denied. The next day, eight Opposition members were suspended, triggering even more unrest and protests by the Opposition. Hours later, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who represents the Patna Sahib Constituency in the Lok Sabha, linked the issue to Bihari pride. “An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar was humiliated; the people of Bihar will give a response. Harivansh ji remained dignified… We will not make it a political issue but people are hurt,” the minister said. He also trained his guns at the Opposition and said, “The way Congress and RJD [Rashtriya Janata Dal] were silent and even encouraged the protesting MPs in the Rajya Sabha, this will be told to the people of the state. Both Congress and RJD will have to answer.” The Congress and the RJD are part of the Opposition alliance in the Bihar assembly elections, scheduled for later this year. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi put out two tweets to appreciate the deputy chairperson’s gesture of serving tea to the suspended MPs who spent the night in protest inside the Parliament complex. “To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji,” the PM said. In a second tweet, he referred to Harivansh’s Bihari roots. “For centuries, the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Shri Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesman like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud,” the PM said. This is the second time in this session that the PM has invoked the deputy chairperson’s connection with Bihar. On September 14, when Harivansh was re-elected as deputy Rajya Sabha chair for the second term, the PM mentioned how he belonged to “the land of democracy.” “When anyone who is a seeker of democracy, from the land of democracy, Bihar, from JP’s (Jayprakash Narayan) and Karpuri Thakur’s land, from Bapu’s (Mahatma Gandhi) Champaran, steps forward to take responsibility, this is what happens…what Harivansh has accomplished,” the PM said while complimenting his conduct of the House. Harivansh wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and vice-president Venkaiah Naidu, invoking his humble origins in Bihar.Harivansh noted that he was born in the same village at Saran in Bihar as anti-Emergency icon Jayaprakash Narayan and spoke about the influence of Mahatma Gandhi, Ram Manohar Lohia, Karpoori Thakur and Chandra Shekhar on him. “I am a man of village and built by literature, sensibilities and values,” he said.In Bihar, where the BJP is part of the ruling alliance with the JD(U), deputy chief minister Sushil Modi said the incident “hurt the pride of Bihar”. Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP, Jairam Ramesh, alleged that the BJP was politicising the issue. He tweeted, “The shadow of the forthcoming Bihar elections has fallen over Parliament now. It is all very well for Constitutional authorities to demand respect. They must, in fact, command respect by their non-partisan actions.”RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav agreed with him. “They (BJP) will keep talking of Bihar now, and the moment elections end they will forget Bihar. The PM still has not sent a central team to assess the flood situation here. As far as farm Bills are concerned, we’ll hold a protest against it,” he said. Shankar Dutt, a professor at Patna University, said the assembly polls is likely to be dominated by issues of health care, employment and education, and not the Rajya Sabha ruckus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihari-pride-in-focus-amid-uproar-in-house/story-Y8YFFV2uwamDW8wN44tIIM.html
