24-09-2020||India||Nationwide shutdown over farm bills row on Friday: 10 points||Various farmer organisations have given a call for a nationwide protest (Bharat bandh) on Friday. These groups are protesting the passage of farm bills in Parliament. As many as 31 farmer groups, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), and 19 political parties have extended support to the strike.These parties include Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, and Telangana Rashtra Samithi.Here are the 10 points about the protest:* The leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), ally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in Punjab will stage a three-hour “chakka jam” to protest against the contentious bills. The road blockage will begin from 11 am. The railways has suspended several trains and partially cancelled 20 till September 26 in view of the strike and the “rail roko” agitation called in Punjab. The “rail roko” agitation began on Thursday and will continue for three days.* In Haryana as well, several organizations have extended their support to the nationwide strike.* In Delhi, the police are on high alert and will maintain high security at all border points amid the demonstrations. It will also seal its border with Haryana to prevent any untoward incident.* In Uttar Pradesh, the Samajwadi Party workers will support the strike in the state. In Congress-ruled Rajasthan, demonstrations are expected.Also read: Farm bills are welcome, but farmers need a rights-based protection law | Analysis* The Congress had called the bills “anti-farmer” and on Thursday said it will challenge the “black laws” in court. It has termed them “unconstitutional” and against the country’s federal structure.* The SAD has also described the bills as “anti-farmer”, and wants the government to withdraw them. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had even met President Ram Nath Kovind requesting him to not give assent to these bills.* The three farm bill legislations - Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, were passed by Parliament earlier this week.* The legislations have received staunch criticism from various farmers’ bodies and Opposition parties. The agitating farmers fear that these reforms will lead to end of the “Mandi system” and are only in the “interest of big corporates”.* The government has maintained that these bills are in favour of farmers and will “revolutionise the agriculture sector”. The government also maintains that systems of the minimum selling price (MSP) and government procurement will continue unhindered and the passage of the bills do not affect them in any manner.* The Opposition parties accuse the government of pushing through the bills in Rajya Sabha while ignoring calls by many members for a division of votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationwide-shutdown-over-farm-bills-row-on-friday-10-points/story-kaFJl5tefHcCqvP848rgOO.html
24-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Punjab, Haryana farmers to go on strike tomorrow||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana will go on a strike on Friday in protest against the contentious farm bills that were passed in the Parliament. As many as 31 farmer organisations have joined hands for the ‘Punjab Bandh’. Several organisations in Haryana, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said they had extended support to the nationwide strike called by some farmers’ bodies against the bills. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh appealed to the farmers to maintain law and order, and adhere to all coronavirus-safety protocols during the strike. In a statement, Singh said the state government was fully with the farmers in their fight against the bills and no FIRs would be registered for violation of Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people. There should be no disturbance of law and order during the strike, the chief minister said. He appealed to the farmers to ensure that the citizens were not inconvenienced, and lives and property of people were not endangered due to the agitation. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh appealed to the people, including shopkeepers and commercial establishments, to keep their shop shut in support of the strike. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also urged people to support the farmers and make the strike a success. The main opposition Aam Aadmi Party has already extended its support, while the Shiromani Akali Dal has announced to hold road blockades. Farmers started a three-day rail blockade against the bills and squatted on tracks at many places in Punjab on Thursday. The farmer outfits have also decided to go for an indefinite rail blockade from October 1. The protesters have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm reforms would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system and they would be at the “mercy” of big corporates. The farmers said they would continue their fight till the three farm bills were revoked. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by the Parliament earlier this week. Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh said besides the outfit, some other farmer organisations had also extended their support to the nationwide strike. “We have appealed that sit-ins should be held on state highways and other roads in a peaceful manner,” Singh said. “No sit-ins should be held on national highways.” Nobody should indulge in any kind of unlawful act during the strike from 10 am to 4 pm, Singh said. The BKU leader said the commission agents, shopkeepers and transporters had also been urged to support the strike. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij held a meeting with officers of the home and police departments on Thursday to review the situation, and directed the DGP to ensure elaborate police arrangements to prevent any untoward situation, according to a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-punjab-haryana-farmers-to-go-on-strike-tomorrow/story-kMM0VeO6jeNiAyJOhC7BJM.html
24-09-2020||India||Nationwide protest against farm bills begins today||The Congress has decided to launch a nationwide protest from Thursday against the two agricultural reform bills passed by Parliament recently.The decision for a nationwide agitation was taken at a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states which was held at Congress party’s headquarters in Delhi.“From September 24 onwards, Congress will launch an all-India agitation asking the government to repeal the black laws,” Congress leader AK Antony told media after the meeting on Wednesday.The two bills - the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 - were passed by the Rajya Sabha despite uproar and strong protest by the Opposition parties in the house.These bills have already received Lok Sabha’s nod and are now with President Ram Nath Kovind. The Opposition parties have urged the President to not give approval to these bills. They want the government to take back the bills.Several leaders and different party workers along with farmers have taken to street across India to protest against the bills. The Opposition on Tuesday even boycotted Parliament over Centre’s refusal to accept its demand for withdrawal of the bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationwide-protest-against-farm-bills-begins-from-september-24/story-8kr5dRsLDrXaqEAX5P6jHO.html
24-09-2020||India||Bengal farmers to block highways on Friday to protest farm bills||Farmers in West Bengal will block roads and highways on Friday in protest against the farmers’ bills passed by the Parliament while the Congress and Left parties have demanded a special session of the state assembly to pass a resolution against the proposed laws. Several farmers’ organizations in different parts of the country have called for a Bharat Bandh call Friday in protest against the two bills.The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), the farmers’ arm of the CPI(M), has condemned the BJP government saying Parliamentary procedures, federal principles and rights of the states and farmers have been violated since the bills were passed without any debate or consultation. AIKS will organize mass resistance on September 25 in Bengal by blocking roads and highways at several locations Ashok Dhawale, the AIKS president has said in a statement that the bills were passed to please big corporate houses.Tapan Sen, general secretary of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the trade union arm of the CPI (M) said, the organization will join the struggle of the peasants and agricultural workers. Industrial workers and unions of all affiliations will join the movement. Congress’s Abdul Mannan, leader of the opposition in the state assembly and CPI(M)’s Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left parties in the assembly, wrote a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday, asking her to convene a special session of the House and pass a resolution against the bills. “Let the government place the resolution. We will support it. The Trinamool Congress is holding agitation on this issue with other parties inside the outside the Parliament. We hope it will take a serious stand against the BJP in West Bengal as well on this,” said Mannan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-farmers-to-block-highways-on-friday-to-protest-farm-bills/story-m7JnVomDdNCOmpS4YmlHfK.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab, Haryana intensify protests against farm bills; Oppn parties take to streets, too||Farmers intensified their protest against the Centre’s farm bills on Thursday in Punjab and Haryana by holding sit-ins and rallies across both agrarian states with opposition parties joining their agitation a day after Parliament’s monsoon session ended. On a call given by the Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC), farmers gathered to protest near Devidaspur village in Amritsar on the Amritsar-Delhi rail route and on the tracks leading to the Ferozepur station near Basti Tanka Wali. The committee leaders said they were getting support from various sections, including government employees, labourers and social activists. They clarified that they would not allow any political leader, former or incumbent, to share the stage with them during their three-day protest that began on Thursday. The farmer leaders also appealed to rural medical practitioners (RMP) to be ready for supporting the farmers in case of medical emergencies as a large number of women are taking part in the protests. “The protest will be further intensified on September 26 as farmers will block rail tracks in Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Pathankot, Fazilka, Kapurthala and Jalandhar districts too,” said the committee’s state general secretary, Sarwan Singh Pandher. The railways took the steam out of the farmers’ rail blockade plan by cancelling 28 trains from Amritsar and Ferozepur stations from 6am on Thursday in view the safety of passengers. Radical Sikh organisation Dal Khalsa and seminary Damdami Taksal have extended their support to the farmers’ bandh call on September 25. Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwarpal Singh said, “The people of Punjab, including the political parties, should join hands for the cause. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) should snap its ties with the BJP to show solidarity with farmers.” The Punjab Youth Congress is organising a statewide ‘8 Vaje 8 Minute Mashal March’ on Thursday in support of the Punjab bandh call of farmers. State unit chief Brinder Singh Dhillon said that members will perform duties during the dharnas be it serving water, food or other things needed at the spot. SECTION 144 IN AMRITSAR TILL SEPT 27 Meanwhile, police has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC prohibiting the carrying of firearms, inflammable items and sharp-edged weapons in the Amritsar city till September 27. Acting magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Jagmohan Singh said the decision was taken in the wake of farmer and labour organisations planning a rail blockade from September 24 to 26, besides giving a bandh call on September 25. HARYANA SEALS ITS BORDERS High-voltage drama was witnessed at the Shambhu barrier on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway, where activists of Punjab’s Lok Insaf Party were stopped in Ambala when they were headed for Delhi on motorcycles on Wednesday. Protesting against the passage of farm bills, the party workers confronted with the police and faced water cannon for hours, refusing to step back. In view of the protests, district magistrate Ashok Kumar Sharma imposed prohibitory orders to maintain law and order, while the police put up barricades refusing their entry into Haryana. In the evening, activists, including Lok Insaf Party leader Simarjeet Singh Bains, tried to enter Haryana through the Ghagger river bed, but were again confronted by Ambala police who persuaded to go back. Youth Congress workers faced water cannons at Samalkha near Panipat on Wednesday when police stopped them to take their tractor march to Delhi to protest the farm bills. The protest was led by Haryana Youth Congress state president Sachin Kundu and Congress’ Samalkha MLA Dharm Singh Chhokar. This led to a blockade on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway but later traffic was diverted on link roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-in-punjab-haryana-intensify-protests-against-farm-bills-oppn-parties-take-to-streets-too/story-X72JFSxDezntkoWPAbRHRI.html
24-09-2020||India||Six Union ministers, MPs to lead BJP’s outreach plan in West Bengal||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning a massive outreach headed by at least six union ministers and MPs to counter the misgivings about the recently passed farm bills in West Bengal where the party is gearing for a bitter contest against the ruling Trinamool Congress. On Wednesday, a core team of the party from the state unit met BJP president J P Nadda in Delhi to draw up the plan for the outreach with an eye on the electoral battle for 294 seat assembly that is scheduled for May 2021. Also read: BJP outshines ruling TMC in race for social media advertisement campaignsThe state team will also move the high court in West Bengal to seek a CBI probe into the alleged killings of its political workers. As per a functionary privy to the details, the core team, which included state unit president Dilip Ghosh; has asked the central team to spare Union ministers Smriti Irani, Piyush Goel, N S Tomar, Dharmendra Pradhan, Kiren Rijiju and Prahlad Patel to counter the TMC’s campaign against the farm bills passed in Parliament. TMC MPs in the Rajya Sabha had objected to the bills not being sent to a select committee for further scrutiny and were part of the group that created a ruckus in the House. TMC’s Derek O’Obrien and Dola Sen were among the eight who were suspended subsequently for the remainder of the session that ended on Wednesday. These ministers have been specifically chosen because of their familiarity with the region and the language and they will be fielded to counter the narrative on the ground such as the outcry over the recently passed farm bills. “The opposition has been trying to mislead the masses that the farm bills passed in Parliament are anti-farmer and will lead to their lands being usurped. We will counter this through rallies, which will be held virtually as well as a few on the ground where the norms of social distancing will be followed,” said the person quoted above. Pamphlets in Bengali will also be distributed to reach out to a maximum number of people across the state. “The meeting was essential to discuss organisational issues. We will counter the chief minister’s campaign to deliberately distort bills passed by Parliament,” said union minister and MP from the state Babul Supriyo. Wednesday’s meeting was attended by party general secretary Kailash Vijayvargia, Arvind Menon, in-charge of departments and projects, and Mukul Roy. The issue of political killings was discussed in depth, said a second functionary aware of the details. “The police have been trying to cover up the deaths as suicides or accidents, so we will push for a CBI probe,” the second person aware of the details said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-union-ministers-mps-to-lead-bjp-s-outreach-plan-in-wb/story-Icj4VEJURMVtucguWKiNSI.html
24-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Congress begins its nationwide mass movement against government||The Congress will launch from Thursday its nearly two-month-long “mass movement” against the government for passing “anti-farmer and anti-poor” bills during the monsoon session of Parliament. The party will also collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed laws. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, have been passed by both the Houses of Parliament during the monsoon session and await Presidential assent. The Rajya Sabha (RS) witnessed ruckus during the passage of two of the three bills on Sunday following which eight members – Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) – were suspended for the remainder of the monsoon session.Also Read: 28 trains cancelled as Punjab farmers begin three-day rail roko agitationThe session ended on Wednesday, which was eight days ahead of the October 1 schedule, amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The decision by the Congress to hit the streets was taken at a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states at the party headquarters in Delhi on Monday. The six-member special committee formed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to help her in organisational and operational matters chaired the meeting in her absence. AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala are members of the special committee. Accompanied by her son and Congress Member of Parliament (MP) Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi had left for the United States on September 12 for a routine health check-up. Both of them returned home on Tuesday morning. “The nationwide agitation will continue till the government repeals the black laws,” Antony had said after the meeting. Also Read: ‘Those opposing agriculture bills are enemies of farmers’: Shivraj Singh ChouhanBy announcing nearly two months of protest calendar, the main opposition party is seeking to regain some of the political space it has lost over the years by targeting the 146-million farmers going by their operational land holdings, according to the agriculture census of 2015-16. The Congress is also seeing the issue as a 2015 moment when Sonia Gandhi had played a key role in bringing 14 opposition parties together against the proposed land acquisition bill that had forced the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government to withdraw the controversial ordinance and shelve the idea of bringing a new legislation to replace the 2013 Act. “It is going to be a people’s movement, a mass movement against this government,” Patel had said. Venugopal, who is the Congress’s general secretary in-charge of organisation, said the party would have a series of programmes across the country in support of farmers. Apart from a chain of press conferences across the country starting from Thursday, Venugopal said senior leaders from states would walk to respective Raj Bhavans on September 28 and submit a memorandum on the farms bills to Governors to be handed over to President Ram Nath Kovind. Also Read: Productive but divisive monsoon session endsOn October 2, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day). There will be protests and demonstrations in every district across the country demanding immediate withdrawal of the farm bills. On October 10, state-level conferences will be held and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures from two crore farmers from across the country. On November 14, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of India’s first PM Jawaharlal Nehru, a memorandum along with signatures of two crore farmers will be submitted to President Kovind. “First this government did notebandi, then with GST brought vyaparbandi, then with lockdown did deshbandi and is now planning khetbandi,” Surjewala had said. Surjewala will address a press conference in Patna on Thursday. Bihar is slated to go to polls by end-November. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-Congress combine is expected to step up its attacks on the ruling Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coalition by raising the farmers’ issue. While the JD(U) and the BJP will try to counter that by highlighting the “unruly behaviour” of some of the opposition members as an “insult” to RS deputy chairman Harivansh, who hails from the state, and an attack on Bihar’s pride.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-congress-begins-its-nationwide-mass-movement-against-government/story-Q0Xl10QaHNHPT25vNST32O.html
24-09-2020||India||Punjab farmers organise ‘rail roko’ agitation in protest against farm bills from today||In protest against the Centre’s farm bills, farmers in Punjab will organise a three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation starting Thursday.After being cleared the Lok Sabha, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 were passed by voice vote in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. Now they await the President’s nod to become laws.“We have decided to hold a ‘rail roko’ agitation from September 24 to 26 in the state against the farm bills,” Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said last week. The state’s farmers, along with farmers of Haryana and Opposition parties across the country, have been in staunch protest against the bills ever since they were slated to be tabled in the Lok Sabha.Another farmers’ organisation has called for a state-wide ‘bandh’ on September 25.The protesters worry that the bills will dismantle the current Minimum Support Prince (MSP) system and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates. However, the government claims that the MSP system will continue unchanged and the new bills will result in higher profits for the farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also assured the farmers on multiple occasions that the “very historic” bills will benefit them as they will take away the power from the hands of middlemen and give them the freedom to sell their produce where they see more profit.After the passage of the bills in the Upper House, Opposition leaders including Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien and Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh entered the well of the Rajya Sabha while the session was in progress, demanding that the bills be referred to a select committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-organise-rail-roko-agitation-in-protest-against-farm-bills-from-today/story-OpeuJGVWwM45uv0oqiVu6L.html
24-09-2020||India||Oppn meets Kovind, urges him not to approve three farm bills||Opposition parties on Wednesday requested President Ram Nath Kovind to withhold his assent for the contentious farm bills, alleging that the government had “undermined rules, regulations and procedures” in pushing the bill through the Rajya Sabha on Sunday.“The Constitution of India was torn to shreds in the temple of democracy” by the government, leader of the Opposition in the RS, Ghulam Nabi Azad, said.On behalf of 18 opposition parties, the senior Congress leader met the President and told him that the passage of the farm bills in the Rajya Sabha was “unconstitutional”, and that he should return the bills without signing them. The parties included the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Rashtriya Janata Dal, Aam Aadmi Party , Samajwadi Party, Nationalist Congress Party, Indian Union Muslim League, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the Shiv Sena, and six others.Two of the three bills were passed through a voice vote amid opposition protests, with members storming the well of the House and rushing towards deputy chairman Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings. They alleged that the bills, which they said would benefit corporate houses and not farmers, should have been sent to a select committee, and that their demand for a division of votes was rejected. Eight members were suspended for the remainder of the session. Most of the other opposition parties also boycotted the rest of the session in both Houses. The third bill was passed on Tuesday, when the Opposition boycotted the session, which ended on Wednesday, eight days ahead of schedule, amid the Covid-19.The bills -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- have been passed by both Houses of Parliament and await Presidential assent to become law.Azad told reporters after meeting Kovind that the government should have consulted all the political parties and farmer unions and leaders before introducing the farm bills in Parliament.“The government has crossed all the limits. The Constitution of India was torn to shreds in the temple of democracy. All the rules, regulations and procedures were undermined during the passage of the bills in the Rajya Sabha. We have told the President that these bills have been passed unconstitutionally,” he said.A Congress functionary said leaders of the 18 parties met twice during the day to chalk out their future course of action on the farmers’ issue. It was after the first meeting that the leaders decided to call on the President, this person added on condition of anonymity. The parties also requested Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to revoke the suspension of the eight members, but the government insisted that they first apologise for their conduct. The standoff between the government and the Opposition over the farm bills has escalated with both sides taking a hardline on the issue. While the Congress has decided to hit the streets across the country from Thursday, other regional opposition parties are planning campaigns in their respective states. Oppositions parties also marched from from Gandhi statue to Ambedkar statue in Parliament complex protesting the anti-Farmers, anti-Workers Bills. Opposition leaders also wrote to Naidu urging him not to pass the three labour codes in the Upper House in the absence of opposition parties. “It will be a blot on democracy if bills are passed unilaterally,” they wrote. The Rajya Sabha passed the three labour codes on Wednesday before adjourning sine die. Hailing the passage of key labour bills, prime minister Narendra Modi said, “Long due and much awaited Labour reforms have been passed by Parliament. The reforms will ensure well-being of our industrious workers and give a boost to economic growth.”The Lok Sabha was also later adjourned amid boycott by the opposition. Though Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi returned from the US on Tuesday, a party leader said they did not attend the LS on Wednesday in view of the Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-meets-kovind-urges-him-not-to-approve-three-farm-bills/story-5p0ENyxFVU3PLjJx0LiqLO.html
