25-09-2020||Bollywood||Javed Akhtar takes a dig at news channels for ignoring farmers’ protests: ‘If Karan Johar had invited some farmers to his party…’||Javed Akhtar took a dig at news channels prioritising Bollywood’s alleged drug links over the farmers’ protests in their coverage. The lyricist sarcastically remarked that if Karan Johar had invited farmers to his party, ‘life would have been easier’ for the channels, as they would not have to choose between Bollywood and the farmers’ protests.“If Karan johar had invited some farmers too for his party life would have been easier for our TV channels.They would not have had to choose between farmers protest and Karan’s party!. it seems that Karan’s do is the second most favourite PARTY of our channels,” he wrote. If Karan johar had invited some farmers too for his party life would have been easier for our TV channels.They would not have had to choose between farmers protest and Karan’s party!. it seems that Karan’s do is the second most favourite PARTY of our channelsOn Friday, more than 200 farmers’ groups across the country blocked roads and organised rallies in protest against three controversial farm bills passed in the monsoon session of the Parliament. The farmers worry that the new laws could potentially dismantle the current Minimum Support Price (MSP) system and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by agribusinesses.Meanwhile, a video taken at one of Karan’s house parties last year has been under fresh scrutiny amid an investigation into Bollywood’s alleged drug links. Politician Manjinder Singh Sirsa renewed his claims that it was a ‘drug party’ and filed a complaint with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) earlier this month.The video featured a number of prominent Bollywood personalities, including Deepika Padukone, Ranbir Kapoor, Varun Dhawan, Vicky Kaushal, Arjun Kapoor, Malaika Arora, Shahid Kapoor, and filmmakers Zoya Akhtar and Ayan Mukerji. However, none of them were seen consuming drugs in the clip.Also read: Shah Rukh Khan’s daughter Suhana shares cryptic post about misogyny, says ‘the double standards are scary’The NCB found evidence of a potential drug racket in Bollywood, while investigating the drugs angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. His girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, was arrested earlier this month on charges of procuring drugs. She has been remanded to judicial custody till October 6. Names of several Bollywood celebrities have come up in the investigation. The NCB has issued summons to Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and Shraddha Kapoor. Reports suggest that 39 more Bollywood celebrities are under the scanner.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/javed-akhtar-takes-a-dig-at-news-channels-for-ignoring-farmers-protests-if-karan-johar-had-invited-some-farmers-to-his-party/story-erPEVL6WOrOAEAFn3w51tO.html
25-09-2020||News||Farm bills are welcome, but farmers need a rights-based protection law | Analysis||A decade ago, a few top Indian companies entered the fruit and vegetable market in Himachal Pradesh (HP). For the first few years, they gave farmers a good price for their entire produce. As their control over the market grew, they bought the best quality produce and left the rest to be sold by farmers at depressed prices through the weakened mandi system. Whenever prices increased, the companies sold in mandis, depriving farmers the benefit of higher prices. They built cold storages for themselves, but not for the farmers. Whatever mechanisation happened for farmers was through government schemes. Farmers may have got more for their produce because of the corporates, but profitability has not increased as input costs — labour wages and fertilisers — have almost doubled during this period. The farm reforms bills — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — approved by Parliament this week will initially do what corporates did in HP; push up prices in the initial years and eventually control the agriculture trade. They may then manipulate prices as commission agents in the mandis do. This is a big danger to farmers. They could take on commission agents through the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), which provides for quick dispute resolution. But, in the case of corporates, according to the proposed laws, grievance redressal is through civil courts, which could take years. The government has said that the minimum support price (MSP) will remain in place. But, the question is whether the private player will buy at MSP or not. The farm bills are silent on this and experience from various states shows that they may not, especially in years when the crop is good. This year, less than 1% of wheat in Bihar, where the APMC Act was abolished in 2006, was bought by the state government and the rest, farmers’ organisations claim, was bought by private players at less than the MSP. In Punjab and Haryana, which has a strong APMC-regulated mandi system, about 90% of wheat this summer was bought at the MSP by government agencies. So, Punjab and Haryana farmers get price protection while those in Bihar do not. The claim that mandis control farm prices is not entirely true. Only 36% of agricultural produce is sold through mandis, mainly in the food bowl states of Haryana and Punjab, where the farmers are most agitated against the current bills. This is because APMC reforms initiated from the time of the previous National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2003 through the APMC Model Act has opened the agriculture trade in most states. Electronic trading and direct sale of produce to buyers in allowed in 22 states, deregulation of markets has taken place in 17 states, selling in private markets is allowed in 21 states, according to the 2019 state agriculture ministers’ conference report. The changed scenario in most states allows the farmer to choose between private buyers and the regulated mandi system. The farms bills, by abolishing the second option, leaves farmers at the mercy of unregulated private players. Both mandi and private buying should be based on the principle that a farmer has the right to recover inputs costs plus make some profit. There should be a base price for all agriculture and horticulture crops (a long-standing demand of farmers) below which the produce cannot be sold. Buying at a lower price should invoke penal action against the buyer and commission agent. The government can still have a higher MSP for limited crops they want to procure for food security and the public distribution system (PDS). A base price will ensure a fair price for every farmer, removing MSP limitations, which cover only 22 crops. Such a mechanism would help both farmers and private buyers as it will bring about transparency and accountability in the farm trade. It would be best if this mechanism is introduced through a rights-based farmer-protection law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/farm-bills-are-welcome-but-farmers-need-a-rights-based-protection-law/story-xnMhU4zd2OOQz21jDNpODK.html
25-09-2020||India||Farmers have lost all faith in PM Modi-led govt: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday farmers do not trust the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as thousands of agriculturists participated in a ‘Bharat Bandh’ to protest the farm bills that were recently passed by Parliament.“One thing was clear after talking to the farmers - they do not have any faith in the Modi government. All our voices are also together with the loud voices of the peasant brothers and today the whole country is opposing these agricultural laws,” Gandhi’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.किसानों से बातचीत करके एक बात साफ़ हो गयी- उन्हें मोदी सरकार पर रत्ती भर भी भरोसा नहीं है। किसान भाइयों की बुलंद आवाज़ के साथ हम सब की आवाज़ भी जुड़ी है और आज पूरा देश मिलकर इन कृषि क़ानूनों का विरोध करता है।#ISupportBharatBandh pic.twitter.com/r2Xhuy10wfThe former Congress president also shared a three-and-a-half-minute video speaking to farmers from several states via a video conference call. Gandhi, who was hosting the talk, was heard asking farmers to explain how the new farm bills would affect them. Farmers were heard explaining their apprehensions regarding the minimum support price (MSP) and food procurement practices.“A flawed GST destroyed MSMEs. The new agriculture laws will enslave our Farmers,” the Congress lawmaker from Kerala’s Wayanad had tweeted earlier in the day with a hashtag ISupportBharatBandh.Farmers from Bihar, Maharashtra, Haryana and other states who joined Gandhi for the discussion also highlighted that they will have no recourse when private players, who they fear that the bills empower, take over the agricultural sector.Farmer groups across the nation have called for strikes against the three bills passed by both the Houses of Parliament during the Covid-19 hit monsoon session.The three bills which were passed are Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.The Congress has announced it will stage marches in every state after which memorandums will be submitted to the respective governors on September 28 against these farm bills, which it says are against the interests of farmers and farm labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-have-lost-all-faith-in-pm-modi-led-govt-rahul-gandhi/story-l6epQzT66B0V5oWWiiY8mN.html
25-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand farmers protest farm bills, say ‘leaders weren’t consulted’||Farmers staged protests in Garhwal and Kumaon regions of Uttarakhand against farm bills recently passed by the Parliament during the Monsoon session. In some areas, they came out on roads with their tractors. In Kumaon’s US Nagar, farmers held demonstrations across the district and came out on to the roads with their tractors in Rudrapur, Kichha, Kashipur and other places in the district. Congress and Aam Aadmi Party workers and leaders also extended their support to the farmers. US Nagar is considered the grain bowl of Uttarakhand. In Rudrapur, farmers gathered at the old grain market with tractors. Addressing the protesters, farmers’ leader and organiser of the protest, Tajendra Singh Virk alleged that the Central government wants to sell farmers into the hands of the multi-national corporate sector. “Farmers are already suffering due to losses, now these bills will further affect the agriculture sector and hit farmers,” he said. In Kashipur, Ravindra Rana, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union said, the government ought to have consulted the farmers’ bodies before passing the bills. “Government has no right to decide the fate of the farmers like this”, he said. In Kichha, Bazpur, Sitarganj and Khatima also, farmers staged sit-in protests against the bills. Also read: UP farmers join nationwide bandh over 3 farm bills in a big wayThe farmers are protesting the three farm bills - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - which were passed by both Houses of Parliament during the monsoon session recently and await Presidential assent. In Haridwar district of Garhwal region, farmers staged protests in agriculture-dominated areas like Manglaur, Roorkee, Laksar, Khanpur, Iqbalpur, Narsain, Bhagwanpur, Kaliyar and Laldhang and Shyampur. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) faction held a protest outside the jaggery agricultural production committee led by Garhwal division president Sanjay Chaudhary and district unit president Vijay Shastri. Other agricultural unions like Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ambawat) and (Tomar) also staged protests and burned effigies of BJP leaders. A major protest was held outside roadways bus transport stand by Uttarakhand Kissan Morcha after which a memorandum was handed out to Roorkee joint magistrate Namami Bansal by Morcha president Chaudhary Gulshan.Superintendent of Police, Haridwar (Rural) Swapan Kishore said that adequate deployment of police personnel was made in the wake of the farmers’ agitation. In Dehradun also, members of Bhartiya Kissan Union (Tomar) staged protest against the bills at Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT). Many of them had also come on their tractors due to which traffic was affected for some time in the area. Uttarakhand Congress has already announced its calendar of protests against these bills in the state till October 31. According to state Congress president Pritam Singh, they will start an online campaign ‘Speak Up’ on September 26, followed by protest march from the party office in Dehradun to the Governor’s house on September 28. State-wide protests at district and assembly segment level will be held on October 2 and a signature campaign against the bills will take place between October 2 to October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-farmers-protest-farm-bills-say-leaders-weren-t-consulted/story-6xRZoix4lZEMsXJKnnZlPO.html
25-09-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Punjab, Maharashtra, UP among states to be affected by farmers’ unions strike||Famers’ unions across the nation have called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ in view of the passage of contentious farm bills in Parliament. Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Trinamool Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal are among the 18 Opposition parties in support of the call for nationwide shutdown.Also read: Nationwide farmers’ strike today, rail, road transport to be affected. All you need to knowBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), All India Farmers Union (AIFU), All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) and All India Kisan Mahasangh (AIKM) are among the ten unions that have called for the shutdown.While Delhi-Haryana border is likely to be sealed, a three-hour road blockade will be observed across Punjab from 11am to 2pm. Here is a look at the list of states that are likely to be affected by the protests:HaryanaPunjabMaharashtraUttar PradeshMadhya PradeshKarnatakaChhattisgarhWest BengalUttarakhandAlso read: Stir across ‘food bowl’ today over farm lawsFarmers have been protesting for weeks in these states by blocking road and rail traffic and hampering supply of essential goods. “Nothing will work in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh on Friday,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union president Rakesh Takait. The three farm bills passed by Parliament are: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance; and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-punjab-maharashtra-up-among-states-to-be-affected-by-farmers-unions-strike/story-VWuYETkPwt0NuWMERNzDXL.html
25-09-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Nationwide farmers’ strike today, rail, road transport to be affected. All you need to know||Over two dozens farmers’ organizations from all across the country, supported by 18 political parties including the Congress, take to the streets on Friday protesting the farm bills passed by Parliament. Punjab and Haryana will be the epicentre of the protests, though the demand for legal guarantee of minimum support prices (MSP) has garnered supports from all farmers organisations, including those affiliated to the RSS. Normal life is likely to disrupted as rail, road movement will be hit.All India Farmers Union (AIFU), Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), All India Kisan Mahasangh (AIKM), and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) announced a nationwide bandh. Farmers’ bodies from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have also called for a shutdown.Also Read | Punjab CM appeals to farmers to maintain law and order during ‘Bharat Bandh’RSS-affiliated farmers’ organizations like Bhartiya Kisan Sangh, Swadeshi Jagran Manch are also demanding amendment to the legislations but they won’t be taking part in the protest today. Ten central trade unions, including All India Trade Union Congress, National Trades Union Congress, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, All India United Trade Union Centre and Trade Union Coordination Centre have also extended their support.Which political parties are supporting the Bharat Bandh?Congress on Thursday extended support to the call of the Bharat Bandh. A total of 18 parties,including AAP, Congress, the Left parties, NCP, DMK, SP, Trinamool Congress, RJD, urged the President to not sign the bills. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has urged the farmers to maintain law and order and to adhere to Covid-19 safety protocols. No FIR will be registered for the violation of Section 144 during the protest, the CM has said.Also Read | Haryana farmers, commission agents back Bharat Bandh against farm reform billsTrain services to be affectedFourteen special passenger trains running from the railways’ Ferozepur division have been cancelled from September 24 to 26 in view of the farmer outfits’ three-day rail roko protest. The trains that were suspended include Golden Temple Mail (Amritsar-Mumbai Central), Jan Shatabdi Express (Haridwar-Amritsar), New Delhi-Jammu Tawi, Sachkhand Express (Nanded-Amritsar), and Shaheed Express (Amritsar-Jaynagar). The farmers organizations have decided to go for an indefinite rail blockage from October 1.Delhi-Haryana border likely to be sealedDelhi-Haryana border is likely to be sealed as protesters can march towards the capital city. Delhi Police is on high alert. 3-hour chakka jam across PunjabThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will observe a three-hour chakka jam (road blockade) across Punjab from 11am to 2pm in all constituencies.On September 20, the Rajya Sabha passed the Farmers` Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill amid protest from Opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-nationwide-farmers-strike-today-rail-road-transport-to-be-affected-all-you-need-to-know/story-10lGDvH5V7Vh2l32Tm758K.html
25-09-2020||India||Odisha assembly session begins next week; 2 farm, 1 labour bill on agenda||The Odisha government would bring 12 bills replacing 12 ordinances, including three on contract farming, APMC regulation and allowing companies to sack its workers or close down its units, during the monsoon session of the state state assembly beginning on September 29.The assembly session would be very short in view of the rising infections among the MLAs and ministers with half of the 147 members of the Assembly testing positive for Covid-19. At an all-party meeting convened by speaker Surya Patro on Friday to discuss the conduct of the session, it was decided that there would be no Question Hour and the House will run for four hours everyday. The House will run on Sunday too.The bills are Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming Services (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 and Industrial Disputes Odisha Amendment Ordinance, 2020.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims at registration of farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity by way of land, soil management, seeds, saplings, fingerlings, inputs, feed and fodder, technology and other such services much like the the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill that was passed by Parliament early this week.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to amend the Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Amendment Act, 1957 so as to provide for geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce including livestock across the state and country.The new Bill once passed, would remove the necessity of market yards or sub-market yards, for conducting agriculture marketing activities. Instead there would be a principal market yard and sub-market yard managed by the APMC, a private market yard managed by a person holding a licence granted by the director of Agriculture Marketing and electronic trading platforms (where trading of notified produce is done electronically through the internet). Another important legislation that would be tabled during the monsoon session is Industrial Disputes Odisha Amendment Bill 2020 that exempts a sizable portion of small factories from the purview of Factories Act, 1948, and allows companies with up to 300 workers to sack people or close down units without prior approval of the government. The amendment is seen as a major step to facilitate investment, generate employment and counter the hardships caused to MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) due to covid-19 pandemic by way of creating a more conducive and business friendly atmosphere.Another important Bill that the state government plans to bring is Epidemic Disease Amendment Bill, 2020 to amend Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 for increasing the imprisonment to two years or with fine which may extend up to Rs 1 lakh over non-adherence of Covid-19 guidelines. The amendment is seen as significant as Covid-19 caseload in Odisha has crossed 2 lakh putting the state among top 8 Covid affected states of the country.Assembly speaker Patro said to ensure that no Covid-19 infected person enters the assembly, RT-PCR test of all MLAs and their staff will begin from Saturday morning and sitting arrangements have been made keeping in view the social distancing norm. There would be another round of RT-PCR tests 5 days after the session begins. Those MLAs who can’t come to attend the session can join it from their respective districts through video conferencing facility from district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-assembly-session-begins-next-week-2-farm-1-labour-bill-on-agenda/story-8yHPTwcNVt4wWbhzVhrBDL.html
25-09-2020||India||‘Will challenge farm bills in Supreme Court’: Punjab finance minister||Punjab’s finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Friday said the Central government wanted to enforce the Bihar model of agriculture for farmers across the country, “but the Punjab government will challenge the three farm bills, passed by Parliament recently, in the Supreme Court”.“In the Bihar model, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) has been scrapped and the farmers there are getting 30 percent lesser price for their produce than what the farmers in Punjab get. The Punjab government will challenge the three farm bills in the Supreme Court. Agriculture is a state subject and the union government has no right to interfere in a state’s matter,” said Badal while speaking to the media at Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters. He was in the state to convey the party’s stand on the farmers’ issues.Also read: Congress, NCP say no to farm bills in Maharashtra. Shiv Sena to decideBadal said the three bills make no mention of minimum support price (MSP) and if the BJP government was sincere about the interests of farmers, it could have added provisions about the MSP in these bills. The minister said that under the proposed laws, corporates would be allowed to do business with farmers without checks and the government would not be able to enforce the MSP. He said the Punjab government would soon declare the whole state as a ‘mandi’ in the interest of farmers.Badal further said that by getting the three bills passed in Parliament without any debate, the BJP government has exposed its anti-farmer stance. He said after assuming power, the BJP government had promised to double the income of farmers. The minister quoted statistical data to make his point that agriculture growth was down to 3.1 percent during the BJP government’s tenure - lowest in the past 14 years, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-challenge-farm-bills-in-supreme-court-punjab-finance-minister/story-gOc8cITNq05QQuIdxRUo8M.html
25-09-2020||India||Congress, NCP say no to farm bills in Maharashtra. Shiv Sena to decide||Two parties - Congress and the NCP - of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition have declared that they will not implement the farm laws which were passed amid huge protests in Parliament on Sunday. The Shiv Sena, whose chief minister Uddhav Thackeray heads the government, is yet to make its position public on the issue, though it has been criticising the central government over the bills.Deputy chief minister and Nationalist Congress leader Ajit Pawar said that the farm as well as the labour bills will not be implemented in the state. State revenue minister and Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said that all ruling parties are against the newly enacted laws and the decision of not implementing them in the state will be taken collectively after due deliberation.The Congress and the NCP supported the nationwide protest by farmers to oppose the passage of three farm bills. Various farmer organisations like Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, Lok Sangharsh Morcha held protest marches, blocked highways, burnt copies of the bills and formed human chains in at least 21 districts in Maharashtra on Friday to oppose the bills. The farmer organisations have announced to intensify the protest if the bills are not withdrawn by the central government.“These bills were passed in the haste. We are studying the legalities of the bills. Have taken a call to not implement them in the state,” said Ajit Pawar. His cabinet colleague Balasaheb Thorat also spoke against the bills. “We have been opposing them tooth and nail. We will discuss the laws among us to take steps against their implementation in the state,” said Thorat.The Shiv Sena has invited criticism by Maharashtra BJP leaders for its ‘hypocritical stance’ of supporting the bills in the Lok Sabha and walking out in the Rajya Sabha.“The issue will be discussed in the coordination committee of three parties. Our stand this time was similar to the one taken during the CAA debate in Parliament early this year. But on farm issues we would not support the bills and their implementation in Maharashtra. The stand will be clarified in due course,” said a Sena functionary requesting anonymity. The Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, led by former MP Raju Shetti, burnt the copies of the bills in Kolhapur. “Shetkari Sanghatana has always been against the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) and our leader late Sharad Joshi used to call these committees ‘abattoirs’ of the farmers. However we do not endorse the way the existing system of farm produce marketing is being thrashed out by the central government. This is nothing but an attempt of making farmers slaves in the hands of industrialists,” Shetti said. He said that it is the step towards privatization of the Food Corporation of India and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed), who purchase about 30% of the farm produce.Ajit Nawale, general secretary, ABKS, said that the protests were held in 21 districts of the state by farmers.“At least the farmers have some mechanism in place to market their produce at a reasonable price in the form of APMCs today. The bills passed in Parliament are the first step towards handing over farm marketing to a few industrial houses who will decide the prices of the produce. Though the Centre has been claiming these bills are a way to free farmers from the clutches of APMCs, the government has freed itself from the responsibilities of fair and remunerative prices to the farmers. In Maharashtra, the Fadnavis government had brought bills to regularise APMCs, but it could not set up an alternative mechanism to the APMCs to give farmers remunerative prices for their produce. It was a failed attempt,” he said.Farmers from Thane, Palghar, Nashik held rasta roko on national highways, including Mumbai-Jaipur-Delhi. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress announced a programme to be implemented over next five weeks to oppose the farm bills.The party has announced to organise a drive #SpekaUpForFarmers on social media to garner support against bills, virtual farmer rally and gather signatures from 1 crore farmers opposing the bills.Senior Congress leader HK Patil, who has been recently appointed as Maharashtra Congress in-charge, said in a press conference in Mumbai, “Under pressure from big industries, Modi government passed the farm and labour bills which will uproot and destroy farmers and workers in the country. The bills will bring back the feudal zamindari system in the country. The laws should be immediately repealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-ncp-say-no-to-farm-bills-in-maharashtra-shiv-sena-to-decide/story-88on4s2gYzcTS2vkDjmJ1I.html
25-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UP farmers join nationwide bandh over 3 farm bills in a big way and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP farmers join nationwide bandh over 3 farm bills in a big wayFarmers in Uttar Pradesh, like their counterparts in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country, on Friday took to the streets in protest against the contentious farm bills passed by Parliament recently.Read more. Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia undergoes plasma therapy, condition improves: OfficialDelhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was on Friday administered convalescent plasma therapy and there has been an improvement in his health condition, officials said. The deputy chief minister has been battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and dengue.Read more. India targets Pakistan at UN body over counter-terrorism recordIndia on Tuesday mounted a sharp attack on Pakistan during a virtual meeting of the UN Office of Counter-Terrorism, accusing it of sheltering and supporting terrorists and pushing a false narrative on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.Read more. Is BMC always this swift to demolish, asks high court in Kangana Ranaut caseThe Bombay high court on Friday asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) if it always acts with the same swiftness to demolish other unauthorised structures as it did with actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow. Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput’s family feels probe is going into different direction: LawyerThe family of Sushant Singh Rajput feels that the investigation into the case of the late Bollywood actor’s death case is going in a different direction, lawyer Vikas Singh said on Friday.Read more. Memer ‘goes’ on a date with Alexandra Daddario, she ‘reminisces’ their fun time togetherSome of you may know Alexandra Daddario for her work in popular shows, such as True Detective and White Collar or even for her role in the Baywatch film. Her excellent acting skills and fabulous screen presence often garner a lot of praise from audiences. Now, however, many tweeple are applauding her great sense of humour.Read more. Bihar polls: RS Prasad confident of win; Tejashwi says Bihar will throw NDA outElection Commission of India announced dates for Bihar Assembly elections on Friday. Elections in Bihar to take place in three phases starting October 28. Counting of votes to be done on November 10. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said he is confident that NDA government will win in Bihar. Read more. Kangana Ranaut stands up for Anushka Sharma after Sunil Gavaskar’s comments but accuses her of ‘selective feminism’Kangana Ranaut criticised Sunil Gavaskar for taking Anushka Sharma’s name in his commentary during an Indian Premier League (IPL) match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kings XI Punjab on Thursday. However, Kangana also accused Anushka of ‘selective feminism’.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-up-farmers-join-nationwide-bandh-over-3-farm-bills-in-a-big-way-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dwFmsLNhJiJxTKWN29I18M.html
25-09-2020||India||UP farmers join nationwide bandh over 3 farm bills in a big way||Farmers in Uttar Pradesh, like their counterparts in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country, on Friday took to the streets in protest against the contentious farm bills passed by Parliament recently.Friday’s was the first major protest in UP, unlike Punjab and Haryana that have been on the boil since the bills cleared the Parliament hurdle. Responding to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmers’ bodies and supported by opposition parties, the farmers blocked state and national highways, organised tractor rallies and held demonstrations disrupting traffic for three-four hours in several districts of the state with police having a tough time dealing with protesters. There were reports of clashes between police and protesters in some districts, including Shrawasti and Kannauj. The opposition parties, who lent their support to the farmers by joining the cause in various districts, included Samajwadi Party, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and left parties.With Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a farmers’ organisation with a strong presence in several states of north India, being in the forefront, the impact was most visible in the Jat-dominant western UP districts that were on high alert with heavy police deployment. BKU state president Rajveer Singh Jadaun claimed Friday’s ‘chakka jam’ was completely successful with wide support from traders and the public. He regretted that police tried to sabotage the peaceful agitation at some places.“Ours was a totally peaceful agitation and we ensured no emergency services, like movement of ambulances, were disrupted but some policemen, who wanted to spoil the state government’s image, unnecessarily misbehaved with and lathi-charged our people at some places,” he alleged. Reports of protests started trickling in right from the morning, with a group of Lucknow-bound farmers blocking the Lucknow-Ayodhya highway in Barabanki and burning crop waste on the road in protest. The farmers intensified the agitation as the day advanced. The protests lasted till about 3 pm.In Lucknow, farmers protested at the Shahid Path crossing as well as in Bakshi Ka Talab while other groups demonstrated on the highway near Akbarpur Mati in Kanpur Dehat and blocked the national highway in Gursahaigunj in Kannauj. In western UP, farmers blocked the Delhi-Noida highway, NH 58 in Muzafarnagar, Delhi-Saharanpur highway in Saharabpur, Meerut-Karnal highway in Shamli, Delhi-Pauri highway and Falauda road that connects Delhi to Haridwar and Dehardun etc. At some places, farmers were seen riding tractors with loudspeakers blaring patriotic songs while at others they were seen cooking food sitting on the road itself. In many cases, they parked their tractors on the roads to cause a blockade. Reports of similar road blockades came from Mahoba and Jalaun in Bundelkhand too. SP members joined the protests in various districts, including Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Agra. They submitted memorandums for the governor through the district administration demanding that the Centre withdraw the ‘anti-farmer’ bills.Congress workers took out a march in Varanasi, while AAP members and Allahabad University students staged protests separately in Prayagraj. CONTENTIOUS BILLSFarmers have strong reservations over some provisions of the three Bills— the Farmers’ Produce and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — all passed by Parliament recently.“The three proposed laws, if enacted without suitable amendments, will be a sure recipe for disaster of small farmers,” Jadaun said. “We have three specific demands. First, it should insert clauses in the new Bills, stating that the minimum support price (MSP) system will continue. Second, maximum stockholding limit for traders will not be done away with and third, mandi fee will be abolished for all agri products sold and purchased within the mandi yards,” Jadaun stressed. He said BKU’s national executive will hold its meeting in a day or two to take a call on further course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-farmers-join-nationwide-bandh-over-farm-bills-in-a-big-way/story-UsS5X8MxqSv0W4rD4PF1ON.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir, Harsimrat lead Akali chakka jam against farm bills||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who is the Bathinda Lok Sabha member and quit the Narendra Modi cabinet over the farm bills recently, led party workers in blocking traffic (chakka jam) at Lambi in Muktsar district. The SAD, an ally in the NDA government, is the only key political party that held road blockades across the state against the Centre’s move. While Akali activists blocked roads across the state, Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders did not join the farmers’ protests but expressed solidarity with the protesters. Bathinda Congress urban president Arun Wadhawan said the party had appealed to traders and commission agents to shut their establishments in support of the bandh call. Teachers and government employees associated with Left-wing organisations also joined the farmers in their protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-harsimrat-lead-akali-chakka-jam-against-farm-bills/story-F0nnEUKp7UsSejALj99WiI.html
25-09-2020||Noida||Farm bills: Farmers protest, block Delhi-Noida road at Sector 14-A||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members have blocked the Delhi-Noida border near Sector 14A in protest against the farms bill passed by Parliament nearly a week ago. Farmers from different villages gathered to march to Delhi as part of a nationwide protest but they were stopped on the way by the police. Farmers, in tractors and cars, reached Noida Gate near Mayur Vihar around 11.45am. Delhi Police personnel have been deployed on the Delhi side of the border. They set up barricades to stop farmers’ entry into Delhi. Also Read: Here’s why farm protests have been loudest in Punjab, HaryanaOn the Noida side of the border, farmers parked several tractors and cars at the Noida entry gate, completely halting vehicular movement from both sides. The farmers sat down and started addressing the gathering about the farm bills. BKU’s national Capital region president Subhash Chaudhary said that the government has abolished mandis and opened avenues for the corporates to directly access farmers’ produce through these bills. “There are no measures regarding farmers being able to sell their produce at decent rates. The government is promoting capitalism. We demand amendments in the law. The government should at lease ensure Minimum Support Price (MSP),” he said. Also Read: Bharat Bandh: Cops, armed with anti-riot gear, deployed on Delhi-Noida borderA number of police personnel from Noida have been deployed at the spot. Kumar Ranvijay, additional DCP, Noida, said the protest is peaceful. “We have diverted Delhi-bound traffic to DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj. Delhi Police have diverted Noida-bound traffic to internal roads,” he said. The farmers said the protest will continue until they receive an official communication from their counterparts who are on strike in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farm-bills-farmers-protest-block-delhi-noida-traffic-at-sector-14-a/story-wk93NjqosE7BZc24LiPCNJ.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Total bandh in Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar and Bathinda against Centre’s farm bills||The usually bustling city of Amritsar wore a deserted look on Friday with shops and offices closed and vendors off the streets as the district observed a total bandh in support of the call given by farmer organisations against the Centre’s bills to liberalise the farm sector. Police personnel were deployed at key points in town to ensure law and order. Transport services were hit and government departments besides banks and private companies reported low attendance as most residents chose to stay home. Government offices were partially closed.A few devotees turned up to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple in the morning. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) announced that its offices will remain closed in support of the bandh call. Farmers and allied organisations staged demonstrations at Bhandari Bridge, whichis situated at the heart of the city. Panthic organisations such as the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), a splinter group of the Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal, and the Dal Khalsa also held demonstrations at the bridge.Implementing a chakka jam, SAD leaders blocked roads and held gatherings in their respective assembly constituencies in the district. The bandh was also successful in Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts of Majha region. In Gurdaspur, Congress leaders, including MLAs, joined the protests, while SAD workers blocked the national highway on the bypass road. Tepid response in Pathankot  The bandh garnered a lukewarm response in Pathankot, which is a stronghold of the BJP. The area is dominated by businessmen and traders. However, two of three MLAs in the region are affiliated with the Congress, which has supported the bandh call. Almost all shops and outlets remained open in Pathankot town. Few farmer groups staged agitations on the outskirts, but it did not affect routine life. Of the two primary trader organisations in the region, one group supported the bandh while the other opposed it. FARMERS BLOCK HIGHWAYS IN PATIALA DISTRICT Farmers blocked state and national highways in Patiala district since morning as commercial activities came to a halt in response to the farmers’ bandh call on Friday. The farmers parked their tractor-trolleys on roads across Patiala district to block traffic. Several allied organisations came out in support of the farmers and gathered at Shambu barrier, bordering Haryana, on the Jalandhar-Delhi national highway. Punjabi singers joined the demonstration at Nabha. COMPLETE BANDH IN DOABAThe four districts of Doaba region, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, observed a complete bandh. The farmers and trade union members held protests at the sub-division level. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union blocked the highway in Phillaur, while roads in Jalandhar town wore a deserted look with markets closed. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee held a massive protest at Lohian Khas in Shahkot. Congress MLAs from Jalandhar cantonment and Shahkot, Pargat Singh and Hardev Singh Laddi, respectively, took out rallies in support of the farmers.Hundreds of farmers gathered at Phagwara and held an agitation. Satnam Singh Sahni, the general secretary the Doaba Kisan Union, blocked the highway near Sugar Mill Chowk. In Adampur, the Shiromani Akali Dal held a protest and blocked the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur highway. Adampur MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu said the protest will continue till the Narendra Modi government revokes the bills. ESSENTIAL SUPPLIES HIT IN MALWAThe supply of essential items, such as milk and vegetables, was disrupted in south Malwa due to the farmers’ agitation. Markets, petrol pumps and shops in Bathinda and adjoining districts remained shut.Activists of farmer organisations held a dharna at Bhai Ghanaiya Chowk, snapping road connectivity with the rest of Punjab and adjoining Rajasthan and Haryana. Protesters used tractor-trolleys to block national highway-54 and NH-7.The Bathinda district administration deployed a large number of police personnel with fire tenders and riot control preparedness near the dharna site. No untoward incident was reported.Farmers held protests in neighbouring Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazilka and Ferozepur.Mansa, a hotbed of agitations by Left-leaning trade unions, also witnessed huge gatherings of protesters. Agitators held a dharna on rail tracks, too.Massive turnout in Hoshiarpur All commercial establishments in Hoshiarpur remained shuttered and different political and social outfits joined the protest against farm ordinances. Farmers took out a march across the city and held a massive rally at the Phagwara Bypass. They were joined by different ethnic groups and employee organisations.SAD held rallies in all seven assembly constituencies while Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) activists staged a protest at Phagwara Chowk.In Chabbewal, SAD and local leaders affiliated with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and BSP clashed over banner display and held separate rallies at the same place.Heavy police force was deployed to avert clashes between the two groups. Farmers also blocked the national highway in Tanda and Mukerian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/total-bandh-in-amritsar-patiala-against-centre-s-farm-bills/story-fzEvDcsU9PA2XFKylNTpQM.html
25-09-2020||India||For the first time laws have been drafted to benefit farmers and marginalised: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that for the first time in decades, the Union government has framed laws that benefit farmers, workers, women and other marginalised sections. In the backdrop of protests from a section of farmers and the Opposition parties’ criticism of the recently passed farm bills, PM Modi lashed out at the Opposition for “misleading” the farmers. “Many governments were formed after promising betterment of farmers and workers. But what did they get—nothing; just a web of promises that neither the farmers understood nor the workers. The farmers were entwined in laws that prevented them from selling their produce at prices that they wanted; consequently, even though the produce went up their income did not go up,” he said. Addressing party workers on the 104th birth anniversary of Hindutva ideologue and leader of Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS), the BJP’s forerunner Deendayal Upadhyay, the PM said that over the years the farmers’ burden of loans kept increasing . Also Read: Cong terms farm bills ‘unconstitutional’“The NDA government made relentless efforts to change this. We have taken well thought-out decisions that are not for any political benefit (to us) but for the empowerment and benefit of the farmers. Earlier we decided to give MSP, which was one and a half times the cost of production and created history,” he said. After the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 were passed in Parliament nearly a week ago, the Opposition parties criticised the government for drafting policies that favour the big companies. The bills would allow farmers to sell produce outside agricultural produce market committees (APMCs), allow contract farming agreements, and create farm-to-fork supply chains. Opposition parties have alleged that the new laws will limit APMC markets to their physical boundaries while allowing corporate buyers to land up at farms. The PM slammed these accusations, called them “misleading” and said the government has made efforts to ensure that the farmers are directly provided the benefits via direct transfer. “We have also ensured that Kisan credit card (KCC) should made available not only to those with 2 hectares of land, but even small and marginal farmers and those engaged in fisheries or animal rearing. During UPA’s time, Rs 20 lakh core was given through the KCC to farmers, this was increased to 35 lakh crore during the NDA rule,” he said. Also Read: Stir to intensify as farm groups come togetherHe said the new legislation will allow farmers to get the correct price for their produce. “The small and marginal farmers are the ones who will benefit the most from the changes that have been implemented in the farm and agriculture sector. Eighty-five out of 100 of them are from the small and marginal sections. For the first time they have an alternative option to sell their produce,” the PM said. He urged BJP workers to talk about the provisions of these laws in simple language and tell the farmers across the country what the laws are all about. Referring to the new labour codes, the PM said the laws have been simplified and these will ensure that 50 crore labourers will get minimum wages whether are there in the formal sector or the informal sector. “Only 30% of the workers till now were getting minimum wage; now every industry from the hotel industry to transport will be brought under the ambit of the laws. Concerns of contract labour have also been addressed, they will be treated as regular workers and paid accordingly and will get the benefits of other policies as well. Those who travel from one state to another for work, their health care and other needs will also be taken care of,” the PM said. All BJP Karyakartas should reach out to the farmers on the ground and inform them in very simplified language about the importance and intricacies of the new farm reforms, how these will empower them. Our ground connect will bust the propaganda being spread in the virtual world. pic.twitter.com/LuofRKzL5dThe Prime Minister said the new laws will impact women who make up for 50% of the workforce. Referring to the benefits of caste-based reservation and the 10% reservation that has been extended to the economically backward sections, he said a level playing field has been created for all. “Our ideology and a political mantra are clear. Our mantra is nation first,” he said, and referred to the accomplishments such as the abrogation of Article 370 application and the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya that were achieved after “decades of struggle”. The PM also praised the efforts of the BJP workers in fighting the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and paid tribute to those who lost their lives while serving others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-first-time-laws-have-been-drafted-to-benefit-farmers-and-marginalised-pm-modi/story-yJnbjSAkJcNShz6qWH9dfI.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Farm bills: Maharashtra farmers participate in nationwide protests||Farmers in Maharashtra participated in nationwide protest against the farm bills passed in Parliament early this week. Farmers burnt copies of the bills and demanded them to be withdrawn at the earliest. The Congress and Nationalist Congress Party have extended their support to the protest, which will be spread headed by farmers’ organisations, including Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) and Lok Sangharsh Morcha among others in Maharashtra. Members of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, led by former MP Raju Shetti, burnt copies of the bills in Kolhapur and have announced they will intensify the protest if the bills are not withdrawn by the Central government.“Shetkari Sanghatana has always been against the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), and our leader late Sharad Joshi used to call these committees ‘abattoirs’ of the farmers. However, we do not endorse the way the existing system is being thrashed out by the Central government. This is an attempt to make farmers slaves in the hands of industrialists,” Shetti said. Also Read: Farm protests may hit transport of essentials: RailwaysHe said that this was the first step towards the privatisation of Food Corporation of India and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed), who purchase about 30% of farm produce in the country.Shetti has announced that the protests will be intensified against corporate companies that are expected to benefit from the bills.ABKS will begin the protest at 1pm Friday. “At least four or five organisations that have supported the nationwide protest are participating in them in 21 districts in Maharashtra. We will burn copies of the bills and hand over our memorandums to the district collectors in peaceful manner, ” said Ajit Nawale, general secretary, ABKS. Also Read: Cong terms farm bills ‘unconstitutional’Nawale said that though APMCs have become dens of corruption and monopoly, the bills passed by the Centre are more dangerous for the farmers. “At least the farmers have some mechanism in place to market their produce at a reasonable price in the form of APMCs today. The bills passed in Parliament are the first step towards handing over farm marketing to a few industrial houses who will decide the prices of the produce. Though the Centre has been claiming these bills are a way to be free from the clutches of APMC, the government has freed itself from the responsibilities of fair and remunerative prices to the farmers. In Maharashtra, the Fadnavis government had brought bills to regularise APMCs, but it could not set up an alternative mechanism to the APMCs to give farmers remunerative prices for their produce. It was a failed attempt,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farm-bills-maharashtra-farmers-participate-in-nationwide-protests/story-kWXkYpqFXPJAFHrRH8CTRJ.html
25-09-2020||India||Farm protests may hit transport of essentials: Railways||The railway ministry on Thursday warned that the three-day rail roko (railway blockade) protest called by farmers in Punjab over farm bills passed by Parliament will have a severe impact on the transport of foodgrains and other essential goods to and from the northern state .Railway authorities said 20 trains passing through Punjab will remain suspended between Thursday and Saturday because of the protest , as the state-owned transporter seeks to ensure the safety of passengers and protect its property. Many freight and parcel trains too have been rescheduled.“Punjab rail agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens and fast-recovering rail freight and economy,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeking to liberalise agricultural trade, were cleared by both Houses of Parliament in the curtailed monsoon session that ended Wednesday. Opposition parties and farmers groups have alleged that the legislation was aimed at promoting the interests of corporate entities rather than the interests of farmers.The railway ministry said that Punjab loaded 990 rakes of foodgrains procured by the Food Corporation of India in August this year and 816 rakes this month until September 23. Thd FCI is loading more than 35 rakes of foodgrains daily from Punjab. Punjab also loads 9-10 rakes daily of fertilizer, cement, automobiles and mixed goods in containers.“Punjab receives around 20 rakes daily of coal, food grain, farm products, machinery, petroleum products, imported fertilizer etc,” the ministry said.The call for rail roko protest has been called by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee with the backing of different farmers groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-protests-may-hit-transport-of-essentials-rlys/story-Rcwbet7wk3lq18n0bKV43O.html
25-09-2020||India||Cong terms farm bills ‘unconstitutional’||The Congress on Thursday said it will challenge the three farm bills in the court, saying the “black laws” are “unconstitutional” and against the country’s federal structure. The party also extended its support to Friday’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmers’ organisations in protest against the bills. The main opposition party also launched on Thursday its nearly two-month-long “mass movement” against the government for passing “anti-farmer and anti-poor” bills in Parliament. The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, have been passed by both the Houses of Parliament and await Presidential assent. The support to the ‘bandh’ was announced by Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala. “The diabolical & debilitating attack on Farmer & Farm Labourers by the three ‘Black Bills’ of Modi Govt would be decisively defeated,” he tweeted. Surjewala said the Congress and former party chief Rahul Gandhi stand solidly behind the farmers and support the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmers’ organisations. “Congress worker and leader will join farmers’ dharna and protests,” he added. The Congress and 17 other opposition parties had on Wednesday requested President Ram Nath Kovind not to give his assent to the three farm bills. Addressing reporters at the party headquarters in Delhi, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the 18 opposition like-minded parties have urged the President to not sign the bills as they will be against the federal structure if they become laws. “If the President signs these bills, which I want and hope he should not sign, and once they become the law, I feel they will be against the federal structure,” he said. “These laws will be challenged in the court from high court up to the Supreme Court and I have no doubt that they will be quashed. We want that... these laws are stopped and quashed by the court as they are unconstitutional,” Singhvi said. He said the issues come under List 2 of the 7th Schedule and are exclusive rights of states. Singhvi, a Rajya Sabha member, added agriculture is included in List 2 and these laws directly relate to agriculture and trade and commerce within the state. The holding of markets and fairs also fall within the purview of state governments, he said. Singhvi also accused the government of pushing through the bills in the Rajya Sabha while ignoring calls by many members for a division of votes. “These are three black laws and the manner in which they were passed was unconstitutional and against parliamentary traditions and rules,” he alleged. He said as per parliamentary precedents, the chair has to hear the plea by even a single member wanting a division of votes but that was not done. “There were doubts about the quorum in the Rajya Sabha when the bills were passed amid the din.” Singhvi alleged that whatever happened on Sunday during the passage of bills in the Rajya Sabha was not just “unconstitutional but also undemocratic”, as the government sought to push through the bills due to its power. “The government did not have the numbers and that is why it resorted to such measures to get the bills passed, without adhering to members’ request for a division,” he added. Singhvi said Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu “wrongly rejected” the no confidence resolution against deputy chairman Harivansh by opposition parties as a 14-day notice is not required. The Congress had earlier announced that it will also collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed legislations. The decision by the Congress to hit the streets was taken at a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states at the party headquarters in Delhi on Monday in absence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The six-member special committee formed by the Congress president to help her in organisational and operational matters chaired the meeting in her absence. Its members are AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala. Accompanied by her son and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi had on September 12 left for the United States for a routine health check-up. Both of them returned to India on Tuesday morning. On Thursday, Congress leaders fanned out across the country to address a series of press conferences, attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government on the farm bills. Apart from a chain of press conferences across the country starting from Thursday, senior Congress leaders from states will on September 28 walk to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum on the farms bills to Governors to be handed over to the President. On October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day).’ There will be protests and demonstrations in every district across the country demanding immediate withdrawal of the agriculture bills. On October 10, state level conferences will be held and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures from 20 million farmers from all parts of the country. On November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, a memorandum along with signatures of 20 million farmers will be submitted to the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-terms-farm-bills-unconstitutional/story-RUw94wstY0Zrc4b5C5LkkJ.html
25-09-2020||India||No provision to end APMCs, says Tomar||Union agriculture minister NS Tomar on Thursday said two new farm bills passed in Parliament do not have provisions to end markets controlled by the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) as is feared by farmer groups. The minister also added that while older laws had no provision to guarantee when payment would be made to farmers , the new laws assure that payments will be made within three days at the most.The bills he said will promote inter-state trade and farmers will receive more options to sell at the right price: “The new bills allow a farmer to sell his produce outside APMCs, giving him a widen range of buyers,” he said addressing the media.The two bills passed, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, aim to free agrimarkets, allow contract farming agreements, and create farm-to-fork supply chains. They do this, partky, by sidestepping APMCs, which have become cartelised over time. Older laws required farmers to sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, and usually in the same area where they (the farmers) resided. The new laws open up APMCs to competition. One of them also allows farmers to strike agreements with agri-business firms or exporters for prospective sale of farming produce. Some farm-groups and the opposition parties believe that the new laws will limit APMC markets to their physical boundaries while allowing corporate buyers to land up at farmgates. They are also worried that because the laws do not guarantee the minimum price of acquisition will be the government mandated minimum support price or MSP, most farmers will end up selling for lower (government acquisition, at MSP, in markets where the APMC law has been repealed, is low, they point out). Finally, they believe that few farmers will cross states to sell produce or take the online route to do so. The opposition has severely criticised the government for passing the Bills in Parliament without sending them for further scrutiny to a select panel . The government has for its part asserted that the bills were passed after discussion with the opposition members to and allow farmers more options to get better remuneration for their produce. The Prime Minister has himself defended the bills, and termed them a “protective shield” around farmers. The government insists that concerns that the legislation will end the MSP and about contract farming are misplaced. The opposition wants the concept of MSP to be written into the law. The minister said fixing MSP is an administrative decision and will continue.He said the government has already declared MSP of rabi crops. Earlier this week, the government raised MSP for several winter-grown or rabi crops , a move clearly aimed at quelling criticism that the new farm laws would kill the MSP regime. Both farmer groups in Punjab and the BJP’s own ally the SAD have been opposed to the bills; and want the government to clarify if the private companies will be asked to buy at MSP as well.“In Punjab, there’s 8.5% tax in the mandis on several items. Now, because of these bills, farmers will be able to sell their produce even outside of the mandi, even outside of the state at any price they choose,” Tomar said, without commenting on the absence of a floor price. Tomar also said people have misconceptions about contract farming. “We talk about the agreement of crop through the new agricultural bill. Our bill is not for contracting the field. The farmer is the owner of the farm and of the produce. But now the new bill will allow the farmer to guarantee the value of the crop before sowing.” Lashing out at the Congress, the minister said changes in the APMC law, the interstate trade of agricultural produce were all part of its 2019 manifesto. Tomar also defended the changes to the essential commodities law, the third farm reform bill cleared in the just-concluded monsoon session of parliament. the new law removes most food items from the purview of the law, which is mainly used by the Centre to control inflation. He said at the High Power Committee meeting of the Chief Ministers, Congress leader and then Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Kamal Nath said that the essential commodities act had achieved its objective,and should be abolished immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-provision-to-end-apmcs-says-tomar/story-PJjftbEdVlPYS64xvB2OBP.html
25-09-2020||India||Stir to intensify as farm groups come together||Farmers’ protests in the northern Indian food bowl regions of western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab are expected to intensify on Friday, when farmers groups and opposition political parties organise a national strike, Bharat Bandh, against three farm bills passed by Parliament.All farmers groups in the region have come together to take part in the protests against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 , passed by Parliament during the curtailed monsoon session that ended on Wednesday.A three-day rail blockade is being organised in Punjab that will continue until Saturday to protest against the bills that the government says will liberalise agricultural trade and farmers allege will promote corporate interests over their own.Railway authorities said 20 trains passing through Punjab will remain suspended between Thursday and Saturday because of the protest, as the state-owned transporter seeks to ensure the safety of passengers and protect its property. Many freight and parcel trains too have been rescheduled “Punjab rail agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens and fast-recovering rail freight and economy,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.In Punjab, where the protests against the bills started more than a month ago, at least 31 farmers bodies have come together and drawn up a joint protest plan.“We have informed all market associations that they should close the shops tomorrow,” said Jagmohan Singh Patiala, an office-bearer of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of farmers groups.Farmers bodies have divided Punjab into different zones where the activists will stage day-long sit-in protests and prevent any movement of traffic, said another farmers leader. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), a partner of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre, has also decided to organize parallel protests as part of a “chakka jam” (road blockage) campaign. SAD spokesperson Dalit Cheema said the party cadre would be out on the roads in full strength. The Congress and Aam Aadmi Party will also join the protests. In Haryana, major farmers organisations have joined hands to stage protests and announced that road and railway traffic will not be allowed on Friday. They have issued a call for the closure of all markets, including agricultural produce mandis, from 10 a.m. to 4 pm. Haryana president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction) Ratan Mann said: “The farmers and commission agents will be on roads against the bills on Friday”. He added that shopkeepers, trade unions and employee unions have been asked to join the protests.This will be the third such protest in the state in the past two weeks; the first, held in Pipli of Kurukshetra, on September 10 resulted in a clash between police and protesters.“We will ensure that the protests remain peaceful and movement of traffic on the important roads like NH 44 will not get affected,” said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. He said farmers would be prevented from coming onto the national highway.Farmers in Haryana on Thursday organised a march in villages to create awareness about Bharat Bandh and a week-long campaign their organisations have planned.Farmers’ leader Naresh Tikait said cultivators in western UP on Friday would “aggressively” participate in the Bharat Bandh and will block the movement of traffic in their strongholds. UP police have deployed additional security personnel in the western part of the state to maintain law and order, officials said. BS Rajewal, president of another faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said 185 farmers organisations including those from Rajasthan, Himachal, Telangana, Maharasthra, Madhaya Pradesh and Andhra Pradeseh have agreed to join the protests. Farmers organisations, backed by the Left parties and the Congress, have called for protests across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Friday. In Telangana, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi is supporting the protests.In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the ruling YSR Congress Party and opposition Telugu Desam Party have both supported the farm bills.Sarampalli Malla Reddy, vice-president of All India Kisan Sabha and president of the Telangana Rythu Sangham, said the farmers’ associations would block the national highways on Friday. “We shall fight against the implementation of the draconian acts,” Telangana agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy said.In Maharashtra, many farmers’ organisations have decided to participate in Bharat Bandh. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghathana, a farmers outfit in Maharashtra, has decided to participate in the protest against agricultural bills but in a different way. its chief Raju Shetti said.“The people are fed up with the lockdown which lasted for months; thus we have decided not to go for a bandh. Instead we will be burning copies of the bills outside tehsildar offices across the state in protest. It will be a day-long agitation,” Shetti said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stir-to-intensify-as-farm-groups-come-together/story-F68KRocKCQGjwQXs5CEPqL.html
