26-09-2020||Bhopal||Farmer attempts to kill himself in Harda, district administration calls him fraudster||Authorities on Friday called a 35-year-old farmer a fraudster and said he was a part of a procurement scam busted in June a day after he attempted suicide in Madhya Pradesh’s Harda district for alleged delay in payment for his gram crop produce.The attempt came as farmers have been protesting across several states against farm reform laws passed in Parliament this week. The farmers are particularly angry over the absence of any mention of a minimum support price in the laws. The opposition Congress has thrown its weight behind the protests against the 35-year-old farmer’s alleged harassment ahead of the crucial by-polls to 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh. The by-polls are crucial to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government survival in the state as it enjoys a wafer-thin majority in the 230-member state assembly. The BJP needs to win nine out of the 28 seats. It currently has 107 seats. The Congress, which lost power in March when its 21 lawmakers resigned and paved the way for BJP’s return to power, has 88 members in the House with an effective strength of 202.Also Read: Farm bills anger spills onto highways, railwaysAdditional police superintendent Gajendra Singh said the farmer allegedly consumed poison outside a co-operative society in Harda on Thursday over the delay in payment for his 141-quintal gram produce a few months ago.The farmer allegedly attempted suicide while a group of farmers was staging a protest in front of the society over delay in payment to them. During the protest, two other farmers also fainted, said police.All three were rushed to a district hospital and later referred to Bhopal.Harda collector Sanjay Gupta cited a cooperative department inquiry in June and said discrepancies were detected in stock and records of bills of purchase related to the society. “More than 5,100 quintals gram crop was found missing from the stock. In a further inquiry, it was found that fraudulently the manager of the society cleared fake bills of 71 farmers, who had not sold any crop to the society. ...[the three farmers] are among them.”He added a fraud case was registered against the manager, who cleared the bills. “I asked the police on Tuesday to book the villagers, who were part of the fraud,” said Gupta. He added revenue department officials also cross-checked the claim of the 35-year-old and found that 141 quintal grams could not have been produced from the piece of land he owns.State agriculture minister Kamal Patel, who is from Harda, has ordered an inquiry into the alleged scam. “To check the claims of farmers, the agriculture department will conduct a separate inquiry.”Congress leader PC Sharma met the farmers at a hospital in Bhopal and accused the BJP government of being unjust to the farmers. “Congress will join the protest of farmers in Harda as BJP-led state government is doing injustice to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/farmer-attempts-to-kill-himself-in-harda-district-administration-calls-him-fraudster/story-2rxjOKFtGhCmwd9NWzy4CM.html
26-09-2020||India||‘No morality, just political compulsion’: Punjab CM on SAD’s exit from NDA||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has termed the Shiromani Akali Dal’s decision to quit the NDA as nothing more than a desperate case of political compulsion for the Badals, who were effectively left with no other option after the BJP’s public criticism of the SAD over the farm bills.Referring to his earlier statement, in which he had pointed out that the NDA would throw the Akalis out if the latter did not leave gracefully, Captain Amarinder said there was no moral high ground involved in this decision of the SAD. He said the Akalis had no choice before them since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had already made it clear that it held SAD responsible for failing to convince the farmers about the goodness of the agriculture bills.“The SAD decision to quit NDA was just the culmination of their saga of lies and deception, which eventually led to them being cornered on the issue of the bills,” the chief minister said in a statement, adding that Sukhbir Singh Badal was virtually caught between the devil and the deep sea after his initial unprincipled stand on the farm ordinances, followed by the sudden U-turn in the face of farmer protests.Also read: Snapping over two-decades-long ties, SAD pulls out of NDA over farm bills The chief minister said with the BJP-led ruling coalition at the Centre exposing the SAD’s web of lies, fabrications and double-speaking, the Akalis could not have done anything except leave the NDA. But far from helping them save face, which they probably hoped to do, the Akalis will now find themselves in a bigger political mess, having been left with no place either in Punjab or at the Centre, he added.Captain Amarinder said if Sukhbir Badal, Harsimrat Badal and other SAD leaders had any shame left, they should admit to their deceitful actions as part of the Union government and should beg the farmers for forgiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-morality-just-political-compulsion-punjab-cm-on-sad-s-exits-from-nda/story-iZzDdBugNor0AXnmhJJMwI.html
26-09-2020||India||‘MSP not most preferred mode for farmers in Uttar Pradesh’: NITI Aayog study||Only a fraction of farmers in Uttar Pradesh sells their produce to government agencies taking the Minimum Support Price (MSP) route while the rest prefer to trade in the open market or deal with private agents, sometimes even below MSP for different reasons. MSP is the primary and immediate concern of farmers who are protesting the three agriculture reform bills passed by Parliament recently. They fear that after the enactment of new laws, the Centre may withdraw the safety net (MSP).“We cannot trust verbal commitment on MSP. The government must make a provision in the law itself guaranteeing that MSP will continue,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union state president Rajveer Singh Jadaun.Based on the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, the Central government declares MSP for around two dozen crops before their sowing seasons. The idea behind MSP is to give a guaranteed price and assured market to farmers and protect them from price fluctuations and market imperfections.Also read: Congress steps up attack on govt on labour codes, says it has removed security net for workersAlthough the MSP system is considered an important tool that protects farmers’ interests by assuring a threshold price to them, studies show that only a fraction of crops under MSP are sold to the government in UP where wheat and paddy are two major crops. “It is observed that 28 percent of farmers in Uttar Pradesh sold their grains under MSP, 63 percent sold their grains in the open market and the remaining 8 percent kept for their self-consumption. It has also been observed during the course of study that 82 percent of the farmers reported to have faced various limitations in selling their food grains/crops at MSP,” the NITI Aayog found in its ‘Evaluation Study of Efficacy of Minimum Support Price on Farmers’.The sample study was published in 2016 with a reference period between 2007-08 and 2010-11, covering farmers of 36 districts (six in UP) across 14 states.Ajit Kumar Singh, economist and former director of Giri Institute of Developmental Studies, said it was true that only a fraction of farmers sold their food grains to government agencies, the role of which was very limited.“Our survey revealed that farmers sold more than half of their produce to traders, 28.3 percent to the wholesalers, 25.8 percent to the village traders and only 14 percent to government agencies,” he said, quoting a study commissioned to him by UP’s planning department in 2010.Also read: Former Bihar DGP meets Nitish Kumar, may join JD(U) in run-up to pollsThese figures, according to him, indicated that agricultural marketing in the state was dominated by the traders and the role of government agencies was quite limited.“As a result, the farmers do not get a fair value of their produce,” he said.According to former additional director (food and civil supplies) AK Singh, sometimes farmers prefer to sell their food grain in the open market also because they get price above MSP.“In that sense, MSP is a useful system as sometimes forces private agencies to offer a better price to farmers,” he said.The NITI Aayog study also found that due to the unavailability of instant cash at MSP, small and marginal farmers preferred to sell to traders who made on the spot payments.“It was also found that sometimes, small and marginal farmers resorted to distress sales due to urgent need for money or to repay the loan taken before the sowing season. Some also pointed out that MSP was too low as it did not cover the rising farming costs,” the report said.Singh also found in his study that farmers faced a lot of problems in selling their produce in regulated markets. Nearly three-fourths of the farmers surveyed complained of undue deductions. Often, the produce was declared of lower quality and hence lower price is offered.“More than two-thirds of the farmers surveyed complained about the long distance from the market and lack of transport facilities. Delayed payment and false weighing were the other common problems faced by the farmers. About 20 percent farmers opined that they face problems in marketing as they have small surplus to sell,” he said.According to the NITI Aayog study, the respondents selected in UP villages were in favour of the continuation of MSP which indicated that in spite of all the lacunae in the process of implementation, people, on the whole, had benefitted from the MSP policy.Singh also said that MSP was an important mechanism that insulated farmers against market price fluctuations as well as for the government to buy wheat and paddy for the Public Distribution System (PDS) pool.“I, therefore, feel that farmers’ fears that the government may do away with the PDS system are a little exaggerated,” Singh stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-not-most-preferred-mode-for-farmers-in-uttar-pradesh-niti-aayog-study/story-e3ZIGZ1yPTdu1rHoaVPoZJ.html
26-09-2020||India||Farm bills protest: 70 RLD workers booked for holding demonstration without permission||Seventy RLD workers and leaders, including its district president, were booked for holding a protest against new farm bills without permission from the administration, police said on Saturday. RLD’s district president Ajit Rathi, party spokesman Abhishek Choudhry and former MLC Choudhry Mushtaq are among the 70 people who have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC, SHO DK Tyagi said. A case was registered against them on Friday for holding a protest outside the district magistrate’s office against the Centre’s farm bills without permission from the administration, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-protest-70-rld-workers-booked-for-holding-demonstration-without-permission/story-kqNMrKCWrCqXHephuQyd7M.html
26-09-2020||India||Farm bills anger spills onto highways, railways||New Delhi/Chandigarh/Meerut Farmers across several states protested over key farm reform laws passed by Parliament this week, leading to disruption of life in Punjab, Haryana and parts of western Uttar Pradesh, even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the opposition parties of spreading “lies” and misleading the farmers for their own political benefit in a video message, the third time he has had to defend the legislations.In the truncated session, Parliament approved the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, leading to a protest by farmer bodies and opposition political parties. The primary points of contention are the absence of any mention of a minimum support price (the government-decided floor) and the freedom given to private players and others to operate in areas beyond the physical boundaries of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Also read: Farmers have lost all faith in PM Modi-led govt, says Rahul GandhiClose to 250 farmer bodies came together under the banner of All India Kisan Sangharsh Committee on Friday for a national strike between 10am and 4pm, terming the laws as “anti-farmers” and asked the government either to withdraw these legislations or at least provide minimum support price (MSP) protection in them. The government has maintained that MSPs will stay and there was no reason for farmers to worry. It has already announced MSPs for some winter-sown crops to reassure farmers who continue to insist that the support price protection be written into the law. Farmers blocked road traffic at several places in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, only allowing movement of emergency services such as ambulances. Road blockades in several places forced people to walk long distances to reach their destinations. The protest called by 185 farmer bodies was more or less peaceful with no major untoward incident reported from anywhere.According to Punjab government officials, a complete bandh was observed in all 22 districts, except the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stronghold of Pathankot, with business establishments and public transport not functioning. Railways had already suspended about two dozen trains originating from or passing through the state in view of the three-day rail blockade observed by farmer groups from September 24 to 26. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said he will not allow implementation of the laws in Punjab and directed the police not to book farmers for violation of Section 144 of CrPC imposed across the state for Covid management.Also read: Congress, NCP say no to farm bills in Maharashtra. Shiv Sena to decideIn Haryana, a near complete bandh was observed in farmer dominated districts of western and central parts of the state with not much impact seen in the northern parts. Traffic was blocked on the Rohtak-Chandigarh, Rohtak-Delhi, Jind-Chandigarh and Ambala-Hisar highways. Additional police force was deployed at Ambala and Panipat railway stations, officials said.In western UP, farmer organisations blocked major highways including the Yamuna Expressway in the national capital region and Agra-Lucknow expressway. Road blocks were also reported from Ayodhya and some parts of eastern UP. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (KMS) and Rashtriya Kisan Sabha members demonstrated at various places.Political parties such as the Congress, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress and the Left parties supported the strike and their workers participated in the bandh.Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters in Jaipur that the Modi government has launched a brutal attack on the livelihood of 620 million people linked with farming at the time the country has been attacked by the Corona virus and China . Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav said the laws would enslave farmers to corporates and claimed that farm incomes have fallen in recent years instead of increasing as promised by the Prime Minister.PM Modi asked the BJP workers to reach out to farmers on the ground and inform them about details and benefits of the new agriculture reforms and how these will empower them.“They (Opposition) are spreading rumours. Saving farmers from such rumours and explaining the importance of the agriculture reforms is the responsibility and duty of all BJP workers because we have to make the future of farmers bright,” Modi said at a function organised to celebrate the birth anniversary of party’s ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay.The PM said small and marginal farmers, who constitute 85% of the peasant community, will benefit the most from these reforms as they would get better price for their produce. BJP leaders also held press conferences at various states capitals saying that farmers were being misled by the Opposition. “The Rabi crop has not been harvested yet and they are saying farmers will not get the minimum support price,” said BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra in Kolkata. “This kind of smear campaign will not work. The BJP government is committed to protecting the interest of farmers.” Outside the food bowl of northern India, protests were also reported from West Bengal and Bihar. The ruling Trinamool Congress and the Left partied led the protests in West Bengal. Traffic was blocked in Hooghly, North 24 Parganas, Nadia, South 24 Parganas, Burdwan, East Midnapore and other districts where farming is the main source of income for the rural population. In Bihar, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav led a protest in Patna. Roads were blocked at Ara, Purnia, Samastipur, Bhagalpur, Begusarai and Hajipur districts, officials said.However, there was not much impact of the bandh in states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, from where only sporadic protests were reported. Farmer bodies burnt copies of the laws at several locations and in Karnataka, entry of traffic into Bengaluru was blocked.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-anger-spills-onto-highways-railways/story-Xf0dSzakpvQfrIwvlsGWPL.html
26-09-2020||India||‘No longer the NDA envisioned by Vajpayee, Badal sahab’: Harsimrat after SAD’s exit from alliance||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday attacked the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which is led by the BJP, for ignoring the woes of farmers after her party pulled out of the coalition at the Centre over three agriculture sector related bills.“If Pain & Protests of 3 cr punjabis fail to melt the rigid stance of GoI, it’s no longer the #NDA envisioned by Vajpayee ji & Badal sahab. An alliance that turns a deaf ear to its oldest ally & a blind eye to pleas of those who feed the nation is no longer in the interest of Pb,” she tweeted. If Pain & Protests of 3 cr punjabis fail to melt the rigid stance of GoI, it's no longer the #NDA envisioned by Vajpayee ji & Badal sahab. An alliance that turns a deaf ear to its oldest ally & a blind eye to pleas of those who feed the nation is no longer in the interest of Pb. https://t.co/OqU6at00JxThe SAD leader also attached a tweet by Sukhbir Singh Badal, her party’s president and husband, announcing the snapping of ties with the NDA.Also read: Snapping over two-decades-long ties, SAD pulls out of NDA over farm billsHarsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned as the Union minister earlier this month to protest the passage of the farm bills in Parliament.As it pulled out of more than two-decade-old ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party, the SAD accused the NDA of “continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues on late Saturday. “Shiromani Akali Dal core committee decides unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led #NDA because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of crops on #MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and #Sikh issues,” Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted.Sukhbir Singh said that the SAD will continue to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interest of Punjab and Punjabi in general, and Sikhs and farmers in particular. The decision on farm bills, Badal said, has been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially the party’s workers and farmers.One of NDA’s oldest allies, SAD has been up in arms against the recently passed farms bills by Parliament. The legislations are yet to be signed by the President Ram Nath Kovind to clear the final hurdle. After the President’s assent, the bills will be recognised as laws in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-longer-the-nda-envisioned-by-vajpayee-badal-sahab-harsimrat-after-sad-s-exit-from-alliance/story-R8kTH0dI0UvzRPtR0HSfSM.html
26-09-2020||India||BJP treads cautiously with SAD: Partnership could be in question||The fissures that have emerged in the ties between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) are all set to deepen with the latter intensifying its attack against the BJP government over the recently passed farm bills. The bitterness and the war of words that erupted after the BJP and the Shiv Sena, also an old ally, failed to reach an agreement over power-sharing in Maharashtra, has been noticeably missing after cracks emerged in the ties between the BJP and the SAD. But while the BJP is still treading with caution, referring to the SAD’s tirade against it as “political compulsion”, the SAD has taken its criticism of the bills a notch higher. On Friday, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said at a rally in Punjab, “During World War 2, the US shook Japan up with an atomic bomb. Akali Dal’s one bomb (resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal) has shaken up the Modi government. For the past two months, there was no word on farmers, but now as many as five ministers are speaking on the issue.” Also Read: Farm bills anger spills onto highways, railwaysThe SAD pulled out its only minister from the Narendra Modi cabinet in protest against the government pushing through the new legislations in Parliament. Though the BJP said it is ready to address all SAD’s concerns about the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance the Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the SAD is pulling no punches in its disapproval. The BJP, on its part, has decided to focus attention on creating awareness about the new legislation’s benefit to farmers. “They have nothing to lose and the statements they are making stem from political compulsions. It is not right for the BJP to join issue with their ally,” said a senior party functionary. Exiting the coalition: Will they, won’t they?The question, however, is if the disagreement would pave the way for the exit of another BJP ally from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). According to SAD’s Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral, though there is pressure from the cadre to pull out, the party will not take a hasty decision. “We are mindful that we are a border state and we cannot destabilise the situation. Our cadre is pushing us to break away from the NDA, but we will not rush into it. We will take a decision, which is in the interest of the people of Punjab and our country,” he said. Also Read: ‘Will challenge farm bills in Supreme Court’: Punjab finance ministerThe SAD leader also explained that the party voiced its concerns to protect the interests of the farmers. “In any coalition, all partners’ ideology cannot be the same. Whenever we have disagreed on issues that were contrary to our thinking, such as the attack on minorities or the Delhi riots, we spoke up. But we have never made stipulations. We spoke up so that we could stick to the core of our ideology. The farm bills affect us, our workers and leaders are farmers, how could we not speak up?” Gujral said. Communication issues While the government claims that the bills were adequately discussed, and has rolled out a massive outreach led by Union ministers to dispel concerns about the bills, allies claim there has been little by way of communication. “The NDA this time is unlike the NDA of the [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee era. There is no consultative process, we never meet and there are no coordination meetings. We found out about the ordinance only when it was put before the Cabinet where our minister protested. We said the bills are not in the interest of farmers, not in the least in Punjab. And because our concerns were not addressed, it was not feasible for us to stay in the government,” Gujral said. Shiv Sena’s Lok Sabha MP Vinayak Raut echoed the SAD’s view that the BJP does not take its allies into confidence. “When we were part of the NDA, there were no meetings of the allies. To have a meeting of the leaders at the Business Advisory Committee is not the same as keeping allies informed and taking their views into consideration,” Raut said. Ahead of the upcoming Bihar elections in October, the Lok Jan Shakti Party, another ally, has been stoking a controversy by criticising a third ally, the JDU in the state, indicating that all is not well within the NDA in the election-bound state. The BJP has had to step in to settle squabbles between two allies, which has given fodder to the Opposition in the state. The BJP functionary quoted above said the allegations of BJP not being amenable to allies have been made to score a point. “We have always treated allies with respect and kept them informed,” the functionary said. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also instructed party workers to reach out to farmers across the country to dispel the “misleading” accusations made by the Opposition. All BJP Karyakartas should reach out to the farmers on the ground and inform them in very simplified language about the importance and intricacies of the new farm reforms, how these will empower them. Our ground connect will bust the propaganda being spread in the virtual world. pic.twitter.com/LuofRKzL5dHunt for new allies Before the BJP snapped ties with the Shiv Sena in 2019, with which its equations saw many ups and downs over the years, it parted ways with the Telegu Desam Party. In March 2018, Chandrababu Naidu’s party decided to break its ties with the BJP and pulled out two of its ministers—Ashok Gajapathi Raju and YS Chaudhary—from the Modi cabinet. The TDP, which had been an ally of the BJP in the southern state for nearly four years, broke away following the Centre’s decision to not grant special category status to Andhra Pradesh. At that time, there was speculation that the BJP could warm up to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), which won the 2019 assembly polls in the state. Rakesh Reddy, BJP’s spokesperson in Telangana, said the party has never had friendly ties with the TRS before or after the carving out of Telangana state. He said the BJP has been fighting the TRS on the ground for the last six years and is equally distant from both the TRS and the TDP. “We are a strong contender in the state and have already begun preparations for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections scheduled early next year. When we allied with the TDP, a party that was opposed to the carving out of Telangana, we suffered in the elections,” he said. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, where the ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) is counted as a friendly party in Parliament, the BJP asserts that the bonhomie is limited to support for “issues” and does not indicate forging an alliance. “There has been talk of BJP tying up with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in Tamil Nadu and the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha, but these parties have contested against the BJP in their respective states. They have supported some bills in Parliament, because those were issues they agreed on. If every instance of support is indicative of an alliance, then what about the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which supported the BJP on Jammu and Kashmir reorganisation, but differs on other issues?” said a second BJP functionary. A changed NDA What the allies called a changed complexion of the NDA, Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) called the new working style. “They have numbers on their side, but this is the government’s new style of functioning. They want to be seen as decisive and not given to negotiations or talks once they have made up their mind about an issue,” he said. The complaint from allies of being left out, he said does not “create a good impression” but has not “adversely affected” the BJP so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-treads-cautiously-with-sad-partnership-could-be-in-question/story-zfZXwj7y9KTArYeL1OJk7L.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||As Punjab farmers extend rail roko till Sept 29, railways to decide on trains this evening||The farmer outfit spearheading the rail blockade in Punjab to protest the passage of the farm bills has not only extended its agitation till September 29 but also brought the state’s Doaba region in its ambit. “We have extended the rail roko till September 29 and will decide on the future course during our meeting on Monday,” Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee president Satnam Singh Pannu said on Saturday. Buoyed by the response in the state’s Majha and Malwa belts, the rail blockade is being rolled out in the Doaba belt, he said. Activists will sit on rail tracks in Jalandhar, Batala, Tanda and Mukerian junctions to register their protest. Scores of committee supporters are camping at Basti Tanka Wala in Ferozepur under Pannu’s leadership since Thursday. Activists have put up tents at the protest site near Ferozepur cantonment station. The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) also announced to start protests by blocking tracks in Bathinda on Saturday. Union spokesperson Jasveer Singh said the dharna is on at Goniana, Bhai Bakhtaur, Sagat and Rampura Phul in the district. RAILWAYS TO ASSESS SITUATION The Ferozepur railway division, which cancelled 28 passenger trains in Punjab in view of the farmers’ three-day rail roko protest from September 24 to 26, will take a call on resuming services on Saturday evening. Ferozepur divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said a decision will be taken after assessing the situation. “So far, there is no report of damage to any railway property by the protesters. Any loss of business revenue can be assessed only after the railways resume services,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-punjab-farmers-extend-rail-roko-till-sept-29-railways-to-decide-on-trains-this-evening/story-4O225QbijvXsDXSGQbvH1L.html
