28-09-2020||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh holds sit-in protest against farm bills at Bhagat Singh’s village||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh held a sit-in protest against the farm laws at Khatkar Kalan in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. He also paid tribute to Bhagat Singh on the latter’s birth anniversary and said we were indebted to his “supreme sacrifice”. Khatkar Kalan is the ancestral village of the freedom fighter. The three farm bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have been passed by Parliament and received the assent of President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday.Captain Amarinder Singh said that most farmers in Punjab were marginal and they will be severely impacted by these legislations.“I along with my colleagues from @INCPunjab held a protest against Centre’s Anti-Farmer Laws at Khatkar Kalan in SBS Nagar. Most of our farmers are small & marginal who will be severely impacted by these legislations. We stand by Punjab’s farmers & will do everything to oppose it,” Singh tweeted.In Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country, protests against the three bills have been going on for the past few weeks. In New Delhi, Congress’s youth wing members on Monday set a tractor on fire at Rajpath in protests against the law.“Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation’s backbone. On [freedom fighter] #BhagatSingh’s birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt’s anti-farmer bills,” the Youth Congress said in a tweet.Meanwhile, according to a Congress leader, former party president Rahul Gandhi is likely to lead a protest in Punjab this week. He is also expected to address a rally. “After Punjab, he may join the protesting farmers in Haryana. But we are not sure if the BJP government in Haryana will allow him to enter the state,” said the leader quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-holds-sit-in-protest-against-farm-bills-at-bhagat-singh-s-village/story-Q21z4mKpcpeq6Dawcjs3gL.html
28-09-2020||India||Farmers across India protest against farm bills. In photos||Famer organisations across India are up in arms against the farm bills notified by the government on Sunday after President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent.The three bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have now become acts.According to the opposition parties, the bills were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms and are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parted ways over the issue of farm bills. SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union Cabinet earlier.The government claims that the bills will ensure a higher profit for the farmers as they would be able to sell their produce to whomever and wherever they want .“They have the power to sell their fruits or vegetables to anyone, and anywhere. It is this power which is the foundation of their growth, now the same power has been given to farmers across the country. They have got the freedom to sell not only fruits and vegetables but grains, sugarcane, mustard and anything that they grow, they can now sell to anyone and anywhere they like,” PM Modi said while addressing the 69th edition of his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme.The farmers fear that the bills would render the current Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system ineffective, leaving them at the mercy of “big farmers” and they would be forced to make distress sales to private companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-across-india-protest-against-farm-bills-in-photos/story-cQBssQF5wg7Cc5AhgJPxQM.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Farm bills: Protesters from Youth Congress burn tractor at Rajpath, raise slogans||The Congress’s youth wing on Monday said a group of its members set a tractor on fire at Rajpath, which connects the India Gate to the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, in protest against the new farm laws as the party planned to intensify protests against the legislation.“Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation’s backbone. On [freedom fighter] #BhagatSingh’s birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt’s anti-farmer bills,” the Youth Congress said in a tweet.Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers.From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation's backbone.On #BhagatSingh's birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt's anti farmer bills. pic.twitter.com/1uOIp79DzrPresident Ram Nath Kovind signed three contentious farm bills into law on Sunday even as over a dozen Opposition parties urged him not to sign them, saying they were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary normsThe tractor was set afire hours before Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh of the Congress began a sit-in at Bhagat Singh’s ancestral village of Khatkar Kalan against the laws.Farmers have been blocking the Amritsar-Delhi railway track as part of protests against the laws even as the government has insisted that they will make them self-reliant. They say the new laws could lead to an end of the minimum support prices for their produce.The Congress has likened the laws to cancer and slow poison that will kill farmers and agriculture. It has urged all parties to come together and oppose the laws, which the party said will make farmers “slaves of big businessmen”.The Delhi police said five people have been detained for setting the tractor afire and that the fire was doused and no one was injured in the incident.“Today [Monday] at around 7:15 am, some [15-20] persons carrying a tractor in Tata 407 vehicle came at Rajpath, Man Singh Crossing. They offloaded the tractor and tried to set it ablaze. They claimed to be members of Youth Congress, Punjab. Appropriate legal action has been taken,” a Delhi police spokesman said. “Five persons have been detained till now and one vehicle impounded. Affiliation of these persons is being verified.”Also Read: PM Modi reaches out to farmers amid angerPassersby told police the men raised slogans of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” and clicked pictures with the burning tractor. Some also went live on social media from the spot. They were also carrying effigies.Deputy police commissioner Eish Singhal said: “Our men reached the spot and doused the fire before the tractor was completely burnt. The vehicle has been removed and legal action is being taken.”Officials said the adequate police force has been deployed in the area to avoid a repeat of such an incident.The Delhi Police have stepped up security around the city’s borders amid the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab and Haryana against the farm reforms. On Friday, the police prevented protesting farmers from entering Delhi through the Mayur Vihar border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farm-bills-protesters-burn-tractor-at-rajpath-raise-slogans/story-enUPWSwZ1MbzZPugcknj1L.html
28-09-2020||NA||Karnataka Bandh: Farmers to protest against state farm bills today||Farmers’ organisations in Karnataka called for a state-wide bandh on Monday in protest against the amendments to the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) and land reforms acts introduced by the B S Yediyurappa government.Several labour organisations, pro-Kannada outfits and the Congress and the JD(S), who had opposed the bills in the assembly, extended support to the call for the bandh. In Bengaluru, a protest march has been planned from Town Hall to Mysore Bank Circle against the “anti farmer” legislations, farmers organisations told news agency PTI.Services of goods transporters, taxi, auto rickshaw drivers and private bus drivers are likely to be unavailable as they have expressed solidarity with the protests, they said.Also read: After talks with Yediyurappa fail, farmers to go ahead with Karnataka bandhHowever, state-owned public transport, bus and metro services will operate normally.Defending the bills, the government warned of stern action against any forcible enforcement of the bandh. All necessary steps will be taken to ensure that there is no disruption to the normal functioning of its offices, hospitals, shops and establishments and maintaining services of taxis and buses, it said.Police have said that elaborate measures have been put in place to ensure no untoward incident occurred. “We have not given permission for any protests to anyone and senior officials have been deployed to supervise things. We will not allow anyone to forcefully shut down or halt activities,” City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said, warning of strict action as per law if there was any violation.Also read: ‘Our farmer leaders clear about govt’s intentions, no scope for agitation’: Karnataka CM YediyurappaMeanwhile, Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday asserted his government was pro-farmers and sought to brush aside the bandh, saying there was no ‘scope’ for the agitation and people could carry on with their day-to- day activities normally.“I had called leaders of farmers organisations and discussed with them the stand of our government and the desire of the Prime Minister (which) is pro-farmer,” Yediyurappa told reporters.The Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill and the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill were passed in the Legislative Assembly on Saturday despite stiff opposition.The amendments to land reform act liberalises farmland ownership and the APMC amendment bill curtails the powers of local Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). It allows private individuals to start agricultural trading, if they hold a permanent account number (PAN).(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/karnataka-bandh-farmers-to-protest-against-state-farm-bills-today/story-W3YBMJHkL8szVs2mDmN6II.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases todayWith the majority of Covid-19 cases reported in the month of September, Mumbai is likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases on Monday. Over 50, 000 cases were reported in September so far, the highest number of cases recorded in a month. Read more.Farm bills: Protesters from Youth Congress burn tractor at Rajpath, raise slogansThe Congress’s youth wing on Monday said a group of its members set a tractor on fire at Rajpath, which connects the India Gate to the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, in protest against the new farm laws as the party planned to intensify protests against the legislation. Read more.PM Modi to hold virtual summit with Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen will hold a virtual summit on Monday to strengthen the bilateral relations between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs said. Read more.Irrfan Khan’s son Babil pours his heart out in moving note: ‘I’d give every cell in my presence to remember your skin’Babil Khan, the son of late actor Irrfan Khan, penned an emotional note in his memory. Babil said that he would give everything just to feel Irrfan’s presence: ‘My spinal cord will rotate and my soul can implode, in a search to feel you close’. Read more.IPL 2020: ‘He’s the best of the best when it comes to batting’ - Former England captain backs Virat Kohli to hit form soonFormer England cricketer Kevin Pietersen has backed an under-fire Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli, saying that it will be interesting to see how he comes back after a heavy defeat. Read more.Use your phone in car but only for these reasons: Motor Vehicle rules updatedA blanket ban on using mobile phones in vehicles is a thing of the past as the Union Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) has recently issued notifications regarding various amendments in Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989. Read more.Watch: Tractor set on fire at Delhi’s India Gate to protest against farm lawsA tractor was set on fire near Delhi’s India Gate on Monday morning to protest against the farm laws. The protest was being held by Punjab Youth Congress workers. Around 15 to 20 people had gathered at India Gate and set the tractor on fire. Police said that the incident took place at around 7.15-7.30 am. Watch full video here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-likely-to-cross-0-2-million-covid-19-cases-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-K1mrwIAuRMtTKGA41tLIzN.html
28-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi likely to join farmers’ protest in Punjab||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is likely to lead a protest in Punjab this week in support of farmers agitating against the government over three farm laws passed by Parliament last week, people familiar with the development said. Gandhi is also expected to address a rally, the date and venue of which is being finalised, a Congress leader said. “After Punjab, he may join the protesting farmers in Haryana. But we are not sure if the BJP government in Haryana will allow him to enter the state,” said the leader quoted above. The protest rally is part of the Congress party’s ongoing two-month-long nationwide agitation programme against the government over the three farm laws. Also Read: PM Modi reaches out to farmers amid angerThe Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 were cleared by both the Houses of Parliament last week, triggering widespread protests, especially in Punjab and Haryana. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave his assent to the three contentious bills, despite the Opposition urging him to return them and only sign once they were passed after proper rules and procedures were followed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has termed the laws a “watershed moment” in the history of Indian agriculture, which will empower millions of farmers. In his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday, he said a large number of farmers have benefited since fruits and vegetables were brought out of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) Act in some states a few years ago, and asserted that grain-producing peasants will now have the same freedom. Also Read: ‘Great to see Akali Dal holding flag of farmer’s rights aloft’: Farooq Abdullah on NDA exitHowever, the move saw the exit of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), one of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s oldest allies, from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Its Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also resigned from the Modi government. Gandhi, after returning on Tuesday from the United States where he had accompanied his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi for a routine health check-up, did not attend the proceedings or join the Opposition’s protests in Parliament on the last day of the monsoon session on Wednesday in view of the protocols being followed during the Covid-19 pandemic. However, he has been repeatedly raising the issue on the social networking site, Twitter. In a video message as part of the Congress party’s ‘Speak up for Farmers’ campaign on Saturday, Gandhi told farmers that they were being persistently attacked. “First demonetisation, then GST, then you were not given a single rupee at the time of coronavirus, attempt was being made to kill you (farmers), you are being made a slave of corporates, and now these three deadly bills,” he said. “We are standing with you (farmers) and together we will stop these bills. I want to say to the government—you have made a very big mistake. If farmers hit the streets, it will result in tremendous damage. Don’t waste time, withdraw these laws immediately and give guarantee on MSP (minimum support price) to farmers,” Gandhi said. On Thursday, the Congress launched its “mass movement” against the government over “anti-farmer, anti-poor and black laws”. The party has also decided to collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed legislations. By announcing nearly two months of protests, the principle Opposition party is seeking to regain some of the political space it has lost over the years by targeting the farmers of the country. India has about 146 million farmer, going by operational land holdings, according to an agriculture census of 2015-16. The Congress is also seeing the issue as a 2015 moment when Sonia Gandhi played a key role in bringing 14 Opposition parties together against the proposed land acquisition bill that forced the BJP-led government to withdraw the controversial ordinance and shelve the idea of bringing a new legislation to replace the 2013 Act. As part of the programme, the Congress will hold several press conferences across the country. On Monday, senior leaders from states will walk to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum on the farms bills to governors to be handed over to the President. On October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day)’. There will be protests and demonstrations in every district across the country demanding the immediate withdrawal of the laws. On October 10, state-level conferences will be held, and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures from 20 million farmers from all parts of the country. On November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, a memorandum, along with signatures of 20 million farmers, will be submitted to the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-join-farmers-protest-in-punjab/story-M8hK04yBEJ12o6RjVGl7mK.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Karnataka bandh against state farm bills today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka Bandh: Farmers to protest against state farm bills todayFarmers’ organisations in Karnataka called for a state-wide bandh on Monday in protest against the amendments to the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) and land reforms acts introduced by the B S Yediyurappa government. Read moreSurgical strike day: How army soldiers destroyed terror launchpadsThe government is celebrating the fourth anniversary of the surgical strikes on Monday. The strikes against the terror groups were carried out in response to the deadly attack on an army camp in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri in September, 2016. Read moreTrump’s ban on TikTok temporarily blocked by federal judgePresident Donald Trump’s ban on TikTok was temporarily blocked by a federal judge, dealing a blow to the government in its showdown with the popular Chinese-owned app it says threatens national security. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘That was the worst first 20 balls that I have ever played’: Rajasthan Royals hero Rahul Tewatia on slow startVillain one moment, hero the next. The phrase ‘two sides of the same coin’ could not be exemplified by anyone other than Rahul Tewatia. On Saturday, chasing a record total, the Rajasthan Royals batsman walked out at No. 4 after the dismissal of Steve Smith with the team still requiring a mountain to climb. Read moreSuchitra Krishnamoorthi on Bollywood drugs investigation: ‘Aghast that no men were named and called for NCB probe’Singer and actor Suchitra Krishnamoorthi talked about the ‘culture of misogyny’ amid the escalating investigation into an alleged drug racket in Bollywood after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. She questioned why only women were being named and ‘shamed’ in the probe being conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Read moreHonda showcases electric SUV concept in major show of intent for futureHonda has finally shown some intent of taking not just the demand for SUVs in global markets by the horns but also stepping strongly into a world of electric mobility by recently showcasing its electric SUV concept at Beijing Auto Show. Read moreFarmVille, one of the most popular Facebook games, is shutting down this yearIf you’re an early user of Facebook you must have played or still play games such as FarmVille on the platform. After a crazy run of 11 years, Zynga has announced that FarmVille will be shutting down on December 31 this year. Read moreAmid IPL 2020 and ‘crazy heat’ of Dubai, Preity Zinta misses ski trip and this throwback picture is proofCurrently in Dubai to support her team Kings XI Punjab at the Indian Premier League 2020, Preity Zinta set fans relating as she shared a cool throwback picture from her earlier ski trip. Read moreIPL 2020: Rajasthan Royals chase record total to beat KXIP by 4 wicketsRahul Tewatia(51 off 31 balls) hit five sixes in an over after Sanju Samson(85 off 42) and Steve Smith(50 off 27) hit sparkling fifties as Rajasthan Royals chased down the highest ever total of IPL to beat Kings XI Punjab by 4 wickets in Sharjah. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-karnataka-bandh-against-state-farm-bills-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Eqa1TkgNbOh4FqBbcUIkKM.html
28-09-2020||India||Order in House must, says Rajya Sabha Dy Chair after quick passage of two farm bills||Breaking his silence for the first time after he supervised the quick passage of two farm bills last Sunday amid ruckus in the Upper House, its deputy chairman Harivansh said in order to have a division, order of the House is equally important as the demand for voting. “As per rules and practice, in order to have a division, two things are essential. Firstly there should be a demand for division and its is equally important that there should be order in the house,” he said in a statement. Harivansh’s clarification comes after a section of the media referred to a video footage to show how MPs were in their seats while demanding division or voting on the farm bills but their pleas were ignored. The Rajya Sabha officials also released an official transcript of the minute-by-minute account of the entire ruckus that showed how Opposition leaders such as Derek O’Brien, Tiruchi Siva, Jairam Ramesh repeatedly violated rules and rushed to the chair, came down to the Well, snatched papers and misbehaved with marshals. Also read: Farm stir set to intensify as Punjab CM plans sit-inThe transcript claims Trinamool’s O’Brien tore the rulebook, AAP’s Sanjay Singh invited others to join protest in the well, Congress MP Ripun Bora threw books from secretary general’s bookrack, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva snatched away face shield of a marshal while 3 MPs plucked microphone from chairman’s table. CPIM’s KK Ragesh tampered books, registers and TRS MP K Kesava Rao started recording the incidents in his camera till a marshal stopped him. In his clarification, Harivansh also pointed out that KK Ragesh’s resolution to refer the bill to select committee “was rejected by voice vote by the House at 1.07 pm as Sri Ragesh was in the Well of the House and not on his seat in the gallery at that point of time.” Also read: President Kovind gives his nod to all 3 farm bills, government notifies them“It is true that Tiruchi Shiva demanded a division on his amendment for reference of his bill to select committee from his seat at 1.10 p.m. You will see from the same video that around 1.09 p.m, one member was tearing the rule book and throwing it on me. Besides, I was surrounded by some hostile members, who were trying to snatch papers from me,” Harivansh stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-in-house-must-says-rs-dy-chair-after-quick-passage-of-two-farm-bills/story-5qjEp9qlWOpRhA9C2RXSRM.html
28-09-2020||India||Farm fires set to continue as subsidy may not encourage shift to tech||The harvest season has already begun in many parts of northwest India, and even as most farmer groups agitate against the farm bills, community leaders said crop stubble burning may continue this year too, saying subsidies on straw management machinery is not enough for small farmers to switch to machines.Satellite images released by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) have shown an increasing number of stubble burning incidents in Punjab over the past five days, especially in Amritsar district. Nasa also warned that with plumes of smoke being seen over Delhi, the city’s air quality may also deteriorate in the coming weeks. Delhi government data shows that stubble burning accounted for 44% of the city’s air pollution last year.Also read: Current approach not helping cut farm fires, says Kejriwal in letter to JavadekarA silver lining, however, is that the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) will in certain farms this year test its microbial consortium, which helps decompose stubble quickly, thereby removing the need for any straw management machinery. But it may not be scaled up to all of northwest India immediately, officials said.“We had been working on the microbial consortium for a couple of years after the happy seeder (for straw management) was introduced. Last year, it was tried in Uttar Pradesh and it had worked. So, after the crop is harvested with a combine harvester, it needs to be chopped so that the straw is short and the microbial consortium can be used. The money for straw management machinery to be subsidised has also been released to Punjab and Haryana so farmers can access that. I think there will be a further reduction in crop stubble burning this year compared to last year,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director, Indian Council for Agricultural Research.But farmers are not aware of the microbial consortium’s effectiveness. “We have heard about the solution. If it works, nothing like it. The only worry is that if straws from paddy don’t decompose , it will delay the sowing for the Rabi season. They should do a trial,” said Dharmendra Kumar, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union. Also read: Air quality on the decline in Delhi, expect worse in coming week“No machine can remove the straw effectively and farmers end up spending on the machines and fuel. So there was talk of giving direct subsidy to farmers of about Rs 100 per quintal. But that has not happened. Instead they have used that money to subsidise straw management machinery,” he added.Harvesting started a week early this time, according to Rattan Singh Mann, chief of the BKU’s Haryana unit. “I have seen small farmers are already setting fire to their farms after harvesting. That’s because it was very warm this month which prepared the crop for early harvest. Small farmers who do not have access to machinery will continue to burn stubble this year. But the Haryana government has made both cooperative societies for renting machines and is also offering subsidies to those who need to buy it,” Mann said.BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said a large number of farmers have not received subsidies to buy straw management machinery this year, so obviously they will burn stubble. “Farmers are extremely disturbed about the farm bills also. It’s a crisis,” said .Besides causing pollution, burning also affects the soil’s fertility. Burning one tonne of straw accounts for loss of 5.5kg nitrogen, 2.3kg phosphorus, 25kg potassium and 1.2kg sulphur. Heat from burning straw penetrate into the soil up to 1 cm. Repeated burning permanently diminishes the bacterial population by more than 50% according to an analysis by Centre for Sustainable Agriculture.Centre under its in-situ management of crop residue scheme has allocated Rs 1,151.80 crore for subsidising straw management machinery from 2018-19 to 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-fires-set-to-continue-as-subsidy-may-not-encourage-shift-to-tech/story-2NjHD8p7eBmURKK5DimsuL.html
28-09-2020||India||Jagan govt launches scheme to drill borewells free of cost for farmers||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday launched yet another welfare scheme of sinking agriculture borewells for small and marginal farmers belonging to arid and upland areas of the state free of cost.Named as YSR Jala Kala, more than three lakh borewells would be drilled at a cost of Rs 2,340 crore in 144 rural assembly constituencies and 19 semi-urban assembly in a span of four years. “The scheme would benefit around two lakh farmers and bring an additional five lakh acres into cultivation,” chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said, after launching the scheme through video conferencing from his camp office at Tadepalli.He said the drilling of borewells would be on the basis of the feasibility report given after the hydro-geological and geo-physical surveys. The farmers can also avail a second chance, in case of a failure to draw water in the first attempt. “All the eligible farmers can avail of this initiative by applying either online or through the village secretariats and the status of their application can be monitored at every stage,” Jagan said.He said all these borewells would also be provided with motors free of cost. This would cause an additional burden of Rs 1,600 crore on the state exchequer.Referring to the recent decision of the state government of installing meters for all agricultural power connections in the state, the chief minister said the meters would cause no burden on the farmers. “They are meant only for collecting data on the actual consumption of power and measure the load on feeders. It will help the government bring in transparency into the system. The amount billed for the power consumed by the farmers would be transferred into their bank accounts directly and they could, in turn, pay the same to power distribution companies,” he said.Jagan said in order to sustain the free agriculture power supply scheme for at least another 30 years, a 10,000 MW solar energy plan was coming up in the private sector. “The free farm power supply scheme was launched by my father late YS Rajasekhara Reddy and it would be continued forever,” he said.Describing his government as farmer-friendly, Jagan said the government had already introduced Rythu Bharosa Kendras to facilitate farmers with seeds, fertilisers, and also being developed as warehouses and crop procurement centres. The government is also providing Rs 13,500 every year for farmers under Rythu Bharosa, he said.Panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister for roads and buildings M Sankara Narayana, district collectors and representatives of farmers took part in the programme.Opposition Telugu Desam Party described YSR Jala Kala scheme as bogus and a fraud being played on the farmers by the Jagan government. “The government is already cheating the farmers in the name of installation of meters to agriculture pump sets which is only a plan to deprive them of free power supply,” senior TDP leader and former minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said.He alleged that the installation of meters for farm power connections would cause an additional burden of over Rs 4,000 crore on tax payers and now, the government wants to spend another Rs 2,340 crore in the name of drilling new borewells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-launches-scheme-to-drill-borewells-free-of-cost-for-farmers/story-mttsQKYgGTaG4IAikJ4YKL.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi reaches out to farmers amid anger||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday came out strongly in defence of the three contentious farm bills enacted by his government, saying the legislation would benefit both farmers by giving them the freedom to choose where they wanted to sell their produce as well as consumers by taking middlemen out of agricultural trading.Amid protests by some farmers groups against the legislation, Modi said in his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, that farmers had benefitted when fruits and vegetables were brought out of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) system in some states a few years ago, allowing them to sell the produce outside of the mandis that once functioned as monopolies. Grain producers will now gain the same freedom, the prime minister said, illustrating the theme with examples from states. The speech came a day after the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost its Punjab ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, which walked out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) after protesting against the new laws. SAD had pulled its lone representative in the Modi government, food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, from the cabinet on September 17. Modi cited the example of a farmer, Kanwar Chauhan, in Haryana’s Sonipat district,who told him about how he could not sell his fruits outside the mandi system at one time. In 2014, fruits and vegetables were excluded from the APMC Act and the farmers benefitted from the move.Farmers like Chauhan produce sweet corn and baby corn and supply the produce directly to Delhi market and earn Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per acre per year. Also read: On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi focuses on storytelling; hails passage of farm bills“What is different that these farmers have? They have the strength to sell their produce where they wish. Now the other farmers of the country have also got this strength. They have got the freedom to sell their produce, not just vegetables and fruits, where they want to,” Modi said.Modi also referred to a group of farmers in Maharashtra who sold their produce directly to consumers. He also alluded to Theni district of Tamil Nadu where farmers had formed a group that would buy vegetables from the members of their community and sell them elsewhere in Tamil Nadu.“This benefitted not just the farmers but also the consumers by excluding the middlemen,” said the prime minister.Modi referred to similar groups in Lucknow, Manipur and Banaskantha. He said a farmer, Ismail Bhai, grew potato in Gujarat which he is selling directly to food companies and earning well.The PM’s monthly radio address came as President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday signed into law the three contentious farm bills, which the government says will widen market access to farmers and which opposition parties say are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly.The three bills — the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 — have become acts of law with the President’s signature .The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. And the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.The government, which has said that these laws will make farmers self-reliant, has notified them. More than a dozen opposition parties had urged President Kovind not to sign the contentious bills, alleging that they were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms. Opposition parties and farmers groups have expressed concern that the new laws could pave way for an end of the minimum support price (MSP) regime. The PM recalled landmark events that will be observed in the coming days, including the Bhagat Singh Jayanti on Monday, the birth anniversary of Mahatama Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on October 2. He took a swipe at the Congress party, saying that f the essence of Mahatma Gandhi’s economic philosophy was followed by successive governments, there would not have been any need for the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) campaign his government has launched because India would have become self-reliant much earlier.He said the farm sector is playing a major role in efforts to build a self-reliant India. Modi paid a tribute to farmers. “In this difficult time affected by Covid-19, the farm sector has shown its strength,” he said, adding that the stronger it is, the stronger will be the foundation of a self-reliant India.The Congress, meanwhile, likened the laws to cancer and slow poison that will kill farmers and agriculture. At a joint virtual press conference, Congress’s Haryana chief Kumari Selja and Punjab president Sunil Jakhar urged all parties to come together and oppose the farm Bills, which they said will make farmers “slaves of big businessmen”.Selja and Jakhar said NDA allies should support the opposition, the same way they extended support against the Land Acquisition Bill, which the BJP-led Union government was forced to withdraw.On the Shiromani Akali Dal’s exit from the NDA, Jakhar said the party did not quit the ruling coalition on its own. It was forced to do so by farmers, who made it difficult for the Akalis to enter Punjab without doing so, he said.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also termed the Akali Dal’s decision to quit the NDA as a case of “political compulsion” for the Badals, who were left with no other option after the BJP’s public criticism over the farm bills.Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday congratulated the leadership of SAD for its decision to quit the NDA. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the decision to snap ties with the NDA on Saturday night amid farmers protests in Punjab.“Congratulations to Shri Sukhbir Badal, president of Akali Dal and the party MP Harsimrat Badal who under the leadership of Prakash Singh Badal pulled out of the NDA in protest against the farmers Bills. Thanks for firmly standing with the farmers!” Pawar tweeted.With SAD’s exit, the BJP has lost its by far two most dependable and ideologically bound allies within a year. Last year, the BJP lost the support of the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, where the Sena formed a government with the NCP and the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-reaches-out-to-farmers-amid-anger/story-1MHpfr7HzKsR58EBVb00NP.html
