29-09-2020||India||‘Source of black money blocked’: PM shreds Opposition on farm law protests||They are insulting farmers by setting fire to the very equipment he worships, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, launching a full-blooded defence of the farm laws and hitting out at the opposition a day after members of the Punjab unit of Youth Congress set a tractor on fire at Rajpath near the India Gate lawns in the heart of Delhi. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, are continuing to protest the new laws, fearing deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful corporate agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. The reforms have cost the Bharatiya Janata Party one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal, which has quit the ruling alliance.PM Modi accused the opposition of being against the independence of farmers, noting that it has become a habit of these people to oppose everything that is happening for the country. It is the only way they can practise their politics, said the PM.Also Watch l ‘They are not with farmers, youth or jawans’: PM Modi’s attack at opposition “A few days ago with the new laws, the country has freed its farmers from many shackles. Now the farmer can sell his produce to anyone, anywhere. But today, even when the central government is giving the farmers their rights, these people have come down to protest and are opposing the independence of the farmer. These people are now humiliating the farmers by setting fire to the goods and equipment that the farmer worships,” said the PM while launching six mega projects in Uttarakhand through video conferencing. The government’s new farm laws have become contentious for two reasons: one, they do not guarantee acquisition of farm produce at the minimum support price (at least, not in letter); and two, the manner in which they were pushed through, by a dubious voice vote, ignoring calls for parliamentary oversight, even voting.The Opposition parties are protesting, the PM said, as “another means for earning black money has been blocked”, by implementing the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission - with farmers getting the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops and doing away with middlemen. “A party whose four generations of a family ruled the country, today wants to prove their selfishness by climbing on the shoulders of others, opposing all initiatives related to the national interest,” he said. PM Modi said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, the country has seen a boom in Digital India campaign, “with even the poor using Jan Dhan bank accounts, using RuPay card and making digital transactions”. “When our government started this work, these people were opposing it and have always opposed the opening of the bank account of the poor of the country,” he said Spotlighting another instance, the PM raised the issue of protests by Opposition parties against Good and Services Tax and against the central government’s initiatives like One Rank One Pension scheme. “Since the implementation of One Rank-One Pension, the government has given about Rs 11,000 crore as arrears to ex-servicemen. Here in Uttarakhand, more than one lakh ex-servicemen have benefited from this. But these people (opposition parties) were always against the introduction of One Rank One Pension,” said Modi. The PM said that the Opposition parties even protested against introduction of Rafale Jets into the Indian Air Force, which has been done to strengthen the security forces. “Four years ago, our jawans carried out the surgical strikes and destroyed the bases of terror. But instead of praising the courage of our security personnel, the Opposition was asking for evidence of surgical strikes. It has become a habit of these people to oppose everything that is happening for the country. The only way of politics they know now is opposition,” added the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/source-of-black-money-blocked-pm-shreds-opposition-on-farm-law-protests/story-GvM4TEmGVAsgAnsrGhYKnN.html
29-09-2020||India||Farmers, agri sector exempted from seeking permit for groundwater use||The Centre has notified new guidelines for groundwater use in the country, prescribing a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on industrial and commercial users who extract it without permission, but exempting farmers and the agriculture sector, the largest users of groundwater, from the requirement of a no-objection certificate or penalties for drawing water up to a limit.An environmental compensation of Rs 1 lakh on industrial, mining and infrastructure users for extracting water illegally could be increased depending on the quantum of illegally extracted water, states the new notification issued by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) under the Jal Shakti ministry on September 24. Also read: Rules go up in smoke as farm fires rage in PunjabFor industries, the new guidelines state that a no-objection certificate shall be granted “only in such cases where local government water supply agencies are not able to supply the desired quantity of water”. All industries will be required to adopt “latest water efficient” technologies to “reduce dependence on groundwater resources”, guidelines in the fresh notification state. The revised guidelines, which will apply across India, however, state that rural drinking water schemes, armed forces, agriculture activities, and small enterprises will not require any prior permission for groundwater use. Agriculture consumes nearly 90% of all water resources in the country. According to the think-tank Niti Aayog report in 2017, groundwater accounts for 63% of all irrigation water and over 80% of the rural and urban household water supplies. Yet, the Centre’s new guidelines say that regulating water use in agriculture “will prove to be an arduous task” given that the sector is the backbone of the Indian economy. Also read| Paddy procurement begins early: Farmers, arhtiyas in Ambala allege absence of arrangements in mandisThe guidelines state that according to the country’s minor irrigation census 2013-14, 87.86% of groundwater wells are owned by marginal, small and semi-medium farmers having land holding up to four hectares. Around 9.18 % of wells are owned by medium farmers having land holding of 4-10 hectares and 2.96% of the wells are owned by big farmers having land holding more than 10 hectares. Although the new rules exempt farmers from the requirement of prior permission from the CGWA for groundwater extraction, it highlights free electricity for farmers as the main reason for over-extraction of groundwater. The guidelines advise states to “review their free/subsidised electricity policy to farmers”, “bring suitable water pricing policy and may work further towards crop rotation/diversification/other initiatives” to reduce over-dependence on groundwater. Also read: BJP plans farm outreach to counter Oppn’s driveIn December, the government launched the Atal Jal Yojana scheme to conserve groundwater in seven states facing the biggest declines in aquifer levels mainly due to over-extraction for water-intensive crops. These are Maharashtra, Haryana, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. “Some states like Punjab have started to adopt policies to reduce agriculture’s dependence on groundwater but they are yet to be adopted by a large number of farmers,” said Ashok Desai of the Natural Resources Institute, Pune. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has come up with a new scheme of direct benefit transfer for electricity to agricultural consumers. Under the “Paani Bacho, Paise Kamao” (save water, earn money) scheme, farmers will get Rs 4 as direct benefit for each unit of electricity saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-agri-sector-exempted-from-seeking-permit-for-groundwater-use/story-bVBEAMgHFDMIXJlTkLhLEI.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Protest against farm bills: Abhay Chautala slams unavailable Sonepat DC||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Chautala on Tuesday lambasted Sonepat deputy commissioner for not being present when the leader reached his office to submit a memorandum against the three farm laws.The Ellenabad legislator alleged that Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia and other administrative officials concerned left the office when their delegation visited the DC’s office.“The DC excused himself on the pretext of ‘field work’ when our delegation reached his office to submit a memorandum against the three farm laws. In OP Chautala’s regime, officials will have to visit villages to solve peoples’ grievances,” he said.“The BJP-JJP government is against farmers and has introduced the farm laws to destroy the farming community,” he said. Abhay urged party workers to start canvassing for the Baroda bypoll. “People want to elect our nominee to save the state from the Congress and BJP-JJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/protest-against-farm-bills-abhay-chautala-slams-unavailable-sonepat-dc/story-ix6CZxxVEa6U5fwWnfjN8K.html
29-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Protesters set tractor on fire near India Gate, five arrested||In a security breach, a group of men claiming to be members of the Punjab unit of Youth Congress set a tractor on fire at Rajpath near the India Gate lawns on Monday morning in support of the farmers’ agitation against laws enacted by the central government that they claim will undermine the agricultural sector.The police arrested five people and a search is underway for others. No one was injured in the incident.Police said the incident took place around 7.30am when a group of 20-25 men arrived at Rajpath in different vehicles and a truck, on which the tractor was laden.Also read: Punjab set to move SC on farm laws as stir intensifiesWitnesses and passersby told the police that the men pushed the tractor out of the truck and set it on fire as it turned over.“According to people who were present there, the men chanted slogans like Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Bhagat Singh Amar Rahein in support of the farmers’ agitation and were also carrying effigies, which they hung onto the street light poles. They then went live on social media and clicked group pictures with the burning tractor,” said a police officer.Soon after, a police patrol vehicle arrived at the scene. “Seeing the police, the men who had set the tractor on fire fled. Backup was called and other police vehicles in the area were alerted. Later, the fire was doused and five of the men arrested. The charred remains of the tractor was removed from the road,” said the police officer.A video of the group setting the tractor on fire was widely circulated on social media. Some policemen who had reached the spot were also seen standing near the tractor that was on fire.Police said all arrested men are from Punjab. They were identified as Manjot Singh, 36, Sahib, 28, and Sumit Pal, 28, from Mohali, Raman Deep Singh Sindhu, 28, from Mansa and Rahul Kumar, 28, from Ludhiana. “We had pooled in money to get the tractor. This was a symbolic protest to send a loud and clear message to the government at the Centre that they should talk to farmers,” said Brinder Singh Dhillon, president of the Punjab Youth Congress. “They (Centre) have not just trampled upon the federal structure, but these three legislations will also destroy the farmers of my state,” he added Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said his men had reached the spot in time and the fire was contained before the tractor was completely gutted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-protesters-set-tractor-on-fire-near-india-gate-five-arrested/story-aNokwhcVPBdCpCegZCfaEI.html
29-09-2020||India||On new farm laws, Rahul Gandhi holds ‘Kisaan Ki Baat’ with farmers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday interacted with farmers from across the country on Centre’s three contentious farm laws. The farmers told Gandhi that the laws were ‘black laws’, saying they were being ‘exploited.’The interaction, which took place virtually, was called ‘Kisaan Ki Baat.’ Ten farmers from states like Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, Maharashtra and Delhi participated in it.Gandhi’s first question to farmers was how will the laws harm them. Replying to this, Dhirendra Kumar from Bihar said, “These laws are totally black laws. Poor and farmers are being exploited, Farmers are being forced to commit suicide.”The former Congress president then asked why farmers were apprehensive Minimum Support Price (MSP) will be withdrawn. Calling it nothing but ‘jumlebaji,’ Sunil Singh from Punjab said the government was cheating farmers.What’s worst thing about these laws, Gandhi next questioned farmers to which Rakesh Jakhar from Haryana said the laws have been framed to finish off the farmers.“I’m more scared of these laws than coronavirus. I’m scared my land will not be in the name of my next generation,” Gajanan Kashinath from Maharashtra said.“The first big fight I fought was on land acquisition,” Gandhi said, referring to his arrest in Bhatta Parsaul in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida in 2011. He further said the media attacked him but he was able to face it.Gandhi ended the interaction by saying there was no difference between the three farm laws and demonetisation and Goods and Service Tax (GST). The bills, he said, were like a ‘stab in the heart.’ He further said he was absolutely clear that protests against farm laws were needed, adding that once again, farmers’ voice will take India to a new freedom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-new-farm-laws-rahul-gandhi-holds-kisaan-ki-baat-with-farmers/story-HRKdvEJEXUK6YBzjHSMw7J.html
29-09-2020||India||Farmers, agri sector exempted from seeking permit for groundwater use||The Centre has notified new guidelines for groundwater use in the country, prescribing a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on industrial and commercial users who extract it without permission, but exempting farmers and the agriculture sector, the largest users of groundwater, from the requirement of a no-objection certificate or penalties for drawing water up to a limit.An environmental compensation of Rs 1 lakh on industrial, mining and infrastructure users for extracting water illegally could be increased depending on the quantum of illegally extracted water, states the new notification issued by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) under the Jal Shakti ministry on September 24. Also read: Rules go up in smoke as farm fires rage in PunjabFor industries, the new guidelines state that a no-objection certificate shall be granted “only in such cases where local government water supply agencies are not able to supply the desired quantity of water”. All industries will be required to adopt “latest water efficient” technologies to “reduce dependence on groundwater resources”, guidelines in the fresh notification state. The revised guidelines, which will apply across India, however, state that rural drinking water schemes, armed forces, agriculture activities, and small enterprises will not require any prior permission for groundwater use. Agriculture consumes nearly 90% of all water resources in the country. According to the think-tank Niti Aayog report in 2017, groundwater accounts for 63% of all irrigation water and over 80% of the rural and urban household water supplies. Yet, the Centre’s new guidelines say that regulating water use in agriculture “will prove to be an arduous task” given that the sector is the backbone of the Indian economy. Also read| Paddy procurement begins early: Farmers, arhtiyas in Ambala allege absence of arrangements in mandisThe guidelines state that according to the country’s minor irrigation census 2013-14, 87.86% of groundwater wells are owned by marginal, small and semi-medium farmers having land holding up to four hectares. Around 9.18 % of wells are owned by medium farmers having land holding of 4-10 hectares and 2.96% of the wells are owned by big farmers having land holding more than 10 hectares. Although the new rules exempt farmers from the requirement of prior permission from the CGWA for groundwater extraction, it highlights free electricity for farmers as the main reason for over-extraction of groundwater. The guidelines advise states to “review their free/subsidised electricity policy to farmers”, “bring suitable water pricing policy and may work further towards crop rotation/diversification/other initiatives” to reduce over-dependence on groundwater. Also read: BJP plans farm outreach to counter Oppn’s driveIn December, the government launched the Atal Jal Yojana scheme to conserve groundwater in seven states facing the biggest declines in aquifer levels mainly due to over-extraction for water-intensive crops. These are Maharashtra, Haryana, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. “Some states like Punjab have started to adopt policies to reduce agriculture’s dependence on groundwater but they are yet to be adopted by a large number of farmers,” said Ashok Desai of the Natural Resources Institute, Pune. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has come up with a new scheme of direct benefit transfer for electricity to agricultural consumers. Under the “Paani Bacho, Paise Kamao” (save water, earn money) scheme, farmers will get Rs 4 as direct benefit for each unit of electricity saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-agri-sector-exempted-from-seeking-permit-for-groundwater-use/story-bVBEAMgHFDMIXJlTkLhLEI.html
29-09-2020||India||Congress states look to bypass new farm laws||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday advised party-ruled states to explore the possibilities of passing legislation under Article 254(2) of the Constitution to negate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government’s “anti-agricultural laws” and prevent “grave injustice” from being done to farmers. The opposition party is citing the BJP government’s move in 2015, when it asked party-ruled states to bring their own laws to override the Land Acquisition Act of 2013 passed during the tenure of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) to boost infrastructure development. Also read: BJP plans farm outreach to counter Oppn’s drive“Congress president has advised Congress ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to negate the anti-agriculture central laws encroaching upon state’s jurisdiction under the Constitution,” Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal said in a statement. “This would enable the states to bypass the unacceptable anti-farmers’ provisions in the three draconian Agricultural laws including the abolition of MSP and disruption of APMCs in Congress-ruled states,” he added. Also read| Farm bills: Protesters set tractor on fire near India Gate, five arrestedThe party is in power in three states, Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, and the Union territory of Puducherry. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed three bills to deregulate agricultural trade, which were passed controversially by Parliament, overriding demands by the Opposition for greater scrutiny and voting. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the bills out of concern that deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. The reforms have cost the BJP one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which has quit the ruling National Democratic Alliance. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 seek to liberalise farm trade, enable modern supply chains, allow agribusinesses and farmers to enter into contracts, break interlocked markets and create a seamless commodities trade, currently fragmented.  The main provisions of the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 allow barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of primary agricultural commodities, bypassing notified markets under the Agricultural Produce Market Committees. The bill will enable food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, rather than bind them to the specific markets where they are licensed to operate. Earlier in the day, former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “As FM Arun Jaitley got states to resort to Article 254(2) of the Constitution to override provisions of 2013 Land Acquisition law, a law he’d fully supported as LoP {leader of the opposition} in RS {Rajya Sabha}. States should now follow the same advice to undo the damage caused by the #FarmBills that have become Acts.” Many BJP-ruled states, including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Jharkhand had in 2015 expressed their desire to have their own laws to override the Land Acquisition Act of 2013 to enable them to move fast on infrastructure development. None of these states subsequently went ahead to draft their own laws. The Article 254(2) states: “Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that State: Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the State.” Before coming out with the advisory, the Congress held internal consultations with leaders including Abhishek Manu Singhvi, a lawyer, to explore possible legal recourses for farm bills. Singhvi told the party to ask state governments to pass their own farm bills to negate the clauses of the Centre’s legislation. While there’s is little chance that the bills would be approved by the President, Congress strategists feel such a move by states administered by the party would send a good political signal. Singhvi also pointed to Jaitley’s legal arguments on the proposed amendments to the UPA-era land bills and said the Congress should highlight what he had said at that time to turn the tables on the NDA. Senior Supreme Court advocate Sanjay Hegde said in the concurrent list. the state legislation operates to the extent that it is not in conflict with the central legislation. “The possibility exists where there is both a state and a central legislation. But when it comes to the question of prevailing, the central legislation prevails. At times, the very presence of a central legislation can negate the state’s ability to legislate. In the concurrent list, both Centre and state have competence to legislate but in the event of any ambiguity or overlap, the Centre prevails,” he added. BJP’s national spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal said the APMC act and the local mandis are already within the domain of the state laws under the Constitution, and the Centre has no power to repeal them. “They will continue as it is. So, what law does Soniaji wants to pass is not clear. Secondly, MSP is declared by the Centre every year on different commodities on the recommendations of the CACP, (which has representatives from the farmer’s community) as an administrative order, Central government has already announced MSP for the current year, in parliament,” he said. He said the procurement has to be done by respective state governments through the local mandis, so the ball for procurement is already in the court of the states....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-states-look-to-bypass-new-farm-laws/story-KXBd1CrFgKqUKPAtkNvFtN.html
29-09-2020||India||BJP plans farm outreach to counter Oppn’s drive||To counter the opposition’s campaign against farm laws enacted by the central government, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning an outreach to farmers that will include door-to-door Atmanirbhar Kisan (Self-Reliance Farmers) campaigns in rural India, public rallies, press conferences and social media broadcasts.The initiative is aimed at what the BJP thinks is opposition propaganda based on “false and absurd” notions of the Narendra Modi government’s agricultural reforms, which it says will liberalise farm trade, enable farmers to earn more remunerative prices by selling their produce anywhere and benefit consumers by excluding middlemen.In a letter to party MPs and top leaders, a copy of which has been seen by HT, BJP’s national general secretary Arun Singh said the historic farm laws passed by Parliament had freed farmers from the clutches of middlemen. Singh said that these reforms, along with earlier measures like soil health cards, crop insurance and increases in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) would all help in doubling the income of farmers.Also read| Farm bills: Protesters set tractor on fire near India Gate, five arrested“The opposition parties are spreading false and absurd rumours about it in their ulterior political motive,” Singh said in the letter. Singh added that MSPs, government procurement and Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) will continue to exist while farmers gain wider market access.On the directions of party chief J P Nadda and in a bid to dispel the concerns of farmers, the BJP has planned the mass awareness programme on the new legislation, which will be implemented in line with health protocols imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, the letter said.  Among the activities planned are: door-to-door contact in the villages, public rallies in rural areas, seminars in every district, discussions with farming communities and agricultural bodies and also press conferences.The party is also likely to encourage people to write appreciation or felicitation letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar for introducing the legislations. In addition, the BJP has also decided to take on its adversaries on social media turf.Also read| Oppn creating row over issues not in the laws: Gajendra ShekhawatThe party has asked all its state leaders as well as its Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha MPs to chalk out programmes in the next two weeks as part of the campaign.The three bills - the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have become acts after President Ram Nath Kovind signed them into law.Farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the legislation, which the government says will enable them to sell their produce in any market of their choice rather than limit them to government-run mandis called APMCs. The protestors say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big companies. Also read: Punjab set to move Supreme Court on farm laws as stir intensifiesThe legislation seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters and large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at pre-agreed prices. The amendment to the Essential Commodities Act will remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potato from the list of essential items and do away with the imposition of stock holding limits. Eminent political scientist Nilanjan Sircar said “On one level, it [outreach] is extraordinary, given the advantages BJP has, they feel the need to take this step, which means at some level, their internal matrix are showing that the protest and the opposition are causing some problems on the ground for their popularity. I think the BJP has shown that it has the ability to change the narrative quite quickly”. He, however, added that it is not easy to convince people on a subject about which they already know a lot and that too from direct experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-farm-outreach-to-counter-oppn-s-drive/story-hKWSSn05PYm6UXCZ6fsa0I.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Stubble burning: Farmers not using straw managing machines to face criminal cases, Rs50,000 to Rs1 lakh fines||Farmers using combine harvesters for paddy without a Super Straw Management System (SMS) will be slapped with a fine of Rs. 50,000 and face criminal proceedings, the district administration announced on Tuesday to check stubble burning and its resultant air pollution. Dry heaps of residue are left behind after combine harvester machines cut the crops, which have to be cleared for the next sowing. Most farmers then use the cheapest way to dispose this by burning. SMS attachments chop the leftover stalks and spread the residue as mulch and plant seeds. Those not using the attachments with the harvesters will be charged under provisions of the Air (Pollution and Prevention) Act, 1981, and pay compensation or fine for harming the environment. “The district administration is working hard to prevent stubble burning. An awareness drive on the issue is continuing. Despite repeated warnings, punitive action will be taken against those who violate the directions of the state government,” said Girish Dayalan, Mohali’s deputy commissioner. Fines of Rs 50,000 will be charged for first time violation, Rs. 75,000 for the second violation and Rs 1 lakh the third time. Dayalan said nodal officers and district pollution control officers would keep an eye on stubble burning activities and those not following orders will have to pay fines ranging from Rs 2,500 to Rs 15,000. Authorities in the district agriculture department and Pollution Control Board have also appealed to farmers, combine owners and operators not to set fire to stubble after harvesting paddy. All support has been promised by the administration to the department and the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stubble-burning-farmers-not-using-straw-managing-machines-to-face-criminal-cases-rs50-000-to-rs1-lakh-fines/story-2p3lFXtBsqVkgOhzzzvnhP.html
