30-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra stays August order issued for implementation of farm reform laws||The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government on Wednesday rescinded a notification issued in August for the implemention of the contentious farm ordinances, which were replaced by three laws passed in Parliament this month. The move came after the coalition’s key ally, the Congress, threatened to boycott a state Cabinet meeting later in the day if this was not done. The notification dated August 10 directed local authorities governing Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees to implement the three central farm ordinances issued in June. Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition case verdict: Shiv Sena welcomes acquittalThe Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) representatives were likely to raise the issue of the implementation of the newly-enacted farm laws at the Cabinet meeting. The two parties have opposed the laws as “anti-farmer” and their implementation in the state. The Maharashtra government is yet to take a decision over implementing the laws. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Monday advised the states ruled by her party to explore the possibilities of legislation under the Constitution’s Article 254(2) to negate the “anti-agricultural laws” and to prevent the “grave injustice” being done to farmers. The Congress is in power in Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, and Puducherry. It is part of coalition governments in Maharashtra and Jharkhand. The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed three farm bills to deregulate agricultural trade. They were passed controversially in Parliament, overriding demands for greater scrutiny and voting. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.2 million mark with 80,472 fresh cases, 1,179 new fatalitiesBig farmers’ groups are protesting against the laws saying the deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in a weaker negotiating position than before. Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar last week said the farm laws will not be implemented in Maharashtra. Revenue minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said all the ruling parties are against the laws and the decision on not implementing them in the state will be taken collectively after due deliberation. The Congress has organised #SpeakUpForFarmers on social media to garner support against the laws. It also held a virtual farmer rally and gathered signatures from 10 million farmers opposing the laws. A delegation of Congress leaders met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari demanding the withdrawal of the legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-stays-august-order-issued-for-implementation-of-farm-reform-laws/story-nZwE88mPz3ryY5rYReejhK.html
30-09-2020||India||Political tussle over new farm laws heats up||Political slugfest over the new farm laws intensified on Tuesday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the protesting opposition parties of “opposing farmers’ independence”, while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the laws were a “stab in the farmers’ hearts”.Accusing the opposition of working against farmers’ interests, the prime minister said, “A few days ago with the new laws, the country has freed its farmers from many shackles. Now a farmer can sell his produce to anyone, anywhere. But today, even when the central government is giving the farmers their rights, these people [opposition parties] have come down to protest and are opposing the independence of the farmer.”  Referring to Monday’s incident when members of the Punjab unit of Youth Congress set a tractor on fire at near the India Gate lawns in New Delhi , he said, “These people are now humiliating the farmers by setting fire to the goods and equipment that the farmer worships.”Modi was inaugurating six sewage treatment plants in Uttarakhand under Namami Gange via video conferencing.The three bills - the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have become acts after President Ram Nath Kovind signed them into law.Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in his video interaction with a group of farmers from across the country, said, “The new farm laws will promote an East India company-like culture. This time, a West India company has come in. There is no difference between GST [Goods and Services Tax], noteban and these three laws. The only difference is that this is directly stabbing your heart with a knife. But I have clarity in my mind that these have to be opposed. Not for farmers, but for the future of India.”The Congress has launched a nationwide agitation against the farm laws and Gandhi too is expected to join the famers’ protest in Punjab later this week.West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee,too, hit out at the Centre saying that this legislation would devastate the farmers of the country and help the hoarders. “The farm laws will devastate the farmers of the country. It will only help the hoarders.”Farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the legislation, which the government says will enable them to sell their produce in any market of their choice rather than limit them to government-run mandis called APMCs. The protestors say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big companies.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has walked out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the centre to protest against the farm legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-tussle-over-new-farm-laws-heats-up/story-wEi8XbF8owy4Rjc64h1xYM.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Four Youth Congress office holders among five more held for burning tractor at India Gate||The Delhi Police has arrested five more people, including the Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon, who had allegedly led the group that had set afire a tractor at India Gate on Monday morning. On Monday, around 7.30 am, Dhillon and 20-25 others had set a tractor on fire at Rajpath near India Gate lawns in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the newly passed farm laws. The police on Tuesday also wrote to Punjab Police, demanding action against four Punjab Police personnel who had allegedly escorted the group of protesters to India Gate on Monday morning.Police said of the five men arrested on Tuesday, four are affiliated with the Youth Congress. Apart from Dhillon, who was arrested from a luxury hotel in Delhi, the others were identified as Harish Panwar, national general secretary of All India Youth Congress; Abraham Roy Mani, national general secretary of the All India Youth Congress; and Bunty Shelke, secretary of the All India Youth Congress, who is also in charge of Punjab Youth Congress.Police also arrested a driver, Omprakash, a resident of Pathankot, who had come to Delhi with the other protesters.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said police received information that Dhillon was staying at a city hotel. “We sent our team there and he was arrested. Based on the information he gave, the other three Youth Congress members were arrested from different parts of the city. They have all been charged under Section 3 of the Epidemic Act, 51(B) Disaster Management Act, Section 4 of the Damage to Public Property Act, and under relevant Indian Penal Code sections for creating mischief by fire, and obstructing public way, among others.Singhal confirmed that the Delhi Police has also written to Punjab Police on Tuesday, demanding disciplinary action against four policemen who had escorted Dhillon and others in uniform up to India Gate. Punjab Youth Congress vice president Gurjot Singh Dhindsa said they have no regrets and are ready to face any legal action. “We are fighting for the rights of Punjab farmers. Another protest is being planned Delhi but I cannot share details,” he said.Police said the group was not stopped by any policemen as they were accompanied by policemen and, hence, could successfully reach Rajpath, where the tractor was set afire.Police had arrested five men on Monday. The men had even raised slogans of ‘Jai jawan jai kisan’ and ‘Bhagat Singh amar rahein’ in support of the farmers’ agitation . The protesters went live on social media and clicked group pictures alongside the burning tractor. They were also carrying a picture of Bhagat Singh, police said.Following the incident, the Delhi Police has stepped up security in and around India Gate. The police have also tightened security across the city’s borders last week, amid the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab and Haryana against the newly passed farm bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-youth-congress-office-holders-among-five-more-held-for-burning-tractor-at-india-gate/story-dUKLBU7CrEa79LJhyRxyTN.html
