05-02-2021||Bathinda||Man lathicharged in Delhi treated for free in Bathinda||In solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation, a private hospital in Bathinda treated Jagseer Singh, who was injured while participating in the “tractor parade” on Republic Day in Delhi, for free.Jagseer, 32, hails from Pandher village in Barnala district and his photos had gone viral on the social media recently. Talking to The Tribune, neurosurgeon Dr Sorabh Gupta said: “After I came to know from my staff members that Jagseer is the same guy who was injured while participating in the tractor parade, we decided not to charge him for the treatment. At least this much we can do for the farmers of the state who have been protesting unrelentingly for their just cause. We also learnt that Jagseer comes from a financially deprived family so we decided to treat him for free.”Jagseer said: “I am grateful to the doctors and staff who not only took good care of me but also didn’t charge me for the treatment. Initially they did charge some money, but as soon as they found out, they treated me for free. I am deeply touched with the empathy shown by them and we all should learn from such noble gestures.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/man-lathicharged-in-delhi-treated-for-free-in-bathinda-208042
05-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda artist highlights farmers’ plight on canvas||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 3An artist from Bathinda, Gurpreet Artist, has made around 60 paintings in support of farmers and against farm laws. Gurpreet has made paintings that show that the three legislations would “crush farmers”. His two latest paintings on a journalist and a BKU leader have been liked by many on the social media.He has also made humorous paintings on the tussle between singer Diljit Dosanjh and actor Kangana Ranaut. From day one of the farmers’ agitation, he has been making paintings on various issues like farmers moving from Punjab and reaching Delhi after braving water cannons, tear gas shells and crossing various barricades in Haryana.He says, “I use paint and brush to highlight social issues. Art is a visual medium and it has power. I feel as if due to the effort of social media and art, people have started getting attached to the farmers’ cause.” He has made a painting on farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, too. He says, “Rakesh Tikait’s tears lifted the spirit of the agitation.” Apart from painting, Gurpreet has spearheaded and organised protests and marches in support of the farmers.He said he had spent around 20 days at Tikri and Singhu borders. He also held an exhibition of his paintings at the Singhu border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-artist-highlights-farmers-plight-on-canvas-207644
