08-02-2021||Bathinda||Will resolve waterlogging issue in Bathinda: FM||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today said Punjab was the frontrunner for a pharmaceutical park, which would be set up in Bathinda by the Union Government and this would be a game-changer for the economy of the state.Talking to The Tribune, Manpreet hit out at the Centre alleging that it was punishing Punjab over the farmers’ stir by withholding the rural development fund (RDF) to the tune of Rs 800 crore.Manpreet is actively campaigning for his party candidates for the Bathinda MC poll. He said, “Major issues that we are already working on are drainage and waterlogging in the city. We had identified three points — Power House Road, Kamla Nehru Colony and Sirki Bazaar — which were prone to waterlogging during rains. New pipes have been laid and soon, people will get relief from the waterlogging issue.”Addressing a public meeting, he said, “For three years, the SAD was in power in Bathinda MC but it blocked development works by not giving approval to the projects, so it is important that we have a Congress Mayor in the Bathinda MC this time.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/will-resolve-waterlogging-issue-in-bathinda-fm-209404
08-02-2021||---||Free labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, demand unions||Bathinda, February 7Members of farmer unions, Khet Mazdoor Union and Association for Democratic Rights in the state have raised pitch for the release of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, who was arrested on January 12 by the Haryana Police near the Singhu border for protesting against a firm. She remains lodged in a jail in Karnal since then.Kendri Singh Sabha Extends SupportPolice deny assault chargesThe Sonepat police, meanwhile, have denied that Nodeep Kaur was assaulted by them. They alleged Nodeep and her associates had resorted to violence and attacked a police team which had gone in connection with the gheroao of the unitLawyer Meena Harris, the niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, had also recently tweeted about Nodeep’s alleged assault in the police custody and demanded her release. After Harris’ tweet, the matter has suddenly got the international attention and many other renowned figures on social media have condemned the incident and demanded her release.Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days. pic.twitter.com/Ypt2h1hWJz  Shingara Singh Mann, president, BKU (Ugrahan) Bathinda unit, said: “We condemn the arrest of Nodeep Kaur who is a fierce activist of labour class and Dalits and fights for the protection of their rights. We demand her immediate release and want strict punitive action against those who framed her.”Jora Singh Nasrali, state president, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, said: “We have extended full support to the farmers’ agitation. We condemn any sort of atrocities on the labour class or for that matter anyone. We strongly condemn the arrest of Nodeep and demand her release.”Nodeep Kaur, an advocate for Dalit & Worker rights from Punjab, was picked up by police 21 days ago for supporting farmers. She's been tortured & sexually assaulted in custody. She was denied a medical exam & bail. Calling on leaders to raise their voice for her. #FreeNodeepKaur pic.twitter.com/B96nJOV1Zl  Professor AK Maleri, state president, Association For Democratic Rights, said: “Her arrest and assault is nothing but a clear attempt at suppressing the voice of dissent.”The Sonepat police, meanwhile, have denied that Nodeep Kaur was assaulted by the police. They alleged Nodeep and her associates had resorted to violence and attacked a police team which had gone in connection with the gheroao of an industrial unit and manhandling of the staff or management by certain members of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan. They claimed seven of the police personnel, including a woman constable, sustained injuries.My Sister Nodeep Kaur has been kept in jail since January 12 and Shiv Kumar from January 23. They were tortured. Because nodeep, Shiv kumar and the worker organization have shown the courage to expose the loot of farmers and laborers.#ReleaseNodeepKaur #ReleaseShivKumar pic.twitter.com/SUztBeE7jl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/free-labour-rights-activist-nodeep-kaur-demand-unions-209405
