09-02-2021||Bathinda||Delhi influx sees liquor sales drop||Liquor sales have declined significantly in the rural areas of the Malwa region in the past two months. As per liquor contractors, the sales have dipped up to 30 per cent as compared to last year around the same period.Contractors said as farmers’ stir continuing unabated for the past two months at the Delhi borders, they had been suffering losses in the business. They said their losses, however, had mitigated to some extent on account of the crackdown by the police on the production and sale of home-made liquor post the spurious liquor tragedy in the Majha region last year.Rakesh Kumar (Happy), a liquor contractor, said: “Villages, particularly in Rampura, Bhagta, Bhucho, Bhai Rupa, Ballianwali and Nathana, and villages in the Goniana block have recorded maximum decline in liquor sales. If on an average even the smallest of vends were fetching Rs 10,000 profit, it has come down to Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 now. People from all age groups have been visiting protest sites at Delhi borders; as a result, there is barely any activity at the liquor shops.”Javed Khan, another liquor contractor from Barnala, said, “We are two groups that operate in majority of the villages in the district but in the past two months alone, our daily sales have come down up to 25 per cent. After Covid, we were anticipating a good sale in the winter season. But with sales dwindling and stocks piling up at liquor vends in villages, we have curtailed our orders.”Ruldu Singh Mansa, president, Punjab Kisan Union, said, “It is indeed a great development from Punjab’s perspective that not just elderly and middle-aged but also youngsters in large numbers remain engaged in the agitation in Delhi. What could be more satisfactory than seeing people of the state holding fort at the Delhi borders than queuing up at liquor vends.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/delhi-influx-sees-liquor-sales-drop-209841
09-02-2021||Bathinda||Farmers' protest: Ex-sarpanch starts free taxi service to Delhi||A former sarpanch of Mehma Sarkari village in Bathinda district has announced bearing commuting charges for those interested to visit protest site at Delhi borders.Barjinder Singh Brar has hired a taxi (SUV) for the job that leaves for Delhi borders on a weekly basis. The first group of farmers left for the Tikri border on Monday. On an average, taxi service providers charge around Rs 8,000 for one round to Delhi. Many farmers travel by train, bus or tractors on a daily basis to the protest venues at the Delhi borders.Brar said, “All farmers do not have adequate resources to travel to and from Delhi. The service will facilitate their travel in a hassle-free manner.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-protest-ex-sarpanch-starts-free-taxi-service-to-delhi-209842
09-02-2021||Bathinda||BJP nominee alleges threat calls, probe on||BJP candidate from ward No. 7 and party’s Mahila Morcha district president Mamta Jolly Jain has claimed to have received threat calls on her mobile phone, prompting the police to start a probe.A complaint in this regard was filed by former BJP minister and Bathinda MC poll in-charge Manoranjan Kalia with Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk and Cantt police station SHO.The SSP directed the officials to trace the number from which the calls were made. Jolly also lodged a complaint claiming a suspicious car had been spotted in her area, but the police had failed to trace its number.SSP Virk said: “We have verified complaints by BJP candidates about threat calls, but there is a variance between the complaints and our findings. However, we have provided security to all BJP candidates. Women candidates have been given women officers.”In her complaint, Jain said: “On Sunday evening, I received three calls from a number within a span of two hours. The caller dared me to campaign in any other area outside Bharat Nagar.”She said it was sad that candidates of a national party were not being allowed their democratic right to campaign, adding political parties behind this were doing so in the name of farmers’ protest.Besides, incidents of tearing of BJP candidates’ posters, including those of Jolly’s, have been reported in Bathinda. Earlier, posters of party candidate from ward No. 27 Sareena Goyal were blackened, while posters of candidates Kachan Jindal (ward No. 29), Babita Gupta (ward No. 30) and Shama Bharti (ward No. 49) were torn. In all these incidents, women BJP candidates were targeted.BJP state secretary Sukhpal Sra has written to the State Election Commission and demanded security for party candidates, while district president Vinod Kumar Binta, who is contesting as an Independent, using his veto, has written to the SSP expressing satisfaction over the police arrangement for the poll in Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bjp-nominee-alleges-threat-calls-probe-on-209854
