16-02-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda celebrates Basant Panchmi with farmers’ agitation songs||Bathinda is celebrating Basant Panchmi with songs of farmers’ agitation. Songs like Pecha Pe Gaya Centre naal, Kisan Anthem and Ailaan were heard playing all throughout Tuesday morning.Besides this, several people were flying kites to celebrate the kite festival.  A huge crowd was seen flying kites with farmers. Slogans like “No Farmers, No Food” and “Kisan Ekta Zindabadd” were heard.A resident of Bathinda, Rupinder Singh, said: “Music is the essence of Punjabi festivals, every year they keep loudspeakers on the terrace and play the trending songs. This year, songs on farmers' agitation are trending as Kisan Anthem and Ailan as in their cars also they listen to them, due to today as well they played these songs only on the loudspeakers”.Hydrogen filled balloons were in high-demand. The skies were colourful with bright kites and balloons.Meanwhile, balloon sellers had a good-sale day. They were spotted at different junctions, selling a single balloon for Rs. 20.While buyers weren’t too happy with the price, the sellers said on routine days people barely purchase balloons, and that on such festivals, they get to sell them in large numbers.However, a seller was seriously injured with a balloon gas cylinder blast at Paras Ram Nagar on Monday late night. The victim was identified as Ram Phul of Chann Khera in Malout block in Muktsar district.On receiving information, NGO Sahara Welfare Society members Manikaran Sharma and Rajinder Kumar took the victim to the civil hospital. He is undergoing treatment, and his condition remains critical.Also, police reached the spot, and started to probe into the incident. After this, police removed balloon sellers from other places in the city as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-celebrates-basant-panchmi-with-farmers-agitation-songs-213233
16-02-2021||Moga||52-year-old protesting farmer of Moga dies||A 52-year-old farmer from Moga, who complained of heart problem because of cold weather conditions, died while getting treated in a hospital, confirmed the district administration officials, here, on Tuesday.  The deceased was identified as Jagdev Singh—son of Gopal Singh—a resident of Kotla Meher Singh Wala, sub-division Baghapurana, district Moga.Jagdev had joined the agitation a few weeks back. Soon after this, he complained of uneasiness due to high blood pressure.His companions brought him back, and got him admitted in a hospital at Bathinda where he died while getting treated on late Monday night.Jagdev was not a member or an activist of any farm or labour organisation. He was a common farmer who was protesting along with other people of his village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/52-year-old-protesting-farmer-of-moga-dies-213207
16-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Kites with farm slogans flood markets in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 15Kites with farm protest slogans like ‘kisan ekta zindabaad’ and ‘no farmer, no food’ have flooded the market ahead of Basant Panchmi.After using loudspeakers, social media and leaflets to amplify their voices of protest the three agricultural laws, farmers are now using kites for the purpose. These kites are doing brisk business in the city and are the centre of attraction for farmers and youth.Farmer Gurleen Singh of Bathinda said, “I have purchased 100 kites with farmers’ slogans because our people are fighting at the Delhi borders for the past many days. This is an innovative form of protest to spread the message as far as possible by flying these kites on Basant Panchmi.”Avneet Singh (25) said, “People our trying all kinds of peaceful means to make the voice of farmers heard. This will hopefully make more people aware of our fight.”Even miniature plastic kites are getting a good response. Available in sizes ranging from six inches to 1.5 ft by 1.5 ft, these kites are being supplied from Jaipur and come in various shapes of popular cartoon characters. On an average, a kite can be purchased for Rs 10. However, kites up to Rs 200 and above are also available in the market.Sunil Kumar, a kite seller, said “The trend of buying kites has survived through the age of electronic gadgets. The craze of flying kites will always be there. Earlier, these were available for Rs 5, but now the cost has risen to Rs 10 per piece.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/kites-with-farm-slogans-flood-markets-in-bathinda-212861
16-02-2021||---||Punters bet on Congress victory in Bathinda||Bathinda, February 15Amid allegations of bogus voting and booth capturing, punters and political experts are betting on a Congress victory in the Bathinda Municipal Corporation (MC). They also predicted majority for the Congress in the city.If this happens, then this will be the first time the Congress will get majority on its own in the Bathinda MC.Instead of the ongoing India-England cricket series, bookies are busy these days betting on the outcome of the municipal corporation polls. Though betting on elections or cricket matches is illegal in India, it is still going on here.According to punters, the Congress stands a good chance of getting majority in the Bathinda MC.Sources say heavy bets are also being placed on the number of seats the Congress, SAD and BJP are likely to win in the MC polls.Political experts too opine that the Congress is likely to do well though some wards may spring surprises.However, experts also claim that support for the Aam Aadmi Party cannot be ignored. Unlike earlier polls, the booths set up by the party were seen in all 50 wards and were abuzz with activity on the polling day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/punters-bet-on-congress-victory-in-bathinda-212864
