18-02-2021||Bathinda||Badal bastion Bathinda falls to Congress||The Congress has won the Bathinda MC poll by winning 43 of the 50 wards and is all set to have its Mayor for the first time. SAD secured its win in seven wards, while the BJP and AAP failed to open its account.In a major turnaround, PPCC secretary Tehal Singh Sandhu’s wife Manjit Kaur lost from ward No 1 with just 25 votes and even ex-deputy mayor and BJP candidate Gurinderpal Kaur Mangat lost badly with only 86 votes and remained on the fourth position.Also read: BJP loses to NOTATwo candidates got the same number of 334 votes and it was a tie between AAP’s Ranbir Singh and Independent Surjit Singh. Later, the Independent was declared winner by a toss in ward No 2 of Goniana MC.Cornered over the farm laws, the BJP performed poorly in most wards it contested in Bathinda. In ward No 24, the BJP candidate got only 22 votes out of around 3,000 polled, 61 in ward No 18 and 55 votes in ward No 21. However, BJP Bathinda urban president Vinod Kumar Binta, who contested as an Independent on tractor symbol, won by 229 votes from ward No 2 in the Bhucho MC.In CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s native Mehraj village, of the 13 seats, Congress won 10, SAD one and Independents two. In the Sangat MC poll, SAD won in 7 wards out of the 9, while the Congress won in only two. The Congress also won comfortably in Kotha Guru, Bhagta, Maluka, Bhai Rupa, Maur, Raman, Bucho Mandi, Nathana, Goniana, Kotshamir and Kotfatta municipal councils and nagar panchayat polls. While AAP was able to win three seats in Nathana, BSP won Bhai Rupa.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said, “This is a vote for the Congress. This is a vote for the people who stood up to the might of those vested interests who wish to destroy India’s agriculture and rural economy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/badal-bastion-bathinda-falls-to-congress-213845
18-02-2021||Bathinda||Jagroop Singh Gill leads Bathinda Mayor post race||Congress’ Jagroop Singh Gill has continued his winning streak for the seventh time after winning by a margin of 414 votes from ward No 48 in Bathinda.With a clear majority in the House, Gill is the front-runner and main contender for the post of Mayor in the Bathinda MC. A lawyer, Gill got elected as a councillor for the first time in 1979, then again won in 1989, 1992, 1997, 2008, 2015 and now in 2021. He had also held the posts of the Chairman of the Bathinda Improvement Trust, vice-president and president of the civic body and the president of the District Bar Association in the past. Among other ex-councillors who emerged victorious are Sham Lal Jain, Santosh Mahant and Harmandar Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/jagroop-singh-gill-leads-bathinda-mayor-post-race-213846
18-02-2021||Bathinda||Akalis deserted in stronghold||In the backdrop of agitation against the three farm laws, the ruling Congress swept the local body elections in Malwa, considered as the stronghold of the SAD. Post the alliance break-up, the BJP also performed poorly in the region.The Congress won in Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar and Ferozepur in the Malwa region. It also did well in Faridkot and other districts.In Bathinda, the home turf of former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the Congress won 43 seats while the SAD won seven out of the total 50 wards. This is the first time the Congress won a majority in the Bathinda MC. Hence, it will have its first mayor from here. The SAD managed to make a comeback only in some pockets.In Moga, the Congress failed to win a majority on its own and was able to win 20 seats while the SAD won 15, Independents 10, AAP four and BJP one.In Ferozepur, the home constituency of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, the Congress made a clean sweep and grabbed the control of the MC for the first time. It also won in all wards in Zira and Guruharshai, while the SAD was able to retain wards in Mudki.In Muktsar, out of 31 wards, the Congress won in 17, SAD 10, AAP two, BJP one and Independent one. In Malout, the Congress won in 14, SAD nine and Independents four. The Congress also did well in Sangrur district. In Longowal, out of total 15 seats, it won nine while the Independent won six seats. In Sunam, the Congress won 19 while the Independents won four seats.In Mansa, the Congress was able to win 14 seats out of the total 27, but surprisingly, many of its senior leaders lost the polls. Mansa MC former president Mandeep Singh Gora lost in ward No. 22 while senior Congress leader Manjit Singh Rama lost from ward No. 6. Similarly, the Congress was able to grab control of MCs in Faridkot district as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/akalis-deserted-in-stronghold-213850
