20-02-2021||---||AAP protests ‘bogus voting’||Bathinda, February 19AAP candidates along with party workers staged a protest at Fire Brigade Chowk in Bathinda alleging booth capturing and bogus voting by the Congress in the civic body elections held recently. They demanded that the election be cancelled. The protesting members raised slogans against the state government.Navdeep Jeeda, AAP president, Bathinda (urban), said, “Bogus voting and booth capturing took place during the MC elections under the patronage of the ruling Congress government. Our candidates were threatened and goons were brought to Bathinda to put pressure and give advantage to the ruling party.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/aap-protests-bogus-voting-214827
20-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||23 women first-timers in Bathinda MC||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 19In Bathinda, the 50-member municipal corporation (MC) will have 25 women councillors for the first time. This is because the Punjab Government had increased reservation for women in urban local bodies and panchayati raj institutions from the existing 33 per cent to 50 per cent.Due to this, 25 wards had been reserved for women in the Bathinda civic poll. Former councillors and famous political leaders of various political parties, who themselves wanted to contest the poll, were forced to field their women relatives for the election.Of the 25 women councillors, only three — Santosh Mahant and Kamlesh Mehra of the Congress and Sherry Goyal of the SAD — have been active in politics while the remaining 23 are first-timers. Kamlesh Mehra and Sherry Goyal have won for the second time from ward Nos. 49 and 7, respectively, while Santosh Mahant won for the third time from ward No. 21.In most of the wards, women fought the elections as mere dummies as their election campaigns were managed by the male members of their families.Even in the election publicity material, the pictures of their husbands or other male relatives could be seen in almost every ward.The husband of one such woman councillor said the reservation was not by choice but was forced on them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/23-women-first-timers-in-bathinda-mc-214828
20-02-2021||Bathinda||Saffron party fared poorly in its Malwa strongholds||Faced with the backlash over the three farm laws, the BJP failed even in its strong pockets in the hinterland of Malwa in the local body elections. The farmers unions are quite active in the region and staging protests against the BJP-led central government at the Delhi border and in the state as well.Draws a blankIn Abohar, too, the party failed miserably. Of the total 50 wards, Congress won 49 and SAD oneIn Ferozepur, the Congress won in all 33 wards. However, the BJP won one seat each in Moga, Muktsar & JaitoMost of these areas are dominated by the Hindu community, where BJP supporters have sizable numbers, but despite this BJP failed to get any vote. In Bathinda, the BJP failed to open its account. In 2015, BJP had won eight seats in alliance with the SAD and its two leaders Tarsem Goyal and Gurinderpal Kaur Mangat remained senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor for 10 years in two consecutive terms. Goyal did not contest the polls this time, while Mangat lost badly from ward No 1.In Abohar, despite having its MLA Arun Narang, who had defeated Congress giant Sunil Jakhar in 2017 Assembly elections, the party drew a blank. Of 50 wards, Congress won 49 and SAD one.In Fazilka, the BJP was in power in the MC from the past two consecutive terms and this Assembly seat was also contested by BJP former minister Surjit Kumar Jyani, but still the party performed badly and was able to win only four of the total 25 wards. Even BJP district president Rakesh Dhuria’s wife lost from here.In Ferozepur, where BJP leader Sukhpal Singh Nannu won in 2007, the Congress won in all 33 wards. However, the BJP was able to win only one seat in Moga, one in Muktsar and one in Jaito in Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/saffron-party-fared-poorly-in-its-malwa-strongholds-214830
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Government job for Maur Mandi blast victims’ kin||The government has approved special provisions in the rules to provide government jobs to one of the family members of each of the four minors killed in the Maur Mandi bomb blast on January 31, 2017.The decision was taken today by the Council of Ministers at a meeting chaired by CM Capt Amarinder Singh.It was decided to grant special provision to provide jobs on compassionate grounds as per the educational qualifications of one member each of the families of the deceased — Japsimaran Singh (15), Sourav Singla (14), Ankush (11), and Ripandeep Singh (9).The existing rules do not provide for employment in state service on compassionate grounds for minor deceased. With the Cabinet decision today, the relevant rules/policies have been relaxed to provide jobs to a member each as per their educational qualification in Bathinda district or adjoining districts against direct quota vacant posts as a special case (without treating it as a precedent).The jobs provided by the state government are in addition to the financial grant of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of each of the deceased. The injured received Rs 50,000 each from the CM’s relief fund.It may be recalled that seven persons were killed and 13 injured in the bomb blast at Maur Mandi in Bathinda. The government had earlier provided government jobs to the next of kin of two deceased — Harpal Singh (40) and Ashok Kumar (35) — as per the existing policy, since both were the breadwinners of their families.In Ashok Kumar’s case, his minor daughter Bago (11) was also killed, but since one member of the family has already been given a job, Bago has not been included in the special provision approved today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/government-job-for-maur-mandi-blast-victims-kin-214821
20-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Maur Mandi blast: ‘Bring guilty to book’||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 19The relatives of those killed in the Maur Mandi bomb blast called the Cabinet’s jobs offer an image makeover exercise ahead of polls.Khushdeep Singh, father of deceased Japsimaran Singh (15), said: “The government did nothing for us in the past four years and now ahead of polls they want to clean their image by providing us jobs.”Maur bomb blast action committee convener Gurmail Singh said: “The government’s decision is an attempt to partly heal the wounds of the affected families.”The committee, which comprises members Naveen Singla, Jagdish Sharma and Devraj, also demanded that justice should be done and the three accused should be arrested. They also demanded that the government should help farm labourer Jaskiran, who was passing by the area when the blast took place. He suffered 70 per cent burns with severe head and eye injuries.His family members had taken him to AIIMS-Delhi and PGI-Chandigarh for plastic surgery, but the treatment cost around Rs 7.5 lakh, which the family could not afford.On January 31, 2017, six persons, including three children, were killed in an explosion outside a Congress rally at Maur Mandi in Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/maur-mandi-blast-bring-guilty-to-book-214822
