04-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala police detain protesting Covid warriors, clear  highway||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 4Patiala police on Saturday detained protesting Covid warriors and cleared the national highway they were blocking here.Many protesters reportedly received injures in police action. The injured have been admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital.Demanding jobs, outsourced Covid warriors were blocking the Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway near Government Rajindra Hospital. The protesters have been staging a sit-in at the highway and paralysing the traffic since Friday morning.The protesters held a night-long protest at the highway braving cold weather.Meanwhile, traffic was diverted by the Patiala police.The protesters, after a meeting with the Director Principal of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital on Friday afternoon, had for some time allowed partial traffic movement by clearing one side of the road. Later in the evening, the protester, however, again blocked the highway.The district administration tried to convince the protesters to lift the dharna, but the protesters said they would lift the dharna only after getting their job letters from the government.The protesters have been on an indefinite protest since October 25 - on the main gate of the Hospital. Medical Education Minister Raj Kumar Verka had to leave in the middle of the scheduled programme during his visit to the hospital on November 26 following massive protests by the outsourced Covid warriors.The protesters - paramedical staff and nurses - said that they had been given assurances of jobs by the government, but nothing had been done so far.Jashanpreet Kaur said, “We were hired last year after the Covid pandemic broke out and had been working during both the Covid waves. Once the Covid situation started getting back to normal, the government, on September 30, asked us to go home. The government should immediately give us jobs.”Meanwhile, the hospital authorities and officials in the medical education department said the files pertaining to their jobs had already been moved to the Finance Department to get the go-ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blocking-of-national-highway-in-patiala-by-covid-warriors-continues-into-night-346204
04-12-2021||---||Patiala: Blocked sewer lines damage roads, raise stink in market||Patiala, December 3Call it Municipal Corporation (MC) employees’ inability to do the job or denying superiors’ command, the civic body has so far failed to resolve the issue of blocked sewer lines at the marketplace behind Phul Cinema in Chhoti Baradari.Besides damaging roads, the problem that recurs every second or third month, inconveniences commuters and office-goers in the area.Members of the Chhoti Baradari Market Development Association said they have complained to the Corporation numerous times about blocked sewer lines.“The sewage keeps flowing from blocked sewer lines on to roads throughout the day. It raises stink, damages roads and interlocking tiles and inconveniences commuters,” they said.Hardev Singh Balli, association president, said, “The problem has persisted for many years. We have written over six letters to the Municipal Corporation requesting the authorities that a proper solution should be worked out for blocked sewer lines.“Outlet owners discharge ghee and oil related substances into the sewerage, which blocks lines. The Corporation sends notices to them, but fails to ensure that such substances are not discharged into sewer lines. The civic body also doesn’t take strict action against shop owners, who flout the norms,” he added.Davinder Pal Singh, the association general secretary, said, “The small size of sewer lines in comparison to waste flow also aggravates problem. Officials at the operations and management branch of the MC today were working in 2015 also when we first complained, but the problem persists since then.”Municipal Corporation Commissioner Vineet Kumar said, “The office staff is cleaning sewer lines. They have been directed to find a proper solution to frequent blocking of sewerage. The MC will send notices to outlet owners in the area to make sure that substances that clog drains are not discharged into them. We will give them a specific time to make provisions for discarding such substances, else stringent action will follow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-blocked-sewer-lines-damage-roads-raise-stink-in-market-346145
04-12-2021||---||Golden jubilee of victory in 1971 war celebrated at Yadavindra Public School in Patiala||Patiala, December 3Two hundred and fifty students from five different schools, including Yadavindra Public School (YPS), Patiala and Mohali, Punjab Public School, Nabha, AFPI and MBAFPI, participated in the golden jubilee celebrations of the Indo-Pak 1971 war victory at Capt Amarinder Singh Auditorium at the YPS here today.The event, which was anchored by Brig DS Grerwal (retd) and co-ordinated by Maj Gen Sanjiv Varma (retd), VSM, apprised students about the war tactics and Indian defence forces.The event commenced with the opening remarks by Lt Gen Chetinder Singh (retd), PVSM, AVSM. Thereafter, a short movie was screened to present highlights of the war.Students highlighted interesting aspects of defence forces like Battle of Basantar, Battle of Gangasagar (by Col AK Singh, CO 14 Guards), Race for Dhaka, air and naval aspects on the occasion. The proceedings were summed up by Maj Gen BS Grewal (retd).The auditorium reverberated with the saga of brave men and their sacrifices. Students also visited the firing range at Dhablan village in Patiala, where they were given demonstration about some tactical manoeuvres by the 1 Armoured Division.“We felt the chill in our spine while knowing about hardships of the war. We respect and are inspired by our tough men, who are guarding country’s borders,” said one of the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/golden-jubilee-of-victory-in-1971-war-celebrated-at-yadavindra-public-school-in-patiala-346143
04-12-2021||---||Government Rajindra Hospital starts arthroscopic surgery||Patiala, December 3Arthroscopic surgery has been started at Government Rajindra Hospital for the first time. Arthroscopic reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) was performed by Dr Girish Sahni, an Associate Professor at the Department of Orthopaedics today.Dr Sahni said the patient had a history of the ACL injury around eight months ago whose ACL repair was done. “This mini-incision surgery has been done free of cost under Ayushman Scheme under the RHP, which otherwise costs around Rs50,000 to Rs1 lakh in private hospitals,” said Sahni.“With the help of this surgery patients can be made to walk bearing full weight from the next day onwards. Routine activities of the patient can be started within a week of surgery,” Sahni added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/government-rajindra-hospital-starts-arthroscopic-surgery-346142
04-12-2021||---||International Disability Day celebrated||Patiala, December 3Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, celebrated International Disability Day here on Thursday. NCC cadet Mehak Sharma apprised students about differently-abled children and what were their rights.Another student Gurpreet Kaur discussed the theme of International Disability Day 2021. ANO Satvir Singh told students that it was also the birthday of first President Dr Rajendra Prasad. He highlighted his life and achievements on the occasion.Later, students participated in a district-level cultural programme at Kala Bhawan on the university campus. Differently-abled students regaled the audience with their performances during the programme. The Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, Sandeep Hans, and the Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, Prof Arvind, were the chief guests on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/international-disability-day-celebrated-346140
