05-12-2021||Patiala||Live surgery workshop held at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala||A live surgery workshop was held at Government Rajindra Hospital here wherein surgeries were performed and showcased to the budding surgeons. The workshop was organised by Dr Ashwani Kumar, professor and head, department of surgery, and Dr DP Singh, former professor and head of Rajindra Hospital. The workshop was virtually showcased throughout the country by the Society of Endoscopic and Laparoscopic Surgeons of India.The primary surgeries performed were 2-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy and difficult laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The 2-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy was an advanced and cosmetically better way of performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy in which only two incisions were given instead of four incisions in the classic surgery, said Dr Ashwani. He said, “Laparoscopic surgeries are quite prevalent these days. Sometimes young surgeons practice these surgeries without adequate training which can have fatal and disastrous consequences. Such live workshops are a great way for such surgeons to hone their skills as well as for established surgeons to share their experiences, tips and tricks with their fellows. ” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/live-surgery-workshop-held-at-rajindra-hospital-patiala-346445
05-12-2021||---||Power staff to protest against Electricity Amendment Bill||Patiala, December 4Power sector employees and engineers under the banner of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE) have finalised an action plan in all states to oppose the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021.The employees from Punjab and other states will hold day-long massive demonstrations on December 8 at all the power utility headquarters, projects, and work sites, said VK Gupta, a spokesperson of the All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF).The meeting of the NCCOEEE was held on December 3 and it further decided to hold a central-level protest on December 15 in New Delhi. Further, in case the government attempts to place the Bill in either house of the Parliament, NCCOEEE constituents will resort to spontaneous work boycotts and start day-long demonstrations at all electricity work centres.The Bill will facilitate the death knell to the power distribution companies and will facilitate the private players to make open loot by making use of the infrastructure of electricity distribution utility without any investment, Gupta added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/power-staff-to-protest-against-electricity-amendment-bill-346444
05-12-2021||---||250 protesting outsourced Covid warriors booked in Patiala, highway cleared||Patiala, December 4The district police today booked around 250 protesting outsourced Covid warriors and cleared the national highway which had been blocked by the protesters since Friday morning.The protesters were booked under Sections 283 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8-B of National Highway Act. The Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway was blocked near Government Rajindra Hospital and traffic movement was badly disrupted.Meanwhile, the protesters claimed that they had received injuries in the police action and the injured were admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital. In the counterclaim, the police said that force personnel were injured by the protesters.In the afternoon, a large number of police personnel reached the protesting site and forcefully removed and detained the protesters. The protesters, including women, were thereafter taken away to different police stations, but were released later in the evening.Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Sanjeev Kumar, who was present at the protesting site, said, “The Medical Superintendent gave us in writing that health services at Rajindra Hospital were being affected due to the agitation. Following which, we had made the request to the protesters to clear the road, however, they didn’t oblige. Consequently, we did take action.”Amanjot Kaur, one of the protesting Covid warriors, said, “The government seems to have turned blind eye towards our demands. During the Covid, we were offered garlands. However, the government is now taking us to the police stations.”Jashanpreet Kaur, another outsourced Covid warrior, said, “We were hired last year after the Covid pandemic broke out and had been working during both the Covid waves. Once the Covid situation started getting back to normal, the government on September 30 asked us to go home. The government should give us jobs immediately.”It is pertinent to mention that protesters have been on indefinite protest since October 25 on the main gate of Rajindra Hospital. Medical Education Minister Raj Kumar Verka had to leave in the middle of the scheduled programme during his visit to the hospital on November 26 following the massive protests by the outsourced Covid warriors.The protesters— paramedical staff and nurses— said that they had continuously been given assurances of jobs by the government, but nothing had been done so far.Meanwhile, later in the evening, farmers and some other organisations came out in support of the agitating workers and again blocked the highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/250-protesting-outsourced-covid-warriors-booked-in-patiala-highway-cleared-346443
