06-12-2021||---||Voter awareness at NCC camp in Patiala||Patiala, December 5A voter awareness camp was organised on the last day of the NCC camp at the aviation club here today. Sweep nodal officer for Sanour Satvir Singh enlightened the NCC cadets about their right to vote, how to get a new voter card and correction done.As many as 186 cadets from different colleges participated in the camp. A play was organised to create awareness by the Sweep students. Group Capt Rajesh Sharma urged the cadets to participate in the election with full enthusiasm. District Nodal Officer Gurbakshish Singh and Dr Sukhdarshan Singh also motivated the cadets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/voter-awareness-at-ncc-camp-in-patiala-346781
06-12-2021||Patiala||Contractual staff of PRTC, Punjab Roadways to go on strike tomorrow||Demanding regularisation of their jobs, contractual employees of the state-owned Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and Punjab Roadways on Sunday called for an indefinite strike from December 7.The contractual employees union of the PRTC and Punjab Roadways said that the government despite several assurances had failed to fulfill their genuine demands. The protesting employees claimed that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and transport minister over the past few weeks had given assurance to regularise their services in the next Cabinet meeting. Cabinet meeting took place, however, nothing happened in the said meeting which showed that the government was not serious and adopting dilly- dallying tactics.Resham Singh Gill, president, PRTC and Punjab Roadways Contractual Employees Union, said, “We will go on indefinite strike from December 7. Besides, we have decided to stage a protest outside the residence of Chief Minister Channi, on the following day. We will protest wherever the Chief Minister and ministers hold any programme in future.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/contractual-staff-of-prtc-punjab-roadways-to-go-on-strike-tomorrow-346780
06-12-2021||---||Work hit as revenue staff continue protest||Patiala, December 5The Revenue Department employees will continue their protest on Monday and Tuesday and go on mass leave over alleged ‘high-handedness of vigilance bureau officials’. Visitors to the offices have been harassed over works that are left pending due to the protest.The officers of the Revenue Department under the Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association have been holding protests against the arrests of a naib tehsildar and a registry clerk by the Vigilance Bureau in Hoshiarpur. “They are honest officers but have been implicated. We have submitted complaints to the Chief Secretary office and Chief Minister’s office,” the association leaders said.The protest began on November 23. In a press note on Sunday, president of the association, Gurdev Singh Dham, said, “We are proceeding on mass leave on December 6 and 7. We will hold protest rallies at divisional commissioner offices in Ropar, Jalandhar and Faridkot on Monday and will visit the Punjab Revenue Minister over indifferent approach toward the staff on Tuesday.”People visiting the offices of the Revenue Department here have had to return dejected. Mutations and other office related works are being delayed.A visitor to the tehsildar office in Patiala on Sunday said, “We have been visiting the office for mutation related work but it has been affected due to the protest. The protest has been going on for many days.”Harpreet, a city property dealer, said, “We were supposed to go to the sub-registrar office for registration documents of a property on November 24. It was postponed due to the protest. But now, the whole office functioning has stopped, leading to further delays.”Association leaders said a decision could be reached after a meeting with officials of the state government on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/work-hit-as-revenue-staff-continue-protest-346779
06-12-2021||---||Outsourced lab employees strike hits Covid testing in Patiala||Patiala, December 5Amid indefinite strike by outsourced employees of labs, the Covid testing at VRDL lab of Government Medical College here has been severely affected.The pendency of tests at the lab, owing to the indefinite strike by lab staff, has risen to around 7,000 Covid samples. In the face of a shortage of staff, the lab is said to have already stopped accepting the samples for the time being. The genome sequencing of positive Covid samples amid the fear of new Covid-19 strain, Omicron has also been paralysed.The employees, around 90 in number, went on strike on Saturday demanding their absorption into the department of Medical Education. Notably, the lab employees are currently working as outsourced employees. Though, the Health Department has deployed their own couple of lab technicians to help in the Covid testing, the lab still is facing the acute shortage. A senior official of the lab said, “We are unable to test Covid samples in the absence of sufficient staff. The government should immediately step in as the fear of new variants is growing day by day.”Meanwhile, officials of the Health Department said that around 172 international travellers had landed in the district last month. Of 172, around 117 had already been traced and tested. The remaining travellers could not be traced allegedly due to incorrect information provided by them. “Some gave wrong addresses while some claimed that they are not here in the district and already left the place ,” said the health officer. Meanwhile, it has been learnt that in December around 42 international travellers from 11 high-risk countries have reached the district and have been put under home quarantine while they would be tested on 7th day of their arrival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/outsourced-lab-employees-strike-hits-covid-testing-in-patiala-346777
06-12-2021||---||Will contest from Sanaur, says Congress leader Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann||Patiala, December 5Congress leader and Sanaur halka in-charge Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann said today that a veteran Congress leader from the area had conspired with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to defeat him in 2017 Assembly elections from Sanaur.Mann strongly made his claims of fighting the upcoming Assembly elections from Sanaur on the Congress ticket. Mann has already opened his election office in Sanaur.Mann, while addressing a large gathering in the presence of All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and co-incharge, Punjab, Harshwardhan Sapkal, and Congress observer Sanjay Thakur, claimed that the veteran party leader helped SAD leader Prem Singh ‘s son Harinder Pal merely to secure help from SAD to get his son win elections from other constituency in Patiala.Mann said after losing in 2017, he had been working for the people of Sanaur. “I used to visit my daughter, who is in the USA, every year. However, since I fought elections I never went to meet her so as to make my availability to the people of Sanaur,” he said.Sherry Riar meets HarshwardhanMeanwhile, Mansimrat Singh Sherry Riar, accompanied by the party supporters from Sanaur, met secretary of All-India Congress Committee and Punjab co-in-charge Harshwardhan for party ticket from the area. The meeting was held at the Circuit House in the city.Riar said a meeting was held with Harshwardhan on various issues, including political scenario in the Sanaur area. “The party has made it clear that ticket will be distributed on merit. The party will give prominence to youth candidates in the elections,” Riar said.Sherry Riar is close to Navjot Kaur Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/will-contest-from-sanaur-says-congress-leader-harinder-pal-singh-harry-mann-346774
06-12-2021||---||Assembly poll: Chander Gaind convenes meeting with civil, police officials of Haryana||Patiala, December 5In view of the Punjab Assembly Election-2022, as per the guidelines of the Election Commission of India, the Commissioner of Patiala Division, Chander Gaind, held an inter-state coordination meeting with the Deputy Commissioners and senior police officers of the adjoining districts of Patiala range and Haryana, Kurukshetra, Jind, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Ambala.IG Patiala Range Mukhwinder Singh Chhina, Deputy Commissioners of Patiala and Sangrur Sandeep Hans and Ramvir along with SSPs Harcharan Singh Bhullar and Swapan Sharma and other officers were also present in the meeting.Chander Gaind discussed important issues, including strict implementation of the Model Code of Conduct. Gaind, while presiding over the meeting, said that the co-operation of the civil and police officers of the adjoining districts of Haryana and Punjab was essential for holding the forthcoming Assembly elections in a free and peaceful manner. He said that CCTV cameras should be installed at all the inter-state checkpoints and a WhatsApp group of officials of both the states should also be formed.DC Kurukshetra Mukul Kumar, DC Kaithal Pardeep Dahiya, DC Ambala Vikram, ADC Fatehabad Ajay Chopra, SDM Narwana Surinder Singh, ASP Ambala Pooja Dabla, DSP Kaithal Kishan Lal, DSP Fatehabad Geetika Jakhar, ASP Jind Kudlip Singh and Kurukshetra DSP Gurmail Singh were present in the inter-state coordination meeting.The Haryana officials assured that they would extend full support to the Punjab authorities during the forthcoming Assembly elections. After the meeting, Chander Gaind divulged the details that the officials of Patiala adjoining districts of the neighboring state, have exchanged necessary information and promised for the better coordination and monitoring of the bad elements that could affect the election process. They also discussed all necessary aspects to hold the elections in a peaceful manner and have also formulated a joint strategy to curb the flow of all kinds of drugs, including alcohol, especially medical drugs, legal, illegal weapons and illicit cash.IG Mukhwinder Singh Chhina asked the Haryana police officers to give strict instructions to their police stations and chowkies in-charges adjoining Punjab to cooperate with the Punjab Police for holding the Assembly elections in an independent manner. Chhina said that weapons with all India permit should also be deposited and special attention should be paid to such anti-social elements residing in these districts which could disrupt the Punjab elections.District Election Officer and Deputy Commissioner Patiala Sandeep Hans said that as per the instructions of the Election Commission, in today’s meeting the civil and police officials of the neighboring state discussed all aspects to maintain the law and order and ensure free and fair Assembly elections. SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar said that special teams, including permanent checkposts would be formed to keep a close watch on all unpaved and paved 64 roads connecting the two states and also patrolling and checkposts would be set up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/assembly-poll-gaind-convenes-meeting-with-civil-police-officials-of-haryana-346771
06-12-2021||Aman Sood||Most transferred Patiala policemen back to choicest postings||Tribune News ServiceRajpura, December 5Just after the 2020 hooch tragedy that left 120 persons dead in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur, the Patiala police top brass had transferred over 100 cops from Ghanaur and Rajpura subdivisions to break the “smuggler-police” nexus.It has come to the fore that most of the transferred cops were back in the twin jurisdictions using “clout”. They included ASI Sarabjit Singh, posted as the Rajpura Sadar munshi, who was arrested and dismissed following the November 27 extra neutral alcohol (ENA) seizure.Keeping vigil The extra neutral alcohol was being sold clandestinely from Rajpura Sadar police station to bootleggers and our vigil against it will continue. —A Venu Prasad, Addl chief secretaryThe Patiala police had shifted over 150 personnel, including SI-level officials and ASIs, from Ghanaur, Rajpura and Samana over their alleged links with bootleggers and mining mafias.The probe revealed smugglers’ links with Ghanaur and Rajpura from where the ENA was being smuggled out to the border belt.“Many cops were hand in glove with smugglers and allowing them to manufacture and sell illicit liquor,” the Patiala police had claimed in 2020. The then DGP had ordered the then Patiala SSP to personally supervise raids in Rajpura against the illegal ENA supply chain.On November 27, excise officials recovered 510 litre ENA from two vehicles near Banur. “It was meant for bootleggers in Amritsar,” they said.A senior police officer confirmed Sarabjit too was transferred last year but managed a posting back in the police station again, within months.A year on, a majority of these cops are back in their choicest police stations, using clout. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the police-smugglers nexus would be ended in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/most-transferred-policemen-back-to-choicest-postings-346746
