08-12-2021||---||Murder of NRI's mother solved, three arrested||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 7Solving sixth murder in three months, Patiala SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar today claimed to have solved the murder of a woman who was done to death by her farmland tenant and his accomplices.Addressing a press conference Bhullar said that their team cracked the murder of Amarjit Kaur at Pedhan village who was murdered on November 21. The three accused Gorakh Nath, alias Gora, Dimple Kumar, a resident of Pedhan village, and Pushpinderpal, a resident of Shamla village in Nabha, have been arrested.A team comprising SP Investigation Dr Mehtab Singh, and CIA in-charge Shamindar Singh investigated the matter following which the three accused were arrested.Giving further details of the incident, Bhullar said that on November 25 Harpreet, a resident of Pedhan village in Bhadson, who was residing in Canada since 2005 had filed a complaint stating that his mother Amarjit Kaur’s death was reported on November 21. “After he reached the Pedhan village, he saw his mother’s head injuries and demanded a postmortem. According to the postmortem, Amarjit Kaur was found to have seven head injuries following which a case pertaining to murder was registered against unknown persons”, said Bhullar.Initially Gorakh Nath (who used to plow the land of the deceased on contract basis) alleged that Amarjit Kaur’s death was due to a head fall while fixing curtains. “Thorough investigation revealed that Amarjit Kaur was living alone in her house at Pedhan village. Her husband Baljinder Singh died in 2016 while Harpreet Singh was in Canada with his family since 2005”, said Shaminder Singh.“Gorakh Nath had taken 21 acres of land on contract and visited Amarjit Kaur’s house frequently. He stole Amarjit Kaur’s ATM card and had allegedly withdrawn around Rs 2.5 lakh from this ATM and knew that Amarjit Kaur would somehow trace them”, said the SSP.“Gorakh Nath along with his nephew Dimple Kumar and son-in-law Pushpinderpal killed Amarjit Kaur and burnt the bed sheets and other items with blood stains to destroy any evidence. Their further grilling will reveal the missing cash and the weapon used in the crime”, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/murder-of-nris-mother-solved-three-arrested-347765
08-12-2021||---||Passengers suffer as roadways contractual staff go on strike||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 7Commuters to neighbouring cities and states were left stranded as contractual staff of the PRTC and the Punjab Roadways began an indefinite protest over their demand of regularisation of jobs today. Over 3,300 contractual workers, including drivers, workshop workers and clerical staff, remained off the jobs. The workers said the announcement of the strike was made after the matter had earlier been raised with the Transport Minister.They said, “The state government had given us assurances that our matter will be taken-up in the first Cabinet meeting led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.”Harkesh Vikki, president of the contractual workers’ union, said the workers associated with the PRTC and Punjab Roadways shut all work for the day. “We have decided not to get back to jobs in the wake of the state government’s failure to regularise our services. We have met them numerous times but have only received assurances as the matter has not even been discussed in two Cabinet meetings yet,” Harkesh said.He said the workers held a strike throughout the state. Only five per cent buses driven by regular drivers of the PRTC and Punjab Roadways plied on the roads. “This includes more than 200 busses that run from Patiala bus stand remained off the roads. The PRTC which makes around Rs 1.75 crore daily in turnover has already suffered a loss of Rs 1.50 lakh with the day’s protest. All long route buses, including those going to Jammu, Delhi, Haryana and plying on other routes were off road,” he said.Commuters remained stranded on city and state highways. They were forced to turn to private vehicles, which were more costly. Workers said thousands of commuters travel by buses from Patiala city alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/passengers-suffer-as-roadways-contractual-staff-go-on-strike-347766
08-12-2021||Patiala||Bank staff stage protest against privatisation||The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, at its virtual meeting held on November 29 and 30 has called for two-day nationwide strike from December 16, opposing the move of the Central Government to privatise Public Sector Banks (PSBs) and resist the move of introduction and passage of the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament.In a demonstration held today at Leela Bhawan Complex, SK Gautam, joint secretary, All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), said that for the past 25 years, from the banner of UFBU we have been opposing the policies of banking reforms which are aimed at weakening PSBs. He said in February this year, when the government announced in the Budget that two PSBs would be privatised in addition to IDBI Bank, UFBU immediately met and gave the call for strike on March 15 and 16 which was a massive success due to the enlarged participation of bank employees and officers.Yadvinder Gupta, president, SBIEU, Chandigarh Circle, said, “On the day of introduction of Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, there will be a demonstration before Parliament by the UFBU leaders, submission of online petition to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 14 and press meets in all state capitals on December 15 on the issue.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bank-staff-stage-protest-against-privatisation-347767
08-12-2021||---||Students protest Nagaland killings||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 7Students of Punjabi University held a protest on the university campus over the killing of civilians during an anti-insurgency operation in Nagaland. Students alleged that religious minorities were being targeted in the country.Students associated with the Punjab Radical Students’ Union said they organised the protest on the anniversary of demolition of Babri Masjid in Ayodhya. Rashpinder Singh Jimmi of the union said the Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992 by right wing parties.He said, “Right wing parties are targeting minorities, including Muslims, Christians and Sikhs. Even Kashmiri and Naga people are also being targeted in the same manner. The killing of civilians in Nagaland is also an example of the same. The right wing parties are playing religious card and are also working for big corporate houses.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-protest-nagaland-killings-347768
08-12-2021||Patiala||NGO wins award for child welfare||A local NGO, Society for Welfare of the Handicapped, has been awarded by President Ram Nath Kovind for providing services in childcare and education of special children. District officials said it was a laudable effort by the NGO that it registered its name among the top NGOs working for needs of special children.Gurbhajan Singh Gill of the NGO received the award on December 3 along with a cash prize of Rs 2 lakh. He said the NGO had been awarded by the President in 2015 as well. Gill said, “The society came into existence in 1967. Four organisations are working under the society’s umbrella in which over 400 students are being provided special care and education.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ngo-wins-award-for-child-welfare-347769
