09-12-2021||Patiala||Work on academic block, hostels of sports university to begin soon||The PWD will soon begin construction work on the first phase of Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University on the Bhadson road here. The department was allocated the work of constructing the university campus at a cost of Rs 500 crore in March this year after which Rs 60 crore were sanctioned for works.Officials said the PWD started constructing the boundary wall of the university. “Started around nine months ago in March, the construction of the boundary wall of the university has come to near completion. We will start the construction work of the first phase of the project comprising two hostel blocks (one each for boys and girls) and an academic block this week”, they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/work-on-academic-block-hostels-of-sports-university-to-begin-soon-348151
09-12-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University, Patiala, releases books authored by students||Books of various publications, including Punjabi University Publication Bureau and Cambridge University Press, are available for sale at the university’s five-day book fair and literary festival that entered its second day on Wednesday.Officials said they were witnessing a positive response from students as many former students were turning up on the campus to buy books. They said the university made provisions for the release of a number of books written by its own students as well.Dr Rajesh Sharma of the University Publication Bureau said a number of such books were released on the occasion. Among those a book written by Kamlesh, a PhD scholar of the university, was based on protests held on the university campus against a patriarchal mindset.Kamlesh, who has completed his PhD, said, “The book Azadi Supne Ton Sach Tak comprises of various news reports published in Punjabi Tribune on the students’ protest held on the university campus in 2018 in pursuit of same rules for girls and boys in hostels and on the university campus. It has 26 chapters, including 13 lectures given by various university faculty and others during the 2018 protests. It also carries various letters to the editor published in the newspaper.”University officials said another book—Anne Frank Di Diary— translated by Inderjeet Singh was also released. Inderjeet Singh said, “The book is the translation work of a diary written by Anne Frank who was the youngest child of a family of Jews that was affected during the Second World War. I decided to translate the book because there is scant work of diary writing in Punjabi. Also, the book is an example of holding strength during times of turmoil. It also presents the psychology of a child.”Another book, a philosophical analysis of doctrines of origin of language, written by the university’s PhD scholar, Varinder Khurana, was also released on Tuesday. The book fair will continue for three more days where books published in various languages and based on topics, including politics, religion, and others, will be available.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-releases-books-authored-by-students-348148
09-12-2021||---||Patiala fire department dependent on outsourced workers||Patiala, December 8The Patiala fire department has only one regular fireman against 41 sanctioned posts, while 39 others are deployed on outsource basis to deal with the staff shortage. Fire officials said no new post had been created in the last many years.The royal city Patiala has expanded over the years but the number of workers remained the same. Workers at the fire station said, “There are 41 sanctioned posts of firemen in the city. But only one of them is a regular employee. The Department of Local Government has not hired firemen in the last many years. This is despite the fact that the workers are made to tackle even the worst cases of fire as part of their job, which can leave them grievously injured. The Municipal Corporation has been hiring contractual staff to do the job.”They said 39 posts of firemen were filled through outsourcing and one remained vacant.The corporation does not have enough drivers. Of 12 posts of drivers, there are only four regular employees. The department has hired eight outsourced employees for the job.It also lacks an ADFO, due to which, the lone post has been given to a Station Fire Officer (SFO).The outsourced employees working at the fire services said they were getting a salary of Rs 9,000 per month on DC rates. They said, “There is no annual salary increase. Moreover, we are not getting the benefit of employees’ accidental insurance for treatment and medical purposes.”Commissioner Municipal Corporation Patiala said, “At present there is no process for filling the vacant posts on regular basis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-fire-department-dependent-on-outsourced-workers-348147
09-12-2021||---||Three held for snatching mobile phones, purses in Patiala||Patiala, December 8The Patiala police have nabbed three youths on charges of snatching mobile phones, purses and other items in the city. All three are in the 21to 24 age group.Patiala SSP HS Bhullar today said the police party led by SP Mehtab Singh, DSP Ajaypal Singh and CIA in-charge Shaminder Singh nabbed the three accused.He said the police received information that the three youths — Manoj Kumar (21) of Gopal Colony, Ramandeep Singh (23) of Bollar village, and Mohammad Islam (24) of Safabadi gate were involved in snatching mobile phones. Cops at the Tripuri police station nabbed and registered a case against them. SSP Bhullar said the accused were involved in over 12 incidents of snatching and cases had been registered against them. “A number of items, including mobile phones and purses have been recovered from their possession. The police have also recovered the motorcycle used in the crime,” the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-held-for-snatching-mobile-phones-purses-in-patiala-348146
09-12-2021||---||Meritorious school, NSQF teachers protest outside Navjot Singh Sidhu’s residence in Patiala||Patiala, December 8The National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) vocational teachers and teachers of meritorious schools held a protest outside the residence of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu here on Tuesday.Teachers of the meritorious schools reached the residence of Navjot Singh Sidhu with their demand of regularisation wearing black overalls. The protesters said they had met the PPCC chief twice over the matter of regularisation of jobs but the issue was not settled.They said, “The PPCC chief and the new state government has stated that they will resolve the pending matters of teaching fraternity and employees of the health services at the earliest but the same has not been resolved yet.”They said over 10 meritorious schools were opened in the state for children of middle class and poor families. “Over 260 teachers, including M.Phil, UGC net cleared and PhD individuals are working in the schools on contract,” the protesters said.They said the state government had regularised the jobs of SSA/ RMSA teachers in 2018 but teachers of meritorious schools were left out.The teachers were assured a meeting on December 10 with Navjot Singh Sidhu after which the protest was lifted for the day.Meanwhile, teachers associated with the NSQF Teachers Union during their protest outside the residence of the PPCC chief said they had been holding protests for the past six months and had held over 23 meetings with officials of the state government but had received formal assurances.State president Rai Sahib Singh Sidhu said they would sit on hunger strike outside the office of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi if their matter was not taken up during the upcoming Cabinet meeting on December 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/meritorious-school-nsqf-teachers-protest-outside-navjot-singh-sidhus-residence-in-patiala-348144
09-12-2021||Aman Sood||Sanaur poll pot on boil, three stake claim to Congress ticket||Tribune news servicePatiala, December 8The state Congress appears to have plunged deeper into crisis in Sanaur constituency with three leaders adamant on contesting the upcoming elections. Congress stalwart Lal Singh, former Information Commissioner Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann and youth leader Mansimrat Riar have locked horns over Congress ticket from the seat.After Lal Singh on Wednesday held a function at his government residence in Patiala to distribute cheques for development grants to panchayats in Sanaur, the daggers are out in the Congress.Prominent Jat Sikh face in the Congress Harry Mann has declared that he would contest from Sanaur.“It is my ‘karambhoomi’. I have worked hard to nurture the constituency for over six years now. Instead of addressing the concerns of workers at Samana, from where his son is an MLA, Lal Singh is interfering in my constituency,” said Mann, who lost the last elections from Sanaur to SAD candidate Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra but managed a 42,000 lead for the Congress during the 2019 LS polls.In 2017, octogenarian Lal Singh lost his battle to then PCC chief Capt Amarinder Singh’s one-family-one-ticket diktat with the party deciding not to nominate him from Sanaur. His son Rajinder Singh was fielded from Samana segment from where he won. “If Lal Singh is given the ticket, it would open a pandora’s box for the party as many senior leaders want two or more tickets per family,” said a senior leader.Interestingly, already three Congress MLAs — Hardyal Singh Kamboj (Rajpura), Madan Lal Jalalpur (Ghanaur) and Rajinder Singh (Samana) — are from the OBC category. All three are seeking re-election. The Congress has two reserved seats in Nabha and Shutrana, while minister Brahm Mohindra is seeking re-election from Patiala Rural. Only Sanaur and Patiala Urban are left, where Jats can be fielded, who constitute around 30 per cent of the total 14.85 lakh population of Patiala.Harry Mann said there was no provision in the government that a person who is not even an MLA will hold a function to distribute cheques. “After being absent from Patiala from the past five years, this is sheer misuse of authority by Lal Singh who is merely the chairman of Punjab Mandi Board. I will report the developments to the Congress high command,” he stated.Undeterred by the allegations of his interference, Lal Singh told The Tribune that he had every right to seek a ticket. “There is nothing wrong if I want to contest from Sanaur,” he said, adding that it is for the party high command to decide. “I have worked hard from almost a year in this constituency and we will work hard under PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu,” says youth congress leader from Sanaur Mansimrat Singh Riar. “Being a Jat Sikh, I feel that the Congress should do a balancing act and consider my candidature from Sanaur,” he said.Eyeing assembly seatCongress stalwart Lal Singh (L), former Information Commissioner Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann (C) and youth leader Mansimrat Riar are eyeing the party ticket from Sanaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanaur-poll-pot-on-boil-three-stake-claim-to-congress-ticket-347995
