10-12-2021||---||213 awarded PhD degrees at Punjabi University convocation||Patiala, December 9Punjab Governor and Punjabi University Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit presided over the 39th convocation at the university today. The university gave away Chancellor medals to seven individuals, awarded 213 PhD degrees along with medals of merit and merit certificates to 689 individuals during the convocation.Dr Gagandeep Kang, the first Indian woman to have been elected as Fellow of Royal Society of London, who was part of the event as chief guest, was felicitated with the Degree of Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa).Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit said the university had lived up to the vision of its founders. “It has deepened and extended and updated that vision. The university is with greatest reach as well as accessibility,” he said.Those who receive education in the university are fortunate, which can be seen from the contribution of its alumni in making to the fortunes of the state, the region, the country and the world, he said.Dr Gagandeep Kang gave three messages to the students. She said providing solutions to problems required us to work together to develop effective collaboration between people. She said the students should embrace the struggles they were posed with. “Learning and insights come from failure and accepting and learning from those insights is the key to succeeding in every project in life. Embrace the struggle. We grow when we fail. One should prepare well which helps in thinking about ways of mitigating and minimising poor outcomes, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/213-awarded-phd-degrees-at-punjabi-varsity-convocation-348502
10-12-2021||---||CPF Employees Union hold protest, demand restoration of old pension scheme||Patiala, December 9Members of the CPF Employees Union today organised a protest here demanding restoration of the old pension scheme. The state government employees have been raising the demands for long.During the protest they said the old pension scheme was a right of all state government employees and they wanted it reinstated.They said, “The removal of the old pension scheme is against the interests of the employees and we have been submitting memorandums for the same to the state government repeatedly. We had met Capt Amarinder Singh over the matter when he was the Chief Minister. The state government has failed to resolve the issue.”Union activist Ranbir Singh Dhanday said the protesters were given a meeting with Navjot Singh Sidhu. “We have been assured a meeting with the PPCC chief. Any decision in regard to our further course of action will be decided after the meeting,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/employees-hold-protest-demand-restoration-of-old-pension-scheme-348503
10-12-2021||Ravneet Singh||Stand-off over Mayor's post in city continues||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 9The tussle among councillors of the Municipal Corporation here that made headlines with a stormy General House meeting on November 25 is far from over. Two councilors— Sanjeev Sharma Bittu and Yoginder Singh Yogi— are claiming to be the corporation’s Mayor and acting Mayor, respectively. While a decision on the ‘dismissal’ of Sanjeev Sharma Bittu by the MC’s General House meeting is pending before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Yoginder Singh Yogi, senior deputy mayor, who was allocated the charge of acting mayor by the majority of members present during the MC’s General House meeting of November 25, has installed a board claiming he is acting mayor of the corporation.Talking to The Tribune, Yogi said he was allocated the charge of acting mayor of the corporation as per the decision of the General House meeting. “The General House is the supreme body of the corporation. It allocated me with the charge and as such I am functioning as per its requirements,” Yogi said.He said, “I met the MC Commissioner along with various councillors today. We discussed various issues. We have told the Commissioner to make a movement diary of all corporation employees to ensure transparency in their working.”Yogi said he held a discussion with the Commissioner on the issue of illegal colonies and buildings under construction.Sanjeev Sharma Bittu who was ‘suspended’ as per the proceedings of the MC General House had been attending the Mayor’s office regularly. Recently he issued directions to the Corporation Commissioner on his official notepad to fast-track the process of shifting dairies from the city. Bittu was not available for comment when contacted on Thursday evening.MC Commissioner Vineet Kumar said the corporation had not received any new direction or intimation from the government or the court. “As such we are not aware who in what capacity has installed a board, or is making any claims”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/stand-off-over-mayors-post-in-city-continues-348504
10-12-2021||---||Patiala-Sirhind road to be widened||Patiala, December 9The Patiala-Sirhind road will be widened at an expenditure of Rs 119.60 crore. PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla said the government had issued permission for the four laning of Mata Gujri Marg from Patiala to Sirhind.Singla said the 29-km stretch would incur an expenditure of Rs 119.60 crore. The road from Patiala to Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib- Bassi Pathana-Morinda–Bela- Chamkaur Sahib was recently named Mata Gujri Marg. He said the work on the project was going on.He said the 8-km stretch from Patiala to Baran village was already four lane. The remaining 21-km stretch will be four laned. A new steel structured bridge will also be made on the Bhakra canal which will be constructed at a cost of Rs 10.22 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-sirhind-road-to-be-widened-348506
