12-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||‘SAD student wing to work for alliance candidate’s win’||Activists of the Student Organisation of India (SOI) will work round-the-clock to ensure the win of SAD- BSP alliance candidate in the Assembly election, said Robin Brar, national president of the SOI, a student wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal. He organised a meeting of the party activists here today to mobilise support for SAD(B) candidate Jagdeep Singh Cheema from Fatehgarh Sahib Assembly segment. He alleged that there was great resentment among youths against the present Congress government as it had cheated the youths by making false promise of providing ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’. He said unemployed youths were facing the brutality of police. He said the Congress government had failed to fulfill any promise made with different sections of society.Jagdeep Singh Cheema in his address highlighted the atrocities being committed by Congress MLA and leaders against SAD(B) workers and common people. Kulwinder Singh Dera, advocate Inderjit Singh Sau and Youth Akali Dal joint secretary Gurmeet Singh Cheema too addressed the gathering. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sad-student-wing-to-work-for-alliance-candidates-win-349369
12-12-2021||Patiala||LLM (Executive) introduced at university||Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) has introduced a new course, LLM (Executive) Programme, from 2021-22 session. The course is open to graduates of all disciplines, executives and professionals. The course is equivalent to postgraduate diploma. The course will follow blend mode. Candidates will attend week-long contact programme in a semester. The course provides individuals in full-time employment, who cannot take break from work, acquire quality education.The programme is specially designed for learners interested in sharpening their legal acumen. This 24 credit programme shall have two semesters. Various specialisations offered in the programme include, constitutional law, corporate governance and taxation, IPR and commercial laws, law and medicine, constitutional and administrative law, police studies and IPR. The RGNUL has invited applications for the admissions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/llm-executive-introduced-at-university-349367
12-12-2021||Patiala||NCC girls pay tributes to CDS Bipin Rawat, 12 others||The NCC girls wing of Multani Mal Modi College today paid tributes to CDS Bipin Rawat and other bravehearts of unfortunate helicopter crash on December 8.In remembrance of the martyrs a candlelight march was organised by the cadets under the supervision of Dr Nidhi Rani Gupta, CTO of the NCC girls’ wing under 4PB girls BN (NCC), Patiala. College principal Khushvinder Kumar, while participating in the candlelight march, said that it was sad and unfortunate moment of Indian military history when they lost their chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat who died along with his wife and 11 other security personnel in an IAF helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamilnadu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ncc-girls-pay-tributes-to-cds-rawat-12-others-349364
12-12-2021||Patiala||Screening of foreign travellers intensified amid Omicron fears||Amid the fear of a new strain of Covid-19, Omicron, around 920 international travellers, including 87 from 12 high-risk countries, have already landed in the district in the month of December. The Health Department informed that 17 international travellers from the high-risk countries had been tested negative for Covid, while the rest were under self-quarantine and yet to be tested.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said that travellers from the high-risk countries were closely watched. However, no international traveller from South Africa, where Omicron was first reported, had been reached in the district. He said, “We are closely following the travellers from high-risk countries. None has tested positive so far. However, everyone should start wearing face masks.”Meanwhile, the Health Department informed that all samples that had been tested for genome sequencing to ascertain new strain were found negative. It has been learnt that all samples turned out to be Delta variants.Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that the district reported only one case of coronavirus on Saturday. The district is prepared for the possible third wave, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/screening-of-foreign-travellers-intensified-amid-omicron-fears-349363
12-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Contractual staff strike dents income of PRTC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 11The state-owned Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) is suffering a financial loss of over Rs 1 crore everyday, owing to the ongoing strike by the contractual employees. It has been learnt that the daily income of the PRTC has been dipped from Rs 1.85 crore to Rs 60 lakh, following the indefinite strike by employees.We have been trying hard to convince the protesting employees. I hope they will end their strike on their scheduled meeting with the Chief Minister on December 14. A senior PRTC officialAround 75 per cent of the operational staff of the PRTC has been on strike since December 7. As a result, only 219 of 1,097 buses are said to have been plying on the roads.A senior PRTC official, pleading anonymity, said, “Only 20 per cent of buses are operational since the staff started the indefinite strike. We have been trying hard to convince the protesting employees. I hope they will end their strike on their scheduled meeting with the Chief Minister on December 14.”Earlier, the government in September had increased their salaries by around 30 per cent assuring a five per cent annual hike. The government, however, did not regularise their services, a key demand of the protesting employees.The chaotic scenes across the state have become commonplace at the bus terminals since the indefinite strike started five days ago. At Patiala bus stand on Saturday, passengers were seen scrambling to find seats in the buses. The private buses, in the absence of sufficient PRTC buses on the roads, were seen overloaded, and many passengers were sitting on the roof of the buses.Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Bhawanigarh town in Sangrur district, said, “Five days have been gone by, the government, however, is not bothered about the poor passengers. Thousands of the passengers are risking their lives when they have to travel by overloaded buses.”Avtar Singh, a Punjabi University student, said, “Students are left with no option but to hire taxis to reach their homes in the absence of PRTC buses.” Satwinder Singh, Chairman, PRTC, said that the government would definitely find a solution in the meeting on December 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/contractual-staff-strike-dents-income-of-prtc-349362
