13-12-2021||---||PRTC staff on strike: Bus passengers face miserable time in Patiala||Patiala, December 12The indefinite strike of contractual employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and the Punjab Roadways has put the passengers at the receiving end. Limited buses and lack of prior information about bus time table have left commuters stranded for hours at various bus terminals in the state.The strike affected the long-distance commuters the most. With no other option, many long-distance travellers continued to stay at the bus stands itself hoping for the strike to be called off.Short-distance travellers had a miserable time at the Patiala bus stand when they had to scramble to get a seat in the bus. Women and children face difficult time boarding a bus.A female passenger said, “I have to go to Bathinda, but I am not able to get into the bus. There is a huge rush and people are pushing each other to force their way into the buses. There is no one to tell when the next bus will be available for Bathinda.”Chaotic scenes were common at the Patiala bus stand today.Meanwhile, PRTC officials claimed that they had started extra buses to reduce the impact of the strike. PRTC officials said there was a written examination for some government jobs and they had to ply some extra buses.It has been learnt that buses were being run without the conductor. At this, a senior PRTC official said, “To ensure job aspirants reach the examination centre on time, we ran extra buses to Chandigarh from various depots in the state today. We roped in some drivers, who were deployed elsewhere in the department, for the service. However, we faced a shortage of conductors. Therefore, we had to run the buses without conductors. Tickets were issued to passengers at the terminals only.”Maninder Sidhu, General Manager, PRTC, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.It has been learnt that around 289 buses of the total 1,097 were operational on today.The protesting employees today announced that they would block the state and national highways if the government failed to find a solution in the meeting scheduled with the Chief Minister for December 14.Women, children hit the mostShort distance travellers had a miserable time at the Patiala bus stand when they had to scramble to get a seat in the bus. Women and children face difficult time boarding a bus.Protesters threaten to block roadsProtesting employees announced that they would block the state and national highways if the government failed to find a solution in the meeting scheduled with the Chief Minister for December 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bus-passengers-face-miserable-time-349765
13-12-2021||Aman Sood||Patiala: Vehicles ferrying schoolkids flout norms with impunity||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 12With authorities failing to check vehicles carrying schoolchildren on buses and other commercial vehicles, the lives of many such kids are at risk. Thousands of schoolchildren using public mode of transport take a dangerous ride due to violation of norms and rules by the owners of such vehicles.Many of these school buses violate the maximum carrying capacity, do not have proper security, adequate staff and mandatory fire extinguisher and flout smoke emission norms.Three-wheelers carrying schoolchildren are openly flouting restrictions imposed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on transporting children in excess of one and a half times their sanctioned seat capacity. As a result, several children are found in a precarious position on buses, even hanging outside vehicles, which could cause serious accidents, resulting in injury or even death.The court’s directions on school buses and other vehicles used for carrying schoolchildren have, unfortunately, gone unnoticed. Despite a traffic wing, the DSP and the SP (Traffic) posted in the district, such violations continue unabated.“There is no check on such vehicles as auto-rickshaws, buses and taxis are openly seen flouting all norms and loading as many children as they can so as to make more profit. Cops are deployed at every chowk to ensure smooth traffic management for VIPs and challan helmet-less drivers, but they have failed to take action against such violators,” claimed SP Singh, an advocate in district courts.Ravee Ahluwalia, Member, Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said they had been holding challan drives and inspections at regular intervals. “We will now start writing to the school authorities to ensure that each and every child is transported safely to the school. The school managements cannot shirk this responsibility,” he said.Moreover, the school authorities have also failed to arrange parking of school buses on their premises to ensure the safety of the children while boarding and alighting. No regular bus stops have been fixed nor any zebra crossings marked for the safety of kids. In spite of all this, no action seems to have been taken by the authorities so far to start a refresher course for drivers of these vehicles. The lives of thousands of schoolgoing children remain in peril under these circumstances.“We will launch a drive to check such violations soon and I have already written to the district police heads,” said a senior IPS officer.‘Making profit sole concern’There is no check on such vehicles. Autos, buses and taxis are openly seen flouting all norms and loading as many children as they can so as to make more profit. — SP Singh, advocate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vehicles-ferrying-schoolkids-flout-norms-with-impunity-349757
13-12-2021||---||No new strain found in 356 Covid cases at Patiala medical college||Patiala, December 12Though the potential spread of Omicron looms, the state’s only genome sequencing lab at Government Medical College here reported that all 356 samples tested so far to ascertain any fresh mutation of coronavirus were found to be negative for the new variant.The lab said the Delta variant had been the cause of all Covid-19 cases tested to find the new strain.Dr Rupinder Bakshi, incharge of the lab, said no new variant was found in any of the samples tested so far. She said in the face of a growing fear about Omicron, they had tested not only international travellers but also positive patients from across the state.Dr Bakshi said, “Only positive cases having CT (cycle threshold) value less than 25 are being tested for genome sequencing. So far, all the samples tested for genome sequencing have turned out to be that of Delta variants.”She added that they didn’t take any risk and had been testing Covid-19 positive cases for genome sequencing at regular intervals for early detection of any fresh mutation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-new-strain-found-in-356-covid-cases-349755
13-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Close shave  for car driver as vehicle fell into Bhakra canal||Fatehgarh Sahib, December 12A car driver had a miraculous escape as the vehicle fell into Bhakra canal here on Saturday night.According to information, Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Jagatpura in Mohali, was returning home from a wedding in an inebriated state when he veered off the road and landed in Bhakra canal near Floating Restaurant Sirhind. Luck was on his side as a window of the car opened and he swam to safety.Thereafter, he made a call on ‘112’, informing the police that someone snatched his car on the GT Road. A police team rushed to the spot.DSP Manjit Singh said when he reached the spot and questioned him, he narrated the truth that his car fell into the canal and he managed to swim out while the car was still in the canal.The DSP said with the help of divers and a crane, the car was fished out today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/close-shave-for-car-driver-349754
13-12-2021||Aman Sood||Nabha: Growth leaves much to be desired||Once attached with royalty, the Nabha (reserved) constituency lacks clean drinking water, underground sewerage, proper garbage disposal and other basic amenities despite having its MLA Sadhu Singh Dharamsot on the Cabinet for over four years. A visit to the interiors is enough to prove that a lot of work still needs to be done. “Recovery of drugs from some nearby villages and complete politicisation of the police in Nabha has troubled us for long. Even for a minor accident case, the police waits for a political signal,” allege local residents Rajbir Singh and Jaspal Singh. Villagers said the expenditure on the construction of ponds needed to be probed as works are still incomplete.Past trendSince 2002, Nabha had been sending a Congress MLA to the Vidhan Sabha, until 2012 when SAD’s Balwant Singh Shahpur defeated Sadhu Singh Dharmsot. SAD-BJP fielded turncoat Kabir Dass in 2017, but he lost to Dharamsot, who remained in Cabinet for over four years.Electorate strengthLocals’ key demandsThe SAD-BSP has fielded turncoat Kabir Dass, who was earlier senior deputy Mayor during the Congress rule in Patiala. He had lost the last polls to Dharamsot in Nabha in 2017. Dharamsot had won in 2012 by defeating SAD’s Balwant Singh by 22,548 votes. In 2007, he had won from Amloh but shifted to Nabha after Amloh was declared reserved.Dharamsot has been actively visiting the constituency ever since he was shunted out of the Cabinet two months ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/growth-leaves-much-to-be-desired-349568
