14-12-2021||Karam Parkash||142 from Omicron high-risk nations land in Patiala district this month||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 13As the threat of the spread of Omicron variant looms, the number of international travellers continues to rise in the district. As many as 142 travellers from high-risk countries notified by the Union Government have already landed in the district in December.Around 55 international travellers have reached Patiala in the past two days. As many as 34 travellers are said to have tested negative for Covid-19, while the remaining would be tested in the coming days.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said the health workers had been successful in tracing majority of the international travellers and telephonic follow-up was being done on a daily basis.It has been learned that many international travellers, especially those who have reached here to attend weddings, have not been strictly following self-quarantine. Sources said many travellers had been attending wedding ceremonies before completing seven-day quarantine. As per the Union Government guidelines, seven-day isolation is mandatory for travellers from high-risk countries. The health officials said travellers argued with them, saying they were fully vaccinated and had tested negative at the airport on arrival.Meanwhile, the district reported three positive cases today. All three fresh cases were reported from Patiala only. The Health Department said they were asking the travellers to follow the quarantine rules strictly.Three new cases reportedThe district reported three positive cases on Monday. All three fresh cases were reported from Patiala city only, taking the number of active cases to 22 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/142-from-high-risk-nations-land-in-patiala-district-this-month-350277
14-12-2021||Patiala||Patiala: Yoginder calls F&CC meet, Bittu terms it 'contemptuous of court'||Confusion continues to prevail in Patiala regarding the functioning of the Municipal Corporation. Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi today convened a meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) (ordinarily convened by Mayor) to the displeasure of Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, who termed it contemptuous of court.The two councillors are otherwise engrossed in a court case over the validity of ‘suspension’ of Sanjeev Sharma Bittu from the post of Mayor, as per the proceedings of the MC’s General House on November 25.The meeting was attended by councillors Anil Modgil, Harvinder Shukla and Commissioner Vineet Kumar as members. Yogi said he called the meeting as per the powers of the acting Mayor vested in him by the majority of members present in the MC’s General House on November 25.He said, “Sanjeev Sharma Bittu was deemed ‘suspended’ as Mayor by the majority of the House. It gave me the powers of the acting Mayor. Also, the works of the city were pending as a meeting has not been held in the past two months. The councillors had written to me about this.” He said the quorum of the House (at least 50 per cent of the members) was also complete as four members of the committee were present out of total six.Meanwhile, Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said he had sent a representation regarding the meeting to the Minister of Local Government, Punjab, the MC Commissioner and others. In his representation he had said there was no acting Mayor as the proposal of the House dated November 25 had not been approved by the government. The government was not even competent to approve such a resolution, he had stated. He wrote, “Yoginder Singh Yogi, Senior Deputy Mayor, has called a meeting of the F&CC, attempting to usurp the office of Mayor…” MC Commissioner Vineet Kumar said, “Various decisions, including issuing work orders of around Rs 20 crore, were passed in the meeting.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-yoginder-calls-fcc-meet-bittu-terms-it-contemptuous-of-court-350276
14-12-2021||---||Patiala: Teachers protest lathicharge on jobless youth in Mansa||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 13Government school teachers held a protest in front of the office of the District Education Officer here today to protest the police lathicharge on the unemployed ETT and TET-pass staff in Mansa, last week. The protest was held under the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha.The agitating teachers shouted slogans against the Chief Minister and burnt an effigy of Punjab Government. Vikram Dev, state convener, Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, said the police had thrashed the protesting unemployed ETT and TET-pass qualified youth in Mansa, last week. He said,“The video of the incident showed inhumanity of the Punjab Police. The Chief Minister should immediately sack the officer, who was seen hitting the youth, even when they had been already detained and were sitting in the police van.” The government has ordered a magisterial probe into the matter.Dev said it seemed that the officers were not bothering the Channi government and following in the footsteps of Captain Amarinder Singh regime, under which, teachers demanding jobs were beaten on a regular basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teachers-protest-lathicharge-on-jobless-youth-in-mansa-350275
14-12-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University students seek reopening  of portal||Students of Punjabi University submitted a memorandum to the VC seeking reopening of the online portal to avail Dr BR Ambedkar Post Matric SC Scholarship Scheme. The students stated they had not been able to get the certificates signed as the tehsildars and other officials were on strike.Rashpinder Singh, a student associated with the Punjab Radical Students’ Union , said, “The government extended the time period for students to apply, but shut the portal. We have not been able to submit our applications as they were incomplete due to the protest by patwaris and tehsildars .” He said the completion of an application took about 15 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-varsity-students-seek-reopening-of-portal-350274
14-12-2021||Aman Sood||Liqour cartels calling shots in Punjab, charge at will||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 13Despite repeated assurances by the government, the liquor mafia in Punjab is making a killing by charging exorbitant rates. The mafia, having political backing, controls almost 80 per cent of the liquor trade.Taking Strict action on plaintsMinimum rates have been fixed to promote competition in the market. No one can form a cartel. Strict action is ensured whenever we get complaints. A Venu Prasad, Additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner, TaxationMafia dictates pricesAccording to information gathered from various districts, same brand of liquor is sold at different rates at different vends, without any valid reason. While opposition leaders blame the government for the menace, excise officials say they act on complaints received.To promote competition, the excise policy has fixed minimum rates of liquor. Insiders claimed that a major portion of the trade was now controlled by four groups that had formed cartels in every district. “If you want a particular brand of liquor, either it will be as per their rates or you will not get it anywhere,” said an insider.In this regard A Venu Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Financial Commissioner, Taxation, said anyone could buy liquor from any vend. “Minimum rates have been fixed to promote competition in the market. No one can form any cartel. Strict action is ensured whenever we get complaints,” he said.Interestingly, excise officials denied existence of syndicates. Information revealed that the syndicates in connivance with police and excise officials raid marriage palaces, put up illegal ‘nakas’ and “do not allow liquor to be served at any function” if it was “not bought from the vends” controlled by them. Such syndicates are allegedly operating in Amritsar, Khanna, Jalandhar, Patiala, Bathinda, Ferozepur and Ludhiana.Former Cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia claimed the government’s failure to curb the syndicates meant people were paying more for liquor and the excise revenue was being pocketed by the mafia. Senior AAP leader Harpal Cheema said he frequently got complaints about how the liquor lobby was selling liquor at high rates. “The rates are 40 per cent higher for functions and the government has done nothing to curb the menace,” he added.Deputy CM OP Soni said overcharging for liquor would not be tolerated. “I will ensure that such rates are not charged. Let me get complete information on overcharging for liquor, if any,” he said, adding that the Oppositon was merely playing politics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liqour-cartels-calling-shots-in-state-charge-at-will-350048
14-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Needle-free shots in Punjab by next week||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 13The Punjab Health Department is likely to roll out a new Covid-19 vaccine (ZyCoV-D) in the state by next week.Initially, it will be administered in Patiala, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. Beneficiaries aged above 18, who have yet to receive the first dose of any Covid vaccine, would be administered the world’s first needle-free vaccine. Unlike Covishield and Covaxin, ZyCoV-D will be administered in three doses at a gap of 28 days between consecutive shots.State Nodal Officer Dr Rajesh Bhasker said, “Health workers’ training in administering the new vaccine will start from Tuesday. By the next week, we will start administering the new vaccine to the people.”Only around 41 per cent of the total targeted population has been fully vaccinated in the state so far. Around 1.68 crore beneficiaries in the state have received one dose of Covishield or Covaxin, while 85 lakhs have received both doses of the said vaccines.Bhasker said the vaccine would be administered into dermis (inner layer of skin), located between epidermis and hypodermis, using a needle-free applicator. “The vaccine administration will be painless. Moreover, it has not reported any side-effects so far,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/needle-free-shots-by-next-week-350054
