15-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Over 3 lakh yet to get first dose of vaccine in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 14Amid the Omicron scare across the globe, over three lakh beneficiaries are yet to receive the first dose of the Covid vaccine. Health officials said of the total 14.22 lakh target population, around 10.7 lakh had received the first dose, a gap of 3.52 lakh, and around five lakh had received both doses of the vaccine.Health officials admitted that daily vaccination figures had dipped slightly due to festivals in October and November months due to the festival season. However, there was no let up in the pace of the vaccination. Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said, “Despite the ongoing strike by health workers, we are administering around 5,000 doses every day. If workers call off their strike, the numbers are likely to shoot up.”Though the government had initiated a two-week vaccination campaign “Har Ghar Dastak” in the month of November to cover the entire target population with the first dose, only 7,795 beneficiaries, out of 13,863 identified, could be administered first dose during the vaccination campaign.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said around 4,381 doses of COVID vaccines were administered on Tuesday. He said that 15.84 lakh doses had been administered in the district so far.Training camp heldThe Health Department on Tuesday imparted training to 40 ANM health workers to roll out of the new Covid vaccine, ZyCoV-D, in the district, next week. To ensure the smooth conduct of the training program, Dr Balwinder Kaur, state immunisation officer and Dr Vikram Gupta, Surveillance medical officer, World Health Organization (WHO) were present during the training camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-3-lakh-yet-to-get-first-dose-of-vaccine-in-patiala-district-350553
15-12-2021||---||Roadways employees' meeting with  govt inconclusive, protest to continue||Patiala, December 14Protesting Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and Punjab Roadways employees on Tuesday announced to continue the protest after their scheduled meeting with the state government remained inconclusive. Notably, around 7,000 contractual employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation and Punjab Roadways, demanding regular jobs have been on indefinite strike since December 7.The union of protesting employees said the government had assured that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi himself would chair the meeting, however, he did not show up for the meeting. Hence, the scheduled meeting was attended by government officials and leaders of the roadways staff.After attending the meeting, Resham Singh, state president of the union, said they got neither any notification nor any written assurance about their demands. He said, “We are being pressurised by the government to call off our agitation. However, we will not buckle and effectuate our plan to protest in front of the Chief Minister’s residence on Wednesday.”Meanwhile, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, through a Facebook video, has implored the protesting employees to call off their strike. He said due to the continued suffering the passengers had been suffering every day. He said that the government, a few months ago, had hiked their monthly salary by around Rs 4,500 and assured a five per cent hike every year. The Minister said, “People of Punjab have to endure harassment every day due to the agitation. They need buses to travel for their examinations and jobs, therefore, the government won’t let people suffer. We will be compelled to take action if the strike continues.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/roadways-employees-meeting-with-govt-inconclusive-protest-to-continue-350552
15-12-2021||---||Bankers stage protest in Patiala against privatisation||Patiala, December 14Bank employees and officers under the banner of United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) on Tuesday staged a protest at Fountain Chowk, against the Banking Law Amendment Bill, 2021, which facilitates privatisation of two public sector banks.Bankers have announced to go on a pan-India strike on December 16-17. On the occasion, Yadvinder Gupta, secretary of the federation said: “Public sector banks are the lifeline of Indian economy. They should remain so. We strongly oppose any move to privatise public sector banks. These banks belong to people and we oppose any action to hand them over to the private corporates and the billionaires,” he alleged. He further told that over 10 lakh bank employees under the banner of the UFBU will observe the strike.Meanwhile, treasurer of the Punjab Bank Employees Federation said: “Huge corporate bad loans have been resolved with heavy haircut and causing loss to banks. Hence, we are opposed to the privatisation move”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bankers-stage-protest-in-patiala-against-privatisation-350551
15-12-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab's coal stocks shrink, PSPCL buys 300L units daily||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 14Despite paying crores of rupees to private thermal plants, Punjab continues to buy short- term power from national power exchange to meet the demand, even as private coal-based plants in the state are left with “limited coal stocks”. Around two months ago, the state had to resort to power cuts due to acute coal shortage.‘36 coal rakes in transit’State owned units will start operating from December 15 as the ban on their operation will come to an end. A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCLSources said Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has been buying power worth Rs 13 crore everyday to meet the electricity demand. “This despite the fact that the power demand in the state is as low as 7,000 MW as compared to the peak season demand of around 15,000 MW,” they said.The coal shortage at private thermal power plants in the state, coupled with the order of the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR to shut down thermal units — Lehra Mohabatt and Ropar— has forced the PSPCL to buy power from the national power exchange.Insiders in the PSPCL confirmed that while private sector thermal plants at Talwandi Sabo and GVK were running at half load as the coal stock varies between one to two days, Rajpura thermal plant has one unit under maintenance since November 15 and only one unit was running at full load.“The total thermal generation in the state is around 1,700 MW. Talwandi Sabo’s three units with a capacity of 1,980 MW are running at 900 MW. Similarly, GVK is generating 300 MW against a capacity of 540 MW,” said sources. VK Gupta, spokesperson, All India Power Engineers’ Federation, said, “The coal stock at Talwandi Sabo is just sufficient for one day and GVK has three days stock. IPPS is not maintaining sufficient coal stock despite clear guidelines for minimum coal stock of 15 days. The coal stock at Ropar and Lehra Mohabatt is for 10 and 16 days, but these plants cannot be operated as per directions of the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR.”“It is high time the PSPCL starts taking stern action against plants short of coal. They flout the guidelines just to save on inventory cost,” he said. The power supply in Punjab is 1,350 lakh units comprising 425 lakh units from private thermal plants in the state.A senior PSPCL official said they were purchasing 270 to 300 lakh units daily at Rs 4.50 per unit. “The total daily purchase is worth Rs 13 crore,” he said.A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL, said, “We have served notice on a private thermal plant for coal shortage and repeated outages. From January, the Government of India has framed new guidelines for private thermal plants in terms of coal stocks to be maintained by them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coal-stocks-shrink-pspcl-buys-300l-units-daily-350424
