17-12-2021||---||Patiala: Development works hang fire as F&CC meetings end inconclusively||Patiala, December 16Decisions of one Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting remain pending while the other meeting held today was adjourned due to lack of quorum.At present, there is tussle between councillors Sanjeev Sharma Bittu and Yoginder Singh Yogi over the Mayor’s post, which both are contesting. Earlier, the Municipal Corporation General House suspended Bittu from the Mayor’s post on November 25, which now stands questioned in the court. This has left development works of the city hanging fire.Bittu had called a meeting of the F&CC on Thursday, but it could not be held due to lack of quorum as only three of six members were present. Now, the meeting has been adjourned till December 20.Interestingly, this was two-days after Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi called a meeting of the F&CC as acting mayor. He took various decisions regarding development works. Insiders said the proceedings of the meeting were yet to be finalised.Even 20 days after the MC General House deemed Bittu suspended, which he questioned in court, the corporation is still not clear about who the city’s mayor is. Both Bittu and Yogi have been calling themselves Mayor and acting Mayor, respectively. Municipal Corporation Commissioner Vineet Kumar attended both the meetings called after a difference of three days.Bittu said, “Today’s meeting was not held as the quorum was not complete. The same has been brought to the notice of all members. Now, the meeting will be held on December 20. We will need the presence of only 33 per cent members of the House to hold the meeting and take decisions.” “Section 58.3 of the MC Act gives such directions,” he added.When contacted, Commissioner Vineet Kumar said, “Today’s meeting could not be held duet lack of quorum.”When asked about the pending finalisation of proceedings of previous meeting he said, “The court had asked the corporation to file a reply as to how it is carrying out development works of the city. The decision on meetings as such, will be taken after a response is submitted in the court and its subsequent direction.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-development-works-hang-fire-as-fcc-meetings-end-inconclusively-351308
17-12-2021||---||Nurses' strike affects hospital work in Patiala||Patiala, December 16Work at Government Rajindra Hospital and Mata Kaushalya Hospital emergency and in house wards remained affected due to strike by nurses over their demands. The work at Rajindra Hospital was managed with help of newcomers and students of the Medical College. Meanwhile, nurses held a protest outside the residence of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today.Nurses have been demanding that their pay scale should be increased from Rs3,200 to Rs4,600. Paramjit Kaur Sandhu, convener of the nursing union, said rather than hiking salary, their grade pay was reduced by the government. Besides, the nursing staff want their designation to be changed to nursing officer. Nurses are also demanding that they should be included in Grade B instead of Grade C as per the Sixth Pay Commission of Punjab.There was shortage of nurses due to protest, which left hospital officials and patients on tenterhooks.Dr Sandeep Kaur, MS, Mata Kaushalya Hospital, said all the nursing staff of the hospital was on strike on Wednesday and Thursday. “We managed all in-patient and out-patient wards with the help of 47 doctors available here. Most importantly, we are facing problems at the labour room and the operation theatre where doctors are forced to work in 12 hour shifts. They have only Class IV employees at their disposal.”Nurses started their protest when nearly half of doctors of Government Rajindra Hospital are on vacation. Dr HS Rekhi, MS, Rajindra Hospital, said he was also on leave, but the hospital had called in the training nursing staff from the periphery to manage the hospital affairs. Doctors said junior doctors were working and managing all affairs at the hospital.Menawhile, Paramjit Kaur Sandhu said, “The protest will continue tomorrow as well. We were assured of a meeting with the PPCC chief by Navjot Kaur Sidhu on the phone today. But, if the government fails to hold a meeting and resolve our demands we will intensify our protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nurses-strike-affects-hospital-work-in-patiala-351307
17-12-2021||Patiala||Patiala: Yadavindra Public School shooter creates national record in Bhopal||A young shooter from Yadavindra Public School (YPS) now holds a new record in the National Shooting Championship, held recently in Bhopal.Mridvika Bhardwaj of Class IX took part in the 64th National Shooting Championship in Bhopal. School officials said it was her first national level participation wherein she created a new national record. Mridvika won a silver medal with a score of 625.8 in 10 metre air rifle in sub-youth category. “She now holds a place amongst the top eighth in the final youth category and is also ranked 10th in the junior category,” said school officials.“The 14-year-old shooter already has several medals in her kitty. She was declared state champion in the 55th Punjab State Shooting Championship at Mohali this year. She has also won gold medal in sub-youth (Under-16), youth (under-19), junior (under-21) and senior (above-21) categories. She now aims for the 2024 Olympics,” school officials added.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/yps-shooter-creates-national-record-in-bhopal-351306
17-12-2021||---||Punjabi University outsourced, daily wage employees' protest enters Day 2||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 16Security staff of Punjabi University today remained on strike over their demands of promotion and increment in wages for the second consecutive day today. The staff said the protest was organised for promotion of employees, who had been working on daily wages. Workers have held a similar protest on campus gates earlier too.Arvinder Singh, one of the security guards, claimed that the university had in 2012 decided that outsourced workers, who completed five years of their service, would be brought on university’s roll.“Some workers have been working in the university for over seven years, but they have still not been regularised,” he added.Daily wagers of the university were also protesting as they were paid a meagre amount of Rs9,132 per month. “They want their wages hiked to Rs18,000 per month. The protest will continue till their demands are met,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-varsity-outsourced-daily-wage-employees-protest-enters-day-2-351305
17-12-2021||Patiala||Health Department issues advisory for winter||The Health Department while issuing an advisory today said the aged and the young should not venture out of their homes in early morning and evening hours during cold winter days. The department has warned people of sitting closed-doors alongside hearths at homes and take preventive measures to keep healthy.Also read: Severe cold wave engulfs Punjab; foggy conditions in all districtsThe Patiala Civil Surgeon, Prince Sodhi, today said, “Young children might suffer from pneumonia and diarrhoea during cold days. Families should ensure that their children wear proper winter clothes. People should not light fire on hearths in closed doors. It reduces oxygen in rooms.”The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumit Singh, said, “Asthmatic patients should avoid venturing out during peak winter. They should take hot beverages and eatables, including soup, tea, coffee to keep them warm.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-department-issues-advisory-for-winter-351304
17-12-2021||Patiala||Patiala: Junior engineers' protest hits work||The protest of Council of Junior Engineers, PSEB entered Day 51 here today. Routine work has been hit and common public continue to bear the brunt.The protesters have threatened a state-level dharna on December 21. Employees of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) continued to boycott stores, metering labs, all types of field checks and have also kept their official mobile phones switched off as a mark of protest.Meanwhile, their chain hunger fast, which started on November 17 in front of the PSPCL Headquarters at Patiala has also not ended.Council of Junior Engineers, PSEB, president Paramjit Singh Khatra and general secretary Davinder Singh jointly said Power Junior Engineers were highly aggrieved over non-settlement of their main demand of enhancement in entry-level pay scale as they are drawing lesser initial pay of Rs 17,450 as compared to their other state counterparts who were granted entry pay of Rs 18,250 since December 2011.“This discrimination is not tolerable as despite assurance by the PSPCL management nothing has been done to address the issue,” said Davinder Singh. “Power Junior Engineers have been holding protest rallies in front of various stores and metering labs of the PSPCL and will continue their mass casual leaves with a state-level dharna on December 21,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/junior-engineers-protest-hits-work-351147
