18-12-2021||Patiala||Patiala: 22 Congress councillors join Capt Amarinder Singh's party||Adding drama to the prevailing situation in the Municipal Corporation, 22 Congress-affiliated councillors today joined the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) of Capt Amarinder Singh in the presence of the former CM’s daughter Jai Inder Kaur.The MC has already been in doldrums after a General House meeting of November 25, the proceedings of which have been challenged in court. Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu had joined the PLC in Chandigarh two days ago.Councillors who left the Congress today are Deepika Guraba, Gurinder Kalika, Atul Joshi, Promila Mehta, Kamlesh Kumari, Saroj Sharma, Leela Rani, Sandeep Malhotra, Sonia Kapoor, Happy Verma, Vinti Sangar, Vijay Kuka, Maya Devi, Harish Nagpal, Monika Sharma, Jarnail Singh, Nikhil Batish, Varsha Kapoor, Rajni Sharma, Satwant Rani, Jaspal Kaur and Sunita Gupta.The local civic body has 60 wards. In the 2017 elections, the Congress won 59 seats and the SAD got one. The Congress councillors were divided after Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu recently pledged support to Capt Amarinder Singh when the latter formed a new political party. It was followed by a requisition of no-confidence motion against the Mayor, resulting in a General House meeting and subsequent suspension of Bittu as per the MC resolution, which currently stands questioned.Sanjeev Sharma Bittu and Yoginder Singh Yogi are both claiming Mayorship of the city, an approval or rejection of which is pending with the Local Government Department. Of total six members of the Finance and Contract Committee, two of them — Bittu and Deputy Mayor Vinti Sangar — have now joined the PLC. The corporation has also not finalised the proceedings of the General House meeting of December 13 due to contentions of Bittu and Yogi while a separate meeting called by Bittu could not be held due to differences among the councillors resulting in lack of quorum. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-22-congress-councillors-join-capt-amarinder-singhs-party-351652
18-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala lab flouting norms debarred from taking Covid samples||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 17The Patiala Health department has debarred a private lab from collecting Covid samples after it was found that the lab was overcharging and taking samples incorrectly to rig the result.The lab was collecting samples without authorisation from the Health Department.The department is said to have taken action after The Tribune on Wednesday reported glaring irregularities at the lab.Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi informed that they had already constituted a committee to conduct an investigation into the case. He said no lab could be allowed to violate government orders.Notably, the private lab, showing scant regard for guidelines, was brazenly claiming to turn any Covid-19 test report into negative, especially, of those travelling abroad. For the purpose, the lab allegedly took samples erroneously.Despite the capping of the test charges at Rs450 by the state government, the lab was charging Rs700 for the test, a receipt is in the possession of The Tribune.Meanwhile, the inquiry committee has already issued a notice to SRL Diagnostics on whose behalfthe said lab was collecting samples. The committee has also asked for an explanation from the Senior Medical officer, Model Town, as the lab was being run in front of the CHC, Model Town.Dr Sumeet Singh, member, inquiry committee, said, “We have sought an explanation from SRL Labs. The lab did not have any permission to collect samples. Therefore, we have debarred it. Further action will be taken after completion of the inquiry.”Civil Surgeon forms probe committeeCivil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi informed that they had already constituted a committee to conduct an investigation into the case. He said no lab could be allowed to violate the government orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-lab-flouting-norms-debarred-from-taking-covid-samples-351650
18-12-2021||Patiala||Patiala DBA elections: 1,397 votes polled||A total of 1,397 votes were polled in the elections to the District Bar Association (DBA) here today.Over 2,700 advocates are registered with the Patiala DBA and 1,632 of them were eligible to cast vote.The elections have seen a triangular contest for the post of president with Dinesh Batish, Jatinder Pal Singh Ghumaan and Rakesh Gupta as contenders. Two candidates each contested for the remaining five posts of office-bearer — vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, cashier and librarian. Besides, 20 candidates contested for 10 posts of executive member.The counting of votes had started in the evening and was going on till the filing of this report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-dba-elections-1-397-votes-polled-351649
18-12-2021||Patiala||Webinar on career in artificial intelligence||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/webinar-on-career-in-artificial-intelligence-351648
18-12-2021||Patiala||Nurses on strike, woman loses 36-week-old foetus at Govt Rajindra Hospital, Patiala||A pregnant woman lost her 36-week-old foetus at the Government Rajindra Hospital here on Friday as a procedure could not be performed allegedly due to staff shortage. The authorities claimed that the woman had been apprised of the staff shortage and urged to take treatment at some other medical facility. Notably, staff nurses are on a strike here.It is learnt that the patient was admitted to the Gynaecology Department. On December 15, the patient reportedly had some problem. Then the doctors had to plan for induction of labour to deliver, but the procedure couldn’t be performed because the staff nurses had gone on strike.As the woman’s condition worsened, she lost the foetus. The relatives, thereafter, took her to some other hospital.Jasvir Singh, a relative of the woman, said, “It unfortunate that the woman lost the foetus due to the lack of staff. Police action should be initiated against hospital staff.”When asked about it, Dr Parmod, acting MS, said, “The work at the department had been hit by the strike. Moreover, the attendants were informed in time about shifting the patient.”He said though the procedure was to be performed by a consultant, he/she needed support staff to carry it out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nurses-on-strike-woman-loses-36-week-old-foetus-351529
