22-12-2021||---||Cleanliness workers continue protest for regular employment||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 21Cleanliness workers continued their protest for the second day today at Punjabi University here. Garbage lay strewn across the campus even as the university is holding various programmes on the campus.The cleanliness workers of the university have been protesting over their demandof regularisation. Jatinder Kala, leader of daily wage cleanliness workers, said they had been demanding regularisation of their services.“Garbage remained strewn on the campus today also as the matter has not been resolved. We held a meeting with our SDO and explained our demands, but a further meeting with university officials could not take place as the VC was away,” he said.The protest by security guards for promotion also continued. Satwant Singh Sandhu, security guard, said the administration today gave an assurance that the matter would be resolved in two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cleanliness-workers-continue-protest-for-regular-employment-353165
22-12-2021||Karam Prakash||No child admitted to private schools in Patiala district under EWS||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 21Though the Right to Education (RTE) Act has been in place for 10 years, not a single child has got admission to a private school under the economically weaker section (EWS) and disadvantaged groups in Patiala district. The situation in other districts is said to be no better. Had we not been able to provide government schools in the neighbourhood, then only one could have asked for private schools. Besides, the quality of education in government schools on an average is better than private schools as per surveys. -  Ajoy Sharma, Education Secretary As mandated under the RTE Act, private unaided schools, at the entry level of different standards, have to reserve at least 25 per cent seats for children from economically weaker sections and disadvantaged groups from the neighbourhood of the school. The government has to reimburse the expenditure of the children who get admission under the said quota. Experts said private schools, in a bid to deny admission, asked for an approval from the District Education Officer at the time of the admission. However, under the RTE Act, there was no such requirement. Ironically, the Punjab Government, in 2017, made it more difficult to get admission by making the definition of neighbourhood or habitation harder. The Punjab Government, in fact, extended the area of the neighbourhood. Moreover, it has been learnt that the government has not made any provision or allocation of any funds to reimburse private schools for providing admission to EWS students.Confirming zero admission, Harinder Kaur, District Education Officer, said, “No child so far has been given admission under the EWS quota because we have got government schools in every neighbourhood.”Ajoy Sharma, Education Secretary, said, “Had we not been able to provide government schools in the neighbourhood, then only one could have asked for private schools. Besides, the quality of education in government schools on an average is better than private schools as per surveys.”Meanwhile, Education Minister Pargat Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Vijay Walia, an activist, who had fought a case in 2017 pertaining to the EWS quota, said, “The successive state governments have failed to implement the Act in letter and spirit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-child-admitted-to-private-schools-in-district-under-ews-353166
22-12-2021||---||Patiala's British Co-Ed High School celebrates Christmas||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 21A virtual Christmas party was celebrated at British Co-Ed High School here on Tuesday. However, a small number of guests from village school and Alicia Jones Community School were present. The Christmas party was live-streamed and students of British Co-Ed watched the party online singing and celebrating from their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/city-school-celebrates-christmas-353167
