23-12-2021||---||Newborn found dead in dustbin in Patiala||Patiala, December 22A newborn baby boy was found dead in a dustbin of the emergency ward of Government Rajindra Hospital on Wednesday night. Later, he was shifted to the hospital’s mortuary.Confirming the development, Japnam Singh, incharge, police post, Rajindra Hospital, said the newborn was found dead in a dustbin when the sanitation worker was cleaning the bin around 9.30 pm on Wednesday. The boy was wrapped in a cloth, the police said. Singh said they had started an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/newborn-found-dead-in-dustbin-in-patiala-353536
23-12-2021||Patiala||PSEB engineers suspend stir||The Council of Junior Engineers PSEB has decided to suspend its ongoing agitation following a meeting held with the committee constituted by the state government to resolve the employees’ issues pertaining to financial matters. A meeting with KAP Sinha, Principal Secretary, Finance, was held wherein an agreement to enhance the initial pay at Rs 19,260 with their placement in new pay fitment table was agreed upon.They said the PSPCL officials also assured to implement the decision as and when recommendations of the committee were duly approved by the Principal Secretary. The power management also agreed to issue instructions regarding regularisation of mass casual leave taken in protest by the engineers from December 10 to 21. The JEs, who were sitting on hunger strike, ended the fast in the presence of Gagandeep Singh Jalalpur, Director (Administration), PSPCL. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pseb-engineers-suspend-stir-353533
23-12-2021||---||Punjabi University, Patiala, allows online classes for Afghan students||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 22Making special provisions for Afghan students, Punjabi University has decided to allow them to carry on their studies through online mode. The university said 80 of its Afghan students were stuck back home due to political turmoil who would also be allowed to take their exams online.Officials of the university said they had made special provisions for the students from Afghanistan who could not come to India.“The special permissions have been issued by the university vice-chancellor. The students will be able to carry on their study through online mode. Over 240 foreign students have taken admission in various postgraduate, graduate and PhD programmes at the university in the current session. Of these, 145 are Afghan students out of which 63 are currently on the campus and 80 back at their homes. Therefore we have decided that they will be able to carry on their studies through online mode”, a university official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-allows-online-classes-for-afghan-students-353531
23-12-2021||---||Punjabi University starts digitisation of rare manuscripts at Dehradun centre||Patiala, December 22Punjabi University has started digitisation work of rare manuscripts, newspapers, magazines and books, kept at its Dr Balbir Singh Sahit Kendra library in Dehradun. University officials said the manuscripts were the writings, as well as collections of world renowned scholars, including poet and theologian of the Sikh revival movement Bhai Vir Singh, Prof Puran Singh, who is known to be the founder of modern Punjabi poetry, Balbir Singh, a Sikh scholar and brother of Bhai Vir Singh and Bibi Mahinder Kaur, among others.Dr Balbir Singh Sahit Kendra is a research centre established in 1974 in the name of Sikh scholar Balbir Singh that facilitates university researchers and visiting scholars. It has over 10,000 books written in Gurmukhi, English, Hindi, Sanskrit, Persian and Urdu which are related to Sikh religion, literature, philosophy, theology and comparative studies. It also houses a scholar— WE Beglay’s collection of over 800 books related to Mughal history, rare hand-written birs of Guru Granth Sahib, old editions of Khalsa Samachar and Khalsa Akhbar newspapers dated 1880s and 1890s.University officials said, “The books and manuscripts are years old and have been damaged due to regular use. Therefore, the university has decided to digitise them.”Dr Paramveer Singh, centre co-ordinator said important works at the centre, include Nirukat Sri Guru Granth Sahib, an encyclopaedic dictionary designed by Balbir Singh that comes in 18 to 20 volumes, among others. He said, “A team at the centre itself will carry out the work. The equipment will be provided by the university.”University Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind said the project was started on Tuesday and would become one of the important activities initiated by the university in future. “Some of the books and manuscripts are rare that are available here only. We have started from books that are in bad condition so they can be preserved at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-starts-digitisation-of-rare-manuscripts-at-dehradun-centre-353530
23-12-2021||Patiala||Rs 8.25L robbery case solved, 3 held in Patiala||With the arrest of three persons, including a woman, the district police claimed to have solved the Rs 8.25 lakh robbery case. Patiala SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar during a press conference at the Police Lines on Wednesday said the accused stole a bag containing Rs 8.25 lakh by smashing the windshield of a parked car. The car was parked outside Akal Academy, Balbera, on December 8.The accused have been identified as Gurjeet Singh, Lakhdeep Singh, Amarjeet Kaur and Rashpinder Singh.The SSP said that complainant Malkiat Singh, a resident of Pehowa town in Kurukshetra district of Haryana, was on his way to return the money to his relative at a village in Patiala district. On his way to the village, Malkiat stopped at Akal Acadmey Balbera to deposit fee of his cousin’s daughter, where the robbery took place. Ironically, the cousin, Amarjeet Kaur, was accompanying Malkiat in his car, and she was the one who conspired with the robbers, said the police.As soon as they went inside the school, the accused smashed the windshield of the complainant’s car and took away the bag containing money.The SSP further said that Amarjit Kaur had been in touch with Gurjit Singh, one of the robbers, who was serving in the Army since long. Gurjit Singh, along with his two other accomplices, Lakhdeep Singh and Rashpinder Singh, had committed the crime.Shamminder Singh, incharge special branch, said that around Rs 6.40 lakh had been recovered from the accused. Besides, an air pistol had also been recovered from accused Gurjit Singh. Apart from this, the Baleno car used in the crime had also been recovered. “The Blaeno car was stolen by accused Gurjeet Singh, along with another accomplice, from Pehowa (Haryana),” said Shamminder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rs-8-25l-robbery-case-solved-3-held-in-patiala-353528
23-12-2021||---||2 UK returnees test positive in Patiala, health department begins contact tracing||Patiala, December 22Two returnees from the United Kingdom (UK) on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19. The Health Department has sent their samples to genome sequencing lab at Government Medical College here to check for the new Omicron variant. Both positive patients have already been admitted to Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital.The Health Department said that both the patients — mother (39) and daughter (12) — were asymptomatic. It has been learnt that four members of the family, residents of the UK, had returned to Dhablan village in the district on December 14. Although all had tested negative for Covid on their arrival at the Delhi Airport, they were again tested as per the protocol on the eighth day of arrival in the district, and two family members tested Covid-19 positive. It has been learnt that a high drama was witnessed at the village of the returnees when the Health Department tried to shift both the positive patients to the hospital. However, officials of the Health Department were successful in shifting both positives to Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital.Confirming the development, the health officials said the Covid-19 positives were resisting their shifting to the hospital for quarantine. Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “We have already started contact tracing of the positive patients. All the contacts will be tested for the Covid.”It has been learnt that a religious event had been going on at the residence of the positive patients which was scheduled to be concluded on Wednesday. The sources informed that the district administration and Health Department had a tough time to convince the family of the positives to cut down the number of people at the gathering from 500 to 80 after family members tested positive on the intervening night of Tuesday and WednesdayPatiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that around 2,293 international travellers had landed in the district in the month of December. Of 2,293, 298 have been from high-risk countries which have been notified by the Central Government. As many as 173 travellers are said to have already turned out to be negative for Covid. while the remaining would be tested in the coming days.Meanwhile, Patiala on Wednesday reported eight positive cases, including two UK returnees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-uk-returnees-test-positive-in-patiala-health-department-begins-contact-tracing-353527
