24-12-2021||---||New PSPCL CMD vouches for cheap, uninterrupted power supply in Punjab||Patiala, December 24Soon after resuming charge as the chairman-cum-managing director of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), Baldev Singh Sran said that he would work hard to provide cheaper and uninterrupted power to the people of the state.When Sran was reminded of the coal crisis, he said, “We have our own coal mine at the Pachhwara block in Jharkhand, and we can get cheaper and better-quality coal from there - to generate power. By operationalising this coal mine - which was not operating for long - Punjab can save around Rs 600 crore to Rs 700 crore annually. Consequently, the cost of power will be reduced and the consumers will get benefits thereof,” the new CMD said.The Supreme Court, in September this year had paved the way to re-operationalise the Pachhwara coal mine which can help save at least Rs 20p-30p per unit.He said that bringing in cheaper coal from Pachhwara was one of the priority areas he would work on. In the face of upcoming paddy season and the inability of Coal India Limited to meet the demand of the states, the re-operationalisation of the Pachhwara coal mines would be a boon to Punjab, say experts.Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, who was present on the occasion, commenting on the cancellation of the power purchase agreements with the three IPPs, said the government had already made up its mind to take over one of the thermal plants, and passed a bill to renegotiate power tariffs with other two private thermal and several solar IPPs. The minister claimed that Punjab would once again be made power surplus.‘Disheartened over demand of choice postings’ Meanwhile, CMD Sran said that he was disheartened over the demands of the officers for choice postings. He said that many officers had already started to press him for postings of their choice even before he joined the office. “The same eagerness – as shown by some officers to get the postings of their choice – is not visible in the functioning of the department for solving issues of consumers. Our department is already notorious for corruption; therefore, we should work honestly to improve its image.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-pspcl-cmd-vouches-for-cheap-uninterrupted-power-supply-in-punjab-353996
24-12-2021||---||Ready to fight against Capt Amarinder Singh if party allows, says Raja Warring||Patiala, December 23Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today dared to fight against any of two former Chief Ministers—Capt Amarinder Singh and Parkash Singh Badal. Warring, who was in Samana town of the district to lay stone for beautification project of bus stand worth Rs 6.11 crore, said that he had earlier thought for fighting against SAD veteran Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi, however, he could also fight against Capt Amarinder Singh from his home turf Patiala. The minister, while addressing a public gathering, said, “Though, I was thinking of contesting against Parkash Singh Badal. But, if the party of mine asks me to fight against Capt, I am ready.”Slamming SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for threatening him (Warring) after he took action against his (Badal) private buses, Raja said: “Like CM, I also come from a simple family. After I impounded his buses, he (Sukhbir) started threatening me.”Warring said that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had been taking historical decisions that would benefit every member of the society. Samana Congress MLA Kaka Rajinder Singh was also present at the occasion.Visits NabhaEarlier in the day, Raja Warring visited Nabha town in Patiala district to lay the foundation stone of a new modern bus stand. Warring, who was accompanied by local Congress MLA Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, claimed that he had successfully been winding up the transport mafia in the state. Consequent upon that the daily income of the state transports buses— PRTC and Punbus— had already been seeing a rise, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ready-to-fight-against-capt-if-party-allows-says-warring-353892
24-12-2021||---||Two UK returnees' contacts resist testing||Patiala, December 23A day after two UK residents tested positive for Covid at Dhablan village in the district, the Health Department on Thursday faced resistance from their family members and others when they (health officials) approached them for contact tracing and testing.Officials said they could not conduct Covid tests of family members and others, while contact tracing. Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said they had sent a team for testing the contacts of positive patients, however, their family members and other contacts flatly refused to oblige.Sumeet said the Health Department team accompanied by police would again try to convince the contacts tomorrow for testing. Meanwhile, the sources said that positive patients, who have already been admitted to Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital, reportedly were not cooperating with officials for telling the names of the people they had been in contact with. Notably, the cooperation from the positives is of paramount importance to identify the contacts.It has been learnt that a religious event had been going on at the residence of the positive patients which concluded on Wednesday. Officials of the Health Department said they had to trace all the contacts in order to curb the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, family members, along with some villagers, blamed the Health Department of being disproportionately stricter with them despite the fact that none of their family members had tested for the new variant Omicron so far.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said, “We have informed the district administration about the resistance by the contacts. We, however, are trying to convince them for testing.”Four test positive in cityMeanwhile, Patiala on Thursday reported four positive cases of Covid-19, thereby, taking the tally of active cases to 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-uk-returnees-contacts-resist-testing-353893
24-12-2021||Patiala||Lecture on women empowerment||The centre for criminology, criminal justice and victimology, RGNUL, organised a lecture on ‘Feminist Constitutionalism: Women, Religion and the Law in Canada’. Vrinda Narain, associate professor, McGill University, Canada, who was the resource person for online lecture delivered a discourse on economic empowerment and equal citizenship rights of women. She said, “Feminist constitutionalism rethinks constitutional law to address identity and rights of women from new perspectives.In order to advance rights and interests of women, feminist constitutionalism negotiates between constitutional canon and feminist critique.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lecture-on-women-empowerment-353894
