25-12-2021||---||Patiala: Services of cleanliness workers regularised||Patiala, December 24Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra today gave recruitment letters to cleanliness workers of the Municipal Corporation during an event organised at the MC office here. The minister also inaugurated a super suction machine in Tripuri to be used for cleanliness of underground sewer pipes. Earlier in the day, Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu had inaugurated the same machine in the presence of councillors. He was absent during Brahm Mohindra’s event in the evening.Officials of the Patiala Municipal Corporation said the government had regularised the serives of 35 contractual clealiness workers, while 494 outsourced cleanliness workers and sewermen are being hired on contract.Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu gave all credit for the regularisation of jobs and contractual hiring of outsourced workers to former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, while Brahm Mohindra said it was the state government’s initiative to elevate the standard of living of the poor and marginalised. Mohindra also lauded the corporation officials for the same.About the super suction machines, officials said the government had purchased six super suction machines for the state at a cost of Rs 1.50 crore each for cleaning of sewerage system in the district as well as outside. “Earlier corporations, councils had to hire them from private players and ended-up paying huge margins to providers along with the running cost. Now, the offices will be able to save the amount which went to the pockets of contractors”, they claimed.The Patiala MC had spent Rs 3.5 crore on cleaning of 3-km sewer lines of the city this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/services-of-cleanliness-workers-regularised-354193
25-12-2021||---||Health workers protest, threaten to gherao Punjab CM's house over demands||Patiala, December 24Health workers, under the banner of the Joint Action Committee of the Health Department, held a protest today outside the office of the Civil Surgeon for their long-pending demands. The health workers staged a sit-in outside the office for hours and raised slogans against the state government.The protesters were demanding regularisation of contractual employees working in the Health Department and the National Health Mission, Punjab, equal pay for equal work, rollback of the decision of stopping various allowances and to cut short the probation period from three to two years.The protesting employees threatened that they would hold a massive protest rally on December 28 outside the state headquarters of the Health Department in Chandigarh and gherao the residence of the Chief Minister. The agitating employees warned the government of fulfilling their demands by December 27 or get ready for more intense protest. Randhir Kaur, protesting health worker, said, “Instead of awarding the health workers for their extraordinary work during Covid, the government has discontinued various allowances of ours. This is a shameful act. “The protesting employees said they would go on indefinite strike if their demands were not met. Meanwhile, Karnail Singh, co-convener, joint action committee of the health department, said, “We will campaign against the Congress in the upcoming Assembly election, if the Congress-led government fails to fulfil our unmet demands.”Later they handing over a memorandum of their demands to Patiala Civil Surgeon Prince Sodhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-workers-protest-threaten-to-gherao-cms-house-over-demands-354197
25-12-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University research scholars want UGC grants released||PhD research scholars at various universities are not getting research fellowship grants on a regular basis. Students at Punjabi University here said many of them had not been getting the grants regularly for the past six months.Balkar Singh, a Punjabi University scholar, said they had raised the matter with the university officials a number of times. “We know of nearly 200 students at the university who are not getting the grant on a regular basis. We raised the matter with the university officials who assured us they will speak to UGC officials in Delhi,” he said.Sandeep, another research scholar at Panjab University, Chandigarh, said, “The grants are delayed for months. Almost all students are facing problems.” As a matter of fact, the UGC grants are deposited directly from the UGC to the students’ accounts. Officials said, “Earlier the UGC used to send the funds to the universities which passed on the funds to the students. At times, when the funds were not received at the right time, the university used to transfer the funds to the scholars’ accounts from the pool. But now, the funds are being deposited in their accounts directly and we do not have that previous option anymore.”Students said being research scholars, their expenses are entirely dependent on the grant. “The lack of timely disbursal of the funds hampers our research work as well”, one of the students said. Dr BS Sandhu, dean academics, Punjabi University, said he had contacted the UGC in Delhi which stated that the funds had been blocked by the Central Government. “The matter is being looked into”, he said.Punjabi University VC Prof Arvind said, “The students had raised the matter with me today. We have decided to write to the UGC. One of our officials will also pay a visit to the office in Delhi and report back.”Meanwhile, the matter has also been raised on the micro-blogging and social networking service Twitter. An account by the name DeeptimayeeSen2 wrote, “We, research scholars, need regular fellowship to survive. We demand timely disbursement of fellowship and a proper system in place for that”, and tagged the official twitter accounts of the finance minister, education minister of the country and the PMO’s office. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/research-scholars-want-ugc-grants-released-354199
25-12-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Shaheedi Jor Mela begins in Fatehgarh Sahib today||The district police have issued traffic guidelines and the route plan for the traffic passing through Fatehgarh Sahib, especially on roads leading to the historical gurdwara at Fatehgarh Sahib, keeping in view the heavy rush of devotees during the ensuing three-day annual Shaheedi Jor Mela.Also read: Holiday in Fatehgarh Sahib for nagar kirtan to mark martyrdom of Sahibzadas on Dec 27It is commemorated from December 25 to 27 in memory of younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh — Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh, who were bricked alive here for refusing to accept Islam by the then governor of Sirhind Nawab Wazir Khan.Addressing mediapersons here, SSP Sandeep Goel said, “The Jor Mela area has been divided into sectors and each sector will be headed by an SP-rank officer. No heavy traffic will be allowed to enter the mela area. To maintain the smooth flow of traffic, nine diversions and alternative routes have been identified and a traffic plan has been released.” No vehicle entry and VIP passes will be issued and the local residents who reside in the localities surrounding the historical gurdwara will be allowed to move in vehicles, he said. “Adequate security arrangements have been made, CCTV cameras have been installed to keep a close watch on anti-social elements, and 54 nakas, 13 observation posts and seven police help centres have been set up,” the SSP said.He said that 10 SPs and 2,700 police personnel and officers along with NSS, NCC volunteers had been put on duty. Twenty free parking sites and three temporary bus stands have been made. No beggar will be allowed in the mela, he further added.Deputy Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the major event of the district, annual Saheedi Jor Mela would be totally religious in nature. All wine shops, gambling stalls, dance pandals, circuses, swings and other sources of entertainment within the 3km radius of Gurdwara Sahib has been banned and there will be no political conferences, she said.The DC said that carrying of weapons, sharp-edged weapons and playing loud speakers had been banned. She said that medical facilities, 24-hour power supply, clean drinking water, 300 temporary toilets, 15 mobile toilets and temporary shelter facilities would be provided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jor-mela-begins-today-354201
25-12-2021||---||Jagat Guru Nanak Punjab State Open University signs pact with ICAI||Patiala, December 24Jagat Guru Nanak Punjab State Open University has signed a memorandum of understanding with the Institute of Cost Accountants of India (ICAI) for student exchange and training programme.Officials at the university said they had entered into an agreement to work and cooperate for promotion of management accounting, education and profession as a common goal.Prof Karamjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, here said the university planned to unite with all organisations over their common interests and objectives so as to establish channels of communication and cooperation that would promote and advance their respective operations through education. “Along with ICAI-CMA, we will pursue and promote excellence in common areas of interest with aim at imparting knowledge and skills for academic, research and training domains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/university-signs-pact-with-icai-354203
25-12-2021||---||Punjab teachers' protest delays semester exams, students hit||Patiala, December 24The Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisation (PFUCTO) and the state government have failed to reach a consensus over the teachers’ demand for the implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission report among others. Faculty members said while classes had remained suspended since December 1, students who had already been placed in various companies were facing problems in joining work due to a delay in holding of the semester examinations.Faculty members of state universities, government and government-aided colleges have been demanding implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission report and revocation of delinking of UGC pay scales of new assistant professor recruits.The semester exams which were supposed to begin in December were thus postponed.Prof Jagwant Singh, general secretary, PFUCTO, said, “Talks with the state government have ended and we have stated what needed to be said to them. Some officials have also agreed to our demands but the implementation is pending. So the agitation will continue as before.”Seniormost professor at Punjabi University Pushpinder Singh Gill said the Seventh Pay Commission scales should be implemented. He said the universities were already lagging behind in academic curriculum due to Covid-19.Dr Gurjit Singh Bhathal, another professor at the university, said, “The postponement of exams is impacting the students. Final year students who are supposed to join jobs after placement are facing issues because of exam postponement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teachers-protest-delays-semester-exams-students-hit-354206
