29-12-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala Mayor wants action against DC for 'delay' in shifting dairies||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 28Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu has sought action against the Deputy Commissioner for causing ‘delay’ in shifting of milk dairies from the city. Sharma said he had sent a letter to the office of Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari and demanded action as per the norms.Sharma said the project was integral to development of Patiala, and the MC had spent huge funds for shifting the dairy owners. He said the MC had spent Rs 19 crore on the project, of which Rs 7 crore were spent in the first phase. “The rates of the plots were also fixed after talks with the dairy owners. Many have already deposited the earnest amount.”Bittu said the dairy owners had filed a case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which had then directed the MC to deal with their concerns and pass an order. “Later, the Joint Commissioner in the speaking order pointed out that shifting of dairies was required for the benefit of people,” he said.He alleged the project had been delayed due to the Deputy Commissioner’s oral orders restricting it.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “The project was the mandate of the Municipal Corporation. The Deputy Commissioner’s role came when people protested over lack of infrastructure at the new site and raised other complaints. The people had also complained to the Chief Minister, who then directed my office to ensure proper provisions were made before shifting the dairy owners.”The Deputy Commissioner said his office had held meetings. “We do not intend to stall the project. We understand that there has been a delay. Another meeting will be held in a few days. If the Mayor wants to shift the dairies right away, he is free to do so. Law and order situation will be his issue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mayor-wants-action-against-dc-for-delay-in-shifting-dairies-355808
29-12-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala: Rajindra Gymkhana, Mahindra Club poll today||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 28The elections of the Rajindra Gymkhana and Mahindra Club, Patiala, for 12 posts, including president and vice-president, will be held on Wednesday. In all, 12 candidates each from two groups — the Progressive group and the Goodwill group — will contest the election, while one member is contesting for the post of joint secretary as an Independent candidate.The club has five posts for office-bearer posts and seven for executive members. It has total 2,800 members.Sudhir Verma is contesting for the post of president from the Goodwill group and JPS Walia from the ruling Progressive group. Other contestants from the progressive group comprise MM Syal (for the post of vice-president), Harpreet Sandhu (for honorary secretary), Neeraj Goyal (for joint secretary) and Sanjay Bansal (for treasurer). Total seven members are contesting for the posts of executive member.The Goodwill group has fielded Vikas Puri for vice-president, Vinod Sharma for the post of secretary, HPS Bajaj for treasurer and Deepak Malhorta for joint secretary, along with seven members for posts of executive member. Rahul Mehta will contest for the post ofjoint secretary as an Independent candidate. Members annual general meeting would be held on the premises at 10.30 am. “This will be followed by the election, which will continue till 7 pm,” they said. The counting of votes will be done on December 30 and the result will be declared on the same day.Harpreet Sandhu, who is contesting for honorary secretary from the Progressive group, said, “We want to bring reforms in the club kitchen, and build a terrace garden and instal lift on the premises. We will make provisions for solar power supply an an all-weather swimming pool if funds are available.”Vinod Sharma, contestant for secretary from the Goodwill group, said, “We want to instal a solar energy plant at the club and increase greenery. We want to amend the club constitution and also make changes at the club kitchen.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-rajindra-club-poll-today-355806
29-12-2021||---||Stone laid for commercial complex in Nabha||Patiala, December 28Brahm Mohindra, Minister of Local Government, today laid the foundation stone of the Mata Chintpurni Commercial Complex in Nabha. The complex will house 28 commercial showrooms.The minister was joined by former Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Nabha Improvement Trust chairman Amandeep Singh Khanna and Municipal Council president Rajneesh Mittal. He said the project would benefit the region and the people of Nabha.Dharamsot said the state government had done work for the residents' welfare, including regularising jobs of cleanliness and sewer workers. Dharamsot said the state government had given funds for development of Nabha.Amandeep Singh Khanna said 28 showrooms would be constructed at the site, of which eight had already been sold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/stone-laid-for-commercial-complex-in-nabha-355805
29-12-2021||Patiala||Daily wage earners  shut Punjabi University gates||Ghanaur to be made tehsil: SADPatiala: Prem Singh Chandumajra, senior vice-president, SAD, said Ghanaur would be given the status of a tehsil within a month of the Akali-BSP government. He said Ghanaur was an important constituency of Patiala district. Resolving the problem of the people of the constituency would be his foremost goal, he said. TNSKorfball: Haryana pip ChhattisgarhPatiala: Haryana beat Chhattisgarh by 16 to 13 goals to move to the next round of the 33rd Senior National Korfball Championship being held under the Punjab Korfball Association at the Polo Ground. Results: J&K beat Tamil Nadu 10:8, Himachal Pradesh beat Karnataka 13:3, Tamil Nadu beat Assam 13: 2, HP beat MP 13:03 goals, Rajasthan beat West Bengal 6:5. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/daily-wage-earners-shut-punjabi-university-gates-355803
