31-12-2021||Patiala||Patiala's Thapar Institute turns Covid hotspot as 57 students test positive in 3 days||With 42 fresh corona cases on Friday, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology has already become a cluster of Covid-19.The institute has reported around 57 cases over the past three days.Patiala health department informed that all the cases were reported from Hostel J – one of the hostels at the campus.Consequent upon the detection of the cases, Hostel J of the Thapar has been already declared a containment zone.Notably, Thapar Institute in March this year had also turned hotspot with over 70 cases—during the second wave.Meanwhile, chaotic scenes were witnessed inside the campus as hundreds of students, without undergoing corona testing, are said to be leaving the institute.Parents, out of panic, had gathered outside the hostels to take their wards home. When asked about the same, Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans, said, “Health teams have been conducting Covid tests there. Only those students – who tested negative for Covid – were allowed to leave the campus.”Health department informed them they would be conducting more tests at the campus to stem the spread further.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said that they had conducted over 300 tests at the Hostel J.He said positive students were being isolated while others had been allowed to leave.“Apart from movement from different parts of the country, students residing in close proximity in hostels could be a possible reason for the outbreak. However, the situation will soon be under control.”Sources informed that many students, from other hostels, had informed that there were many symptomatic students, however, the health department has yet to conduct the testing at other hostels.Meanwhile, the health department has already sent the samples of positive students to the Genome Sequencing Lab at Government Medical College, Patiala, to ascertain the new strain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thapar-university-turns-covid-hotspot-27-cases-in-3-days-356608
31-12-2021||---||Patiala district reports 39 cases, highest single-day spike in 12 days||Patiala, December 30A sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases is worrying the district administration and officials of the Health Department after the latter today reported 39 new cases. The cases have more than doubled in a single day. Meanwhile, authorities in Patiala declared a hostel of Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology as a containment zone after 15 cases were reported from the campus in a few days. Health officials said they were witnessing a high rate of transmission and demanded that people adhere to safety norms. A total of 39 cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district on Thursday. Of the positive cases, Patiala city reported 27 cases, followed by Nabha, Rajpura, Kauli (three each) and one each from Shutrana, Harpalpur and Dudan Sadan.Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said the officials were witnessing a sudden spurt in the number of cases. “There are 94 active cases in the district. People should strictly follow Covid protocols, including wearing of masks and following socials distancing norms and washing hands repeatedly in a day. People should also refrain from going to crowded places”, he said.Health officials said a total of 15 cases had been reported from Thapar institute in the last couple of days. Epidemiologist Dr Sumit said, “10 cases were reported from Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology (TIET) on Thursday alone after carrying out contact tracing activities at the campus. The campus has been turned into a containment zone. The entry and exit of students from the particular campus hostel will now be monitored for the next 15 days.”He said, “ There is a high transmission risk. People should follow the norms.”Gurbinder Singh, Registrar, TIET said, “We held a meeting with the administration. The Covid-19 infected persons have been isolated. All students of the particular hostel are required to provide details of their addresses and contact numbers if they intend to leave the campus. Around 400 students are residing at the hostel. Their session exams are going on.”Health officials said a total of 3,258 people had entered the district till now, of which 395 have come from high risk nations. “Of those, 211 have been tested after eight days from their return and till now only two have been identified as Covid-19 positive”, officials said. The officials also collected 1,307 samples for Covid testing on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-reports-39-cases-highest-single-day-spike-in-12-days-356528
31-12-2021||---||Patiala Administration, health officials hold review meeting over  rising  cases of  Covid||Patiala, December 30The district administration and health officials held a review meeting regarding overall situation, preparations and rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district today. The Deputy Commissioner later issued guidelines for people to avoid large New Year gatherings.Administrative officials, including Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans, SDMs, Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi, district epidemiologist Dr Sumit, and officials from Rajindra Hospital and Mata Kaushalya Hospital were present during the meeting.Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said the country had reported a large number of Omicron cases. “The variant spreads at a fast rate. Therefore, people are required to observe all measures of social distancing and safety norms,” he said.Epidemiologist Dr Sumit said, “We have conveyed to officials that there is a spurt in the number of Covid cases. The cases are almost doubling in a day. We need cooperation and support from people in countering the spread.”The Deputy Commissioner in a press statement said, “People should follow the government and the health department guidelines to keep safe from Covid-19 variant Omicron. They should observe safety measures during New Year celebrations. Hotels, banquet halls, restaurants, marriage palaces are required to observe all Covid-19 safety norms.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-administration-health-officials-hold-review-meeting-over-rising-cases-of-covid-356526
31-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Fatehgarh Sahib: 7-day winter hockey camp concludes||Fatehgarh Sahib, Dec 30The seven-day winter hockey camp organised by the Mehar Baba Charitable Trust (MBCT) Hockey Nursery, Bassi Pathana, with the support of German Embassy, concluded here today. Former Olympian and India hockey captain Rajpal Singh, SP, was the chief guest, whereas MBCT trustees Jatinder Cheema and Thakur Singh Mejie presided over the camp.Addressing the gathering, Rajpal Singh appreciated the efforts of MBCT hockey nursery for giving players to Indian girls hockey team and to uplift the status of Indian hockey at an international level. He said he was confident that the players getting training in this academy would definitely fulfil the dreams of hockey lovers while playing in the Indian hockey team. He awarded medals to all the players, who attended the winter hockey camp.Chief coach Tajinder Singh briefed the gathering about the achievements of the hockey academy. He said that MBCT Hockey Nursery was proud to have 104 of its players got selected by various academies, including SAI Patiala, SAI Chandigarh, GSS Ghuddha, ASC Bangalore, BUSNHA Khadur Sahib and Surjit Academy, Jalandhar.On the occasion, an interesting exhibition match was played between the teams of MBCT Hockey Nursery U-14 girls’ and Nankana Sahib Hockey Academy, Amargarh Malerkotla U-14 girls. In this match MBCT girls won by 5-3 goals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/7-day-winter-hockey-camp-concludes-356524
31-12-2021||Aman Sood||Now, Navjot Sidhu bats for Harinderpal Singh Harry Mann from Sanaur||Tribune News ServiceSanaur (Patiala), December 30Fissures within the Congress yet again came to the fore after Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu today sought support for Harinderpal Singh Harry Mann from the Sanaur Assembly segment, which party stalwart Lal Singh is eyeing.Out in supportCM Charanjit Channi has so far supported the candidature of Daman Bajwa (Sunam), Namisha Mehta (Garhshankar) & Gurpreet Kangar (Rampura Phul). Sidhu, on the other hand, has backed Ashwani Sekhri (Batala), Harvinder Laddi (Bathinda Rural) & Navtej Cheema (Kapurthala).Debt concernsSidhu said the GST compensation grant would discontinue in June 2022, increasing the fiscal deficit by Rs18,000 cr annually and leaving the state at the mercy of the Centre.Even as the Congress screening committee is yet to come out with its final list of candidates, Lal Singh said no one except the high command could announce candidates.Addressing party workers at Anaj Mandi, Devigarh, in the segment, Sidhu said he would ensure local leader Mann’s victory in the elections. “Mann had lost the elections by 4,000 votes in 2017, but he will win by over 40,000 votes this time,” he claimed.Sidhu promised to drive out mafia that had taken over the state and bring in a new ‘Punjab model’. There was a need to implement a cooperative policy to uplift the living standards of farmers, he added.Opposing the announcement in favour of Mann, Lal Singh said Sidhu could say whatever he wants, but ultimately the screening committee and high command would decide the candidates. “I am still a claimant from the seat and will not speak anything more on the issue,” he said. On his part, Mann said everyone in the segment knew the “deceitful deeds done to them by Lal Singh” along with Shiromani Akali Dal leaders.“I was allotted the ticket in 2017 due to resentment within the Congress cadre. Being the only Jat Sikh Congress leader in the fray from Patiala district, I am sure to win,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-sidhu-bats-for-mann-from-sanaur-356411
