01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fire at Dadu Majra again, this time it’s massive||After a fire in February here, another major fire incident was reported from the waste dumping ground at Dadu Majra this afternoon.It led to huge inconvenience to residents, especially those residing in and around Dadu Majra. Residents of Sector 38, 37, 25 and Dadu Majra complained of smoke entering their houses.They complained of breathing problems and itching in their eyes due to the smoke. Commuters had to face a tough time as the smoke spread all over, even up to Sector 17 and 21.Smoke was billowing out of the dumping ground at the time of filing of this report.According to officials, they got information about the fire at 2.30 pm following which six fire engines were pressed into service. The local police barricaded roads from both sides of the dumping ground and did not allow vehicles to enter near the site.Two tractor-trailers, which were meant for lifting waste inside the ground, caught fire and were damaged.Jasmeet Singh, Sector 38 fire station officer, told Chandigarh Tribune, “We have controlled the fire on one side. However, the fire has spread to the other part of the dumping ground. More than the fire, it is the smoke that is causing trouble and coming in the way of the firefighting operations.”He said it was suspected that the fire broke out due to hot weather, which often causes fire at the dumping ground. After every two to three months, fire incidents are reported from the dumping ground.Firemen said had the MC thrown enough sand on the waste, such a major mishap would not have occurred. The corporation always claims that it covers the waste with sand, but things have not improved. The last fire in February saw smoke in the air for three to four days.‘The air is poisonous’Pankaj Gupta, president, Sector 38 (West) RWA, added, "The air is poisonous and there is a lot of smell. The MC and the UT Administration are still sleeping over the matter. Had this dumping ground been situated in the north area, they wouldn't have taken so much time to do the needful?"A bike rider, Sumesh, said, "I had put on a helmet with a glass. I wore a mask too, but that too was of little help. It felt like as if there was a fire in a chemical factory."Dadu Majra-based Joint Action Committee president Dyal Krishan suggested, "For years, the situation has been like this. Fire incidents are a norm here. The MC should have such an arrangement that the waste is processed at the respective Sehaj Safai Kendra only."HS Lucky, chief spokesperson for the Congress, alleged that people were suffering because of the "apathetic approach" of the BJP-led MC in solving the dumping ground issue.The BJP, however, claimed that it was the Congress that gave birth to the mammoth garbage dumping ground and the "ineffective" processing plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-dadu-majra-again-this-time-its-massive-232763
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Forest guard held for Rs 4.5L bribe||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau today arrested a forest guard, Ranjit Khan, posted at Mirzapur in Majri sub-tehsil, Mohali district, while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs4.5 lakh on behalf of block officer Baldev Singh.BK Uppal, DGP-cum-Chief Director, Vigilance Bureau, said suspect Baldev Singh, block officer posted at Mirzapur, had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs5.50 lakh from the complainant, Bhupal Kumar, a resident of Kharar, for inscribing the official hammer mark on his wood.The suspect had already taken Rs5 lakh as bribe from the complainant on March 28. This amount was sought for reducing the fine (damage report) for cutting some unmarked trees vis-a-vis transporting the wood to the open market.The VB chief said the complainant had a permit issued by the Forest Department to cut and sell khair trees in Majri block. He had permission till March 31 to remove the trees from the site. However, he was stopped from transporting the wood by the suspect citing a complaint against him regarding irregularities in the cutting of trees.The official said the suspects had demanded Rs2,000 per tree from the complainant and had already taken Rs5 lakh, but now they were demanding the remaining bribe amount of Rs3.20 lakh in lieu of allowing them to transport the wood, reducing the fine from Rs3.54 lakh to Rs2.5 lakh and issuing a fine report in the name of an associate of the complainant.Uppal highlighted that co-accused Ranjit Khan was arrested today from the Omaxe Tower parking area while taking a bribe of Rs4.5 lakh from the complainant on behalf of block officer Baldev Singh.During the search, Rs4.64 lakh was recovered from the car of the suspect on the spot. An amount of Rs1 lakh was recovered from the house of Ranjit Khan. This amount is part of the bribe money taken earlier.Block officer Baldev Singh is absconding. An official hammer of the Mirzapur block officer was also recovered from Ranjit Khan's car. A case has been registered under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120-B of the IPC at the Vigilance police station in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/forest-guard-held-for-rs-4-5l-bribe-232767
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Big relief for power consumers in Chandigarh||In a major relief, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has approved a reduction in the tariff for all categories of more than 2.34 lakh electricity consumers for 2021-22 on account of being revenue surplus.‘No fuel and power purchase cost adjustment charges’Giving another relief to consumers, the JERC directed the Electricity Department to discontinue the recovery of the fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charges from all consumer categories starting April 1, 2021, till further orders.On a tariff revision petition filed by the UT Electricity Department, the JERC, in an order passed on Tuesday, observed: “The petitioner had a standalone revenue surplus each year from 2016-17 to 2019-20. Further, the projected standalone surplus for 2021-22 and the cumulative revenue surplus till 2021-22 at the existing tariff is expected to be Rs98.21 crore and Rs345.61 crore, respectively.”In view of the standalone revenue surplus, the JERC approved a reduction in the retail tariff for the existing categories, which works out to be 9.58 per cent. Even after a reduction in the average tariff, the projected standalone revenue surplus at the end of 2021-22 is expected to be Rs8.12 crore, stated the commission.Giving another relief to the consumers, the JERC directed the Electricity Department to discontinue the recovery of the fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charges from all consumer categories starting April 1, 2021, till further orders. The FPPCA charges are imposed on users on a quarterly basis, and are in addition to the tariff imposed in the bill. However, the department has been directed to submit the quarterly FPPCA calculation to the commission for a review. The commission has also approved the average billing rate (ABR) of Rs5.10/kWh against the approved average cost of supply (ACoS) of Rs5.05/kWh for 2021-22.The new tariff will come into force with effect from April 1, 2021, and will continue till further orders of the commission.In order to promote the use of electric vehicles (EV), the JERC has reduced the tariff for EV charging stations from Rs4 per kWh to Rs3.60 per kWh.The last increase in the domestic and commercial electricity tariff was in 2018-2019.In the domestic category, the approved rate is Rs2.50 in the slab of 0-150 units, Rs4.25 in the slab of 151-400 units; and in the slab of above 400 units, the rate is Rs4.65 per unit.In the commercial consumer category, the new rate is Rs4.50 in the slab between 0-150 units; in the slab of 151-400 units, the rate is Rs4.70 per unit and in the above 400 kWh slab, it is Rs5 per unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/big-relief-for-power-consumers-in-chandigarh-232785
01-04-2021||Panchkula||Gym at Yavnika Park in poor shape||The outdoor gym of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran at Yavnika Park in Sector 5 here is in poor shape.Residents say the equipment is broken or has gone missing. They have urged the authorities to ensure better maintenance. A local resident tweeted to share his grievance, tagging the CMO, Haryana, the Panchkula Deputy Commissioner and others. Along with the tweet, he shared photos of broken gym equipment.Vikas Beniwal said, “The mini-gym at Yavnika Park, Sector 5, Panchkula, built at a cost of lakhs, is now in a poor state. Some parts of the equipment have gone missing or have been stolen. There is no cleanliness at all.”Another visitor, who did not wish to be named, said, "The broken equipment can injure children and poses a danger to them."He said the fitness equipment should be replaced with new ones soon so that it can be used safely.SK Nayar, president of the Citizens Welfare Association, said, "First of all, there isn't enough gym equipment installed at the park. Secondly, there is no proper maintenance. The onus is on the public too; they must use the equipment properly."Hardeep Malik, Superintending Engineer, Horticulture, HSVP, was not available for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gym-at-yavnika-park-in-poor-shape-232786
01-04-2021||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi: ASI suspended for threatening eatery owner||A reader of the Dera Bassi DSP has been suspended and an inquiry initiated against him on a charge of threatening an eatery owner on March 28.The suspect has been identified as ASI Gulshan Kumar while the identity of his accomplice is being verified.In a complaint to SSP Rajiv Sharma, the eatery owner alleged that his son Chandan Sharma was at the shop when Gulshan and his accomplice came to them on March 28 near the Chandigarh-Ambala highway around 8 pm. The duo allegedly demanded that food be served in the car and Chandan refused to oblige.This enraged the two and one of them identified himself as the DSP. He threatened to foist a case against him (Chandan). The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The shop owner claimed that duo were drunk and threatened to register a case against him for “keeping poppy husk at the eatery”.Mohali SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said: “Gulshan Sharma has been suspended.” The matter came to light when the video of the incident went viral on the social media. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-asi-suspended-for-threatening-eatery-owner-232787
01-04-2021||Panchkula||In Panchkula, active cases below 1K||266 new cases surface in UTChandigarh: The city recorded 266 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 2,918. With no new death, the toll remained at 379. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 26,999. A total of 179 patients were discharged. — TNSFive fall prey to virus in Mohali Mohali: Five deaths and 254 new cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 317 patients have recovered. Among the new cases, 229 were reported from Mohali (urban), 10 from Lalru, six from Dhakoli, five from Kharar and four from Dera Bassi. The active case tally now stands at 3,184. With five more deaths, the toll has risen to 433. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-panchkula-active-cases-below-1k-232788
01-04-2021||Mohali||Four panches of Bharatpur village suspended||The Director-cum-Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat, Punjab, Manpreet Singh, today suspended four panches of Bharatpur village in Kharar block for not cooperating in development works and disrupting work of the government team.An official order issued by the Rural Development and Panchayat Department clarified that as per the report submitted by the District Development and Panchayat Officer, Mohali, Fateh Singh, Harnek Singh, Balvir Kaur and Kuldeep Kaur of the gram panchayat, Bharatpur village, Kharar block, Mohali district, did not attend meetings on issuance of agenda notice due to which the development work had come to a standstill.The Director-cum-Secretary filed various charges under Section 20 (4) of the Punjab Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, for non-cooperation in development works and obstruction of the work of the government team. Exercising their subordinate powers, these panches were suspended from their post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-panches-of-bharatpur-village-suspended-232790
01-04-2021||Panchkula||Parents protest as Panchkula school holds back results||Dozens of parents of students of Valley Public School, Sector 4, Mansa Devi Complex, today gathered outside the school to protest against its management for holding results of their wards.Parents alleged they had been told by the school management that report card of their wards would not be released until they paid last year’s pending annual charges. After getting no response from the school, parents approached the Deputy Commissioner’s office at Sector 1 to seek his intervention in the matter.“We have been visiting school daily from last few days to get results of our children, but the management keeps on demanding pending dues. The school administration locked the main gate and parents were not allowed to meet the principal,” said a parent while talking to mediapersons today.“Despite financial constraints, we paid tuition fee on time for every month throughout the year. Now, the school is asking for annual fee for releasing results,” she added. The school authorities were also reluctant to listen to parents, she said.According to parents, they had complained in this regard to the District Education Officer (DEO), who assured them to look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-protest-as-panchkula-school-holds-back-results-232791
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bail plea of Sector 37 property grab accused dismissed||A local court has dismissed the bail application of Manish Gupta, arrested in an alleged property fraud case in Sector 37. Manish Gupta is one of the four accused arrested by the police in the case registered on March 2, 2021.All are in judicial custody. The hearing in the application was fixed today. Gupta’s counsel claimed before the court that, “Manish Gupta is neither the seller nor the purchaser of the property. He has nothing to do with the entire case.” He claimed that Gupta was innocent and arrested by the police only because he was elder brother of Saurabh Gupta, who bought the property.However, the police opposed the bail application citing the charges against him. After hearing arguments the court dismissed the bail application.Meanwhile, another accused in the case Inspector Rajdeep Singh has also applied for the bail. The police arrested Rajdeep on the charge of not taking any action on a complaint filed against the accused, who had allegedly forcibly occupied the house. The counsel of the accused claimed in the bail application that Rajdeep was falsely implicated in the case. The court will hear arguments on his bail application tomorrow along with the bail application of another accused Sanjeev Mahajan.The police registered the case against the accused under Sections 452, 331, 365 , 386, 420, 465 , 477 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code.As per the FIR the accused allegedly sold a house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37, Chandigarh, fraudulently. The police alleged that the accused confined Mehta in a room for a few days and took his signatures on papers after torturing him. Later, Mehta was abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat from where he was shifted from one place to another. It is alleged that an imposter replaced Rahul Mehta, who was produced before the office of the sub-registrar at the time of the execution of the sale deed of the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-plea-of-sector-37-property-grab-accused-dismissed-232792
01-04-2021||Mohali||Milk price up, says minister||Punjab Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the price of buffalo milk had witnessed an increase from Rs45 per kg to Rs48 per kg from February till now.Similarly, the rates of cow milk had increased from Rs28 per kg to Rs30 per kg, Randhawa added.“In the testing times of Covid-19, keeping in view the economic downturn as well as the interests of milk producers the price of milk given to them has been increased six times” Randhawa said while adding that the milk producers would continue to get good price in future also. This would make dairy a profitable venture benefitting 2.5 lakh milk producers associated with Milkfed, Randhawa said.“The Punjab Milkfed always ensures high purchase price of milk to milk producers. This is evident from the six time increase in the purchase price of milk during the last two months,” Randhawa added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milk-price-up-says-minister-232793
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to wait for MHA guidelines before opening libraries, campus||Panjab University (PU) will wait for the new guidelines of the UT Administration before taking any decision regarding opening the campus or its libraries, confirmed sources.The Panjab University (PU) authorities and student political parties are already at loggerheads on the same issues. The authorities decided to shut libraries, including AC Joshi library, on the campus till March 31, which led to protests by students’ political parties.“In the wake of rising Covid cases in Chandigarh, the PU authorities will follow guidelines issued by the MHA and the UT Administration. Though no decision has been taken today, we will wait for the fresh instructions before discussing opening of libraries or the campus. Our prime concern is students’ safety. Everyone can assess the condition of Chandigarh and Punjab,” said a university official.Students’ protest enters Day 8Meanwhile, the ongoing protest by the Panjab University’s SFS for opening the campus entered its eighth day today. “Today, protesting students organised a discussion on Labour Code laws brought by the Central Government. Minimum wages system is being dismantled. Hire and fire policy has been adopted. These laws deprive basic needs and essential social security network from workers. Neoliberal economic policies are pushing workers and toiling masses to wall by exploiting them to the hilt. Issue of contract workers is being raised by scholars from the ISSER, Mohali,” stated the SFS press release.Memorandum submittedAn ABVP delegation submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh, and Advisor, UT Administrator, regarding opening PU libraries. “Studies and research projects are affected as university libraries are lying closed. As the Administration takes final decision on this issue, we submitted a memorandum requesting them to release new guidelines for opening PU libraries,” stated ABVP’s press release.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-wait-for-mha-guidelines-before-opening-libraries-campus-232794
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University notifies dates for UG, PG exams||Panjab University notified dates for the commencement and submission of examination forms without and with late fee for all undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses under the second, fourth, sixth, eighth and 10th semester system and all certificate, diploma and advance diploma courses (regular/re-appear) today.The examinations for all UG and PG courses and all certificate, diploma and advance diploma courses (regular/reappear) semester/annual system (if any) will start from June 28.The submission of forms will start from May 15 (without late fee) and afterwards till May 22 (with late fee of Rs2,075), till May 31 (with late fee of Rs6,075), till June 7 (with late fee of Rs11,075) and till June 17 (with late fee of Rs22,075)While the examinations for all PG courses/PG diploma courses (second semester only) will begin from June 12, the submission of forms will start from May 15 (without late fee) and afterwards till May 22 (with late fee of Rs2,075), till May 31 (with late fee of Rs6,075), till June 7 (with late fee of Rs11,075) and till July 1 (till late fee of Rs22,075).Students can also visit the university’s website www.puchd.ac.in for more information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-notifies-dates-for-ug-pg-exams-232795
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's 5 women hockey players test positive in Jharkhand||As many as five women hockey players from Chandigarh tested Covid positive on reaching Simdega (Jharkhand) for participating in the 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship today.The championship, scheduled to begin from April 3, has been postponed until further notice in light of the rising Covid cases.In all, 26 teams from across India were to take part in the prestigious annual event. Only half the teams had reached the venue till date. The local eves had reached the venue yesterday.The local team underwent Covid test before leaving for Simdega. “Players found positive have been quarantined with all precautionary measures. We have started their contact tracing. As per protocol, all players were asked to undergone a mandatory Covid test. Viral load is said to be low and all players are fine,” said Sushant Gaurav, Deputy Commissioner (DC), Simdega, while talking to mediapersons today.“In light of the rising Covid cases and after receiving advice from the local authorities, Hockey India in consultation with the host Hockey Jharkhand has decided to postpone the event. For Hockey India, player safety is paramount,” said Gyanendro Ningombam, president, Hockey India.“We are safe and isolated students are also doing fine. We are following instructions and will return once our children are declared safe to travel,” said Sandeep Kaur, coach, Chandigarh team, from Simdega. Sources claimed that besides Chandigarhs 11 players from Jharkhand also tested positive for the coronavirus.“These children will undergo second test on April 2 after which, the decision on their return will be taken,” said Anil Vohra, secretary, Hockey Chandigarh.“These kids had cold water during their train journey due to which they had throat infection,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-5-women-hockey-players-test-positive-in-jharkhand-232796
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Former bureaucrats, ex-Army men join hands||To amplify the voice of farmers against the three agro-market laws, a group of former bureaucrats, including two Padam Shri awardees, and former Army persons, have come together to form Kirti Kisan Forum in the city.So far, the group has written a letter in connection with farmers protest to the President of India and organised a seminar on the three farm laws at Punjab Kala Bhawan auditorium this month in the city, apart from donating beds and books at the Sighu border in January.“We even met farmer leaders and members of Samyukt Kisan Morcha on January 31. They didn’t ask us for anything, except to spread awareness about the three laws and the adverse affect they will have on country’s farmers,” says Padam Shri SS Boparai, former Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, Patiala.“The forum’s main concern are farmers, who have been battling financial adversities and are mostly in debt already,” he adds.“You must be wondering how we ‘ji janaabs’ got together to form this forum,” says IAS (retd) Kulbir Singh. “I had posted a viral video of my brother, who is paralysed and was waving the Kisan Union flag to show support to farmers, who are protesting at the Delhi border. That started the conversation about farmer protests on our WhatsApp group,” he adds.Padam Shri awardee RI Singh, who is also the former Chief Secretary, Punjab, explains, “We, retired bureaucrats have a WhatsApp group where we keep expressing our views on issues, policies and decisions that impact economy and society. It’s a freelance commentary, but for farmers we thought of going beyond just commenting. To build public opinion it was important to have a forum that allows debate and discussion, formulate a firm opinion and then project it.”Formed originally, through conversations on WhatsApp, Kirti Kisan Forum was conceptualised on December 20, last year.“We had a meeting on February 9, which was attended by many former IPS, IAS officers and were also joined by ex-Army men along with many influential people at Kisan Bhawan. At first we were analysing what farmers needed at Singhu border and other protest points near Delhi, So, we took books in January. Then, we took beds for farmers,” says Boparai.Pained by the events of January 26, the forum has also written to the President of India. “We wrote a long letter to the President of India, but have not received any response yet,” he adds.The group also organised a seminar on the farm laws this month. On its panel was agriculture expert Devinder Sharma.“In our country, there are 86 per cent small farmers with less than five acres and out of these 68 per cent are marginal farmers, who have less than two acres. These Bills will push them to depths of poverty,” says Sharma.The group plans to hold more seminars and discussions in future. Kisan Kirti Forum includes former Chief Secretary, Punjab, Rajan Kashyap, former DGPs of Punjab MPS Aulakh, and MS Bhullar, former DGP, Haryana, MS Malik, along with former IPS Surinder Kumar, and former IG, Punjab Police, Amar Singh Chahal.The forum counts over 15 former senior IAS officers, including former member of Human Rights Commission, MS Chahal, former Principal Secretary to CM, Punjab, SK Sandhu, and former Additional Chief Secretary, Punjab, DS Bains.Among ex-Army men, the group has Brig Kuldip Singh Kahlon, Brig Harwant Singh, Brig RPS Maan and Brig Inder Mohan Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-protest-former-bureaucrats-ex-army-men-join-hands-232797
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||BSNL inaugurates ‘next generation technology’||The next generation network (NGN) switch exchange was inaugurated at Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, Phase IV, Mohali, building by Sandeep Diwan, chief general manager (Telecom), Punjab Telecom Circle, in the presence of MC Singh, general manager, business area, Chandigarh.MC Singh informed that Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) was in the process of replacing all old technology exchanges in Chandigarh business area comprising Chandigarh, Panchkula, Zirkpur, Dera Bassi, Lalru, Mohali, Kharar, Ropar and Nagal with new generation technology exchanges where large number of value added facilities like multi- media video conferencing (MMVC) could be availed on landline telephones by individual and corporate customers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsnl-inaugurates-next-generation-technology-232798
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to conduct special exit/final sem exams||Panjab University will conduct special examinations for candidates, who missed their exit/final semester exam in September, 2020, due to various reasons.“The examinations will start from April 7 and will be held through online mode,” informed Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, Panjab University.He further said, “The time slot for these online examinations will be from 5 pm to 8 pm. Students are advised to follow instructions given in questions papers.”“The number of questions to be attempted should strictly be according to instructions given in the question paper itself. Date sheets and instructions for the examinations will be uploaded on the PU website: http://exams.puchd.ac.in/datesheet.php,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-conduct-special-exit-final-sem-exams-232800
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||15 more containment zones in Chandigarh||To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration has declared 15 more containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said the issue of the Covid-19 outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as containment zones.Also readBrar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Besides, frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and residents were advised to strictly observe social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.On March 30, the UT Administration had declared 25 containment zones in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-more-containment-zones-in-chandigarh-232824
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||45+ to take Covid shot from today||Those aged 45 or above can get themselves inoculated against novel coronavirus from tomorrow. Till today, people above 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities were eligible for vaccination, along with healthcare and frontline workers.The CoWIN platform will be open for registration to beneficiaries above 45 years from April 1. On-site registrations (at vaccination centres) for the new category will also be allowed from the same day, but only after 3 pm.The beneficiaries will not have to produce any comorbidity certificate, but will have to carry a proof of identity and age.The new CoWIN feature has removed the feature of auto-scheduling of the second dose of the vaccine on the 29th day (after the first dose). Beneficiaries will now have a choice of the date of the second dose within four to eight weeks from the first shot.Meanwhile, a 24X7 help desk has been set up at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 to attend to the queries of the general public with regards to Covid-19.The help desk could be contacted for queries related to symptoms, need for testing, shifting of suspects and positive patients to hospitals, arranging ambulances, sending rapid response teams to their homes, vaccination and adverse reactions of the vaccine, if any.3,720 inoculated in PanchkulaPanchkula: As many as 3,720 persons were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on the second day of this week's mega vaccination drive at 34 sites on Wednesday. Among the beneficiaries, 1,345 were aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities, 1,642 were above 60 years of age, 112 were healthcare workers and 621 frontline workers. On the first day of the mega vaccination drive on Tuesday, the Health Department had vaccinated over 4,000 beneficiaries. Over 64,000 doses of the Covid vaccine have been administered in the district so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-to-take-covid-shot-from-today-232839
01-04-2021||Mohali||In Mohali, 758 senior citizens get vaccinated||As many as 758 senior citizens and 289 in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities were administered the first shot of the Covid vaccine here on Wednesday. Besides, 53 and three persons were given the second shot in the senior citizens and 45 to 59 years age group categories, respectively.In the healthcare workers' category, 177 were given the first shot and 37 the second. In the frontline workers' category, 296 were given the first shot and 89 the second.A total of 22,803 senior citizens and 4,643 persons aged 45 to 59 have been jabbed so far. Eighty senior citizens have got the second shot while five persons in the age group of 45 to 59 have got the second dose.As many as 9,600 healthcare workers have been given the first shot so far while 4,099 have been given the second dose. Similarly, 8,963 frontline workers have received the first dose of the vaccine and 2,499 have got the second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-758-senior-citizens-get-vaccinated-232840
01-04-2021||Panchkula||Kalka man held with poppy husk||The Sector 26 Crime Branch of the district police arrested a man and recovered over 5 kg of poppy husk from him.The suspect has been identified as Jasveer Singh, a resident of Paploha village in Kalka.On March 30, the police had received a tip-off that the suspect was smuggling the contraband into the district in a canter truck from Rajasthan. On the basis of secret inputs, the police set up a naka near the HMT factory in Pinjore and intercepted a canter coming from the Panchkula side.On searching the vehicle, the police team seized the contraband kept in a tool box.A case has been registered under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Pinjore police station.The suspect was produced in a local court today and sent to eight-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-man-held-with-poppy-husk-232843
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Mayor flags off 3rd phase  of waste collection||Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today flagged off the third phase of door-to-door waste collection through MC vehicles at the Community Centre, Sector 50.The Mayor said in order to implement successful door-to-door collection of segregated waste, the MC had earlier deployed 85 vehicles in the second phase in Sector 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 49, 50, 51, 52, 55, 56, 61 and 63 in the city, which had reduced the problem of mixed waste at the garbage plant.The Mayor today flagged off 36 MC vehicles in Mauli Jagran. The vehicles will run in Mauli Jagran, Vikas Nagar and Mani Majra for door-to-door collection of segregated waste.KK Yadav, Commissioner, MC, said these vehicles would carry waste from households to the transfer stations, from where it would be transported to the garbage plant in loaders.All vehicles used in the collection and transportation system are monitored by a GPS-enabled tracking system. The GPS system is constantly monitored by a monitoring cell. Any route deviations by drivers invites penalty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-flags-off-3rd-phase-of-waste-collection-232860
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Doctors’ body flags ‘ragging’ case at PGI||The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA), a national body of resident doctors, has written to the PGI Director regarding an act of “ragging” and “mental harassment”, which allegedly took place at the institute and forced a first year neurosurgeon resident to resign. The association has also flagged the issue with the Union Health Minister and the anti-ragging committee of the PGI.Association president Dr Partha Bohra stated, “A heinous act of ragging and mental torture was reported to us by a MCh neurosurgery resident at the PGI, Chandigarh. The resident joined the course this year and alleged that his senior had been harassing, mentally torturing and humiliating him on the basis of region and used derogatory language for him. Crumbling under inhumane working conditions and ongoing mental torture, he has tendered his resignation. We strongly condemn the treatment meted out to him. We demand a fair inquiry into the matter and exemplary punishment to the culprits.”An official statement of the PGI read, “No such issue of harassment was flagged at the time of resignation. The issues have surfaced only after the resident doctor left the institute. The institute has taken a serious view on this and a committee will be constituted to conduct a detailed inquiry into the case and bring the facts to light.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-body-flags-ragging-case-at-pgi-232884
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kirron Kher ill, getting treatment in Mumbai: Chandigarh BJP chief||Following attack from the Congress over MP Kirron Kher’s absence, city BJP chief Arun Sood today said the MP was suffering from multiple myeloma and getting treatment in Mumbai.Holding a press conference, Sood said she was a diabetic and advised to stay at home. On November 11, she suffered multiple fractures in her left arm. Her PET scan was done at the PGI. “It was found that she was suffering from multiple myeloma. She was airlifted on December 4. She is getting treated at Kokilaben Hospital, Mumbai. It is a serious disease, thus she had to be present there.”Sood flayed the Congress for targeting the MP at this juncture. “It is very cheap politics,” he added.Congress councillor Satish Kainth had yesterday, in a symbolic protest, held a torch in his hand and started looking for the MP in the city. A video was released in this regard. Kainth did so in response to a protest by the BJP members wherein they looked for him in his ward.Today, Deepa Dubey, city Mahila Congress chief, held a telescope in her hand and searched for Kher. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kirron-kher-ill-getting-treatment-in-mumbai-chandigarh-bjp-chief-232914
01-04-2021||Zirakpur||Sanitation staff protest in Zirakpur||Sanitation employees of the local Municipal Council staged a dharna outside its office over their long-pending demands today.In their address, MC Workers’ Union president Ravinderpal Singh and Sweepers’ Union president Pradeep Kumar said the Punjab Government was apprised of their demands through the council officials. Instead of resolving the demands, the government was deliberately delaying it. Pradeep Kumar said the previous SAD-BJP government and the Congress government had been ignoring their demands.The workers’ main demands include doing away with the contractor system and regularising the jobs of employees hired on ad hoc basis. The leaders said if the demands were not met soon, they would intensify their protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitation-staff-protest-in-zirakpur-232915
01-04-2021||Panchkula||Shopkeepers object to boys hurling abuses, beaten up||Two co-owners of a prasad shop on the premises of Mansa Devi Temple were attacked by a group of miscreants for objecting to verbal abuse on Monday afternoon.Balwinder Singh of Bhainsa Tibba, who co-owns the shop with Dinesh Kumar, alleged that while they were busy selling prasad, they saw two boys near the shop hurling abuses at people in a drunken state. When they opposed, the duo entered into an argument with him before leaving the spot only to return after 20 minutes with 15-20 boys.“They started beating us with wooden sticks and stones. We screamed for help. On seeing a police vehicle, the attackers fled the spot,’’ the FIR said, quoting the complainant.The victim claimed that the boys took away around Rs28,900 from them and damaged items at their shop.According to the police, the entire incident was caught on a CCTV camera and the attackers will be nabbed soon.A case was registered under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mansa Devi Complex police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shopkeepers-object-to-boys-hurling-abuses-beaten-up-232916
01-04-2021||Panchkula||Pinjore grocery store owner hurt in attack||A grocery shop owner was allegedly attacked by four men with a sword in Madawala in Pinjore here on Monday evening.As per the complainant, Haakam Singh, the incident took place around 6:30 pm while he was sitting in his shop adjoining his house. “In the absence of customers, there was not much business on Holi. The four suspects, Subhash, Rikki, Naseeb and Gobind, came to the shop in a car and asked for cashew and almonds. They were seemingly in a drunken state. I told them that I didn’t keep dry fruits. They started abusing me and barged into my shop, slapped me and dragged me out,” the complainant stated.The victim said he ran into his house and the suspects followed him.“Subhash pointed a revolver at me. In the meantime, Naseeb brought a sword from inside the car bearing an HP registration number and placed it on my neck,” the complainant added. While he was defending the sword attack by Naseeb, it hit him between the neck and a shoulder.As neighbours gathered, the suspects left the spot in their car. The victim was taken to the Kalka Sub-Divisional Hospital, where the authorities informed the police. A case under Sections 148, 149, 323, 324, 452, 506, 427 and 379-A of the IPC has been registered at the Pinjore police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pinjore-grocery-store-owner-hurt-in-attack-232918
01-04-2021||Zirakpur||Waste dumped in plot catches fire||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-dumped-in-plot-catches-fire-232919
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools, colleges closed till April 5||PO held for theft at salonChandigarh: A burglar, who has 16 cases registered against him in the city, has been arrested for a theft at a salon in Sector 35. He was a proclaimed offender in three cases — two at the Sector 36 police station and one at Mauli Jagran. Pawan Kumar (29), a native of Uttar Pradesh, had stolen around Rs7,000 and a laptop from the salon on March 1. He was arrested from Sector 35. The stolen laptop has been recovered. He disclosed that he had also committed a burglary at a medical store in Sector 22 in 2017. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-colleges-closed-till-april-5-232921
01-04-2021||Aditi Tandon||Do house-to-house surveillance to contain Covid surge: Centre to Punjab, Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 31The Centre on Wednesday reviewed the sharp COVID surge in Punjab and Chandigarh after Punjab reported 21 per cent week-on-week increase in new COVID cases and 2,740 average daily cases over the last seven days.During the same time period, Punjab saw 30 pc week-on-week increase in new COVID deaths and continues to report 53 average daily deaths.Chandigarh followed the same pattern reporting nearly 27 pc week-on-week rise in new cases and 180 pc week-on-week increase in new daily deaths. An average of 257 daily cases and 14 daily deaths have been reported in Chandigarh during the last week.Read also: Stricter curbs if COVID situation doesn't improve in one week: Punjab CM AmarinderNation sees 354 new deaths, highest single-day Covid fatalities this yearIn the review meeting with the officials of the state and the UT today, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Member Health, NITI Aayog VK Paul told the district officers of Punjab and Chandigarh to refocus on effective house-to-house surveillance and identify active cases for timely testing, contact tracing and swift isolation.The Centre also told Punjab and Chandigarh to iIdentify clusters, focus stringent implementation of micro-containment zone approach.At a meeting attended by Punjab Principal secretary (Health), Mission Director (National Health Mission), State Surveillance Officer, DCs and Municipal Commissioners, the Centre called for increased testing with focus on RT-PCR tests, effective contact tracing with at least 25 to 30 close contacts of each positive case, strict implementation of containment zones, intensification of vaccination drive, and enforcement of social distancing measures were highlighted as the pivot of effective management strategy.Three fronts for tackling the recent surge were suggested by Bhushan—Test, Track and Treat strategy to ensure positivity rate dropped below 5 pc (from 8.82 pc in Punjab as against 5.65 pc nationally); significantly increase testing in all districts with 70 pc RT-PCR tests; mandatorily subject those with negative Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) reports to RT-PCR tests; priority vaccination of eligible groups in districts with higher cases and transfer of unused vaccine doses from one district to another for optimum utilisation of available vaccine doses.DCs of Amritsar, Ludhiana, SBS Nagar and Jalandhar participated in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/do-house-to-house-surveillance-to-contain-covid-surge-centre-to-punjab-chandigarh-232716
