02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 287 new COVID-19 cases||Chandigarh reported 287 coronavirus cases on Friday, which pushed the total count to 27,543 in the union territory, a daily health bulletin showed.A 58-year-old man died of the contagion, taking the toll to 381 in the city, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 2,951 on Thursday to 3,098, it said.A total of 139 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 24,064, the bulletin said.It said 16,037 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,87,463 tested negative. Reports of 161 samples are awaited.—   Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-287-new-covid-19-cases-233703
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fire breaks out at Makhan Majra scrap market||A massive fire broke out at Kabadi Market of Makhan Majra here this afternoon.A fire official said the fire broke out in waste scrap lying outside godowns in the market around 1.30 pm.On getting information, five fire tenders were pressed into service and it took nearly an hour to douse the flames, the official said, adding that the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. However, no major loss of property was reported.Thick grey smoke could be seen bellowing from the godowns where the fire broke out. The fire comes two days after a massive fire was reported at a dump yard at Dadu Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-makhan-majra-scrap-market-233640
02-04-2021||Sandeep Rana---||Isolating, testing all contacts of +ve cases: Chandigarh MC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 1 With the number of Covid cases rising again, the MC authorities have restarted isolating and testing each contact of those testing positive for the virus. All high-risk and low-risk contacts of the patients are being tested. Even asymptomatic contacts of the positive person have to undergo the test.  According to a member of the contact tracing and quarantine wing of the civic body, they were only quarantining the family members earlier, but now other contacts of the patients are also directed to isolate themselves. “We have increased the number of contacts tested for the virus from an average eight when the case count was low to 14 now. This is the reason for the rise in the number of new cases in the UT,” said a member of the contact tracing team. MC Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg said, “All contacts of the positive person are being traced by our contact tracing teams, which get them tested by the Health Department.” The number of the contract tracing and quarantine teams has also been raised from three to ten. Nine teams are active while one is kept in reserve. As per the data available till March 28, as many as 61,516 persons were home-quarantined since the pandemic hit the city last year. The contacts are quarantined for 17 days and a certificate is issued to them in this regard. In case the person who tests positive is already in a hospital, his contacts are quarantined for 14 days. Some residents complained that despite testing positive, nobody came to their place to ensure they place themselves under quarantine. “I tested positive three days ago but nobody came to our place. It is very surprising,” said a resident of Sector 33. “We get the details of positive patients from the Health Department. Sometimes, we do not get the details over some issue, due to which such cases are reported. If matter comes to our knowledge, we do the needful,” said a contact tracing official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/isolating-testing-all-contacts-of-ve-cases-chandigarh-mc-233376
02-04-2021||Sandeep Rana---||Dadu Majra residents demand probe into fire incidents at dumping ground||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 1 It is for the first time that a major fire broke out simultaneously at the waste dumping ground as well as the garbage processing plant, which are separated by a road. Dadu Majra residents, who live at a stone’s throw from the dumping site, believed that the fire was deliberately caused to clear a huge chunk of unprocessed garbage. They said in a year, about 10-15 minor and major fire incidents took place at the dumping ground. The Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and area residents have demanded a high-level inquiry into the whole incident. “Waste collectors, along with some MC officials, have colluded to spark fire here. There should be a CBI inquiry to find out the cause of fire incidents. The agency should also investigate how much money has been spent on garbage processing,” said Dyal Krishan, president, Dumping Ground Action Committee. Harjinder Singh, chairman of Dadu Majra Residents’ Welfare Association, alleged, “The authorities have failed to tackle the waste processing issue, thus they are plotting some or the other thing to get away with it.” Congress councillor Satish Kainth today wrote to the UT Adviser-cum-Chief Vigilance Officer seeking a vigilance inquiry or an independent probe by a retired judge into the “ploy to cause fire.” He alleged that the MC misused crores in the name of clearing the waste, but the mountain of garbage still stood tall. Calling it a dump of corruption, Prem Garg, convener, city AAP, said the civic body had signed a contract of about Rs34 crore with a private firm while claiming that the waste site would be cleared in 18 months. On the contrary, the situation has gone from bad to worse and people were forced to live under inhumane conditions. They have to bear with foul smell and itching eyes. MC Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg said, “Methane under the waste gets ignited when there is a high temperature. The gas is highly combustible.”  MC Medical Officer of Health Dr Amrit Warring said, “The fire first broke out at the dumping ground and due to wind, it spread to the processing plant. It is natural that a fire breaks out here, there is no other reason.” Firemen told Chandigarh Tribune that the incident warranted a probe as it was not possible for the fire to spread to the plant when a double road separates it from the dumping ground. Though the fire was brought under control yesterday, plumes of smoke persisted for the second day. Almost half of the city was affected with the smoke yesterday. People in some neighbouring areas faced tough time today too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dadu-majra-residents-demand-probe-into-fire-incidents-at-dumping-ground-233377
02-04-2021||Mohali||One held with unaccounted silver jewellery||The Lalru police have arrested a native of Haryana for possessing unaccounted 4.4 kg silver jewellery. The suspect has been identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Buddakhera village in Kaithal district. Inspector Sukhbir Singh, SHO, Lalru police station, said a police team on a checking drive on March 30 found a man sitting at the Lalru bus stop. He said on checking, the police found 4.4 kg of silver jewellery in his bag. The SHO said the suspect failed to provide the documents regarding the jewellery.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-held-with-unaccounted-silver-jewellery-233378
02-04-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh clocks 8% growth in GST collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 1On the path to recovery, the UT has clocked 8 per cent growth in gross goods and services tax (GST) collection in March this year, the highest in the 2020-21 fiscal.According to the Ministry of Finance, the GST collection in the UT stood at Rs165.27 crore in March, which was 8 per cent higher in comparison to the revenue of Rs153.26 crore received during the corresponding period last year.Despite opening up of the economy post-pandemic, the GST collection stood at Rs148.5 crore in February, which was 14 per cent less in comparison to the revenue of Rs172.37 crore received during the corresponding period last year.However, the Finance Ministry did not release the state-wise data of GST collection during January 2021.The gross GST collection in the UT stood at Rs158 crore in December 2020, which was 6 per cent less in comparison to Rs168 crore, the revenue received during the corresponding period in 2019.An official said in December 2020, the Excise and Taxation Department had received Rs17 crore more than the previous month of November 2020.In November last year, the tax collection stood at Rs141 crore, which was 14 per cent less in comparison to Rs165 crore, the revenue received during the same month in 2019.In October last year, the UT had collected tax to the tune of Rs151.98 crore, which was 3.21 per cent less in comparison to Rs157.02 crore, the collections made in the same month in 2019. In September 2020, the gross GST collection was 10 per cent lower than what was collected during the corresponding period in 2019.The gross tax collection in September 2020 stood at Rs141.48 crore, whereas in the same month in 2019, the UT had seen GST collections of Rs156.51 crore.The UT got nearly 8 per cent more revenue in the form of gross GST collected in September 2020 in comparison to the amount received in August 2020.The gross GST collection in August last year was Rs138.52 crore, which was nearly 13 per cent less than the previous year of 2019 when Rs160.08 crore tax was collected.The official said the GST collection in July was Rs137.33 crore. Due to the imposition of the lockdown, the UT had collected a meagre revenue of Rs40.34 crore in April, which increased to Rs103.44 crore in May. However, with selective opening of various business establishments in Unlock 1.0, the revenue collection witnessed a sharp increase and the UT recorded a collection of Rs158.69 crore in June.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-clocks-8-growth-in-gst-collection-233379
02-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Amarjeet, Rishav in race for Mohali Mayor’s post||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 1Over a month after the results of the elections to the civic bodies were announced, the Punjab Government today issued a notification on reservation for the posts of mayor and president of municipal bodies.As per the notification, the Mayor of the Mohali Municipal Corporation will be from the general category, while the top posts in the Kharar and Nayagaon MCs have been reserved for women.Election results of the Mohali MC and municipal councils at Kharar, Kurali, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur, Lalru, Banur and Nayagaon in the district were declared on February 18. The elections were held on February 14.A senior Mohali MC official said the poll was likely to be held on April 7.The Congress had registered a landslide victory by winning 37 of the total 50 seats in the civic body. The Azad Group-Aam Aadmi Party combine, led by former Mayor Kulwant Singh, had bagged 10 seats while the remaining three were bagged by Independents. Kulwant Singh had unsuccessfully contested the poll.Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu’s brother Amarjeet Singh Sidhu (Ward No. 10) and former Senior Deputy Mayor Rishav Jain (Ward No. 20), who won the election for the third time in a row, are the main contenders for the Mayor’s post.A senior Congress councillor, on the condition of anonymity, said that a majority of the councillors were in favour of Amarjeet Singh Sidhu while Rishav Jain was likely to become the Senior Deputy Mayor. Kuljeet Bedi, who has won for the third time, is likely to bag the Deputy Mayor’s post.Balbir Singh Sidhu said as of now, they had not decided on any name for the mayoral posts, adding that as the notification had been issued, they would comply with the decision of all councillors and the party high command. Amarjeet, who is director of the SAS Nagar Central Cooperative Bank Limited and is also having a liquor business, has won the election for the first time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amarjeet-rishav-in-race-for-mohali-mayors-post-233380
02-04-2021||---||Plaint withdrawn as club owners tender apology||Chandigarh, April 1A local court today dismissed as withdrawn a complaint filed by Pradeep Chhabra, former president of the city Congress, against Playboy, a club, after its owners submitted an apology for allegedly defaming party leader Rahul Gandhi.Chhabra had filed a criminal complaint against the club on February 4 seeking a direction to the police to register an FIR against the owners of the club.In the complaint, it was alleged that the owners of the club allegedly showed a “morphed” video with objectionable images of the leader during a party organised at the club on January 30.Chhabra’s counsel Puneet Chhabra claimed that they withdrew the case as the club owners accepted their mistake and promised not to repeat such an act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plaint-withdrawn-as-club-owners-tender-apology-233382
02-04-2021||Mohali||Water testing lab gift to people, says minister||To ensure 100 per cent piped potable water supply to residents, the Water and Sanitation Department of Punjab started the newly strengthened Multi-District Water Testing Laboratory at the Water Works Complex in Phase II here today.  Jaspreet Talwar, Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation, inaugurated the laboratory on the behalf of Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Razia Sultana.  Sultana said the laboratory was a gift to people under the ‘Har Ghar Pani, Har Ghar Safai’ mission. She said the initiative would help the state government in providing adequate facilities for testing and monitoring of drinking water being supplied to the rural population.  The Minister said in addition to the routine monitoring and surveillance of departmental rural water supply sources, the laboratory would also be open to public and other departments / institutions at nominal charges approved by the government.  Principal Secretary Jaspreet Talwar said the department would set up three multi-district laboratories at Moga, Hoshiarpur and Sangrur that would be commissioned by May.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-testing-lab-gift-to-people-says-minister-233383
02-04-2021||---||1,476 in 45-59 age group inoculated for Covid in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 1As many as 1,476 persons, aged between 45 and 59, including those with comorbidities, were administered the first dose of the Covid vaccine at 35 sites here today. A total of 3,053 beneficiaries received the vaccine today.In the daily bulletin, there was no specification on how many persons aged between 45 and 59 without comorbidities got the vaccine.While speaking on the response of the first day of the third phase, District Immunisation Officer Dr Meenu Sasan said the scope for improvement was still there as awareness drives could lead to high turnout among those eligible for vaccination.“Even today many people did not have information that the government has allowed vaccination for all above the age of 45,” she said.BJP national spokesperson Nalin Kohli also received the Covid vaccine at the community centre in Sector 12-A. Over 67K doses of coronavirus vaccine have been administered in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-476-in-45-59-age-group-inoculated-for-covid-in-panchkula-233384
02-04-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh school managements seek Education Dept’s intervention||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 1Amid the ongoing controversy on charging how much fee from students, managements of various private schools have now started seeking intervention of the UT Education Department.The managements want the UT Education Department to issue standard instructions for both schools and parents so as to avoid any conflict, especially for the new session. In recent days, some schools are claiming to be at the receiving end as they failed to get even tuition fee for the last session and instead facing parents’ ire.“The school has been following the orders of the department in all respects. The orders were not to charge annual charges as well as providing online classes and conducting exams of all students even without payment of fee for a single month. Now, the session is coming to an end and parents are not ready to pay or give any assurance in writing for clearance of dues. One doesn’t know how to go about it. We will appreciate if clear-cut directions are given to us by the authorities so that all schools abide by them and the smooth functioning of the institution is not disrupted,” said Amita Khorana, Principal of Shishu Niketan School, Sector 22.Kavita Das, Principal of St John’s School, Sector 26, seconded the opinion.“Parents have been facing financial hardships during these Covid times and it has been difficult for them to meet certain commitments. So is for schools. The Supreme Court, in its latest decision, has held that fees can be collected. It will, therefore, be of a great help to schools if the UT Administration issues instructions about fees for the last and the current sessions,” said Kavita.HS Mamik, President, Independent School Association (ISA), said parents should come forward to pay last session’s fee.“Parents should come forward to pay last session’s fee. For the current session, they are free to take any decision, if they wanted to continue in the school or not,” Mamik said.“Though we have waived fee for genuine cases, it’s not possible for all students. We are charging only tuition fee. Teachers and staff members are working hard every day. This is absolutely wrong if the parents (who can pay) are not paying the fee and asking for waivers. This is no way schools will survive,” said Monica Sharma, Principal, PMLSD School, Sector 22.Her thoughts were seconded by Loveleen Bedi, Principal, IS Dev Samaj School, Sector 21.“The parents should at least give a written consent that they will pay a minimal charge as set by the authorities. Even in normal times, a written consent is must for taking any kind of fee concession,” said Loveleen.Meeting with all stakeholdersRubinderjit Singh Brar, DPI, Schools, said: “The department will reassess the situation soon. We will reassess and examine the issues in consultation with all stakeholders as soon as possible. The matter is still sub judice”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-school-managements-seek-education-depts-intervention-233385
02-04-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh police oppose bail to Inspector Rajdeep||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 1Levelling charges of destruction of evidence, framing incorrect records and aiding the economic offence, the Chandigarh Police opposed the bail to inspector Rajdeep Singh. The UT police filed a reply on the bail plea of the inspector before the court today.The police arrested Rajdeep Singh, former SHO of the Sector 39 police station, on the charges of not taking any action on a complaint filed against the accused who had allegedly forcibly occupied the house in Sector 37. The court has deferred the hearing on the bail plea to Friday.The police, in the reply, alleged that accused Rajdeep Singh, the then SHO of the Sector 39 police station, not only aided the accused persons but also prepared a false and incorrect record to save other accused - Sanjiv Mahajan, Surjit Bouncer and Shekhar - from punishment in active conspiracy with them.The police alleged that the accused was duty bound to take action on the initial complaint of Pandit Sita Ram Rattan, but in utter disrespect to his duty he not only got lodged a false DDR but also destroyed vital piece of evidence in support of the complaint i.e. medical certificate with respect to mental condition of victim Rahul Mehta.The police said had the accused not aided other accused, they would not have been successful in their illegal design of securing a false and fabricated general power of attorney in favour of Khalender Singh and Arvind Singla by coercion and obtained undue gain to the tune of crores in that transaction.Harish Bhardwaj, counsel of the accused, contended in the bail application that the Inspector Rajdeep Singh had no concern with Sanjeev Mahajan, Surjit or any other person as alleged and all allegations against the applicant were imaginary and were a figment of imagination of the investigating agency clouded with professional rivalry out of vengeance and reasons not linked with the sale or grabbing of the house.Court to hear Mahajan’s bail application todayWhile hearing on bail application of Sanjeev Mahajan has been deferred to Friday, counsel NK Nanda filed two affidavits on behalf of Pandit Sita Ram Rattan and Pradeep Rattan before the court on Thursday. In the affidavits, the complainants claimed that after giving the complaint before the police the fact came in their knowledge that Sanjeev Mahajan has been wrongly mentioned in the complaint and accordingly the applicant made another application that no action should be taken against him. They said the accused had no role in the present case. In the bail application, Mahajan claimed that he was falsely implicated by the police in the case. Mahajan, a former journalist, who is in judicial custody, was arrested by the police, along with another accused in the case, on March 2. The police opposed the bail citing serious charges against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-oppose-bail-to-inspector-rajdeep-233386
02-04-2021||---||Protesting students break open reading room’s lock||Chandigarh, April 1Students protesting at Panjab University for the opening of AC Joshi Library and the campus today broke open the reading room’s lock to enter the area. Raising slogans, the students entered the reading room. Sources said student leaders distributed sweets among the protesting students.“The Panjab University authorities tried to meet the protesting students to continue dialogue with them related to the opening of PU library. The authorities asked the students to send five representatives. The students were insisting on nine members to come for the meeting. The authorities kept on waiting for two hours, but no one turned up. Thereafter, the students held a protest at the administrative block. Later, they went to the library and broke open the lock of reading room. A police complaint has been made in this regard. The reading room was locked with the help of the police,” said a spokesperson for Panjab University.Video on social mediaA video has been doing the rounds of social media wherein one of the protesting students is seen threatening the authorities to open the library or face a fierce agitation. “The university (authorities) is taking us easy. This is our warning to open the library as soon as possible. Else, even we don’t know what would be the consequences. If the authorities don’t meet us, we will break open the doors of the Administration Block, VC house and what not,” stated the person.“We are protesting for the past nine days. The authorities should meet only those political parties that are sitting on the protest. However, the authorities are calling everyone. We have a simple demand to open the library and meet our group. We did not damage anything at the Administration Block as we are on a peaceful protest,” said Sandeep, Research Scholar, PU, and a member of the SFS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-students-break-open-reading-rooms-lock-233387
02-04-2021||---||Submit report on cause of fire, CPCC asks civic body||Chandigarh, April 1The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) has asked the Municipal Corporation (MC) to submit a report on the cause of the fire that broke out at the Dadu Majra waste dumping ground yesterday.After the incident came to their notice, officials of the CPCC visited the spot and informed the higher-ups that the fire was huge, said Debendra Dalai, vice-chairman, CPCC.Dalai said a letter had been written to the MC Commissioner seeking a report on the fire incident and the MC had also been asked to take precautionary measures to avoid such incidents in the future.The Fire Department received information about the fire at 2.30 pm yesterday and immediately, six fire engines were pressed into service. The local police barricaded roads from both sides of the dumping ground and did not allow vehicles near the site.Smoke emanating from the waste led to huge inconvenience to residents, especially those residing in and around Dadu Majra. They complained of breathing problems and itching in their eyes due to the smoke.An official said waste could have caught fire due to hot weather conditions, which often cause fire at the dumping ground. After every two to three months, fire incidents are reported from the ground. The last fire incident in February witnessed huge smoke for three to four days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/submit-report-on-cause-of-fire-cpcc-asks-civic-body-233388
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lt Gen Manjinder Singh is Western Command chief||Lt Gen Manjinder Singh assumed charge as the Chief of Staff, Western Command, at Chandimandir today. He takes over from Lt Gen Yogendra Dimri, who has been elevated as the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Central Command. On arrival at Chandimandir, he laid a wreath at the Veer Smriti war memorial to pay homage to martyrs. An alumnus of Sainik School, Kapurthala, the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, and the National Defence College in Thailand, Lt Gen Manjinder was commissioned into 19 Madras in December 1986.  During a career spanning over 34 years, he has tenanted important command appointments in varied sensitive operational sectors and high-altitude terrain. He commanded his battalion in an intense counter-insurgency environment in Jammu and Kashmir, an infantry brigade on the line of control and an infantry division as part of a strike corps.  He was decorated with the Yudh Seva Medal in 2015 and the Vishisht Seva Medal in 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lt-gen-manjinder-singh-is-western-command-chief-233390
02-04-2021||Aman Sood||ASI’s night party costs him dear||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 1Flouting all Covid restrictions, a Punjab police official held a party to celebrate his son’s wedding that continued till late night yesterday.The ASI has now been suspended by the district SSP and faces a departmental probe, though he has evaded an FIR till now.According to eye witnesses, ASI Darshan Singh, posted with the Model Town police post, was holding a function to celebrate his son’s wedding at his house in Century Enclave.“Despite curfew hours and a cap on maximum guests, the party continued till late at night. They had blocked an entire lane by erecting a tent. The catering staff, the DJ and guests left the venue after 11.30 pm, causing much inconvenience,” claimed area residents.Sources said more than 24 policemen and administrative officials were part of the party. “Many cops from the district and outside the city were part of the party where music was being played till late at night, troubling area residents,” said an area resident.When The Tribune team visited the spot, following repeated requests by residents, loud music could be heard as far as 500 metres away, with tents erected on the road opposite to the house of the cop. Many guests were seen at the venue around 10 pm, almost an hour after the curfew imposition. Many other guests were seen openly drinking in their cars parked around the venue. Warning of several more tough measures and restrictions, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had announced a two-hour extension in the night curfew in the state's nine districts worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Kumar Amit had already imposed a night curfew on March 12 (from 11 pm to 5 am) till further orders. Darshan Singh could not be contacted for comments.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said he had suspended ASI, who was on a 10-day leave for his son's wedding. "We will not tolerate such indiscipline when we are trying to set things in order in view of the rising Covid cases. I have called for an explanation from him too," said Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asis-night-party-costs-him-dear-233391
02-04-2021||---||Central team stresses on contact tracing for Covid||Chandigarh, April 1 To prevent the further spread of Covid in the city, a three-member Central team has laid emphasis on contact tracing and enhancing vaccination. The team was led by Additional Secretary Vijoy Kumar Singh with experts from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. The team members held a meeting with officials of the Health Department, Chandigarh Administration and doctors from the PGI. An official said the team suggested that in while 20-25 contacts of each positive patient must be traced. He said the team also stated that the UT Administration should improve the vaccination drive as several health workers and frontline workers were not yet covered under the drive.  The team also suggested that the UT should conduct a Sero survey to know the extent of the infection spread in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/central-team-stresses-on-contact-tracing-for-covid-233392
02-04-2021||---||Man kills 45-yr-old nephew with spade||Mohali, April 1The police have booked Surjit Singh, a resident of Ferozepur Bangar village near Mullanpur, on a charge of murdering his nephew with a spade yesterday.The victim has been identified as Randhir Singh (45), who was working with the PEPSU Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) on a contract basis. The victim is survived by his wife and three children.According to the police, Surjit, a farmer, and his nephew had regular fights over the latter’s habit of taking liquor daily. Yesterday too, Randhir came home after taking alcohol. Surjit, who was already angry as he had beaten up his daughter, picked a spade and attacked Randhir, causing severe head injuries. He was rushed to the PGI where he succumbed to his injuries.The investigating officer, Sub-Inspector Harpal Singh, said the body of the victim had been handed over to the family members after a postmortem. He said the suspect was yet to be arrested.A case under Section 304 (culpable homicide) of the IPC has been registered against the suspect on a statement of Satwinder Kaur, mother of the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-kills-45-yr-old-nephew-with-spade-233393
02-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali sees three-fold increase in Covid vaccination as phase 3 starts||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 1On the first day of the vaccination of persons aged 45 to 59 without any comorbidity, the district witnessed a three-fold increase in the count of beneficiaries in the age group today.During the past few days, an average 250 persons in the age group of 45 to 59 years and having comorbidities were getting the jab in the district. Today, as many as 743 persons, including those without any comorbidity, were vaccinated.About 12 persons had got the vaccine jab for the second time today. So far, a total of 4,868 persons aged 45 to 59 have been vaccinated for the first time.Today, 810 senior citizens were inoculated for the first time while 81 got the jab for the second time. With this, a total of 22,390 senior citizens have got the vaccination for the first time while 141 have got the second dose.Meanwhile, a total of 9,447 healthcare workers (HCWs) have got the first jab and 4,133 the second. Similarly, 9,621 frontline workers (FLWs) have got the first dose while 2,618 have got the second.A total of 2,231 persons underwent the Covid test, including 543 at private hospitals, and 409 of them were found infected. Besides, 293 patients have been cured.The Health Department organised a special vaccination camp at the District Administrative Complex where about 100 employees were administered the first dose of the vaccine.2,231 undergo testA total of 2,231 persons underwent the Covid test, including 543 at private hospitals, and 409 of them were found infected. Besides, 293 patients have been cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-three-fold-increase-in-covid-vaccination-as-phase-3-starts-233395
02-04-2021||---||Covid vaccine Phase 3 starts on ‘enthusiastic’ note in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 1Amid a surge in the coronavirus cases, the third phase of the vaccination for all above the age of 45 began in Chandigarh today. As many as 1,867 persons, aged between 45 and 60, including those with comorbidities, got their first jab at 55 sites today.The overall vaccination figure (including healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 60 years) stood at 3,499.According to Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, the city witnessed an enthusiastic response from people above the age of 45 on the first day.The Health Department urged people above the age of 45 to get them vaccinated to protect themselves and their families from Covid-19. Dr Monica Singh, chairperson, Centre for Social Work, Panjab University, who got her first dose today at the GMSH, Sector 16, said she was impressed with the facilities there.“I would like to shun all misconceptions about the Covid vaccine and appeal to every eligible person to get vaccinated without hesitation,” she said.She urged civil society members and residents’ welfare associations to sensitise people to the importance of taking the Covid vaccine.Among prominent personalities who got their first jab were city BJP chief Arun Sood, party’s Himachal co-incharge Sanjay Tandon and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma.City witnesses 257 cases, one deathChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported 257 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the UT tally to 27,256. The city also witnessed one Covid death. The toll now stands at 380. A 55-year-old woman from Sarangpur, a case of diabetes mellitus, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, died at the GMCH, Sector 32. TNS3 more succumb in MohaliMohali: Three more fatalities were witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 436. Meanwhile, 409 fresh cases surfaced, taking the total number of positive cases to 27,102. There are now 3,297 active cases in the district. TNS159 cases, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 159 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 13,188. The Covid toll remained at 154 with no fresh death. While 12,000 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 1,034 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 90.99 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-vaccine-phase-3-starts-on-enthusiastic-note-in-chandigarh-233402
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested for stealing ACs||Gun snatched from guardChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a double-barrelled gun from a security guard near the dumping ground at Dadu Majra village. Complainant Jamna Singh, a resident of Kharar, was returning home from work on his motorcycle on March 30 when the miscreants stopped him on the pretext of asking for the way. They then threatened him and snatched his bag containing the gun. A case was registered at Maloya. TNSYashkeerat bags gold in fencingChandigarh: Local fencer Yashkeerat Kaur Hayer won individual gold medal in the Senior National Fencing Championship held at Rudrapur, Uttarakhand. She won the first-ever gold medal in the senior event for Chandigarh. Yashkeerat is also an international player and has also won a medal in the commonwealth championship. She remained last year’s junior champion, besides winning gold and bronze medals in the 1st Khelo India University Games. TNSDabkesh is GMCH nurses’ assn chiefChandigarh: Dabkesh Kumar was unanimously re-elected the president of the Nurses Welfare Association, GMCH-32, for the fourth consecutive year during the annual elections held here on Thursday. Other office-bearers are Sandeep Kumar Yadav, general secretary, Ragini Arora, senior vice-president, Digpal Singh, vice-president, Kumod Yadav, joint secretary, Sunil Kumar, treasurer, Sudha Sharma, coordinator and Sonia Yogin, office secretary. Ten executive members were also elected in the association. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-stealing-acs-233412
02-04-2021||---||Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher being treated for blood cancer||New Delhi, April 1Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher is under treatment for multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer, her husband Anupam Kher said on Thursday.In a public message on Twitter, actor Kher said “Just so rumours do not get the better of a situation, Sikander and I would like to inform everyone that Kirron has been diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer. She’s currently undergoing treatment and we are sure she will come out of this stronger that before. We are blessed that she is being looked after by a phenomenal team of doctors. She has always been a fighter and takes things head on.”🙏 pic.twitter.com/3C0dcWwch4  Kher said his wife is well on the road to recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mp-kirron-kher-being-treated-for-blood-cancer-233146
