04-04-2021||---||Chandigarh records 341 more Covid cases, highest since mid-September||Chandigarh, April 4Chandigarh on Sunday recorded 341 more Covid-19 cases, highest since mid-September last year.With this, the active cases have reached 3,150 in the UT.A maximum of 22 cases were reported from Sector 44.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-341-more-covid-cases-highest-since-mid-september-234584
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two booked for seeking dowry||Ambala resident duped, 4 bookedChandigarh: An Ambala resident alleged that Lokesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 22-B, Vikas Kumar of Nayagaon, Vipin Garg of Sector 23, Kedarnath and others cheated her in the sale of 200 sqyd plot at Eco City, Phase 1, Mohali. A case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNSPatran residents cheated of Rs2LChandigarh: Patran resident Gagandeep Singh alleged that Balbir Singh of Sunam and Gopal Singh of Paradise Apartment, New Sunny Enclave, Kharar, took Rs2 lakh from him and his friend Makhan Singh, also of Patran, on the pretext of arranging jobs for them in the Forest Department. The suspects gave fake joining letters of forest guard to complainants at the Sector 43 ISBT four months ago. A case under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 474 and 120-B, IPC, has been registered against the duo at the Sector 36 police station. TNSFour-wheeler, mobike stolenChandigarh: A Sector 63 resident, Mukesh Guleria, reported that an unknown person stole his bike from the parking area near his house on the night of April 1. A Sector 23 resident reported that an unknown person stole his car parked near an under-construction building in Sector 9 here on April 2. Cases have been registered in connection with the two incidents. TNSTheft at house in Mani MajraChandigarh: A Mani Majra resident, Anil Kumar, reported that an unknown person stole one LED TV, an iron, two bathroom taps and a mobile phone from his house on April 2. A case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNS10-yr-old boy goes missingChandigarh: A Sector 52 resident reported that her 10-year-old son has been missing from home since April 2. A case under Section 363 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-for-seeking-dowry-234256
04-04-2021||---||Auto dealer told to pay Rs 5L compensation to car owner||Chandigarh, April 3Not repairing a fault developed in the newly purchased car cost an auto dealer and insurance company dear.Terming the act as deficiency of services the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has not only directed them to pay Rs5 lakh as compensation to the consumer, but also instructed the auto dealer to repair vehicle and replace defective parts of the engine or the component, if any, without charging anything from the complainant.Commission has also directed to pay Rs50,000 as litigation cost to the complainant. The Bench of commission comprising president Raj Shekhar Attri and members Padma Pandey and Rajesh K Arya pronounced the order on the complaint of Arshjot Singh.Arshjot approached the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission after auto dealer failed to rectify the fault developed in his car. In his complaint Arshjot stated that he purchased Ford Endeavour Titanium after paying Rs31,32,313 to dealer Bhagat Cars Pvt Ltd, Chandigarh, on February 6, 2019. The vehicle was insured from Bharti AXA General Insurance on payment of Rs79,858 as premium.In October 2019, while he was driving the vehicle on a rainy day, it stopped in between on the Ambala City road. On calling the dealer he was advised to take the vehicle to its authorised service centre in Ambala.The vehicle was towed to dealer’s workshop in Ambala, but the staff there refused to inspect it. They asked Arshjot to take the vehicle to a dealer in Chandigarh. The vehicle was then towed to the premises of the dealer in Chandigarh.The vehicle remained parked on the dealer’s premises for many days, but not repaired. When the complainant lodged claim with the insurance company, it was denied on the ground that engine damage was not covered under the policy. After hearing arguments the commission found the dealer and the insurance company guilty of deficiency in services.The commission stated that the insurance company also failed to prove on record that the complainant did not take reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle against the damage caused.The consumer was made to run from pillar to post to get his vehicle repaired despite the fact that the same was under warranty and also under insurance cover, the disputes redressal commission added.Under these circumstances, compensation of Rs5 lakh was awarded to the complainant, the commission stated. The commission also directed the dealer to repair vehicle and replace defective parts of the engine or component, if any, with a brand new engine of the same specification and fresh warranty thereon without charging anything and bringing the vehicle in a perfect roadworthy condition and return it to the complainant within 20 days.Besides, the commission also instructed the auto dealer to pay Rs50,000 as litigation cost to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-dealer-told-to-pay-rs-5l-compensation-to-car-owner-234233
04-04-2021||---||Panchkula: Fire breaks out in Bir Ghaggar forest area||Panchkula, April 3A fire broke out at the forest area under the Army in Bir Ghaggar around 12:15 pm today. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot immediately. It took firemen two hours to douse the flames.“The reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained,” said fire officials. Eye-witnesses and locals said smoke could be witnessed from a distance.Tarsem Singh, who holds additional charge of the Panchkula Fire Department, said there was no casualty due to the fire.Another fire incident was reported near Hanuman Temple in Sector 25. In this incident too, no casualties were reported.“The onset of summer is marked by rise in fire incidents. Dry garbage catches fire easily in high temperatures,” Tarsem added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-fire-breaks-out-in-bir-ghaggar-forest-area-234234
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Workshop dwells on screening of children with ASD||The Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), organised World Autism Awareness Day on April 1 and 2. This year’s theme of the World Autism Awareness Day was “Inclusion in the workplace: Challenges and opportunities in a post-pandemic world”.Dr Priti Arun, Professor and Head, Department of Psychiatry, conducted a comprehensive workshop for professionals on screening and assessment of children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). A panel discussion for parents to answer their common questions on management of children with ASD was organised today. Webinars were conducted for both the events.The resource persons of workshops were Dr Priti Arun, Dr Chandrika Azad, Dr Shivangi Mehta, Dr Archana Sharma and Abhipriya. More than 200 parents of children with ASD and professionals attended panel discussion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/workshop-dwells-on-screening-of-children-with-asd-234235
04-04-2021||---||Enforcement Director orders review of mining operations in Mohali district||Mohali, April 3The newly appointed Enforcement Director (Mining), Punjab, RN Dhoke, here today gave clear instructions that operations related to mining should be carried out in a manner predetermined by law.Dhoke stated this after convening a meeting today with officials responsible for the control and regulation of mining operations in Mohali district.“Any complaint related to mining should be immediately dealt with according to the laid down procedure and strict action may be taken against violators,” Dhoke added.Various issues related to the mining operations in the district were discussed at the meeting. Some of these include the inter-state mining operations across the district and methods of controlling them, the ways of enforcing desilting operations in the district, use of display boards in the notified mining, desilting and sand/gravel crusher areas and the regulation of timing of various mining Operations.Dhoke further re-emphasised on the commitment of the Punjab Government to ensure that all mining operations were carried out keeping in mind the balance between environmental protection, revenue generation and enforcement of the rule of the law. “Review of of these mining operations will be done periodically,” Dhoke said.The Mohali SSP, Satinder Singh, SP (Rural ) Dr Ravjot Grewal and XEN-cum-District Mining Officer Rupinder Singh Pabbla , DSPs and SHOs of the areas where mining operations was carried out in the district were among those present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/enforcement-director-orders-review-of-mining-operations-in-mohali-district-234236
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Deadline to file e-bids for Chandigarh MC space ends today||With an eye on enhancing its revenue, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) is holding e-auction for giving space for pollution check centres and ATMs at its two newly opened fuel stations.The MC has also invited e-bids for a kiosk at the Night Food Street in front of the PGI. Earlier, three kiosks were auctioned, but the fourth one could not find any bidder.According to the e-auction notice, the properties are offered on a monthly rent basis. Two facilities will be offered at corporation’s Sector 51 and Industrial Area, Phase 2, fuel stations while the kiosk for the north Indian food in being given on ‘as is where is’ basis.The auction started on March 10 and the final date for the submission of documents is tomorrow. Documents and payment will be approved from April 6 to 8. The auction will be held on April 12.The MC has uploaded terms and conditions of the e-auction on its website. Earnest money and eligibility details are also available on the MC website. The cash-strapped civic body had opened its two fuel stations last year. The MC expects to earn Rs3 crore annually after deducting all running expenses. The MC hopes that allotting space for the ATMs and pollution check centres will further enhance its revenue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deadline-to-file-e-bids-for-chandigarh-mc-space-ends-today-234237
04-04-2021||---||Fee row at Chandigarh school, parents protest||Chandigarh, April 3Around 40 parents gathered outside KBDAV Senior Secondary School in Sector 7 to protest over fee payment for the 2021-22 academic session here, today afternoon.School Principal Pooja Prakash said, “We have accepted parents demand to allow payment of fee on a monthly basis rather than on quarterly basis. Regarding the tuition fee issue we will write to the UT Administration asking them for further clarification.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fee-row-at-chandigarh-school-parents-protest-234238
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Golf Championship: Ojaswini wins title||Ojaswini Saraswat carded a total of 3-under 69 to top the girls’ E category in the Indian Golf Union North Zone 2nd Junior/Sub Junior Feeder Golf Championship at Panchkula.The seven-year-old hones her skills at the Mohali Golf Range. A total of 140 players, in the age group of 4 to 18 years, participated in the championship.Playing nine holes each day in windy conditions, Ojaswini scored a 3-under 33 on Day 1, while she carded a par-36 in the second round.Sohrab Singh Talwar shot a 76 to finish second in the boys’ E category, while Rabab Kahlon, also from Mohali Golf Range, shot a two-day total of 90 to claim the fourth position in the girls’ D category. Mohul Dhingra finished 8th in boys’ A category with a score of 166.Samar Pratap Singh Sandhu shot a total of 172 to claim the 11th position.In another championship, at the ITC Classic Golf and Country Club in Gurugram, 19-year-old Yuvraaj Singh Hara from Mohali Golf Range led the field in the boys’ A category (18-20 years) with total of 152. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golf-championship-ojaswini-wins-title-234239
04-04-2021||Panchkula||Ishaan beats Agastya to win title||Ishaan registered a comprehensive 21-8 21-8 victory over Agastya to clinch the boys’ U-17 title in the ongoing 15th Ashwani Gupta Memorial Badminton Championships at Tau Devi Lal Stadium here today.In the boys’ U-13 competition, Akshay drubbed Abhimanyu Rath 21-6 21-6 to ease into the final where he will meet Vihan, who beat Abhideep 21-18 15-21 21-17.Ishaan thrashed Vihan 21-4 21-2, while Agastya knocked out Digvijay 21-8 21-9 in the boys’ U-15 semifinals. Ishaan defeated Sangam 21-3 21-4 to set up the title clash with Yuvam in the boys’ U-19 contest. Yuvam registered a 21-10 21-12 win over Aarin in the semifinals.In girls’ U-15 competition, Ruchi showed the exit door to Vasundra. She won the semifinal 21-0 21-2 and will now face Bhavana in the summit clash. Bhavana trounced Gunjan 21-4 21-3. In boys’ U-13 doubles, Ekalavya and Akshay defeated Yatharth and Ayush 21-8 21-9 in the semifinals, while Jayesh and Vihan registered a 21-11 21-7 win over Ranvijay and Abhimanyu. Digvijay and Varchasv beat Kanav and Raghav 21-13 24-22 to enter the boys’ U-15 doubles final. They will play Kunal and Amanpreet, who beat Abhideep and Akshay 21-17 21-18, in final. In the women’s semis, Devika drubbed Ridhi 21-9 21-9, while Himanshi thrashed Kashish 21-8 21-9. Deepak and Ketan defeated Mayank and Uttiran 21-17 21-12 in the men’s doubles semifinals. Akshit and Ankit also reached the final after beating Nikhil and Sangam 21-7 21-4.SemifinalsBoys’ U-17 doubles: Agastya/Shaurya bt Kanav/Raghav 21-8 21-9, Aarin/Saksham bt Aditya/Kapish 21-7 21-1Boys’ U-19 doubles: Yuvam/Shaurya bt Nikhil/Sangam 21-17 21-14, Amit/Kushagra bt Parth Gupta/ Manan Goyal 21-5 21-7Girls’ U-17 singles: Vineeta bt Urvashi 21-6 21-7, Ruchi bt Nikita 21-11 19-21 21-8. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ishaan-beats-agastya-to-win-title-234240
04-04-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Replace faulty meters in timely manner: JERC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3Over non-replacement of electromechanical meters, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has directed the UT Electricity Department to ensure replacement of faulty meters in a timely manner.During a public hearing on February 12, stakeholders SK Nayar and Narinder Sharma, president and secretary of the Indian Citizen’s Forum, respectively, had submitted that the commission had already directed the department to replace the meters in a time-bound period. However, the department did not abide by the direction. As a result, it was suffering huge commercial losses as these meters were not so efficient in recording energy used.In response to the allegations, the department stated that replacement of defective or non-functional meters was a continuous process. However, every effort was being made to ensure that faulty meters were replaced on a priority. At present, there were only a few electromechanical meters and these would be replaced shortly. The department submitted quarterly report on the status of meters to the commission regularly, stated the department.Taking a serious view of the fact that the department was yet to ensure full compliance of its orders, the commission directed the department to ensure that faulty meters were replaced in a timely manner.Over a delay in completion of 66-kV works, the stakeholders submitted that 66-kV substations in Raipur Kalan and Sarangpur villages were constructed and completed by the department about eight years ago, but the stations were not in use as the 66-kV line to feed the substations was yet to be laid.In response, the department stated that the work of laying double circuit of 66-kV transmission line and line bays for 66-kV grid substation at Sarangpur had already been given to M/s Hartek Power Limited. The work was under progress. M/s RECPDCL had been appointed as the project management agency for the execution of a 66-kV transmission line, along with 66-kV bay, at grid substation, Raipur Kalan, but the matter is sub judice regarding the construction of a 66-kV substation and the next date of hearing in the case is June 28.On this, the commission directed the department to expedite the matter so that the work can be completed as early as possible and submit the status report within three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/replace-faulty-meters-in-timely-manner-jerc-234242
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||13-yr-old boy slips into Sukhna Choe, drowns||A 13-year-old boy died after falling into the Sukhna Choe near Kishangarh here on Saturday afternoon.The victim has been identified as Sumit, son of Ajay and a resident of Surajpur. He had come to his uncle’s home in Mani Majra on vacations.The Class VII student, along with his two friends, was standing near the regulatory end of the 20-foot-deep choe when he slipped and fell into it. The police reportedly received the distress call around 12:44 pm and rushed to the spot for the rescue operation. Later, officials of the Fire Department and others rescuers were pressed into action. Twenty minutes later, fire officials brought the boy out of the choe with the help of a net. He was rushed to the GMSH-16 where doctors declared him brought dead.Constable Rambir of the IT Park police station, who was the first to jump into the choe to save the child, said the choe was deep and slushy and the water muddy, which hampered the visibility. Mani Majra fire officer GS Multani said, “The child and his friends had come from Indira Colony. Sumit slipped and fell into the choe.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-yr-old-boy-slips-into-sukhna-choe-drowns-234243
04-04-2021||---||At 310, Chandigarh single-day case increase at six-month high||Chandigarh, April 3The city today recorded 310 fresh cases of Covid-19, which is the highest since mid-September last year. The active caseload is 3,162, the second highest after September 16 when the UT had 3,171 active cases.The city started witnessing a rise in cases on August 17 with 114 single-day cases and reached the peak on September 13 with 449 cases. During this period of 28 days, 5,775 cases were recorded.After September 13, a declining trend was seen in the past two weeks of the month. On September 16, the case doubling time was 19 days in Chandigarh. The doubling time is the number of days required for the cases in an epidemic to double, based on the rate of the cumulative increase in the number of cases.With 5,615 cases having been recorded since March 6, the second surge is of the same magnitude as of the first wave.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of School of Community Medicine and Public Health, PGI, said, “The cases are expected to rise in the days to come and it is quite possible that the second wave turns out to be more infectious.”The month of March has seen around 5,000 cases against 845 cases seen in February. To prevent the further spread of Covid in the city, a three-member Central team laid emphasis on contact tracing and enhancing vaccination. At 14 per cent, the weekly positivity rate of the city is still the second highest in the country after Maharashtra.Over 4,000 more take the shot in the cityAs many as 4,203 doses of the Covid vaccine were administered in the city today. So far, 75,228 first doses and 13,071 second doses have been given to beneficiaries in the city.Present wave more infectious, says UT Health DeptAn advisory issued by the UT Health Department on Saturday read, “There is a steady increase in Covid cases. In the past 10 days, the city saw an average of over 250 cases a day. It has been observed that the present wave is more infectious and virulent and could send more people to hospitals with moderate to severe disease. All should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, wear a mask, observe social distancing, avoid crowding and wash hands regularly. People should get themselves vaccinated. It will protect them from severe illness.”One death in cityThe city recorded one Covid-induced death on Saturday, taking the toll to 382. With 310 fresh cases, the UT case tally reached 27,853. A total of 191 patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-310-chandigarh-single-day-case-increase-at-six-month-high-234246
04-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Encroachers sit pretty in Chandigarh Mayor’s ward||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3A market in Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma’s ward is full of encroachers.Despite the fact that the local Municipal Corporation has permitted only 107 registered vendors to operate from the Sector 22 market, their number has swelled to more than double in reality.Earlier, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had ordered removal of all encroachments from the walkways, corridors and open spaces in front of the booths, shops and showrooms.After a few days of the court order, the MC and the police had in 2019 showed strictness for a few days, but things are again back to square one.During a visit to the market, it was seen the whole area around Shastri Market and shops/showrooms near Kiran cinema in Sector 22 was full of hawkers, vendors and squatters. Not only it has left little space for people to walk, but also threw Covid norms to the wind. Due to a large number of vendors there is no social distancing.“This market falls in the ward of a councillor, who is also the city Mayor. The market should have been an example for others in implementation of the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act. On the contrary, there are unauthorised vendors all around,” said Kulbir Singh, president of the Sector 22 Shastri Market Traders’ Association.“Even vendors registered to operate from Sector 15 are coming here. Besides, there are unregistered vendors. Some showroom owners have given them space outside their premises on a daily rent basis. It is government’s land, which is being misused. Everybody here knows it is happening with the connivance of officials,” alleged the owner of a shop at Shastri Market, preferring anonymity. Parking lots, corridors, areas in front of shops and open spaces have been massively encroached upon.When contacted, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “It has come to my knowledge and we will take strict action.”Covid-appropriate behaviour goes for a tossAt a time when there is a heightened risk of Covid, social distancing due to a large-scale encroachment in the Sector 22 market has become difficult. Besides, many vendors, shop owners and even visitors are spotted without mask, which increases the risk of virus transmission in the crowded market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/encroachers-sit-pretty-in-chandigarh-mayors-ward-234248
04-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Vaccination: Mohali to get 3 more mobile units||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 3Buoyed by the response to mobile Covid vaccination centres, the district health authorities have decided to increase the number of these centres from four to seven to target the maximum number of residents.At present, there are four mobile Covid vaccination centres that visit various societies and colonies daily to administer the Covid vaccine to people in three sub-divisions - Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi - of the district. Three mobile vaccination centres are operating in the Mohali sub-division alone.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said in view of the good response to the mobile vaccination centres, they had decided to add three more centres from Monday onwards.She said 1,126 persons aged between 45 and 59 years were given the Covid vaccine on Saturday, showing over 50 per cent increase in the past two days. A total of 6,751 persons in this category got the first dose till date. As many as 953 persons aged 60 years and above were given the Covid vaccine today, taking the total number to 23,969.The Civil Surgeon said 9,699 healthcare workers got the first dose of the vaccine, while 4,207 received the second dose. Similarly, 10,892 frontline workers got the first dose of the vaccine and 2,745 got the second dose till date.‘Will be available from Monday’Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said in view of the good response to the mobile vaccination centres, they had decided to add three more centres from Monday onwards. There are 55 static vaccination centres in government healthcare establishments, besides private hospitals. Now, they would be able to cover more people under the vaccination drive.Mohali sees 360 cases, 2 deathsmohali: Two more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the district toll to 442. Meanwhile, the district witnessed 360 fresh cases till Saturday evening, while 243 patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, 248 were from Mohali (urban), four from Gharuan, six from Lalru, 12 from Kurali, 17 from Kharar, 25 from Dera Bassi and 48 from Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-mohali-to-get-3-more-mobile-units-234249
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh plans to map households with members aged above 45||The UT Health Department is planning to map all households with people above 45 years in an attempt to motivate the priority groups to come forward for Covid-19 vaccination.As per the plan, auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) will visit every household to identify reasons behind poor vaccination coverage, their choice of vaccine (if any) and the apprehensions related to the vaccine among the general public. The move is aimed at motivating people to come forward for vaccination and allay their fears.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director Health Services, Chandigarh, said ANMs were going to carry a household survey as part of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. ANMs would urge the priority groups to get vaccinated against coronavirus.“Vaccination is the key to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. Post-vaccination, the severity of the disease will remain low and it will lead to less mortality among Covid patients,” said Dr Kang.Till now, 75,228 people have been administered the first dose, while 13,071 people have received the second dose of the vaccine in the city.Around 47.07 per cent healthcare workers are yet to be vaccinated, while 39.94 per cent frontline workers have not come forward for vaccination. People above 60 years of age have received more Covid jabs than any other priority group. Till date, 33,701 persons above the age of 60 have received the first dose of the vaccine (Covishield) in the city. — TNSAbout the moveAs per the plan, auxiliary nurse midwives will visit every household to identify reasons behind poor vaccination coverage, their choice of vaccine (if any) and the apprehensions related to the vaccine among the general public. The move is aimed at motivating people to come forward for vaccination and allay their fears.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-plans-to-map-households-with-members-aged-above-45-234253
04-04-2021||Panchkula||82 test +ve in Panchkula||At least six healthcare workers were among 82 fresh coronavirus cases reported from Panchkula on Saturday. The fresh cases took the overall tally to 13,453 and active caseload to 1,033. The toll remained at 154. As many as 12,266 patients have been cured of the disease. The district recovery rate is 91.17 per cent. — TNSOver 3K given vaccinePanchkula: As many as 3,093 persons were administered the Covid-19 vaccine at 35 sites in the district on Saturday. Among the total beneficiaries, 1,697 were in the age group of 45 to 59 years and 930 above 60 years of age, 169 were health workers and 297 frontline workers. Over 73,000 doses of the vaccine have been administered in the district so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/82-test-ve-in-panchkula-234255
