05-04-2021||---||Carmel Convent, Chandigarh student Reet wins bronze in track cycling||Chandigarh: Reet Kapoor, a student of Carmel Convent School, Sector 9, won a bronze medal in the recently concluded 72nd National Track Cycling Championship in Hyderabad. She won the medal in the scratch race of the girls’ sub-junior category. Dongare of Maharashtra claimed top position and Himanshi Singh of Haryana bagged silver medal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carmel-convent-chandigarh-student-reet-wins-bronze-in-track-cycling-234928
05-04-2021||ibune News Service---||Webinar at UILS dwells on justice for victims of crime||Chandigarh, April 4 The University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS), Panjab University, organised a one-day national online seminar on the theme “Reparative and restorative justice for the victims of crime: Issues and solutions”. The seminar was held under the leadership of Prof  Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, Prof Rajinder Kaur, Director, UILS, Dr Pushpinder Kaur, Asst Prof, UILS and Dr Mandeep Mittal, Additional District and Sessions Judge.  Around 50 participants, including law students, research scholars, academicians from various states of the country presented their papers in five technical sessions of the seminar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-at-uils-dwells-on-justice-for-victims-of-crime-234717
05-04-2021||---||PEC students shine in GATE||Chandigarh, April 4 Students from Punjab Engineering College (PEC) secured good ranks in the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE), which was held at the IIT in Mumbai this year.   Students, who made to less than 500 all-India rank, brought cheers for their professors and the institute. Kashish Mittal and Varun Sharma from the Computer Science and Electronics Engineering Departments, respectively, secured an all-India rank 14.  Furthermore, Amisha Bansal from the Aerospace Department secured 129 rank, Hitesh Saini from the Electrical Department 159 and Agrim Dewan from the Computer Science Department 179 and made it to the top 200.   Naitik Varshney from the Electrical Department stood at 229 while Mohammed Junaid Usmani at 336, along with Saksham Kukreja and Sakshi Devi, all from the Aerospace Department, again bagged 401 rank, and made it to the top 500 rankers nationwide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-students-shine-in-gate-234718
05-04-2021||---||Youth Congress team announced||Chandigarh, April 4The Youth Congress’ new team was announced here today. According to the Congress press statement, Sandeep Kumar Sandy and Preeti were appointed vice-presidents while 12 party members were made general secretaries.The results were also announced for the four Youth Congress district presidents while the election for the district No. 3 president was put on hold.Devendra Singh Ravi and Pratap Rana were appointed president of district No. 4 and 5, respectively.Also, top three names for the new president were shortlisted by the high command. They will be interviewed by the party high command next week.The new state president will also be announced soon. The three, who have been shortlisted for the post, include Manoj Lubhana, Luv Kumar and Parikshit Rana.Manoj Lubhana got 7,380 votes, Luv Kumar 7,047 votes and Parikshit Rana bagged 5,818 votes during polling for the party post. All three contested for the post of state president. The voting was held online this time.After the interview, one was appointed as chairman and the remaining two candidates as vice-presidents. In all 21,790 youths voted for party posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-congress-team-announced-234719
05-04-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Sector 17, Chandigarh football stadium on verge of completion||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 4Under construction since 2018, the Sector 17 football stadium is likely to be handed over to the UT Sports Department in May.Though the beautification of the entire arena is yet to be completed, main structure of the stadium is said to be ready for use. As per the actual plan, the new stadium is spread over nearly six acres, instead of the old four acres. The direction of the football pitch is also being changed.In the first phase, besides the football stadium, a multipurpose ground, badminton courts, and a cycling and skating park was to be built. A live screen of 25x16m, open skating & cycle rink and amphitheatre (open-air venue for entertainment) were also part of the actual plan.“Right now, the stadium is ready and an underpass to the Sector 17 Plaza is under construction. Work on other things is yet to start,” said a source.While discussing about the stadium, he said: “The infrastructure has been raised and the technical work, including rooting of grass and installation and painting of goalposts, is yet to be completed. The arena is likely to be handed over to the Sports Department within a month or so.”It is for the first time after 1960 that the stadium is undergoing a major construction. The arena is closed for trainees and players since 2018. The new stadium is spread over nearly six acres, instead of the existing four acres. As per the approved plan, the direction of the football stadium is also changed. It was announced to construct this stadium as per the international standards with pavilion, sitting arena, open space, a video screen, sprinklers and solar panel.The Administration had also announced to convert the surroundings into sports hub by adding facilities for badminton, basketball, cycling and skating, which are yet to see the light of the day, said a source.Main structure ready for useThough the beautification of the entire arena is yet to be completed, the main structure of the stadium is said to be ready for use. As per the actual plan, the new stadium is spread over nearly six acres, instead of the old four acres. The direction of the football pitch is also being changed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-17-chandigarh-football-stadium-on-verge-of-completion-234720
05-04-2021||---||Railways’ Ambala Division earns Rs 155.27-crore revenue for loading||Chandigarh, April 4In March, the Ambala Division of the Northern Railway clocked total revenue for loading at Rs155.27 crore, showing a 4.2 per cent improvement compared to last year’s Rs148.88 crore earned during the corresponding period.The division’s total earning during the 2021-21 fiscal was pegged at Rs2,367.6 crore compared to Rs1,782.35 crore earned in the 2019-20 fiscal, which is 32.84 per cent higher.GM Singh, DRM of the Ambala Division, said: “We have earned more goods revenue this year despite the suspension of goods trains in October and November due to kisan agitation.”Total loading achieved was 1.099MT against 0.956 MT in March last year, showing an improvement of 14.91 per cent. Total loading this financial year, till March-21, is 15.01MT, while last year it was 11.74 MT. The Railway authorities said loading this year increased by 27.84 per cent even after almost nil loading in October and November 2020 due to the kisan agitation.Singh said: “The maximum amount of revenue earned was from food grains this year. During Covid, the government doubled the supply of sponsored food grains. As a result, its loading doubled too. We have gone up from 300 wagons a years to 600 now.”Sponsored food grains (SFG) loading achieved was 0.63 MT against 0.62MT during the corresponding period last year, showing an improvement of 1.0 per cent. However, up to March 21, 11.01 MT SFG was loaded against the 7.15 MT in 2019-20, which is 54 per cent higher than previous year’s loading.Container loading achieved is 0.126MT against 0.079MT during corresponding period last year, showing an improvement of 58.5 per cent.Tractor loading achieved is 0.0221 MT against 0.0059 MT of corresponding period last year, with an improvement of 275 per cent. So far, 0.3246 MT was loaded, which is 158.4 per cent higher than previous year’s (2019-20) loading of 0.1256 MT.The increase in tractor loading was made possible by some policy change of two point unloading in NMG rakes.Clinker loading achieved is 0.0119 MT in March 2021 against 0.0158 MT in corresponding period last year, witnessing a decrease of 24.9 per cent. However, total loading of 0.1204 MT was recorded against 0.118 MT in 2019-20, which is 2 per cent higher than loading in the same period last year.Sugar loading achieved is 0.0146 MT against 0.0106 MT in corresponding period last year, an improvement of 37.7 per cent. So far, 0.0694 MT was loaded against 0.0611 MT in corresponding period of last year, which is 13.6 per cent higher.The statsThe total earning of the division during 2021-21 fiscal was pegged at Rs2,367.6 crore compared to Rs1,782.35 crore earned in the 2019-20 fiscal, which is 32.84 per cent higher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-ambala-division-earns-rs-155-27-crore-revenue-for-loading-234721
05-04-2021||---||Bhawna walks away with badminton title||Panchkula, April 4 Bhawna Chahal logged a 21-18, 21-10 win over Ananya Saini to win the girls’ U-13 final on the concluding day of the 15th Ashwani Gupta Memorial District Badminton Championship here today. Vihaan won the boys’ U-13 title by defeating Akshay 21-14, 15-21, 21-15. In boys’ doubles U-13 final, the pair of Jayesh and Vihaan registered a comeback 14-21, 21-18, 21-15 win over Akshay and Eklavya. In the girls’ U-15 final, Ruchi ousted Bhawna 21-13, 21-12 and Ishaan won the boys’ U-15 title clash by defeating Agustya 21-9, 21-6. In the boys’ U-15 doubles final, Kunal and Amanpreet defeated Digvijay and Varchasva 23-21, 21-13. Vineeta won the girls’ U-17 title by defeating Ruchi 21-18, 21-19, while Ishaan won the boys’ final by defeating Agustya 21-10, 21-11. In the boys’ U-17 doubles category, Shaurya and Agustya defeated Saksham and Aarin 21-15, 21-19. Devika won the girls’ U-1 9 final by defeating Ridhi 21-10, 21-11 and Ishaan won the boys’ U-19 final by overpowering Yuvam 21-0, 21-11. Shaurya and Yuvam won the boys’ U-19 doubles event by defeating Amit and Kushagra 21-17, 21-15. Devika won her second title by defeating Himanshi 21-11, 21-16 in the women’s final. Akshit won the men’s final by defeating Ankit 21-6 21-9. The team of Ketan and Ankit won the men’s doubles final by defeating Akshit and Deepak 16-21, 21-16, 25-23, whereas Ketan and Ridhi won the mixed doubles title by defeating Akshit and Nikita 22-20, 21-15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhawna-walks-away-with-badminton-title-234722
05-04-2021||---||Farmers try to block Haryana Speaker’s convoy at toll plaza||Panchkula, April 4Farmers protesting under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha allegedly tried to block the convoy of Haryana Speaker and local Gian Chand Gupta while he was on his way to attend a party’s programme at Pooja Palace in Pinjore this noon. However, Gupta denied any such development.The protesters tried to block Gupta’s convoy and showed black flags while it was crossing the Chandimandir toll plaza. The farmers, as a mark of protest against the three contentious farm laws, also raised slogans against the BJP government.Police personnel, who were deployed in a huge number at the toll plaza, had a tough time dispersing protesters to provide a safe passage to the convoy. The protesters then moved towards the venue of the programme.However, the protesters were stopped by the police at some distance from the programme venue.Karam Singh, a local leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said they tried to block Gupta’s motorcade to show him that people from his party were not welcomed here.He said they would continue to give similar reception to BJP leaders until the government takes back the laws.What Gupta saysGupta said: “My vehicle reached the Pinjore event without any hassle. It could have been the vehicle of any other leader. I am not aware of any such event,” he said. Speaking on the way of protest, he said: “In a democracy, everyone has the right to protest, but there should be a proper way for it. Causing inconvenience to others is not the right way.”When this correspondent tried to contact Inspector Deepak, SHO of the Chandimandir police station, to know whether any action has been taken against the protesting farmers, he didn’t respond to repeated calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-try-to-block-haryana-speakers-convoy-at-toll-plaza-234723
05-04-2021||---||Afternoon Shatabdi to Delhi chugs off from Chandigarh on April 10||Chandigarh, April 4From April 10, afternoon Shatabdi to Delhi will ply from the Chandigarh railway station.GM Singh, DRM, Ambala Division, said: “Apart from Shatabdi, which is starting from April 10, more trains, which were suspened due to Covid, will be resumed by April 15."Sources from the railway station said four more special trains were in the pipeline. The sources said: “Trains to Kochuveli, Goa, Bandra and Amritsar (morning) intercity trains will resume soon. The orders are awaited."At present, 15 trains are plying to and from the Chandigarh railway station, including Howrah-Kalka Netaji Express, Hemkunt Express, Sambalpur-Jammu Express, Jaipur-Daulatpur Chauk, Unchahar Express, Lucknow-Chandigarh Express, Bandra Terminus Amritsar clone train, New Delhi-Kalka Express, Patliputra Chandigarh Special, New Delhi Una Jan Shatabdi, New Delhi Kalka Shatabdi Express, Indore Chandigarh Special and Nanded Amritsar Special.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/afternoon-shatabdi-to-delhi-chugs-off-from-chandigarh-on-april-10-234726
05-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Over 50% Covid beds occupied in Chandigarh's govt hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 4With a spike in Covid cases, the government-run hospitals in Chandigarh have been witnessing a steady rise in the patient count.City hospitals have already surpassed 50 per cent occupancy and ICU beds have been exhausted in a few of these. According to doctors, the severity of the disease in Covid patients coming to the hospital is higher this time as compared to the previous wave. At the PGI, there is a capacity of 300 beds for Covid patients of which 178 have been occupied.Of the total Covid beds, 50 are for ICU and all of these are currently occupied by critically ill patients.Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, PGI, said: “A lot of younger patients in the age group of less than 50 are coming to the hospital with high severity of Covid. There are a lot of patients from nearby states as well. Some of them reach the hospital only at a later stage, which is also increasing the mortality rate. Besides, a lot of surgical and trauma patients are testing positive. However, we are trying our best to save patients with Covid acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).”Professor Puri said there was a need for other medical facilities to increase critical care beds. The institute was already converting wards into critical care areas, he said. “All our emergency severe acute respiratory infections wards are full in addition to the Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE).”Around 55 per cent beds at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, have been exhausted with Covid patients. Of the 200 beds, 77 are occupied by Covid patients and 44 by suspected cases. Of the six ICU beds with ventilators, four are occupied with severely ill Covid patients. Besides, 11 Covid patients are admitted to the gynae ward of the hospital.Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent of the GMSH-16, said: “The spike in cases has also resulted in increased rush at the hospital. We have stopped elective surgeries and diverted all our resources and manpower to Covid management. The flu clinic is open till 8 pm in the evening.”At the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, 42 Covid beds of the 51 are currently occupied, while 29 patients are admitted to the south campus of the medical college. Dr Jasvinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32, said: “We have operationalised the Sector 48 Civil Hospital for Covid patients again. Increased severity has been observed among patients coming to our hospital.”The institute is planning to augment the Covid facility in the coming days.Need to open care centres: DocsDoctors have been urging the authorities to open Covid care centres to ease the burden on hospitals. Many mild patients have also occupied beds at the GMSH-16 as only one care centre – Dhanwantry Hospital — is operational in the city. Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT, confirmed that Sood Dharamshala will be made operational in two to three days for Covid patients.UT sees 341 casesChandigarh: The city recorded 341 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 3,150. With one more death, the toll has reached 383. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 28,194. As many as 352 patients were cured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-50-covid-beds-occupied-in-chandigarhs-govt-hospitals-234727
05-04-2021||---||Issue challans round the year: Chandigarh Mayor||Chandigarh, April 4 Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma wants the water wastage challan drive in the city to be carried out throughout the year.At present, the drive starts in mid-April and continues for three months. “The water wastage should be checked throughout the year, not just in summer," said Ravi Kant.Watering of lawns and washing of courtyards and vehicles is prohibited from April 15 to June 30 every year. During this period, there is more demand for water.The Mayor said he would hold a meeting in this regard on Monday. From April 15, the civic body will start imposing a fine of Rs5,000 for water wastage. A repeat violation will invite disconnection of water supply. The penalty was increased from Rs2,000 to Rs5,000 through a UT Administration notification on the water tariff hike in September last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/issue-challans-round-the-year-chandigarh-mayor-234728
05-04-2021||For 2nd offence||April 15 on, water wastage in Mohali to cost you dear||Sanjay BumbrooTribune News ServiceMohali, April 4Wastage of water will invite a penalty of Rs1,000 for the second offence and for the third violation, the fine will be doubled. The fourth time, the water connection will be disconnected without any notice.The Mohali Municipal Corporation will start issuing challans to people from April 15 to curb water shortage this summer. The ban will remain in force within the corporation limits from April 15 to June 30.Watering of lawns and washing of courtyards and vehicles is prohibited between 5.30 am and 8.30 am. If a resident is found violating the order, a notice will be issued in case of the first offence. If it is repeated, a fine of Rs1,000 will be imposed, three-time offenders will have to pay Rs2,000 and the water supply will be disconnected in case of a fourth violation. The defaulters’ booster pumps and hosepipes will be confiscated.MC Executive Engineer Harpreet Singh said teams would be formed next week, which would make the rounds of the city in the morning to check wastage of water. He said if any consumer was found violating the norm for the fourth time, the water connection would be disconnected without issuing a notice. To get the connection restored, the defaulter would have to pay Rs5,000 along with an affidavit.From January 1 this year, the MC had taken over the water supply and sewerage of new sectors in the city, including 66 to 69 and 76 to 80 from the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) and now challans would be issued by the MC.On an average, Mohali city requires 30 MGD of water, but the supply is limited to 20 MGD: 10 MGD from the Kajauli waterworks and an equal amount from 75 tubewells installed in various sectors in the city. During the peak of summer, the demand reaches 32 MGD, causing a shortfall of 12 MGD. Harpreet Singh urged residents not to waste drinking water and use it judiciously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/april-15-on-water-wastage-in-mohali-to-cost-you-dear-234730
05-04-2021||Mohali||Four more fatalities, 329 Covid cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-fatalities-329-covid-cases-in-mohali-234735
05-04-2021||---||At 200, Panchkula sees highest single-day surge in Covid cases||Panchkula, April 4The district reported 200 fresh Covid cases in the highest single-day surge so far, taking the overall tally to 13,653.The district also witnessed one Covid death. The deceased was a 53-year-old woman from Sector 7, who was suffering from hypertension and diabetes mellitus. The Covid toll now stands at 155.While 12,407 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 1,091 cases are still active.The recovery rate is 90.87 per cent.1,172 vaccinatedAs many as 1,172 people were vaccinated in Panchkula at 18 sites. More than 75,000 doses have been administered in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-200-panchkula-sees-highest-single-day-surge-in-covid-cases-234736
05-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Sarangpur: Under Chandigarh MC for over 2 yrs now, nothing much has changed for this UT village||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 4Sarangpur village, nestled between Chandigarh and New Chandigarh, has witnessed two major events in the past few years. The first was when MP Kirron Kher adopted the village under the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana of the Centre in 2014 and the second was when the village was taken over by the Municipal Corporation from the UT Administration in the end of 2018.After it was adopted by Kher, the village gained popularity and several projects were initiated. However, civic issues still plague Sarangpur.Even after coming under the purview of the civic body over two years ago, not much improvement has been witnessed with regard to civic problems.“All works were stalled after the MC took over. Cleaning of the gutters is not done properly here. For one and a half years, several streetlights have been non-functional. The sewer system is quite old and is inadequate to cater to the present population. It must be replaced, but no one is taking a note,” said Sadhu Singh, a former sarpanch of the village.After the local MP adopted the village, a sports stadium, community centre, civil dispensary and veterinary hospital came up here. This was the only village in Chandigarh to get so many facilities in a span of a few years.However, all is still not well with the village. “The sports ground is of no use to us. It is closed for us. The authorities have told villagers to get registration cards made to enter the ground. Youngsters in the village want to play all games, but can’t,” said Nanak Singh, a resident of Sarangpur.Nanak said at the animal hospital, there was a doctor, but no medicines or injections. It disappoints residents.As far as the community centre is concerned, Sadhu Singh said: “At the time of the inauguration of the community centre, we had given a list of various shortcomings, but they have not been fixed till now. It has tin roof and it becomes difficult to even stand there during the summers. Besides, there is seepage in walls.”Residents told The Tribune that they had expected big changes after the village came under the civic body following the abolishment of the panchayat. However, nothing much had changed, they said.Meanwhile, MC officials said 13 villages were merged with the MC without any funds. “Now, the Administration has released Rs50 crore for the development of villages and the works will start in a phased manner,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sarangpur-under-chandigarh-mc-for-over-2-yrs-now-nothing-much-has-changed-for-this-ut-village-234737
05-04-2021||---||Dera Bassi man posing as Haryana Speaker’s relative dupes 4 of Rs 8 lakh||Panchkula, April 4A con man posing as Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s relative allegedly duped four persons of Rs 8 lakh by promising them government jobs.Satnam Singh, a resident of Dera Bassi, said suspect Prince Gupta, who claimed to be a relative of the Haryana Speaker, assured him of a job of a peon in the Sector 20 branch of Punjab National Bank for his wife Kuldeep Kaur.The suspect demanded Rs2 lakh for the job from the victim. Satnam gave the money to him. However, when he approached the bank, there was no vacancy.Similarly, the suspect took Rs6 lakh from his three relatives – Jagjar Singh, Harmeet Singh and Jagjeet Singh – for the post of Home Guards volunteer.“Neither did he return our money nor did he provide the promised job,” the complainant said.A case under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC has been registered in this connection.Assistant Sub-Inspector Vinod Kumar, who is the investigating officer in the case, said he was yet to read the file of the case.Inspector Deepak Kumar, SHO of the Chandimandir police station, said following directions from the economic offences wing, a case had been registered and investigation was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-man-posing-as-haryana-speakers-relative-dupes-4-of-rs-8-lakh-234738
05-04-2021||What steps should be taken to enhance the vaccination coverage in the UT?||Dispel fear & doubts, motivate residents to get jabbed||Allow vaccination on the doorstepWith spread of Covid pandemic and hesitancy to go to hospitals it would be better to allow door step vaccination. Private laboratory technicians, who collect home samples, should be allowed to administer the dose against the virus. Allowing beneficiaries of all age groups to get vaccinated is also necessary to have wider protection.Col PS Gill (retd), ChandigarhOrganise vaccination camps in societiesTo achieve the target of wider vaccination the fear of vaccine has be removed from the minds of the people. There should be no age restriction and vaccination should be open to all those willing to get inoculated. Medical fraternity should be the first to get vaccinated. Vaccination camps can be organised in apartment societies on Sundays/public holidays.BS Dhillon, MohaliMotivation is missingDespite orders to review the eligibility criteria for lower age groups to give the jab, recipients are still hesitant get the first shot of much awaited vaccine against coronavirus. People are skeptical about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. The UT Administration must undertake an aggressive motivational campaign through print and social media leading by personal example to dispel this lurking mistrust. Senior citizens have shown enough maturity by taking the first jab. Now the working force must accept this as social challenge and get vaccinated without any further delay.SC Luthra, ChandigarhRope in councillors to motivate peopleKeeping in view the increasing Covid cases more and more beneficiaries must come forward for the jab against virus. Municipal councillors must motivate people sector wise to get vaccinated. Mobile vans with all vaccinating facilities must be pressed into service to go on the door step of beneficiaries and give them shot. School managements must get their students and staff vaccinated.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliVaccination drive not on full steamIndia is last in terms of people vaccinated per hundred of our population. It is just about five per cent. Vaccination drive has still not taken off fully mainly because a doubt has arisen in the minds of people about its efficacy and side effects. Indians work on faith. That faith, if at all, arrived late with our leaders taking shot. The only way to accelerate drive and increase coverage is to reach out to people in situ. We need to cut out the requirement of pre- registration, Aarogya Setu app etc. The vaccination team should go house to house, note down details and offer vaccination with a doctor and sarpanch/area councillor/MLA personally assuring the beneficiary family members of vaccine's efficacy. Similarly, vaccination should be available at all government health and wellness centres and dispensaries. Give vaccine to the poor and illiterate, who want to get jabbed. The whole system should be coordinated by a central agency and data of recipients fed into an automated centre. Vaccination drive has to be like an election campaign.Colonel RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttHeath Dept should make effortsThe reason for low vaccination coverage seems to be the reluctance of the people to get vaccinated. People should be encouraged to get vaccinated. There should be more awareness about safety of the vaccine so that masses gain confidence and get vaccinated. Sincere efforts on part of the Health Department are needed to motivate people to get jabbed. Drives can be initiated by institutes to increase coverage of vaccine.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhBuild up public trust in vaccineApprise public about benefits of vaccine. The authorities must ensure that vaccine is available in safe, familiar and convenient places. Community acceptance will be a barrier if we don't build trust and address concerns of its members regarding vaccine safety. The age of beneficiaries must be reduced from 45 years to 18 years.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhMedia can remove misconceptionsRumours and self-created myths play an important part especially in Indian society. The mindset of the people is shaped after mind wash of even educated and so called urbanised masses. People initially waited anxiously for the Covid vaccine. But, when the vaccine arrived, response lacked. The authorities should motivate public about benefits of getting vaccinated. Wide publicity is required through media and social platforms to remove misconceptions about efficacy and safety of vaccine in society.Gobind Ahuja, ChandigarhLower age limit of beneficiariesTo widen the coverage and use unutilised facilities, the government should lower the age limit for getting vaccinated. An aggressive drive can be launched to apprise people about the need and benefits of vaccine. This will counter those, who dismiss Covid as a figment of imagination. More importantly, efforts be made to dispel fears of reactions to vaccine. More staff should be deployed in vaccination drives.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhVaccine vital for all age groupsWith second Covid wave graph going high, it's vital to give vaccine to all irrespective of the age group to which beneficiaries belong. The authorities must ensure vaccination on door step if possible. Vaccine should be compulsory for persons using public transport. A vigorous awareness campaign can be initiated to educate people about benefits of getting vaccinated.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliRelax age limit for the jabAge limit should be relaxed. People in the 20 to 44 years age group are more susceptible to the virus. With open vaccination for all resources can be utilised efficiently and more people can be inoculated.Gaurav Jain, ChandigarhTell people vaccine is safeThe Health Department should instill confidence in the public about safety of the vaccine. People are double minded about getting vaccinated as rumours are rife about side effects of the vaccine.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhGive incentives for getting vaccinatedAnalyse why few people are coming for vaccination. Ask people about their apprehensions regarding vaccine and remove these immediately. The main aim of the authorities should be to declare vaccine safe with no major side-effects. If the trend of low beneficiary turnout continues, then the government can start attractive schemes/give incentives to those getting vaccinated like priority treatment at hospitals.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhDon't take Covid lightlyThe vaccination capacity in Chandigarh is underutilised because residents have apprehensions about side effects of the vaccine. The UT Administration have to make clear that the vaccine has no side effects. Once people are convinced, they will start visiting vaccination centres. UT residents must not lower their guard against virus. Do not take Covid lightly. Take precautions, stay healthy.MR Bhateja, NayagaonCampaign to remove hesitancyThe UT Administration should start an awareness campaign to remove hesitancy in people regarding vaccination. Correct information and counselling can dispel fears and remove doubts about efficacy and side effects of the vaccine. Moreover, health teams should motivate people to get vaccinated at the earliest.Anita Tandon, KhararMobile vaccination in worst-affected areasStrict mass vaccination is the only key to take the pandemic head on and tame it. Unless over two-thirds population is jabbed, the chain of transmission cannot be broken. There is no dearth of vaccine or capacity to jab. Each person vaccinated needs to act a brand ambassador to build public trust and remove doubts about safety and efficacy of the vaccine. It's time to open vaccination drive for all. Where the Covid impact is alarming, door-to-door or mobile inoculation may be considered. The task is challenging and warrants active participation across public-private sector to enhance the vaccination coverage in minimum possible time.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaNot much awareness about the vaccineFear of vaccine side effects is the major reason, which keeps people away from inoculation. There is not much awareness about vaccine, which has slowed the drive. Mobile vaccination vans can be introduced for people, who cannot go to hospitals or health centres. Vaccination should be mandatory for employees, shopkeepers and those who are vulnerable to the disease.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliDon’t worry, get vaccinatedThough UT residents are educated, yet their response to vaccination drive is lukewarm. Everybody should take Covid seriously and get himself/herself vaccinated. To enhance coverage there is need to instill confidence and dispel fears about vaccine. Mobile teams can administer vaccine door-to-door. Only vaccine can save lives. I got vaccinated on March 8 and there were no side effects. So, don't worry and get vaccinated.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaCounselling via media can helpAdministration needs to make people aware about vaccination against Covid and remove fear about its side effects from their minds. A door-to-door survey can be undertaken to find the number of people, who haven't taken the jab. Record of those, who have been vaccinated, can be shown to others in order to remove their doubts and fears and boost their morale to take the jab. Counselling and creating awareness through media can increase coverage of the vaccination drive.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliRumours are the main causeNot many people taking jab is mainly due to rumours about reactions post vaccination. Mostly, residents are watching outcome of the people, who have been vaccinated. Some elderly people are of the view that as they seldom go out of house and as such, they don't need vaccine. To make residents aware about the necessity of vaccination, the UT Administration should give good publicity to benefits of getting jabbed against Covid. Vaccine should be compulsory for all eligible residents.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliReach out to people for inoculationHesitancy towards the two available vaccines is partly responsible for the low inoculation. Unlike the immunisation programme, over reliance on the CoWIN platform has made vaccination largely passive and facility-based exercise rather than a public health initiative. Lack of microplanning and outreach activities are further impacting uptake. Clearly, there is a need for reaching out to people to increase vaccination.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliSet up mobile vaccination centresTo enhance vaccination coverage, rumours related to vaccine should be put to rest by the authorities through awareness campaign in the print media. Mobile vaccination centres should be set up. On site registration should be available at all vaccination centres throughout the day. Adequate supply of vaccine should be maintained by the authorities at all centres.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhTrain health workers to administer vaccineTo enhance the vaccination process in the UT, there should be a support programme, which should include information on how the vaccine work, its side effects, reminders for the second dose and data to dispel misinformation. Multi-purpose health workers should be given training to administer vaccine so that door-to-door vaccination drive can be initiated. The authorities should make people aware about benefits of vaccination through online webinars, newspapers, posters and social media platforms.Adish Sood, AmlohOnly few got infected after taking vaccineA few among those, who got vaccinated recently, contracted the virus again. Even if some got infection again, it was mild. It's important to understand that reinfection wouldn't be severe and lives of beneficiaries wouldn't be at risk. Residents are advised to follow the universal Covid protocol such as wearing mask, social distancing and washing hand frequently even after taking the dose. The government should open vaccination to all age groups as mass vaccination is the only way to tackle the situation and contain the spread of the virus.Sukhpal Singh, ChandigarhNew strategy can increase coverageFrom April 1, vaccination is available for people above 45 years. The Administration has to come out with a new vaccine coverage strategy because the current plan will take long to develop herd immunity in the whole country. Without herd immunity, Covid-19 transmission will not stop, as felt by many experts. Awareness should be created about the efficacy and safety of the vaccine. Also the number of vaccination centres must be increased across the city.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhConvince reluctant people for vaccinationThe time has come that vaccination should be opened for all as its underutilisation may cause wastage of vaccine. Citizens should come forward for vaccination. All should try to convince reluctant people to get jabbed. Media can play a major role by carrying interviews and opinions of the people, who got inoculated, and apprise the public that there is no other way except vaccination to fight and win the war against the pandemic.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhRumours have eroded residents’ confidenceClaimed by many pharmaceutical companies, vaccine has been developed, but there is hesitancy among people to get vaccinated against Covid. Reasons could be many. People are confused about efficiency and safety of the vaccine. Lack of communication and rumours have eroded people's confidence in the vaccination drive. The authorities must build up trust of the people in the vaccine through awareness programmes highlighting its safety and efficacy.Charu Malhotra, MohaliAuthorities must act fastPoor planning to administer vaccines, first to health workers and then to senior citizens and now to those, who are aged above 45 years, has altogether failed to give relief to the Covid-19 victims. Vaccine prevents infection. It is, therefore, necessary to inoculate all people. Aggressive vaccination drive is the only way out. Vaccination coverage can improve in Chandigarh if the authorities act fast and bring people from all age groups under the drive. There have been instances when beneficiaries have contracted virus a few days after taking the shot. But, the vaccine guarantees protection against severe disease and death.SK Khosla, ChandigarhMake vaccination mandatoryThe authorities must encourage people to get vaccinated. Beneficiaries can be ferried to vaccination centres in the UT. Mobile vaccination vans can be introduced to vaccinate people living in colonies. Educational institutions and other workplaces should make vaccination mandatory for employees, who are eligible for inoculation. People should be encouraged to get themselves vaccinated through street plays and memes.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONShould the age bar for the Covid-19 vaccination be lifted and people below the age of 45 years also allowed to get vaccinated?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toopenhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dispel-fear-doubts-motivate-residents-to-get-jabbed-234741
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Theft reported from house in Chandigarh's Sector 45||Five booked on assault chargeChandigarh: Five persons have been booked by the local police for allegedly assaulting a Sector 38 resident. Complainant Pardeep reported that Rashid, Munna, Ashwani, Ravi and Sachin attacked him with a sharp weapon near the Sector 52/61 light point on March 31. The complainant got injured and was admitted to the PGI. The police have registered a case at the Sector 36 police station. TNSRation kits given to 71 widowsChandigarh: The 16th monthly ration distribution programme was organised by Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation. One-month ration kits were distributed among 71 widow families on their doorstep on Sunday. The free monthly ration distribution programme was started by Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation on January 12. TNSLopez is chief of carom assnChandigarh: Louis Lopez, principal, St Stephen’s School, Sector 45, and Mahesh Sekhri have been elected as the president and general secretary, respectively, of the Chandigarh Carom Association for a term of four years (2021-25). They were elected in the general body meeting of the association held on Sunday. TNSNCC register seven-wkt winChandigarh: Namaste Chandigarh Complex (NCC), Dera Bassi, defeated Junior Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) by seven wickets in the Donate Eyes Win Hearts Cricket Tournament on Sunday. Batting first, LWCC scored 66 runs in 12.2 overs. Kamal (17) and Arshveer Singh (10) were the two main scorers for the side. Sanjay and Rishi Arora claimed three wickets each for the bowling side, while Gulshan Kumar claimed two and Pachori took one. In reply, NCC scored 67/3 in 9.3 overs with the help of Sohan (16), Sanjay (17) and Rishi Arora (12). Kamal claimed two wickets and Nitin claimed one for the bowling side. TNSHarleen bags silver medalsChandigarh: Harleen Purewal, a student of St Anne’s Convent School, Sector 32, won silver medal each in shot put and discus throw events in the recently concluded Senior State Athletics Championship. She had also won a bronze medal in the Junior National Championship. She is a trainee of Baba Shri Chand Academy, Sector 39. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-reported-from-house-in-chandigarhs-sector-45-234742
05-04-2021||Zirakpur||Capt Amarinder rarely visits office, Punjab suffering: Sukhbir Badal||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today criticised the functioning of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, claiming he has visited his office only 11 times in the past four years due to which the state has gone back on all parameters.Targeting the CM over corruption at a ‘Punjab Mangda Hisab’ rally here, he said despite the fact that Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had been indicted by his own department’s Principal Secretary and accused of embezzling Rs 64 crore, he was given a clean by Capt Amarinder.Planned protests theatrics: CaptChandigarh: Terming the planned SAD protests theatrics by the Badals in their bid to revive party’s fortunes, CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday said such tactics would not work as the Akalis had lost face in the wake of their fiasco over the farm laws, which had exposed their double standards.He said similarly the CM did not take any action against three Congress legislators — Madan Lal Jalalpur, Hardyal Singh Kamboj and Gurkirat Singh Kotli — who were allegedly running illegal liquor distilleries through their confidants.He alleged outsiders from Rajasthan and Jammu had teamed up with Congress MLAs to form a sand mafia.He said the state had suffered a loss of around Rs 6,500 crore in excise revenue and could not collect even Rs 100 crore of the Rs 1,400 crore revenue projected by the Congress government from sand mining.He made it clear if the SAD came back to power, it wouldn't allow the implementation of the three farm laws. Besides ensuring procurement of foodgrains on MSP, the SAD government would announce MSP for vegetables, fruits and milk. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/capt-amarinder-rarely-visits-office-punjab-suffering-sukhbir-badal-234632
