06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh slashes commercial collector rates by 10%||To give a boost to the realty sector, which has suffered a setback due to Covid-19, the UT Administration has decided to slash the collector rates to bring them on a par with two neighbouring satellite cities — Panchkula and Mohali.Another reason behind the decision is the realisation that “exorbitant prices” of commercial properties were a deterrent to new buyers, who were beginning to prefer Mohali and Panchkula over Chandigarh. The decision to revise the collector rates in the UT was taken at a meeting, chaired by Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar.During the meeting, it was decided to reduce the collector rates by 5 per cent in the Industrial Area, Phase I and II, whereas it was decreased by 10 per cent for SCOs, SCFs, bay shops in sectors on Madhya Marg, grain market, Sector 26, Sector 17, Sub-City Centre, Sector 34, Sector 22 and the road separating Sector 35 and 34 and the motor market, Mani Majra. However, the collector rates for agriculture land have been enhanced by 10 per cent. No change in the collector rates has been made in the case of residential areas. The collector rates were last revised in September 2017. The Deputy Commissioner said it was also decided that floor-wise collector rates would be fixed for Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) flats, industrial houses, society flats and flats in Uppal Marble Arch, Mani Majra. The collector rates for shops in multiplexes and other malls had also been incorporated as was done for the Elante mall previously, he said.“The collector rates have been proposed on the basis of sale deeds registered in the Sub-Registrar Office as well as the survey of market and villages,” the Deputy Commissioner said, adding that the new rates would be made applicable from April 12.Decreasing the collector rates of commercial industrial properties was the need of the hour as it would help in reviving the property market, said Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal. He appealed to the Administration to make the commercial property freehold so that people could buy it as per their need and the authorities could earn revenue from it.The reduction in the collector rates in industrial and commercial properties was a long-pending demand, said Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries. “The prevailing market rates are at least 20 per cent to 25 per cent less than the prevailing collector rates,” he said. “Once the leasehold industrial plots are converted to freehold, more deals will take place and more revenue will be generated. As a result, more industry/businesses will flourish in the Chandigarh industrial area,” he said.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, chairman, Property Consultants Association, said the authorities should have also reduced the collector rates of residential properties to boost the sale of houses, as residential properties were still out of reach of the needy people.The collector rates in the UT were higher than Mohali and Panchkula, he said, and demanded that the rates should be reduced by at least 40 per cent to boost the sale and purchase of properties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-slashes-commercial-collector-rates-by-10-235132
06-04-2021||Mohali||501 cases, Mohali sees new high||With 501 fresh cases reported in the past 24 hours, Mohali touched a new high since the outbreak of the pandemic. The total number of positive cases in the district now stands at 28,711.Meanwhile, four patients succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 450. As many as 275 patients recovered.Among the 501 new cases, 386 surfaced from Mohali (urban), two each from Boothgarh and Gharuan, four from Kurali, seven from Lalru, 26 from Dhakoli and 42 from Dera Bassi. There are now 3,814 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/501-cases-mohali-sees-new-high-235133
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||285 cases, 1 fatality in Chandigarh||Schools closed till April 10UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday announced that schools, colleges and other educational institutions will continue to stay closed till April 10. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/285-cases-1-fatality-in-chandigarh-235134
06-04-2021||Panchkula||124 cases, one death in Panchkula||2,542 vaccinatedAs many as 2,542 people were administered the Covid vaccine at 32 centres on Monday. Over 77,000 doses of the Covid vaccine have been administered in the district so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/124-cases-one-death-in-panchkula-235135
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Brother duo robbed of Rs3L, gold jewellery||Four motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly robbed two brothers of Rs3 lakh and gold jewellery at gunpoint in Sector 53 last night.The victims own a shop at the furniture market.No CCTV footageThere are a few CCTV cameras near the spot, but these don’t cover the spot where the incident took place. The police have initiated an investigation at the Sector 39 police station.Rajesh Bansal, a resident of Phase IV, Mohali, and his brother Rajinder, a resident of New Chandigarh, own a shop, Sarvnoor Furniture and Cabinets. Rajesh said after closing the shop, his brother went towards his car that was parked on the rear side of the furniture shop. “As my brother reached near the car, four unknown persons asked him to hand over his bag to them. The suspects threatened him and took away Rs1 lakh, a gold ring and the bag from my brother,” Rajesh said.He said they snatched his brother’s mobile phone and threw it away in the dark. In the meantime, Rajesh also reached the spot to pick his scooter. One of the suspects pointed a pistol at him and another pulled out a knife and asked him to hand over the bag. “They snatched my bag too. It contained Rs 2 lakh and a gold bangle,” he saidThe suspects also threw Rajesh’s mobile phone away. They threatened the duo against informing the police. They then escaped on two motorcycles. The victims a security guard, who was just a few metres away from the spot, and asked him to lend them his phone. However, he said his mobile phone was out of balance. It was only after other security guards came there that the victims were able to call up the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brother-duo-robbed-of-rs3l-gold-jewellery-235138
06-04-2021||Mohali||Mercedes crash: Forensic team visits spot||A three-member team from Forensic Science Laboratory, Phase 4, Mohali, visited the Mercedes crash site at Radha Soami Chowk in which three persons were killed and three injured on March 20. The team, led by Dr Ashwani Kalia, Deputy Director, took samples of the wreckage from the site and inspected the mangled remains of two vehicles involved in the crash.“The team visited the spot to ascertain the exact cause of the accident and the speed of the vehicles at the time of the accident. We have taken samples from the spot and examined the vehicles at the police station. Based on the evidence, a report will be submitted to the authorities,” Kalia said.Sixteen days after three persons lost their life and three were injured, the police have failed to arrest the two accomplices of Mercedes driver Samrat Singh. The 18-year old was arrested after over 24 hours, but the teenaged duo belonging to influential families continue to elude the police. Mataur police station SHO Ashok Kumar said, “The forensic team collected technical evidence. The two accomplices are still absconding. They will be arrested soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mercedes-crash-forensic-team-visits-spot-235139
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fatalities lower than first peak||Against the high number of deaths reported during the last Covid peak, the current wave has triggered fewer fatalities till now.Even though the number of fatalities in March was 40 per cent more than February, the mortality rate due to Covid now is pretty low than the deaths witnessed in September and October last year.‘Misuse of steroids’Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, PGI, said: “Fatalities are increasing as patients are reporting late to the hospitals. One of the many reasons for Covid fatalities is the misuse of steroids in the early stage by general practitioners just on the basis of CT scan instead of using oxygen saturation levels as an indicator. This is one of the reasons for the deterioration of condition of patients.”The month of March recorded 25 deaths, which is 50 per cent less than the average 50 deaths reported every month during the last surge.When the first peak struck the city in mid-August, a total of 41 deaths took place in the entire month, followed by 106 deaths in September, 64 in October, 51 in November, and 40 deaths in December.The first peak began on August 17 when more than 100 cases were being reported every day and an upward trend in the cases continued till September 13. The cases begin to dip thereon; however, fatalities continued the entire month.Since March 6, when the city started witnessing a steady rise in cases again, Chandigarh has recorded 6,241 cases till date. But the mortality among patients remains low this time.Chandigarh’s overall case fatality ratio stands at 1.4 per cent.In the terms of active cases, the UT stands at the second spot (after Maharashtra) in the country with an 11.2 per cent active ratio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatalities-lower-than-first-peak-235142
06-04-2021||Panchkula||Man blames girl, her family for son’s suicide||The father of a 26-year-old youth, who died of burn injuries after setting himself ablaze in the house of a girl he wanted to marry, has filed a case against the girl and her family for abetting his son’s suicide.Sumit succumbed to his injuries at the PGIMER last evening. His father alleged that it was the girl’s grandfather who had handed turpentine oil to his son and asked him to kill himself.The case File“Sumit and Tanya had been in a relationship since Class 9. They had even got married in secrecy. Both the families were aware of it and had decided that the two will be married off at the right age,” Sumit’s father said in his complaint.“But for the past few weeks, the girl and her family had started ignoring us. Accusing Sumit of drinking, they had refused to marry their daughter to my son,” said the complainant.“On March 26, my son had gone to meet Tanya who told him she was getting married to someone else. It was then Sumit visited their house to talk to the girl’s family,” the father alleged while claiming to be in possession of call details to support his claim.“There, the girl’s family instigated and encouraged Sumit to kill himself,” he said. “They told him he has been like a son to them for the past 10 years and that he should do them another favour and die.”“When my son set himself ablaze, the girl’s family did nothing to save him. They only witnessed the incident,” the complainant told the police.An FIR has been filed under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-blames-girl-her-family-for-sons-suicide-235144
06-04-2021||Mohali||Capt’s letter to PM a drama: Chandumajra||Senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra today termed Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s letter to Centre a “drama”.Addressing a protest dharna against the “genocidal policies” of the Congress dispensation here today, SAD senior vice-president said it was clear from the “double standards” of the Chief Minister that the Punjab Government was speaking the language of the Center.He said the Chief Minister would not be able to get justice for the Punjab farmers with such letters to the Centre.Punjab CM to ModiIn a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh sought a meeting to apprise him about the concerns of various stakeholders about changing the existing payment system “before the situation gets out of hand”. He sought continuance of the existing system of payment to farmers till a consensus can be evolved on the issue of Direct Benefit Transfer.Just as the Union Government is trying to teach a lesson to Punjab by directly robbing the state of its jurisdiction, Capt Amarinder Singh is taking the side of the Centre instead of taking a hard line against them, Chandumajra claimed.SAD leader said the Punjab Government should fight a legal battle instead of begging from the CentreThe state government should fight face to face with the Centre for the constitutional rights of Punjab, he insisted.Amarinder Singh had on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking continuance of the existing system of payment to farmers till a consensus could be evolved on the issue of Direct Benefit Transfer.On the issue of increasing power tariff, Chandumajra said power rates in the country were very low as compared to Punjab.He alleged that Capt Amarinder Singh was collecting crores of rupees from the people for filling the pockets of private thermal plant owners.The SAD leader accused the Amarinder government of imposing an additional burden of Rs 800 crore on the people of the state for not fighting the coal smuggling case properly.He also said due to poor performance of Amarinder government, thousands of Dalit students had been deprived of education in absence of scholarships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/capts-letter-to-pm-a-drama-chandumajra-235145
06-04-2021||Dera Bassi||Mother of two held with 305-gm heroin||The police today claimed to have arrested a New Delhi resident and a mother of two near the Essar petrol pump on the national highway near Lalru and recovered 305gm of heroin from her possession.The suspect has been identified as Poonam Gupta, wife of a Nigerian resident. She has been booked her under Sections 21-61-85 of the NDPS Act at the Lalru police station on April 1.She was produced in a court on April 2 and remand in police custody.During the interrogation, Poonam revealed that she had acquired the substance from a person in Delhi and was to deliver it to another person in Chandigarh, whose search is underway, the police said.Earlier, a case under the NDPS Act was registered against her in Indore and she was sentenced to 5-years imprisonment.The suspect is a frequent visitor to Kenya and the police is investigating the case through an international drug trafficking angle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mother-of-two-held-with-305-gm-heroin-235146
06-04-2021||Mohali||Stolen gold worth Rs2 cr recovered, 2 held||The police today claimed to have recovered 4.372kg gold, worth Rs 2 crore, from two suspects who had allegedly committed the SBI heist in Nurpur Bedi and stolen gold from the bank on March 28.One motorcycle, 500gm intoxicant powder, two mobile phones and some cash has also been recovered from them, the police said.Case registeredA case under Sections 379, 457, 380, 379-B and 411 of the IPC and the NDPS Act was registered against Sonu Kumar and Amit Kumar on April 3 at the Nayagaon police station.The duo was living in a rented accommodation near the Singha Devi area.The suspects have been identified as Panipat resident Sonu Kumar and Amit Kumar of Khuda Lahora, the police informed.While Sonu is barely literate and used to work in a blanket factory, Amit, a Class X dropout, used to drive an auto-rickshaw.A case under Sections 379, 457, 380, 379-B and 411 of the IPC and the NDPS Act was registered against the suspects on April 3 at the Nayagaon police station.The two were yesterday produced in the court, which sent them in five-day police remand.Fourteen cases of theft and snatching were registered against Sonu in Punjab and Haryana since 2014, and he had come out of jail recently. Amit Kumar has also been named two cases of theft and rioting.SP (City) Harvinder Singh Virk said, ‘’With their arrests we have solved many incidents of crime, the biggest among them is the bank heist in Nurpur Bedi on March 28. The remaining gold will be recovered soon and more arrests are likely in the case.’’Sources said the suspects were nabbed when a woman and her accomplice approached a bank in Nayagaon with 2kg loot in a bag for gold loan. The bank official grew suspicious and called the police. The police, however, did not confirm the role of any woman or any such incident.Due procedure of ornament identification will be completed before the gold is returned to the bank, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stolen-gold-worth-rs2-cr-recovered-2-held-235148
06-04-2021||Mohali||Sarpanch among two nabbed in fake paramedic certificate scam||The police have arrested two suspects involved in providing fake certificates and degrees of paramedic courses from Phase 5 here. They also seized 326 fake certificates, 186 blank certificates, holograms, printers and stamps from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Surinder Kumar Singla, a resident of Malerkotla, and Sarbjit Singh, a resident of Todar Majra. They have been booked under Sections 259, 260, 420, 465, 467, 468, 469, 470, 471, 120-B and 201 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station.Provided 5,000 fake certificatesThe police claimed the suspects operated across the country and provided close to 5,000 fake certificates of courses such as DMLT, OTT, BPT, ECG, X-ray technician, RMP, CMS, ED, ITI, BA and BAMS.The police claimed the duo operated across the country and provided close to 5,000 fake certificates of courses such as DMLT, OTT, BPT, ECG, X-ray technician, RMP, CMS, ED, ITI, BA and BAMS.The recoveriesThe police seized 326 fake certificates, 186 blank certificates, holograms, printers and stamps from their possession. They have been booked under Sections 259, 260, 420, 465, 467, 468, 469, 470, 471, 120-B and 201 of the IPC.Sarbjit, sarpanch of Todar Majra village, was operating a registered society, ‘Council of Paramedical’, from a house-cum-office in Phase 5, Mohali, while Surinder owned a clinical lab in Malerkotla.The fake outfit claimed to be affiliated with non-existent Punjab Medical Council.Mohali SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said: “Three criminal cases were already registered against Sarbjit Singh in the past. They used to take Rs30,000 for issuing a fake certificate.”On January 26, the police had arrested Nirmal Singh, alias Nimma, for providing fake certificates of educational institutions in Zirakpur. During his interrogation, names of Surinder and Sarbjit cropped up, the police said.A special investigation team led by Mohali SP (Rural), Zirakpur DSP Amroj Singh, Dera Bassi DSP Gurpreet Singh Bains and Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar was constituted to investigate the matter in detail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sarpanch-among-two-nabbed-in-fake-paramedic-certificate-scam-235157
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two city eateries sealed for serving hookah to guests||The UT authorities have sealed two restaurants for serving hookah to customers.During an inspection of clubs and restaurants at 1.30 am last night, Ruchi Singh Bedi, SDM (East), raided and sealed Illusion Lounge and Bar, functioning from the premises of Sultan Restaurant and Bar, Sector 7, for organising a party without permission and violating the norms as fixed by the Chandigarh Administration. The club was also serving hookah to its customers.The Chandigarh Administration had already issued the orders for the closure of all clubs and restaurants by 11 pm.Meanwhile, Harjeet Singh Sandhu, SDM (Central), ordered the sealing of Pipe and Barrel Club, Sector 9, for serving hookahs last night.The Administration has already imposed a ban on serving of flavoured hookahs, including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, for smoke or consumption in hotels, restaurants, bar, taverns and hookah bars.Earlier, the UT Administration had decided to close down the premises for serving hookah for three days and to punish the owner or the manager under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-city-eateries-sealed-for-serving-hookah-to-guests-235159
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Property grab case: Bail pleas of Mahajan, cop Rajdeep dismissed||A local court has dismissed the bail applications of former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan and Inspector Rajdeep Singh in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37.Mahajan and Inspector Rajdeep are among four accused arrested in the case so far. Mahajan was arrested on March 2, along with another accused Manish Gupta, soon after the police registered the FIR in the alleged fraud case against nine persons. The police registered the case against the accused under Sections 452, 331, 344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 465, 468, 471, 473, 474, 477 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 39 police station.As per the FIR, the accused allegedly sold a house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 here fraudulently. The police alleged that some accused confined Mehta in a room and took his signatures on papers after torturing him.Rahul Mehta was later abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat from where he was shifted from one place to another. It is alleged that an imposter was produced before the office of sub-registrar at the time of execution of sale deed of the house.The police arrested Rajdeep Singh, former SHO of the Sector 39 police station, on the charges of not taking any action on an initial complaint filed against the accused, who had allegedly forcibly occupied the house in Sector 37. The court rejected the bail after hearing the arguments on Friday. While Rajesh Sharma, counsel of the accused, claimed that Mahajan was falsely implicated in the case, special public prosecutor Manu Kakkar opposed the bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-bail-pleas-of-mahajan-cop-rajdeep-dismissed-235160
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dead tree poses threat to residents||A dead tree poses a threat to residents in Sector 18-C here. It seems the authorities are busy in paper work to remove the tree.Dangling branches of the tree may fall anytime and may damage electricity wires passing nearby. It can also lead to a fire incident in the locality.Sunil Parti, a resident of Sector 18-C, said: “Roots of the tree have entered the boundary wall of my house. If it falls, it can lead to a huge mishap. Sometimes ago, a wall of my house suffered a damage due to a branch of the tree. I raised the issue with the authorities concerned.”“Workers, who came to inspect the tree, said they had sent a file in this regard and it will be axed soon. The tree was declared dead around six months ago, but it is yet to be removed,” Sunil said.A horticulture official said: “Axing a tree in the city is a lengthy process and involves proper permission from the UT. The needful will be done soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dead-tree-poses-threat-to-residents-235166
06-04-2021||Panchkula||Farmers booked for rioting, ‘blocking’ Haryana Speaker’s convoy||The Panchkula police have booked four identified and around 30 unidentified farmers, who waved black flags at the convoy of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta and blocked its path at the Chandimandir toll plaza on Sunday, on various charges, including rioting and obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions.‘Protest will continue’Farmers said the government couldn’t suppress their voices. They said the protest would continue until the contentious farm laws were repealed. Karam Singh, Pinjore block president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni), who is among those named in the FIR, said they were exercising their constitutional right to protest, not rioting. “We (farmers) didn’t cause hurt to anyone during our protest. We are being falsely implicated,” he said, adding that he was yet to be contacted by the police for investigation.The FIR was lodged post-midnight under Sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 186 (obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station on the complaint of a policeman, Parveen Kumar.Four protesters identifiedFour protesters, who have been named in the FIR, are Karam Singh of Bhima Devi Colony, Pinjore; Dushyant of Amravati; Gurmukh Singh of Manakpur; and Baba Leela Ram of Khera.The FIR alleged that the accused blocked the convoy of Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, damaged the bonnet of vehicles, engaged in scuffle with the police, obstructed public servants from discharging their duty and violated Covid rules.No arrests yet, claim policeThe police are yet to make any arrest in the case. When contacted, Chandimandir Station House Officer (SHO) Inspector Deepak Kumar said he was in a meeting and would respond later. Before he hung up the call, SHO Deepak Kumar said: “No arrest has been made yet in this regard.”“We were deployed at the Chandimandir toll plaza to maintain law and order there in view of the BJP workers’ meet in Pinjore. The policemen told the farmers that they can hold their protest against the farm laws peacefully by following Covid appropriate behaviour. Despite our instructions, the accused blocked the convoy of Gupta while it was passing through the toll plaza and damaged the bonnet of vehicles. When the policemen tried to stop them, the accused engaged in scuffle with them,” the FIR says, quoting complainant.The caseScores of protesters, who have been protesting at the Chandimandir toll plaza on the Zirakpur-Shimla highway since November 26 last year, blocked the convoy of Gupta and waved black flags at it on Sunday noon. Gupta and other BJP leaders were passing through the toll plaza to reach Pinjore for a party programme. However, Gupta on Sunday denied any such development, saying his vehicle reached the venue without any hassle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-booked-for-rioting-blocking-haryana-speakers-convoy-235180
06-04-2021||Mohali||Mohali to get Mayor on April 8||Mohali is set to get its Mayor on April 8 as the Municipal Corporation has been directed to convene a meeting for the oath-taking of the newly elected councillors and for electing the Mayor as well as Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor.After the state government issued a notification on Thursday, the Ropar Division Commissioner asked the Municipal Commissioner to convene the first meeting of the newly elected councillors on April 8. The Divisional Commissioner has also asked the Municipal Commissioner to inform all newly elected councillors about the meeting and make all arrangements as per the regulations for conducting the meeting.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg has written to the Deputy Commissioner and the SSP to ensure necessary arrangements for maintaining the law and order during the meeting.Pertinently, in the MC elections for Mohali, held on February 18, the Congress won by a majority — 37 seats out of 50. The remaining 13 seats were won by the Independent candidates.Even though the congress would have a smooth way in getting its coucillors appointed to the post of the Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, but the elections to these posts are not likely to be held without contest. According to sources, the Azad Group of former Mayor Kulwant Singh, has decided to field its own candidatesAccording to rumours in the political circles, Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, younger brother of Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, may be elected as the Mayor while Rishav Jain, Amrik Singh Somal and Kuljit Singh Bedi are front runners for the post of the Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor.However, Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the candidates for the post of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor would be decided by the party high command.Councils to get headZirakpur: The newly elected councillors of the Zirakpur and Dera Bassi civic bodies will meet on April 7 and 8, respectively, to take part in the oath-taking ceremony and elect the heads of their Municipal Council. Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa has been appointed the convenor of both meetings. No official schedule for the Lalru MC has been released till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-get-mayor-on-april-8-235188
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Civic body to keep an eye on Dadu Majra dumping ground to check fire incidents||In the wake of repeated fire incidents being reported from the Dadu Majra-based waste dumping ground, the local Municipal Corporation has decided to keep tabs on the ground to check such incidents.The civic body will keep an eye on people entering the dumping site. It has been observed that after puffing, ragpickers often throw “bidis” at the dumping ground, which at times cause fire.“We will depute security guards to keep a watch. While methane (landfill gas) is one of the causes of such fires, ragpickers sometimes throw ‘bidis’ after puffing, which trigger fires,” MC Commissioner KK Yadav told Chandigarh Tribune.After the major fire incident reported from the dumping ground and the processing plant recently, area residents and leaders of the Congress and AAP had alleged that it was deliberately caused to reduce the huge mountain of garbage.On this, the MC Commissioner said, “Methane in the garbage is one of the reasons behind such fires. It is usual. It happens in all waste dumping grounds.”After the incident, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) had asked the MC to submit a report on the cause of the fire. The MC was also asked to take precautionary measures to avoid such incidents in the future.However, Yadav said they had not yet received any communication in this regard, “maybe due to holidays in between”. Dyal Krishan, a Dadu Majra resident and president of the Dumping Ground Joint Action Committee, said, “Security guards are already there. It will not make any difference. How will they check so many ragpickers and their own staff. They should first stop the entry of cattle and pigs there.”The fire had led to huge inconvenience to residents, especially those residing in and around Dadu Majra. Residents of Sector 38, 37, 25 and Dadu Majra had complained of smoke entering their houses. They complained of breathing problems and itching in their eyes due to the smoke. Almost half of the city saw thick smoke in the sky. Smoke continued to billow out for two to three days. There have been over 10 small and major fire incidents at the ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-to-keep-an-eye-on-dadu-majra-dumping-ground-to-check-fire-incidents-235197
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two women held under NDPS Act||Draw of lots in P’kula todayPanchkula: The Panchkula Municipal Corporation will conduct the draw of lots for 374 vending sites in Sector 2, 4, 8, 11, 12 and 19, on Tuesday. MC Commissioner RK Singh said the event would be held at the Sector 12 community centre and transparency will be ensured during the whole process. TNSSnatcher held, chain recoveredZirakpur: The police have recovered a gold chain and arrested one suspect in the chain-snatching incident near a filling station at Patiala Chowk in Zirakpur on April 1. The suspect has been identified as Pradeep Kumar, alias Happy, a resident of Bathinda. A case under section 379-B of the IPC has been registered at the Zirakpur police station. Victim Khusboo Kashyap, a resident of Zirakpur, was leaving the filling station after refuelling her scooter when the suspect snatched her gold chain from the neck following which she fell on road. The suspect had managed to flee the spot. TNSTheft at houseChandigarh: Cash and valuables were stolen from a house at Mani Majra. Dr Surendra Kumar Sharma, reported that the theft took place between April 1 and 4. An amount of Rs20,000, a gold ring and other valuables were stolen. A case has been registered. TNSPhone snatchedChandigarh: A bike-borne miscreant was booked for snatching phone of Ravi Shankar, a resident of Faidan village, in Sector 47. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-women-held-under-ndps-act-235208
