07-04-2021||Chandigarh||All Covid ICU beds full, says PGI on Capt’s request for reserving beds for patients from Punjab||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Wednesday issued a clarification on the statement issued by Punjab Health Department citing that the health institute was refusing to admit patients from Punjab, despite being referred through proper channels.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh stated that he would take up the matter with the prime minister at video conferencing meeting and would request him to direct PGIMER to reserve at least 50 ICU beds for patients referred by the state government.  The institute has clarified that PGIMER admits only severe and critically ill Covid patients in the NHE Covid Block and presently 50 per cent of the total 166 patients admitted at PGIMER, which constitute 83 patients, belong to Punjab. All the ICU beds in the Covid Block are full and 50 per cent of these are occupied by patients from Punjab. PGIMER on the influx of patients from Punjab, stated that patients arriving at any of the emergency wards of the hospital, are attended to and provided medical care irrespective of their state of domicile. “In fact, the annual census of PGIMER for the year 2020 clearly shows that PGIMER provides tertiary level medical care for more than five states of India with a proportion of Punjab being highest,” the statement reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-covid-icu-beds-full-says-pgi-on-capts-request-for-reserving-beds-for-patients-from-punjab-235969
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports nearly 400 new COVID-19 cases, highest this year||Chandigarh reported 399 more cases, the highest single-day spike this year, taking the tally to 29,197. On April 4, the city had witnessed a maximum of 341 cases.The toll rose to 388 with two more deaths. The active cases stood at 3,121, the bulletin said.A total of 313 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 25,688, while 3.29 lakh samples have been tak—en for testing so far, it added.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-nearly-400-new-covid-19-cases-highest-this-year-235964
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||In pictures: Property damaged, trees uprooted as rain, thunderstorm lash Chandigarh||Rain accompanied by a thunderstorm lashed Chandigarh on Tuesday evening causing property damage and uprooting trees.Temperatures dipped in what has been an otherwise hot April.Also read: In pictures: https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-pictures-ripe-wheat-crop-property-damaged-as-rain-thunderstorm-lash-punjab-235832||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-pictures-property-damaged-trees-uprooted-as-rain-thunderstorm-lash-chandigarh-235827
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Mayor’s Facebook account hacked||Online mobility programme at PUChandigarh: The Centre for Human Rights and Duties, Panjab University, in collaboration with the Office of Dean International Students is organising a mobility programme with Western Sydney University, Australia, under the ‘New Colombo Plan’ from April 6 to May 21. The theme of the programme is ‘Closing the Gap: Enhancing Women’s Health and Well-being’. The programme is divided into different sessions, which will be presided over by delegates and experts from the field. TNSShishu Memorial Lecture heldChandigarh: The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences in collaboration with the Department of Guru Nanak Sikh Studies on Tuesday organised the ‘Shishu Memorial Lecture’. The lecture in memory of Prof Shishu was held virtually. Dr Shishu was a professor of Pharmaceutics at the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences.He had joined the institutein 1991. TNSGirl hangs self to death in Sec 36Chandigarh: A 19-year-old girl reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself form a tree at a forest area in Sector 36. The police said the victim, identified as Komal of Uttar Pradesh, worked as a domestic help at a house in Sector 35. Her friend said she was missing since Monday evening and the police were also informed about it. A passerby found her hanging on Tuesday. No suicide note was found from the spot. TNSCash, gold rings stolenChandigarh: The UT police have registered a case of theft against an unknown person on the complaint of Gurwinder Singh of Khuda Ali Sher. The complainant reported that the theft was reported at his house between March 27 and 30. The police said Rs5,000, two gold rings and other items were stolen. A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSCheating case registeredChandigarh: The UT police have registered a cheating case on the complaint of a Sector 33 resident, who reported that a sum of Rs32 lakh was transferred from his bank account. According to the police, complainant Navneet Singh stated that he was having an account with IndusInd Bank in Sector 26, Chandigarh. He reported that Rs32 lakh was transferred from his account through NEFT, in favour of Hardeep Singh Rai, between October 10 and 13 last year. The police initiated an investigation, which revealed that complainant’s son Kartikeya Singh transferred the money to another account by swapping the complainant’s SIM card. The police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 66 and 66-C of the IT Act at the Sector 34 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayors-facebook-account-hacked-235695
07-04-2021||Mohali||Two Mohali girls in Punjab handball team||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-mohali-girls-in-punjab-handball-team-235694
07-04-2021||---||Man jumps in front of train near Dhakoli, dies||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, April 6A 35-year-old man committed suicide by jumping in front of a train near Dhakoli last night.The deceased has been identified as Deepak Mahgi, a resident of Vrindavan Garden, Peer Muchalla. He was working as a property dealer. Railway officials saw the body this morning and informed the railway police about it.The police also found his car parked nearby. A liquor bottle was also recovered from the car.Deepak’s wife said he was mentally distressed for the past some time. He was missing since Monday morning.Rajinder Singh, ASI, Railway Police, said: “Statement of the victim’s kin was recorded under Section 174 of the CrPC. The body has been handed over to the family members after post-mortem examination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-jumps-in-front-of-train-near-dhakoli-dies-235693
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP celebrates foundation day||On the 41st foundation day of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the city unit of the party organised various programmes here today.A flag rally was organised to hoist the party flag on the rooftops of houses and the party office.Party’s state president Arun Sood, state organisational secretary Dinesh Kumar, Himachal Pradesh co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, State General Secretary Chandrashekhar, Rambir Bhatti and others put up party flags on the rooftop of their houses. Sweets were also distributed among local workers on this occasion.Various programmes are being organised by the city BJP daily from the foundation day of the party till the birth anniversary of Bhim Rao Ambedkar, creator of the Constitution. In this series, programmes were organised on the party’s foundation day today.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National President of the party JP Nadda addressed the workers through social media, which was telecast live in the party office.For the prevention of global epidemics such as Covid, a cycle rally was organised under the aegis of the party’s youth front to further accelerate the vaccination at the war level and make more and more people aware of it.A Jan Jagran rally was flagged off by party’s national vice-president and regional in-charge Saudan Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-celebrates-foundation-day-235692
07-04-2021||---||14-yr-old Patna boy reunites with family after 21 months||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 6After his 14-year-old son went missing, a resident of Patna — Bhola Mistri — had taken a pledge that the he would not cut his hair and beard till he finds his son. The boy, who had been missing from Patna for the past one year and nine months, was reunited with his family today.ASI Rajesh Kumar, anti-human trafficking unit of the Panchkula crime branch, said he had visited the Radha Krishan Children Home, Narayangarh, Ambal district, on March 25 this year. He said the superintendent of the child home told him that he was informed about a boy, who was unable to share details about himself, on February 21. The superintendent said he counselled the boy who told him that he was 14 years old and his father’s name is Bhola Mistri from Patna.He said after counselling the boy for about two hours, he shared the name of his school. He said they contacted the Gopalpur police station and learnt that a missing FIR was registered on June 5, 2019. He said the contacted Bhilwada village head Prem Kumar who informed that the son of Bhola Mistri was missing. He said a video call was made to Bhola Mistri, who identified his son and showed documents regarding the missing of his son.Rajesh Kumar said the boy, Manish, was presented before the Child Welfare Committee and then handed over to his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-yr-old-patna-boy-reunites-with-family-after-21-months-235691
07-04-2021||---||Man posing as Haryana Speaker’s relative nailed||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 6A con man posing as Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s relative, who allegedly duped four persons of Rs8 lakh by promising them government jobs, has been arrested.The accused has been identified as Prince Gupta, a resident of Saketri Road in Shehjadpur. The police today produced him in a court, which remanded him in three-day police custody.The police said Satnam Singh, a resident of Dera Bassi, in his complaint had stated that suspect Prince Gupta, who claimed to be a relative of the Haryana Speaker, assured him of a job of a peon in the Sector 20 branch of Punjab National Bank for his wife Kuldeep Kaur. The suspect demanded Rs2 lakh for the job from the victim. Satnam gave the money to him. However, when he approached the bank, there was no vacancy.Similarly, the suspect took Rs6 lakh from his three relatives – Jagjar Singh, Harmeet Singh and Jagjeet Singh – for the post of Home Guards volunteer.“Neither did he return our money nor did he provide the promised job,” the complainant said.A case under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-posing-as-haryana-speakers-relative-nailed-235690
07-04-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court dismisses bail plea of Mohali resident||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6Saying that there is a plenty of evidence on the police file to connect the accused with the alleged bank robbery in Sector 61, Chandigarh, a local court has dismissed the bail application of a Mohali resident.The police arrested accused Harjot Singh, a resident of Mohali, on February 10, 2021, two days after the alleged robbery in the bank. As per the prosecution, it was about noon on February 8, 2021, when a person aged between 30 and 32 years appeared at Chandigarh State Cooperative Bank in Sector 61, Chandigarh. He was armed with a pistol. He threatened the bank employees and managed to commit a robbery of Rs8,65,452 before escaping from the spot.The incidentThe FIR was originally lodged against an unknown person. Two days later, the police arrested the accused. He was identified by Amarjit Singh, cashier of the bank. A car used in the alleged crime by the applicant was also recovered. The police also recovered Rs8,48,952 looted from the bank. The counsel of the accused claimed that the applicant had been falsely implicated in the case. He said the FIR was lodged against an unknown person.There is nothing in investigation proceedings to show as to how the accused was connected with the alleged occurrence. His identification was not conducted as per law. The applicant is behind bars since February 10, 2021. Nothing was recovered from him. Presentation and disposal of challan will take time.The additional public prosecutor opposed the bail application in view of the nature and the gravity of the offence. He said the applicant was carrying a firearm. He was identified by the cashier of the bank where the applicant had committed the robbery.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application, saying there is a plenty of evidence on the police file to connect the accused with the involved occurrence. The contention regarding improper identification of the applicant as the accused would now be a matter of trial. The allegations against the applicant are serious.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-mohali-resident-235689
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity doctors raise alarm about air pollution||Concerned over the rising air pollution levels and its impact on the health of people in Punjab, senior medical practitioners from tricity hospitals have highlighted the pressing need for action on air quality, both in terms of awareness and education.The medics, who came together during an event organised by Clean Air Punjab, along with the Lung Care Foundation and Doctors for Clean Air, to mark World Health Day, also emphasised on taking active measures to reduce the risks of air pollution on health.The event was aimed at drawing attention to the health cost of air pollution.Senior doctors, including Dr Zafar Ahmad (senior consultant, Department of Pulmonology, Sleep and Critical Care Medicine, Fortis Hospital), Dr Vanita Gupta (president, IMA, Chandigarh), Prof Preeti Arun (MD, Psychiatry, and joint director, GRIID, Chandigarh), Dr Reena Jain (MD, paediatrics, and clinic in-charge, GRIID), Dr Diljot Singh Bedi (consultant paediatrics and neonatology, Fortis Hospital), Dr Wasim Ahmad (Assistant Professor, GRIID), along with senior journalist Taruni Gandhi were part of the panel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-doctors-raise-alarm-about-air-pollution-235688
07-04-2021||---||PU scholars to get more time to submit their PhD synopses||Chandigarh, April 6The Panjab University research scholars will now get more time to submit their PhD synopses as the competent authority has decided to treat the period between March 22, 2020 and March 31, 2021 as ‘zero’ year in view of the Covid pandemic.This means a research scholar who had completed two years of registration as PhD candidate on March 22, 2020, would be treated at the same stage as on April 1, 2021.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there was complete lack of access available to research scholars writing their synopses for PhD to libraries, labs, field work/pilot studies and hostels. In view of this, the competent authority has allowed this period to be treated as ‘zero’ only for the purpose of submission of PhD synopses,” stated a PU press release.The competent authority has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of dissertations by the MPhil students till December 31, 2021, the release added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-scholars-to-get-more-time-to-submit-their-phd-synopses-235687
07-04-2021||---||Chandigarh Education Department to hold offline exams for Class 9-11 students||Chandigarh, April 6The UT Education Department has decided to conduct offline examinations for Class 9 to 11 government school students, if necessary, in two shifts.The revised schedule for examination, however, is yet to be intimated by the authorities concerned.Instructions to heads of schoolsWearing of masks, sanitisation of campus, proper social distancing and other precautions are to be ensured by the school heads.All heads of the institutions are allowed to undertake urgent and time-bound academic and non-academic activities, except classroom teaching, from April 12 to 23.As per the UT Education Department instructions to heads of schools, at the time of examination, not more than 15 students shall be allowed to sit in one classroom, and if required, the exam can be conducted in two shifts also.Wearing of masks, sanitisation of campus, proper social distancing and other precautions are to be ensured by the school heads.Keeping in view the surge in Covid-19 cases, it has been decided that all the educational institutions in Chandigarh shall remain closed up to April 10. However, the entire teaching and non-teaching staff shall continue to attend on all working days.All heads of the institutions are allowed to undertake urgent and time-bound academic and non-academic activities, except classroom teaching, from April 12 to 23, said the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-to-hold-offline-exams-for-class-9-11-students-235683
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University okays Senate election schedule||Four days after the Punjab and Haryana High Court directed Panjab University to hold Senate elections, the authorities today issued the schedule for the polls.As per the schedule, the elections for faculties will be held on April 26, while for principals of technical and professional colleges on May 3, professors of the university teaching departments May 10, associate professor/assistant professors of the university teaching departments May 10, heads of affiliated arts colleges May 16, associate professor/assistant professor of affiliated arts colleges May 16 and registered graduates May 16.Unlike previous years, the election process has been kept short, which is likely to affect the canvassing process. Earlier, the elections used to continue for at least one month.Ever since the PU Senate elections were postponed – first in August and later in October last year – a series of protests were held in support of immediate polls.Standing CommitteeSources said the Senate elections won’t affect the functioning of the Chancellor’s 11-member high-level committee for recommending governance reforms in the PU in light of the National Education Policy, 2020.“There will be two parallel bodies. The elected body and the 11-member committee will share suggestions. Rest, the Chancellor will be the final authority to decide on future,” said a source.Sources also said the claim made by the PU authorities on implementation of the New Education Policy till 2035 in the court paved the way for Senate elections.“It was submitted before the court that the NEP is to be implemented till 2035, which helped former senators, who filed the case, to have an edge,” said the source.“The road ahead for PU authorities will not be easy. Let’s see what happens in future,” said the source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-okays-senate-election-schedule-235681
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration imposes curbs in 28 more areas||To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration has declared 28 more micro-containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said the issue of the Covid outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as containment zones in the city.Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and residents were advised to strictly observe social distancing norms, wear mask and follow hand hygiene, he added.On March 31, the Administration had declared 15 micro-containment zones in various parts of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-imposes-curbs-in-28-more-areas-235680
07-04-2021||---||Chandigarh sets up help desk for patients in home isolation||Chandigarh, April 6In view of sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has decided to set up a help desk at the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) for Covid-19 patients in home isolation.The prime objective of the help desk is to have regular interaction with those Covid patients who have been advised home isolation and assist them in medical assistance, in case of any emergency.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the help desk would be functional round the clock from April 7. During the day time, it would operate from the CHB premises. Thereafter, officials would attend the calls from their residences.He said proper record of interaction with patients would be maintained.“In case of an emergency, officials at the help desk will take up the matter with the GMSH-16 to arrange for further medical assistance or ambulance for the patient,” said the CEO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sets-up-help-desk-for-patients-in-home-isolation-235679
07-04-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh pools set to reopen this month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6The UT Sports Department will this month reopen all the 10 swimming pools under its control for the city’s professional swimmers.Earlier, the department had thrown open the Sector 23-based all-weather swimming pool in January after a gap of 10 months.The pool was initially opened only for professional swimmers, but later members were also allowed to use the facility.Ready for splashSector 23 all-weather swimming pool, Sector 23 nursery pool, and the pools at Sector 34, 38 (West), Sector 39, Sector 43, Mani Majra, Lake Sports Complex, Sector 50 and Sector 56 will be reopened this month.“We are trying to open all the pools in Chandigarh this month, but only for professional and competitive swimmers. No membership will be allotted for recreational purposes. As of now, we have made this decision and further steps will be taken as per the directions of the higher authorities,” said UT Sports Director Tejdeep Singh Saini.When asked about restrictions or closure of swimming pools in coming days amid a spike in Covid cases, Saini said: “Restrictions will be put on the number of swimmers using the facility at a given time. We have already decided not to allot any new membership, and all the swimmers will be asked to follow the mandatory SOPs.”Saini conceded that the rise in cases was a concern but said “a decision on closure will be taken by the higher ups”.There are speculations that the Sector 23 swimming pool has been closed since March 25 due to rise in coronavirus cases. But Saini said the facility was shut due to some “technical issues”.“It will open in a day or so. There were some technical issues with regard to motors that regulate the water temperature during winters. The issue has been sorted out and the pool will be opened soon,” said Saini.As per the existing guidelines, swimmers below 12 years are not allowed to practice as of now, and only five swimmers are allowed to practice at a time for one hour.As per the annual roster for the Sector 23 pool, the winter session gets over on March 15. However, it was extended by 10 days this time. Like every year, the pool is expected to open after a 15-day break.In October last year, the Ministry of Home Affairs had given a go ahead for opening of swimming pools for professional swimmers.During the summer session, the Sports Department opens all the 10 swimming pools – Sector 23 all-weather pool, Sector 23 nursery pool, and the pools at Sector 34, 38 (West), Sector 39, Sector 43, Mani Majra, Lake Sports Complex, Sector 50 andSector 56.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-pools-set-to-reopen-this-month-235678
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hit by ambulance, scooterist dies in Chandigarh||A scooter rider was killed after being hit by an ambulance at the Sector 39/40/55/56 roundabout. According to the police, complainant Vishnu Dev, a resident of Sector 56, reported that the scooter, being driven by his neighbour Nairan Singh, was hit by an ambulance. The victim was injured and rushed to the GMCH, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead. Darshan Lal of Mohali district was driving the ambulance. He was arrested and later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-ambulance-scooterist-dies-in-chandigarh-235677
07-04-2021||Mohali||Rs 3.1L stolen from shop in Sohana||An unidentified youth stole Rs3.1 lakh from a hardware shop in Sohana this afternoon. The shop owner, Jai Kumar Goyal, had gone for some work nearby when a bike-borne youth allegedly entered the shop after breaking its glass door and fled with a bag containing Rs3.1 lakh. CCTV footage showed the miscreant sans a mask, fleeing the spot. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-3-1l-stolen-from-shop-in-sohana-235676
07-04-2021||---||Snatchers on the prowl, target 3 in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 6Three snatching incidents were reported from the city in the past 48 hours.According to the police, a motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched a purse from a woman in Sector 34 on April 5. The victim, a resident of Sector 85, Mohali, reported that her purse contained Rs7,000 and a mobile phone. The police were informed, who visited the spot. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station.In another incident, Mohit Sharma, a resident of Sector 47, reported that two persons riding an auto snatched his mobile phone and purse containing Rs6,000, two credit cards and important documents from near the petrol pump in Sector 31 on April 5. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station.An auto driver allegedly snatched a mobile phone from a man on April 4. Complainant Kailash, a resident of Sector 4, reported that the miscreant snatched his phone on the road separating Sector 8 and 9. The police have registered a case at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-on-the-prowl-target-3-in-chandigarh-235675
07-04-2021||---||Erratic tertiary water supply hits Chandigarh residents||Chandigarh, April 6Erratic tertiary-treated water supply has inconvenienced city residents. They said the supply was not being provided as per the scheduled timings and at some places, it was irregular. This had forced many to use drinking water for watering lawns.“It is a matter of concern for the city. The supply gets disrupted continuously for a number of days, resulting in withering of grass and plants. Parks give a shabby look,” said Joginder Singh, a local resident.“Due to non-supply of tertiary-treated water, residents are forced to use drinking water to water plants. This causes loss of precious drinking water. When someone opens the drinking water tap to water plants, it reduces the pressure of water and residents staying on the first or second floors are badly affected,” he said.Some residents have also complained of smell in the tertiary-treated water. “When the water is used in our lawns, it creates foul smell. Something needs to be done about it,” said Manjeet, a resident of Sector 33.Hitesh Puri, chairman of the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), said, “We will take up the issue with the MC as RWAs have complained about it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/erratic-tertiary-water-supply-hits-chandigarh-residents-235674
07-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC applies brakes to door-to-door waste collection through motorised vehicles in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6In a major embarrassment for the Municipal Corporation (MC), the Punjab and Haryana High Court today applied brakes to its ambitious project of door-to-door garbage collection through motorised vehicles.Taking up the matter, a Division Bench of the High Court stayed the operation and effect of the Solid Waste Management Bylaws, 2018, and a resolution dated December 13, 2019, passed by the MC to purchase garbage collection vehicles.The orders by the Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri will remain in operation at least till the next date of hearing.The matter was brought to the notice of the Bench after a petition was filed against the UT and other respondents by Pappu Kumar and other petitioners through counsel APS Shergill and Harmanjit Singh Sethi.One of the contentions before the Bench was that the 2018 bylaws and the resolution were contrary to the letter and spirit of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, which contemplated the need to empower the garbage collectors and help ensure their employment. Elaborating, Shergill and Sethi referred to the minutes of the MC special meeting held on December 13, 2019, to contend that a middleman had been introduced for the job of garbage collection through the impugned resolution.They added that a clause in the guidelines issued by the ministry made it clear that it was the duty and responsibility of the local authorities to establish a system to recognise the organisation of waste pickers or informal waste collectors. It was also their responsibility to promote and establish a system for integration of these authorised waste picker and collector to facilitate their participation in solid waste management, including door-to-door collection of waste. A subclause even provided for formation of self-help groups.Sethi and Shergill also submitted that approximately 2,300 workers had been earning their livelihood through garbage collection, while only around 800 workers were likely to be employed for the task.“In the process of decision making, the viewpoint of the real stakeholders, the petitioners working as garbage collectors for the past so many years, has been ignored and they have been left to the mercy of an outsourced agency…,” they added.The Bench was also informed that the resolution was in conflict with the state policy, which endeavoured to create new employment opportunities/jobs and removal of the middleman from all service sectors.“The operation and effect of the Solid Waste Management Bylaws, 2018, and the resolution dated December 13, 2019, passed by the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, shall remain stayed till the next date of hearing,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-applies-brakes-to-door-to-door-waste-collection-through-motorised-vehicles-in-chandigarh-235673
07-04-2021||Panchkula||Get e-token for ‘darshan’ at Mansa Devi temple||In view of the surge in Covid cases, the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board (SMMDSB) has decided to issue tokens online to enable devotees pay obeisance at the shrine during Chaitra Navratra fest beginning April 13.This was decided during a meeting of the board chaired by Deputy Commissioner and Chief Administrator Mukul Kumar. The fest will be organised from April 13 to 21 at Mata Mansa Devi, Panchkula, and Kali Mata Mandir, Kalka. Kumar said devotees would be required to fill certain details on the board website www.mansadevi.org.in following which an e-token would be sent to their mobile number.Devotees willing to have a preferential ‘darshan’ at Mansa Devi temple could register themselves on a payment of Rs50 per person. A devotee could make registration for maximum 10 members at a time, he added. The DC said ‘bhandara’, cultural programmes and other entertainment activities would be prohibited during the fest.Roadside shops of prasad and other goods on the temple premises would not be allowed. The board would make arrangement of prasad for devotees.He directed the Executive Officer, Municipal Corporation, to ensure fogging and sanitisation of the premises of the Panchkula and Kalka temples on a daily basis. The Police Department was directed to keep a strict vigil. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-e-token-for-darshan-at-mansa-devi-temple-235671
07-04-2021||Panchkula||169 new cases of Covid in Panchkula||The district reported 169 fresh cases of Covid during the past 24 hours. There was no new fatality due to the virus. So far, 13,946 persons have tested positive for Covid in the district and 12,655 of them have been cured of the disease. There are 1,135 active cases with 156 deaths in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/169-new-cases-of-covid-in-panchkula-235669
07-04-2021||Mohali||8 more die of Covid in Mohali, 326 test positive||Eight persons succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 458. Earlier, the virus had claimed eight lives on September 14 last year. The district reported 326 fresh cases till Tuesday evening while 220 more patients have been cured of the disease. Among the new cases, 146 came from Mohali (urban), two from Banur, four from Kurali, five from Dera Bassi, seven from Boothgarh, 13 from Gharuan, 49 from Kharar and 100 from the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. The district has so far seen 29,037 cases and 24,666 recoveries. There are 3,913 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-more-die-of-covid-in-mohali-326-test-positive-235666
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC restarts sanitisation drive, sets up 24 teams||With a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the MC has restarted its sanitisation drive in the city. The corporation is using seven automatic sanitisation sprinklers to sanitise public places and places from where cases are reported. “We have formed 24 teams and six of these are on a standby. Each team comprises two-three members. We are covering public places and places from where requests for sanitisation are being received,” said Dr Amrit Warring, MC Medical Officer of Health. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-restarts-sanitisation-drive-sets-up-24-teams-235661
07-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Centre flags Covid surge in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday listed Chandigarh, along with Punjab and other states, as the “states of concern”, in a media briefing on Covid-19.According to the statistics shared by the Centre, there has been an increase in the average daily cases in the UT, from below 20 cases witnessed between February 10 and 16 to 287 during the period from March 31 to April 6.Two deaths, 319 cases in UTThe positivity rate has climbed up to 14 per cent now from 1.50 per cent in the second week of February. “Although Chandigarh is a small place with low population, the number of cases and the positivity rate have gone up, which is a matter of concern.”Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, stated that they had conducted 31,394 Covid tests so far and the positivity rate was 12.7 per cent. In March this year, the positivity rate was 9.1 per cent, the fatality rate 0.5 per cent and the recovery rate 87.3 per cent. As many as 94,411 doses of the Covid vaccine have been administered till date, covering 60 per cent of frontline workers and 54 per cent of health workers. Vaccination was being done at 55 centres — 35 being run by the government and 20 by private entities. The PGI has admitted 170 Covid patients so far. About 50 per cent of them belong to Punjab, 25 per cent to Chandigarh and remaining to other states.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32, said, “It has been observed that many patients, who can be easily treated in various districts’ hospitals of Punjab and Haryana are unnecessarily travelling to the city and crowding the Covid beds at hospitals here.”In order to accommodate more patients, the Sector 48 hospital has been operationalised by the GMCH-32. Besides, Sood Dharamshala will be opened tomorrow to take care of mild cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-flags-covid-surge-in-chandigarh-235657
07-04-2021||---||Night curfew back in Chandigarh from today||Chandigarh, April 6Keeping in view the rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am to check the spread of the virus.During the night curfew, which will come into force from tomorrow, no gatherings, parties and non-essential activities will be allowed. Restaurants will also be required to close by 10 pm. The night curfew will be reviewed in case the situation improves.The decision to impose the night curfew was taken at a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, who directed the police authorities to ensure strict implementation of the curfew.Stricter measures under considerationMarket associations to ensure that the staff engaged by them are tested and vaccinatedUT to consider stricter measures such as weekend curfew, closure of apni mandis and other crowded places if people fail to abide by the guidelines regarding Covid appropriate behaviourExpressing concern over the rising number of Covid cases, Badnore urged market associations to ensure that the staff engaged by them are tested and vaccinated, since both testing and vaccination are being done free of cost at government-run centres.The Administrator urged all residents above 45 years of age to get themselves vaccinated. He said walk-in facility had been provided at the GMSH-16 and three civil hospitals in Sector 22 and 45, and Mani Majra, where any resident could walk in and get tested free of cost.He said stricter measures such as weekend curfew, closure of apni mandis and other crowded places would be considered if people failed to abide by the guidelines regarding Covid appropriate behaviour.Badnore directed the hospital authorities to ensure that all health workers got themselves vaccinated at the earliest.The Administration might consider withdrawal of priority to health workers and municipal workers. Hence, they needed to avail of the existing priority vaccination facility within a week.The Administrator directed all eligible government employees to take the vaccine. He also directed residents to avoid non-essential travel outside the city.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said there were 75 micro-containment zones in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-curfew-back-in-chandigarh-from-today-235653
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration announces night curfew as COVID cases spiral||Chandigarh Administration announced night curfew in the union territory on Tuesday to help stem the rising COVID-19 cases.Curfew hours are between 10 pm and 5 am, during which time only essential services will be allowed to function, a press release from the administration said.No gatherings will be allowed during curfew hours, and all restaurants must shut down by 10 pm, the press release said. The decision will be reviewed when the situation improves, the press release said.The curfew will come into effect from Wednesday. Stricter measures such as weekend curfews and closing of apni mandis as well as other crowded places will have to be considered unless people following COVID guidelines, the press release said.Chandigarh reported 319 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday and two more deaths, taking the UT’s total tally since the pandemic began last March to 28,798 infections and 386 deaths.The UT has 3,037 active cases.Chandigarh has been steadily reporting an alarmingly high number of cases since last month. According to the union health ministry's statement last week, the UT's positivity rate stood at 11.2 per cent—among the highest in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-announces-night-curfew-as-covid-cases-spiral-235451
