09-04-2021||---||As Covid cases spike, PGI suspends physical OPDs from Monday||Chandigarh, April 9Amid a COVID spike, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) administration on Friday decided to suspend physical examinations of patients at the outpatient departments (OPDs) of the institute from Monday onwards.   The decision was made during a meeting, here, chaired by Prof. Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER, and participated by the administrative heads and heads of the departments, and other key functionaries of PGIMER.Detailing about the decision Prof. Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER stated: “With COVID-19 cases peaking at much faster pace in the second wave, we have decided to suspend ‘walk-in’ patients at the OPDs and routine surgical procedures fearing transmission of the contagious virus to the patients who are already immunocompromised patients and their attendants. However, the emergency services at PGIMER will function as usual.”Dr Naveen Pandey—in charge of the OPD Administration at PGI—said that, earlier, walk-in registrations were limited to some people, only who could not access the teleconsultation. Now, walk-in OPDs would be curtailed, and no patient would be called to the institute for a physical examination, only through teleconsultation, except cancer, and obstetrics patients.The Director also stated that the Institute is committed to cater to the health needs of its non-COVID patients, and the teleconsultation service would continue as per earlier schedules.Rather, the number of lines would be further increased to broad-base the service to meet the consistently increasing demand and accommodate more patients while ensuring their safety with this initiative.Presently, over 4,500 to 5,000 patients were either given consultation over the phone or through physical examination. In pre-Covid times, on a routine day, over 10,000 people visited PGIMER OPDs. The OPDs were shut on March 19 last year, a day after the first Covid-19 case surfaced in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-covid-cases-spike-pgi-suspends-physical-opds-from-monday-236914
09-04-2021||Mohali||At 630, Mohali records COVID pandemic's highest single-day surge||Mohali reported the second-highest daily number of COVID-19 cases since the global pandemic struck. With 630 fresh COVID positive cases on Friday, the total number of cases in the district stands at 30,604. Meanwhile, two more succumbed to the deadly disease. The death total touched 469. About 447 infections have been cured and discharged from the hospital.  Of the 630 cases, 163 cases recorded from Mohali (Urban), one from Banur, five from Lalru, six from Kurali, six from Boothgarh, 27 from Kurali, 36 from Dera Bassi, 38 from Gharuan, 131 from Kharar while the highest number of 223 cases surfaced from Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. As of now, there are 30,604 positive cases out of which 25,490 patients have been cured. There are 4,645 active cases with 469 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-630-mohali-records-covid-pandemics-highest-single-day-surge-236913
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 422, Chandigarh records pandemic's second-highest single-day surge||Chandigarh reported the second-highest daily number of COVID-19 cases since the global pandemic struck. The UT recorded 422 cases and four COVID-19 deaths cases on Friday, taking the city's total number of cases to 29,943. A 54-year-old male and a 44-year-old female passed away at PGIMER. Both had comorbidities. Another 28-year-old male and 65-year-old female died at GMCH-32.  The total number of COVID deaths stands at 393. About 320 patients have recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours.Over 3,000 cases remain active in the city. Last year, on September 13, Chandigarh logged 449 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-422-chandigarh-records-pandemics-second-highest-single-day-surge-236888
09-04-2021||---||Current wave more infectious, but less fatal, say doctors in city||Chandigarh, April 8With cases surpassing the previous Covid peak every day, the current wave is spreading faster than the first one in the city, say doctors. However, the fatality ratio is lower.From March 6 to April 8, 7,283 cases have been reported in the city. In the last surge, 6,856 cases were reported between August 16 and September 16.Of the 29,521 cases reported so far, 3,115 are currently active.The fact that no ICU bed at PGI’s Covid-19 facility is vacant gives a clear idea of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the City Beautiful, even though health officials claim availability of enough beds. They say more beds will be added soon.More severe patientsAccording to doctors, the severity of disease in patients being admitted to the hospitals in the current wave is more than the previous wave.Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, PGI, had recently told The Tribune that a lot of younger patients in the age group of less than 50 are coming to the hospital with high severity of Covid.He had stated that there were a lot of patients from nearby states as well. Some of them reached the hospital only at a later stage, increasing the mortality rate, he said.However, Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32, was unavailable for comments.City reports 324 fresh cases, 1 deathChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported 324 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the UT tally to 29,521. The city also witnessed one Covid-related death. A 70-year-old man from Sector 37, a case of coronary artery disease, was brought dead at Shalby Hospital, Mohali. The Covid toll now stands at 389. With 329 fresh recoveries, the number of cured patients reached 26,017. TNSTwo more die, 456 +ve in MohaliMohali: Two more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 467. As many as 456 fresh cases surfaced in the district till Thursday evening while 267 patients were cured of the disease. As of now, the district tally stands at 29,974 and recoveries 25,043. There are 4,464 active cases. TNSTesting scaled upAs many as 57,462 tests were conducted last month compared to 47,112 conducted in September last year – an increase by over 10,000.Fewer DeathsAs many as 106 deaths were reported in September last year during the peak of the first wave. Only 27 deaths were reported last month. A comparison of the two months suggests that fatalities are lower in the current wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/current-wave-more-infectious-but-less-fatal-say-doctors-in-city-236633
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fraudster creates fake FB profile of Chandigarh policeman||A fake Facebook profile of Inspector Ram Rattan was reportedly created by some fraudster and friend requests were sent to several people. Ram Rattan is presently serving as the SHO at the Sector 17 police station.Sources said the fraudster demanded money from people through the profile.Amit, one of the persons who received a friend request, said: “The swindler started a conversation and asked for a financial help of Rs20,000. He told me to transfer the money through Google Pay,” he said.Sources said the fraudster asked for financial help from other people as well. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraudster-creates-fake-fb-profile-of-chandigarh-policeman-236634
09-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||24X7 water supply project set to take off||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Finally, the 24X7 water supply pilot project of the city is set to be a reality as Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) today cleared a financial bid over Rs162 crore for the purpose.Two firms, SB Engineering and Tapi Prestressed Pvt Ltd were cleared in the financial bid today under a joint venture. The project will first be implemented in Mani Majra.Last week, these firms were cleared in the technical bid. There was one more firm, but it did not make it in the technical bid. Now, a formal nod from the Smart City Board of Directors is awaited at its April 14 meeting.The work is expected to start by May 15. It will have a two-year deadline. “In the financial bid today, the agencies were okayed. Now, it will go to the Board of Directors,” said NP Sharma, General Manager, CSCL.Prior to this, tenders were floated for the project six times. According to officials, at present, there is 60 per cent water wastage and theft in Mani Majra. This project will bring down the wastage to 15 per cent.Under the project, a total of 13,700 water connections will be covered.As per the plan, pipelines will be laid in outer parts as well as inside houses to check water contamination. Earlier, the Municipal Corporation used to lay pipelines till the outer areas of houses. People used to misuse these by connecting pipelines on their own, causing water contamination. It will also reduce water bills.Once work on the project starts, the authorities will subsequently provide 24X7 water supply to the entire city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24x7-water-supply-project-set-to-take-off-236635
09-04-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula private hospitals run out of Covid ICU beds||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 8Sharing its boundary with the badly affected Chandigarh and Punjab, Panchkula district reported its highest single-day surge of 239 cases today since the inception of the pandemic in March last year, a clear indication that the virus is spreading faster in the current wave than the first one in September last year.The active caseload currently stands at 1,167.The spiral in the coronavirus cases has resulted in 100 per cent ICU bed occupancy in private hospitals and only two are available at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6.Of the 219 critical patients in all of Haryana (as of April 7), 85 are in Panchkula alone, which is about 39 per cent.At least six are on ventilator support in two private hospitals – Alchemist Hospital, Sector 26, and Paras Hospital.The local Health Department has decided to add 35 oxygen beds to the Civil Hospital 6 by tomorrow to deal with the prevailing situation.More Covid care centers are being made operational to admit patients with mild infection. After the dental college in Barwala, Gurjar Bhawan has also been added to the list.Cases: In Sept and nowAs many as 3,762 cases were reported in September last year during the peak of the first wave.The month of March this year witnessed around 2,200 cases. However, the cases are yet to hit the peak or plateau in the current wave.Testing upAround 20,000 Covid tests were conducted in September last year and to tackle the current wave, over 35,000 tests were conducted in March this year. The testing has further gone up in the first week of April after instructions from the district administration to conduct 2,500-3,000 tests each day.Lower fatality rateAs many as 66 people had lost their lives due to Covid in September last year. Only 17 fatalities were witnessed in the month of March, suggesting a significantly lower fatality rate in the current wave.Long-lasting symptomsHealth officials say patients in the current wave are developing severe and long-lasting symptoms, even though the fatality rate is low.39% of Hry critical cases in PanchkulaOf the 219 critical patients in all of Haryana (as of April 7), 85 are in Panchkula alone, which is about 39 per cent. At least six are on ventilator support in two private hospitals.With 239 cases, P’kula clocks new highPanchkula: The district on Thursday saw its highest single-day surge of 239 cases since the inception of the pandemic, taking the overall tally to 14,292. The Covid toll remained at 156 with no new death. While 12,969 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 1,167 cases are active. The recovery rate stands at 90.74 per cent.2,706 vaccinatedAs many as 2,706 people were jabbed in Panchkula on Thursday. Over 84K doses of the vaccine have been given in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-private-hospitals-run-out-of-covid-icu-beds-236636
09-04-2021||---||Panchkula man gets Rs50L extortion call||Panchkula, April 8A resident of Sector 21 allegedly received an extortion call from an unidentified man, demanding Rs50 lakh from him.Bal Krishan (50) submitted a complaint to the Deputy Commissioner of Police in this regard and a case was registered at the Sector 5 police station.According to the FIR, the complainant alleged that he received a call from an unidentified person asking him for the money.He alleged that the man was asking him to pay Rs50 lakh within two days, failing which he threatened to harm his son.“The caller said he knew that my son goes to the gym,” the FIR read, quoting the complainant.A case was registered under Sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station. Krishan has urged the police to provide security to him and his family, claiming a threat to their lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-man-gets-rs50l-extortion-call-236637
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||78-yr-old dies in hit-and-run||In a hit-and-run case, a 78-year-old pedestrian was killed after being hit by an unknown vehicle on the road separating Sector 47 and 48.According to the police, complainant Anil Sharma, a resident of Sector 47, reported that the vehicle sped away after hitting his father Sudarshan Sharma on April 6.The victim was injured and admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he later succumbed to his injuries.The police have registered a case at the Sector 49 police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/78-yr-old-dies-in-hit-and-run-236638
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mani Majra resident held for Rs16L fraud||The UT police have arrested a Mani Majra resident for allegedly cheating a man of Rs16 lakh on the pretext of selling a house.A team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, arrested the suspect, Vishal Gupta (41). Gupta’s mother Rani Bala is also a suspect in the case.Complainant Gurmit Singh, a resident of Panchkula, had reported that a deal to buy a house at Mani Majra was finalised for Rs45 lakh. The complainant gave Rs15 lakh through a cheque and Rs1 lakh in cash to the suspects and July 7, 2019, was finalised as the date for executing the registry. However, the suspects did not appear on the day.The police said during the inquiry, it came to light that the property to be sold was not in the name of the suspects. After registering a case under Sections 406, 420 and 120 of the IPC, the police arrested Vishal. He was produced in the court today and sent to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-resident-held-for-rs16l-fraud-236639
09-04-2021||Zirakpur||CBI nails 2 in Rs10L bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested Jind resident Anil Mor and an unknown person in a case of allegedly taking a bribe of Rs10 lakh from an Ambala resident to dispose of a complaint received against him in the office of the DSP, Zirakpur, on April 5.On a complaint of Mohit Sharma, onwer of M/s Fantasy Gaming Technologies OPC Pvt Ltd, a case has been registered against Anil Mor and an unknown person under Section 120-B of the IPC and Section 7 A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, at the CBI branch, Chandigarh.In the FIR, CBI Inspector Rajiv Gulati has recommended that the role of a public servant may be looked into during the investigation.The complainant alleged that Anil Mor was allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs50 lakh for disposing of a complaint received against the complainant in the office of Zirakpur DSP Amroj Singh.In the verification report, it has been stated that on March 9, the complainant got a call from Mandeep Singh, Reader of the DSP, informing him that a complaint had been registered against the company by Pradeep Kumar and he had to appear before the DSP the next day.When the complainant came out of the DSP’s office, he received a call from Anil Mor stating that he was calling at the behest of the DSP and he could settle the matter. On meeting Mor, the suspect demanded Rs50 lakh and 33 per cent share in his company.The CBI laid a trap and Anil Mor was allegedly caught while taking a bribe of Rs10 lakh from the complainant as part payment in a Chandigarh hotel. After taking the bribe, the accused handed over the amount to another person, who was accompanying him. The other person was also caught. It has been alleged that an amount of Rs12.5 lakh was earlier delivered by the complainant to the accused.Searches were conducted on three premises of the accused in Zirakpur, Jind and Kaithal. The duo was produced in the court and remanded in two-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-nails-2-in-rs10l-bribery-case-236640
09-04-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Workplace vaccination for teachers of Chandigarh govt schools to start soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8As the Government of India has allowed vaccination against Covid-19 at workplaces from April 11, the Director Public Instructions (DPI), Schools, will seek permission from the higher authorities to initiate the drive for the benefit of eligible government schoolteachers.“Yes, we will take up the matter (vaccination drive) with the UT Director, Health Services. Most of our teachers are below 45 years. However, we can seek permission for eligible teachers,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, DPI, Schools, UT Administration.As per the available data, there are approximately 5,000 teachers, including JBT, TGT, PGT and principals, in the UT Education Department.The non-teaching staff is also likely to be covered under this drive.Recently, many government school staff members were found Covid positive. As a precautionary step, amid rise in number of coronavirus cases in Chandigarh, schools were ordered to be closed till April 10.“This is the need of the hour. Since, teachers have started taking offline classes they are more vulnerable to the virus. The department is likely to start schools in the coming weeks. The priority of officials’ concerned should be to initiate the vaccination drive. The department should treat teachers as frontline warriors,” said one of the schoolteachers.Will teachers of private schools be vaccinated?The UT Education Department plans to introduce the workplace vaccination facility. Many local private schools, which have branches in Mohali, have got their teachers vaccinated after taking special permission from the Mohali administration. Teachers were treated as frontline warriors in Mohali and many were administrated the jab.“We are concerned about our teachers. The Mohali administration treated teachers as frontline warriors. Our teachers were jabbed against Covid. Not all local private schools have done this,” said an official of a local private school.Yesterday, the Central Government allowed vaccination at workplaces with 100 eligible/willing beneficiaries. The states/UTs have been asked to prepare for the launch of workplace vaccination drive by April 11. As per the directions, only employees aged 45 years and above will be eligible for vaccination at their respective workplace. No outsider, including their eligible family members, will be vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/workplace-vaccination-for-teachers-of-chandigarh-govt-schools-to-start-soon-236641
09-04-2021||Panchkula||Parents protest fee hike outside Panchkula school||Parents of students studying in Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, today staged a protest against the school management over 140 per cent hike in fee. The protest was backed by the local unit of the Congress. Former Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan was also present at the protest site.   However, the local parents’ association said they didn’t invite any political party to join them while adding that they could fight their own battle. The Panchkula Parents Association president, Manish Kumar Banger, said, “Several schools in the district are not allowing students, who have refused to pay extra charges other than tuition and hiked fee, to attend online classes and have even withheld their results.”   Ashish Makkar, a parent whose children study in the school, said, “The school has announced a fee hike of up to 140 per cent. The tuition fee for standards below Class VIII, which was less than Rs 2,300, has been hiked to Rs5,100 and for senior classes from Rs2,400, to Rs5,500.” The Bhavan Vidyalaya Principal, Gulshan Kaur, didn’t respond to repeated calls from Chandigarh Tribune. —– TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-protest-fee-hike-outside-panchkula-school-236642
09-04-2021||---||Complete work in specified time, Chandigarh Adviser tells officials||Chandigarh, April 8UT Adviser Manoj Parida has directed the officials concerned to resolve grievances and demands raised by councillors within the specified time period.A meeting was today held under the chairmanship of Parida, along with Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, Chief Conservator of Forests Debendra Dalai, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav and all other senior officials of the UT Administration to address grievances and look into demands of the councillors from Ward No.11 to 20, respectively.Councillors, including Satish Kumar, Chanderwati Shukla, Heera Negi, Kanwarjit Rana, Ravinder Kaur, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Asha Kumar Jaswal, Devinder Singh Babla, Dalip Sharma and Shakti Prakash Devshali, were present at the meeting.The councillors raised the demand regarding development-oriented projects in their respective wards. The Adviser assured them regarding fulfillment of their demands and directed departments concerned to work speedily in this direction following a strict deadline. The Adviser also gave instructions for the early completion of primary health centres/dispensaries, community centres, approach/link roads, sewerage systems and sports complexes.He also directed the CEO of the Chandigarh Housing Board to ensure hygienic conditions as well as civic amenities in all colonies. Pointing out further, the Adviser said, “Children can play on school playground after school hours. The old building of the Palsora school can be used for anganwadi purpose.” He gave necessary directions to the Social Welfare Department in this regard.The Adviser added that each demand would be redressed on merit and the UT Administration would extend all sorts of assistance. He also gave on the spot directions on issues that could be immediately redressed.During the meeting, Chanderwati Shukla demanded the construction of a banquet hall, smart school and sports complex in place of the Sector 52 transit colony, which was recently vacated by the Administration.Heera Negi stated that there was no market in Sector 50. So, arrangements could be made as per the need of area residents, she added. Meanwhile, Kanwarjit Rana gave a proposal for setting up a sports complex in his Ward No. 14Mayor thanked the Adviser for adopting positive approach with regard to various development projects in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/complete-work-in-specified-time-chandigarh-adviser-tells-officials-236643
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Contestants start canvassing||Days after Panjab University announced schedule for Senate elections, those in fray have started campaigning via different methods.As per the schedule, the elections for faculties will be held on April 26, while for principals of technical and professional colleges on May 3, professors of the university teaching departments and associate professors/assistant professors of the university teaching departments on May 10, heads of affiliated arts colleges, associate professor/assistant professor of affiliated arts colleges and registered graduates on May 16.While majority of contestants opted for an online mode of canvassing, few were seen visiting houses of voters during door-to-door campaigning. “The seasoned ones will be canvassing online. Those, who expect tough fight, will surely opt for every means to convince voters,” said one of the contestants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contestants-start-canvassing-236644
09-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali ramps up testing||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 8In view of a surge in Covid cases, the district administration has ramped up its testing capacity. In September 2020, the peak time of the pandemic, an average 1,100 tests were being conducted daily. The figure has shot up to more than 2,200 in April this year.According to information, in September last year, the Health Department had conducted 32,747 Covid tests and 6,254 were found positive, showing 19 per cent positivity rate.In March this year, 41,336 persons underwent the Covid test and 6,388 of them were found infected, showing 15 per cent positivity rate. However, 17,976 tests were conducted in the eight days of April and the reports of 3,281 were positive, showing an increased positivity rate of 18.2 per cent.On an average, about 80 to 90 persons were admitted to the ICU in September while in April this year, 129 patients have been provided intensive care. Among them, 57 were in ICU O2 level, 22 in ICU ventilator (NIV), eight in ICU invasive ventilation, 17 in ICU HFNC and 25 in ICU at room temperatures.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the district was gradually ramping up the testing capacity. As per the data, Mohali district was conducting 1,700 tests per million population while Punjab was conducting 1,086 tests. He said at present, the district was tracing at least 19 contacts of every person found infected with the virus. The DC said the district had 379 beds dedicated to Covid patients.Dayalan said, “While we continue to make critical progress, it is important that we don’t panic, but follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour and the government guidelines so that together we fight the deadly virus. The government Covid vaccination centres are open seven days a week. All those eligible for vaccination should come forward over the weekend and get themselves inoculated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-ramps-up-testing-236645
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs in 11 more Chandigarh areas||To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration has declared 11 more micro-containment zones in the city. District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said the issue of the Covid outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared containment zones in the city.   Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and residents were advised to strictly observe social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.   On April 6, the UT Administration had declared 28 micro-containment zones. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-in-11-more-chandigarh-areas-236646
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Cong: Stop vaccine import, inoculate all||The Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee today demanded that the Covid vaccine should be administered to all those above 18 years of age to stop the spread of the virus. HS Lucky, chief spokesperson, CTCC, said the Central government should immediately ban the export of the vaccine as more and more states were feeling its shortage. “The UT Administration should have taken other steps like ensuring social distancing, wearing of masks, restricting gatherings, testing, contact tracing etc to check the spread of the disease rather than implementing curfew, which will again hit the economy, specially the food and related businesses,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cong-stop-vaccine-import-inoculate-all-236647
09-04-2021||---||185 industrial workers jabbed at MIA camp||Mohali, April 8About 185 industrial workers were given the Covid vaccine jab during a camp organised by the Mohali Industries Association (MIA) in association with the Health Department at the MIA Bhawan here on Thursday.Yogesh Sagar, president, MIA, said industrial workers were vaccinated by a Health Department team comprising a doctor and two nurses. He said all employees were above 45 years of age as mandated by the government and the health team was equipped with 200 vaccines. He said as it was not possible for the workers to visit the vaccination centres during the duty hours, so they decided to organise a camp on the MIA complex.Rajeev Gupta, general secretary, MIA, said seeing the success of the camp, it was decided that a vaccination camp would be organised every day, either at the MIA Bhawan or on the premises of a member unit.Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, visited the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/185-industrial-workers-jabbed-at-mia-camp-236648
09-04-2021||---||Gold chain snatched||Chandigarh, April 8 Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from a 57-year-old woman in Sector 23 here this evening. The incident was caught on a CCTV camera installed outside a house in the vicinity. The victim, identified as Anshu Katyal, was purchasing vegetables from a vendor outside her house when the miscreants targeted her. The suspect riding pillion got down from the motorcycle and started asking for an address from her. In the meantime, he snatched her chain. The suspects then escaped from the spot.  The police were informed about the incident. They have initiated an investigation into the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gold-chain-snatched-236649
