12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 424 COVID cases, one death||Chandigarh reported 424 cases of the coronavirus, taking the infection count to 31,167.The toll reached 400 with the death of a 48-year-old man, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases is 3,355 in the union territory, it said.The bulletin stated that 375 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 27,412.It said 3,43,981 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 3,11,760 tested negative while reports of 225 samples are awaited. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-424-covid-cases-one-death-238196
12-04-2021||---||Punjab health minister’s brother Amarjit Singh Sidhu is new Mohali mayor||Mohali, April 12Amarjit Singh Sidhu, brother of cabinet minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, was elected mayor of the Mohali Municipal Corporation after oath-taking ceremony of the newly elected councillors at MC Bhawan in Mohali on Monday.Amrik Singh Somal and Kuljit Singh Bedi were elected Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively.Meanwhile, expressing their resentment, Congress councillor and former senior deputy mayor Rishav Jain and wife Rajrani Jain (also councillor) and councillors of Azad Group of former mayor Kulwant Singh boycotted the ceremony after taking the oath.During the voting on February 14, Paramjit Singh Kahlon had filed a case against Amarjit Singh Sidhu for “rigging the polls” in Ward 10 during the MC election. The court had ordered re-polling in Ward 10 on February 17 and the results of all 50 wards were declared on February 18.Twenty-five seats were reserved for women and the Congress candidates won on 37 seats. None of the candidates of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the BJP won the election while 13 candidates of Azad Group had won. Councillors of Azad group would be main party sitting in opposition in the 50-member House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-health-ministers-brother-amarjit-singh-sidhu-is-new-mohali-mayor-238098
12-04-2021||Kritika Kanwar||At GMSH, patients collect Covid reports||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11Covid testing at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 (GMSH-16) is nothing short of a nightmare for suspected patients who have to wait for long to get reports after giving their samples. Sometimes, the duration of the wait even stretches up to four-five days, which leads to a delay in the treatment.Not only this, the help desk officials ask patients to collect their reports physically from counter number 16 near the OPD. Patients are supposed to be in quarantine till their reports are out.“When I gave my Covid sample for the RT-PCR test at the flu centre on April 7, I was told that my reports will be out in two days. When I did not receive any message from the hospital even on the third day, I called up their help desk and was told to visit counter number 16 to know about my Covid report. I was shocked as the doctors themselves advise home isolation to patients until their reports are out,” a Covid patient from Sector 32 said.“When I reached the counter, I found a long queue there. Many like me were queued up and did not know their Covid status. There was no social distancing. It was utter chaos. After running from pillar to post, I finally asked a doctor friend to log in from his ID to check my Covid status online. He told me that I was positive and sent me my reports. Imagine how many people I could have infected while standing in the queue?” said the patient.“Since private labs have been charging too much, we prefer a government hospital to get tested for Covid. Initially, doctors at the PGI refused to take my sample and sent me to the GMSH. I was told that I will get my report on my (phone) number within two days. It is my fifth day today and I know nothing of my Covid status. I was in home isolation for four days and did not receive any message regarding my report,” said a Khuda Lahora resident queued up at counter number 16.Sources at the GMSH said they only collected samples while the testing was done either at the PGI or the GMCH, Sector 32. This could also be one of the reasons for the delay in providing reports, they added.Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, GMSH, said, “Government hospitals are too busy with Covid cases. There might be some problem with the help desk. We will look into it to offer better services to people.”Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We will try to ensure that positive patients are not called to the hospital at any cost.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-gmsh-patients-collect-covid-reports-237804
12-04-2021||---||10-year-old boy killed in Dera Bassi roof collapse||Dera Bassi, April 11A 10-year-old boy died while four family members suffered injuries when a part of the roof of their house in Mirpur fell around 11 pm on Saturday.The family of five was fast asleep when the tragedy befell them. Residents rushed to the victims’ rescue on hearing their cries and brought them out of a pile of debris.The head of the family, Ram Kumar, 35, wife Geeta Rani 30, their son Amit Kumar, 15, daughter Deeksha, 13, and Harjit, 10, suffered injuries in the roof collapse.The victims were rushed to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital from where Harjit Singh was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he died during the treatment.Eyewitness said the earthen house was old and in a dilapidated condition. Residents alleged that the BPL family was sanctioned a grant of Rs1.5 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana for upgrading the house five years ago, but the money was not released to it.“Several houses in this village are old and dilapidated. Officials come and go but the grant never reaches us,” they alleged. Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma visited the site on Sunday morning and demanded compensation and a government job for a family member.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, “The child died due to suffocation as he got trapped in the debris. The family members do not wish to get the post-mortem conducted.”‘PMAY grant did not reach family’Eyewitness said the house was old and dilapidated. Residents alleged that the BPL family was sanctioned a grant of Rs1.5 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana for upgrading the house five years ago, but the money was not released to it.‘Child suffocated to death in debris’Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, “The child died due to suffocation as he got trapped in the debris. The family members do not wish to get the post-mortem conducted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-year-old-boy-killed-in-dera-bassi-roof-collapse-237805
12-04-2021||---||Linesman succumbs, JE booked for negligence||Panchkula, April 11An assistant linesman of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, who was critically injured and receiving treatment at the PGI, succumbed in the wee hours on Saturday.He was admitted to the hospital after receiving an electric shock while repairing a fault in Barwala on April 6.Now, on the complaint of the victim’s brother, the police have booked a Junior Engineer (JE) of the Electricity Department on the charge of negligence leading to lineman’s death.According to the FIR, the incident took place on April 6 around 10 am when the victim, Rajesh (30), had gone to repair a power cable near Barwala tehsil.The victim suffered a shock while he was perched on an electricity pole and collapsed. His brother, Mukesh, alleged before his brother could get off the pole, JE Balwinder Walia ordered the restoration of the power supply. The victim subsequently received a shock and fell down.He was rushed to the CHC Raipur Rani and from there to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.The complainant further alleged while the doctors at the Civil Hospital referred his brother to the PGI, the JE persuaded them to rather take him to Alchemist Hospital in Sector 21.“Upon reaching there, I saw the JE talking to a doctor at the hospital. I suspected that he may ask doctors to prepare a false report. I confronted him but he left the spot,” the FIR said. Around midnight, the victim was taken to the PGI, where he died. A case was registered against the accused.April 6 incidentOn April 6, the victim, Rajesh (30), had gone to repair a power cable near Barwala tehsil. He suffered a shock while he was perched on a power pole. His brother alleged that before Rajesh could get off the pole, JE Balwinder Walia ordered the restoration of the power supply. The victim subsequently received a shock and fell down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/linesman-succumbs-je-booked-for-negligence-237806
12-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Deprived of basic amenities for years, Dhanas sees a ray of hope||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11Though lack of basic amenities such as drinking water supply, sewerage and storm water system and proper roads have troubled Dhanas residents for years, they now see a ray of hope for the days ahead.Even two years after the village was merged into the MC, the things have not improved much. However, after Rs50 crore were recently sanctioned to the MC for the development of villages, the civic body has now started works on various fronts.Harbhajan Singh, former sarpanch of the village, said: “We often get dirty drinking water from tubewells in the village. Just three days ago, the water was yellowish in colour. Besides, sewerage and stormwater pipelines are worn out and need to be replaced. Roads in the entire village are in a poor shape.”Roads in poor shapeWe often get dirty drinking water from tube wells in the village. Besides, sewerage and stormwater pipelines are worn out and need to be replaced. Roads in the entire village are in a poor condition. —Harbhajan Singh, Ex-Sarpanch of dhanasFormer sarpanch Kuljeet Singh seemed hopeful for the days ahead. He underlined a few projects that the MC has started to work on. “Rs25 lakh was approved for a cremation ground on March 25. Laying of a pipeline for canal water supply is underway. The estimates for sewerage and stormwater system works were ready and soon, a tender will be floated,” he said.He, however, said three colonies (Chaman, Aman and Ambedkar) were carved out of the village, but there were no separate roads for them. “Since, they use the village road, it leads to jams. Other road recarpeting works also need to be done as soon as possible,” he said.Meanwhile, villagers said they were waiting for the day when the MC actually starts the works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deprived-of-basic-amenities-for-years-dhanas-sees-a-ray-of-hope-237808
12-04-2021||---||Minerva Academny win Namdhari U-17 Football League||Chandigarh, April 11Minerva Academy FC beat Chandigarh Football Academy 1-0 in the final to win Namdhari U-17 Football League. Fahad scored the solitary goal in the 52nd minute.The tournament was organised by Namdhari Football Academy.Earlier, Minerva kicked off their campaign with a 5-0 win against Sri Dashmesh Academy, while they beat Kick Football Academy 1-0 in their second match.Minerva boys played a goalless draw against FC Malerkotla before overcoming FC Aloona Tola and Namdhari FC (B).Though they lost 0-1 to Namdhari FC (A), Minerva topped the league table with a better goal difference.Minerva’s Himanshu Jangra was named the best striker for his eight goals in the tournament and the match-winning assist in the final.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minerva-academny-win-namdhari-u-17-football-league-237809
12-04-2021||---||Harmandeep wins yachting gold in Chandigarh state open Championship at Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, April 11Harmandeep Singh claimed gold medal on the concluding day of the Chandigarh State Open Yachting Championship at Sukhna Lake here today.Sidarth Kumar Chauhan bagged the silver, while Ashish Parmar returned home with the bronze medal.Dharambir, Vikas Thakur and Gaurav finished fourth, fifth and sixth, respectively.Earlier, the teams were divided into two fleets that raced three races each. The selected sailors contested against each other in six races on the final day of the championship.The prize distribution ceremony was held at the Lake Sports Complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harmandeep-wins-yachting-gold-in-chandigarh-state-open-championship-at-sukhna-lake-237810
12-04-2021||---||Samvir stuns top seed Shaurya, enters main draw||Chandigarh, April 11Samvir Singh stunned top seed Shaurya Goyal to seal a spot in the boys’ U-14 main draw on the opening day of the Roots-AITA CS(7) U-14 National Ranking Championship at Zirakpur today. Samvir won 6-2 6-4.Third seed Aryaveer Sharma blanked Mehtaab Singh 6-0 6-0, while Sumukh Marya registered an identical win over Gurpratap Singh. Abhinav Chaudhary edged out Himanish Brinda 6-2 7-6(1) to progress to the next level.Sukhraj Preet Singh registered a 6-2 7-5 win over, while Haralam Singh downed Manan Dhir 6-3 6-1. Parth Sharma showed the exit door to Kanwar Pratap Singh. Parth won 6-2 6-0.Gaurish Madaan survived a tough opening set to beat Jagteshwar Singh 7-6(3) 6-1.1st round resultsBoys’ U-14: Abhinav Chaudhary bt Akhil Beniwal 9-0, Sumukh Marya bt Pratyush Gupta 9-0, Yatharth Shekhawat bt Aarav Bishnoi 9-8(5), Haralam Singh bt Harman Singh 9-2, Kanwar Pratap Singh beat Sarveshwar Singh 9-0, Jagteshwar Singh bt Hardit Singh 9-4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samvir-stuns-top-seed-shaurya-enters-main-draw-237811
12-04-2021||---||Events, talks mark last day of PECFest||Chandigarh, April 11Events, including ‘F1 Challenge’ (ACM CSS), Electronica (Robotics society), hardware hackathon, metallurgy quiz (IIM PEC), were organised among others on the last day of the PECFest here today.Later, a session of PEC talks was organised during which Neha Jain, software engineer working with Facebook, interacted with students.She guided students, who wanted to work as software engineer in the MNCs.To inculcate different skill sets, hangout with successful entrepreneurs was organised by Entrepreneurship and Incubation Cell (EIC) of PEC. People from different walks of life shared their experiences during the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/events-talks-mark-last-day-of-pecfest-237812
12-04-2021||---||Wheat procurement starts at Chandigarh's Sector 39 grain market||Chandigarh, April 11The wheat procurement operation has started at Sector 39 grain market here.According to the UT Administration, a farmer will be paid Rs1,975 per quintal for his produce.All arrangements have been made for the procurement of wheat and the stakeholders have been told to follow Covid appropriate behavior. “We are expecting arrival of 2.5 to 3 lakh bags of wheat at the mandi during this procurement season,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wheat-procurement-starts-at-chandigarhs-sector-39-grain-market-237813
12-04-2021||---||2 swindlers held for duping Chandigarh woman of Rs 11.93 lakh||Chandigarh, April 11The Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police has arrested two swindlers, who had duped a city resident of Rs11.93 lakh by siphoning off money from her bank account. The suspects hail from Jamtara district of Jharkhand, infamous as hub of cyber crime in India.The victim, Sunita Dewan, a resident of Sector 23, had lodged a police complaint stating that she was not receiving SMS alerts after withdrawing money, following which she searched the customer care number of PNB on Google.The police said the complainant soon started receiving several calls claiming they were calling from PNB customer care and offered assistance to the victim.Considering the calls to be genuine, the victim shared the details of her ATM card, PIN and OTP received on her mobile phone. She later found that a sum of Rs11.93 lakh was transferred from her bank account. A case in this regard was registered in December last year.During investigation, a team, led by Inspector Devinder Singh, in-charge of the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell, arrested the suspects, Shabudeen Ansari Hamid Miya and Sarif Ansari, both natives of Jamtara district, on April 7. The duo had been brought to Chandigarh on transit remand.The police said a swipe machine, three mobile phones, a Paytm debit card and a DTH connection had been recovered from the suspects.The police stated that the suspects had cheated a number of people across the country posing as bank customer care executives. Sharing ATM card details, PIN, OTP costs her dearConsidering the calls to be genuine, the victim shared the details of her ATM card, PIN and OTP received on her mobile phone. She later found that a sum of Rs11.93 lakh was transferred from her bank account. A case in this regard was registered in December last year. The recoveriesThe police said a swipe machine, three mobile phones, a Paytm debit card and a DTH connection had been recovered from the suspects. The police stated that the suspects had cheated a number of people across the country posing as bank customer care executives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-swindlers-held-for-duping-chandigarh-woman-of-rs-11-93-lakh-237814
12-04-2021||---||Man nailed for snatching bag containing Rs 1L||Chandigarh, April 11The UT police have arrested a 52-year-old man for snatching a bag containing Rs1 lakh. The incident was reported on March 27.Complainant Dharmender Kumar, a native of Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, had reported that a person had told him that he can catch a bus for Muzaffarnagar from Sector 27. The suspect then took Dharmender close to the Sector 19/27 light point and fled after snatching his bag containing cash and clothes.A case in this regard was registered at the Sector 26 police station and an investigation was initiated into the matter.Later, a team led by Inspector Jasbir Singh, Station House Officer of the Sector 26 police station, arrested the suspect, who has been identified as Maheshwat Paswan, a resident of Muzaffarpur, Bihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-nailed-for-snatching-bag-containing-rs-1l-237815
12-04-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Zirakpur: Trees, electricity poles in middle of roads turn death traps for motorists||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, April 11At least three youths have lost their lives in road accidents due to trees, electricity poles and hoardings standing in the middle of roads in Zirakpur area in the past 20 days. Such traffic hazards in Zirakpur, Gazipur, Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla and Baltana areas often become cause of road mishaps for speeding vehicles and drivers not familiar to the area.Several precious lives have been lost due to these death traps, but the administration continues to turn a blind eye towards them.“The administration, PSPCL, MC and the traffic police have adopted a callous attitude towards addressing the issue,” said Siddhesh Jakhar, a resident of Jamuna Enclave, Zirakpur.On April 10, a joyride for two youths turned fatal when their car hit a tree in the middle of the road in Dhakoli.Recent deathsThe 26-year-old Kaithal native Vishal was driving the car at the time of the accident, while 25-year-old Harish from Amritsar was the co-passenger. Vishal was the only brother of his three sisters, while Harish was the only son of his widowed mother.Trees, electricity poles and hoardings stand in the middle of roads at several places in Dhakoli, Gazipur and Peer Muchalla areas, risking the lives of road users.On March 21, a 30-year-old motorcyclist died after his bike rammed into an electricity pole erected in the middle of the road near the Sukhna river bridge, Ghazipur. The motorcyclist, Vikasdeep, a resident of Sector 20, Panchkula, was going to Gazipur to oversee the construction work of his house. His brother, Ashwani Kumar, alleged that Vikasdeep’s motorcycle rammed into the pole after being hit by an unidentified vehicle. The police checked the CCTV footage, but nothing consequential came out of the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-trees-electricity-poles-in-middle-of-roads-turn-death-traps-for-motorists-237817
12-04-2021||---||Only 2,359 vaccinated on Day 1 of ‘Tika Utsav’||Panchkula, April 11Even as the four-day ‘Tika Utsav’ aims to accelerate the inoculation drive amid the second wave of coronavirus infections, only 2,359 eligible persons were administered the vaccine on Day 1 of the vaccine festival here today.The district administration has set a target of vaccinating 24,000 eligible beneficiaries – 6,000 each day – during the special vaccination drive between April 11 and 14.As many as 2,603 people were administered the vaccine on Saturday, 3,233 on Friday, 2,706 on Thursday and 1,367 on Wednesday.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said they would try to vaccinate 8,000 people tomorrow. However, she pointed out that it won’t be easy.Our strategy will be to ensure availability of vaccine at maximum sites and motivate eligible beneficiaries to come forward and get vaccinated, said Dr Jasjeet Kaur.“A little effort by civil society in removing the hesitancy towards vaccination can also help in increasing the numbers,” she said.“Our target is to cover 1.57 lakh population. Around 40 per cent has already been covered. We are trying to vaccinate as many as possible on a regular basis. Some areas require a focused approach,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-2-359-vaccinated-on-day-1-of-tika-utsav-237818
12-04-2021||---||Online CME on “Animals Models in Health and Disease” held at PGI||Chandigarh, April 11An online CME on “Animals Models in Health and Disease” was organised by Advanced Small Animal Research Facility of the PGIMER on the completion of the 10 years of the facility here on Sunday. Prof KK Talwar was the chief guest.The focus of the CME was to update basic scientists and clinicians about the use of animal models for various diseases. Scientists from India and the USA delivered lectures on the use of animal models for neurological, cardiovascular and cancer research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-cme-on-animals-models-in-health-and-disease-held-at-pgi-237819
12-04-2021||---||Son of Mohali DC’s PA, others accused of hooliganism||Mohali, April 11The management committee of Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88, Mohali, has complained to the police that 11 boys, including a son of Sunita Rani, PA to the Mohali DC, have been “playing loud music and creating hooliganism in the society for the past three nights at flat number 601, Tower A5”.Members of the management committee alleged that the flat was allotted to the PA to the Mohali DC to quarantine public servants who test positive for Covid while performing their duties.“When we reached the flat, we saw 11 boys in an inebriated condition on the floor with liquor bottles lying on their side. Abhinav Gautam, son of Sunita Rani, was also among those unauthorised occupants. None of them made any entry in the entry register of the society. Abhinav and others started abusing us and threatened us of dire consequences,” alleged SK Loona, a member of the management committee.Committee members alleged that besides flouting night curfew guidelines, the youths were also not following Covid-appropriate behaviour.Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said: “The flat is allotted to the PA to the Mohali DC. The suspects were taken to the Sohana police station in the morning and their antecedents were verified. Both parties have been called to the police station tomorrow morning. Based on their statements, further action will be taken.” Also flout night curfew guidelinesMembers of the management committee of Purab Premium Apartments alleged that besides flouting night curfew guidelines, the youths were also not following Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/son-of-mohali-dcs-pa-others-accused-of-hooliganism-237820
12-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh sees increase in Covid infectivity among older age groups||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11There has been an increase in infectivity rate among older age groups in Chandigarh in the past two months.The positivity rate among 60 years and above has risen by 4 per cent since February, while 2 per cent increase in infectivity has been observed in the 51 to 60 year age group.In the last few days, the daily cases in the city are touching the 400-mark. The positivity rate has also jumped to 13 per cent amid a massive spike in cases.A majority – 40 per cent – of those who are getting infected are in the age group of 20 to 40 years. However, the trend remains similar to what was observed before February.“Most of the infections are among older adults, and it has been seen that many of those infected are suffering from non-communicable diseases,” said Prof JS Thakur, Department of Community Medicine, PGIMER.“The elderly groups are also most susceptible to infection,” said Prof Thakur, adding “as far as youngsters are concerned, they contract infection owing to not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour”.Due to rise in infectivity among the elderly, the fatality rate is also higher in this age group.Seventeen persons in the city have succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 10 days, and a majority of those who died of the infection were aged above 60 years.In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 1.2 per cent every day.For every 100 confirmed cases, 88 have recovered from the virus and 11 are currently infected. Fact fileThe positivity rate among those aged 60 years and above has risen by 4% since February, while 2% increase in infectivity has been observed in the 51 to 60 age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-increase-in-covid-infectivity-among-older-age-groups-237821
12-04-2021||---||5 held for vandalising vehicles, opening fire in Sec 38 (West)||Chandigarh, April 11Three days after unidentified miscreants riding an SUV vandalised two vehicles at Sector 38 (West) and fired gunshots in the air, the UT police arrested five suspects, including four having a criminal past, all members of a gang based in Gohana, Haryana. Cops recovered three country-made pistols and a sword from their possession.The complainant, Davinder, had reported that he found the windscreens of his Tata Safari and his neighbour’s Zen car, which was parked near his house, smashed on April 8. The cameras installed outside the house were also broken. He checked the CCTV footage and found that five persons riding a Scorpio, bearing a Haryana number, had smashed the windscreens of both cars. The suspects were armed with sticks and swords, while one of them had a pistol with which he had opened fire.During the investigation, a team led by Inspector Chiranji Lal, SHO, Maloya police station, nabbed the members of a gang, identified as Raj Kumar (24), alias Kaku, a resident of Dadu Majra Colony, Abhishek (23), a resident of Sector 25, Monu (24), alias Marodi, a resident of Sector 25, who already has 20 cases registered against him, Mukesh (25), alias Gullu, and Harshdeep (26), alias Monu, both residents of Gohana.The police said the suspects wanted to create terror among shopkeepers to extort money from them. Immediately after this incident, they returned to Haryana to execute a murder plan, police said.However, they later returned to the city without committing the murder, the police added. They were hiding at a temple near Mullanpur from where they were arrested, the police said.CRIMINAL PASTRaj Kumar – He was booked in a murder case at the Sector 39 police station in 2013.Abhishek – He has two cases registered against him at the Sector 11 police station in 2018 and 2021.Monu – Monu was booked in 20 cases. The first case was registered against him in 2013. He was convicted in 11 cases, acquitted in three and discharged in one case.Mukesh – He has three cases registered against him in Haryana and was declared a PO (proclaimed offender) in one of the cases.Wanted to create terrorThe police said the suspects wanted to create a terror among shopkeepers. During the interrogation, the suspects confessed that they had planned to extend their influence in Chandigarh. They had plans to extort money from shopkeepers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-held-for-vandalising-vehicles-opening-fire-in-sec-38-west-237822
12-04-2021||---||Rs 4.04 crore stolen from bank in Chandigarh's Sector 34, guard missing||Chandigarh, April 11Around Rs4.04 crore was stolen from the currency chest of Axis Bank in Sector 34 here. The security guard, who was on duty on the intervening night of April 10 and 11, is suspected to be behind the theft.The suspect is identified as Sunil Kumar, a resident of Mohali, who has been working as a security guard for the past three years. He was working with a private security firm.Sources said the suspect went missing from the duty around 3 am. Punjab Police personnel, who were also on duty at the outer gate, became suspicious after the suspect didn’t return.Bank officials were informed and the records were scrutinised, which revealed that around Rs4.04 crore was missing. The police were informed about the incident following which they reached the spot and initiated an investigation.The footage of CCTV cameras installed there was scrutinised, which showed the suspect making multiple rounds in and out of the strong room.“It is suspected that the security guard kept stealing cash and stacked it somewhere outside the building,” said an official.A case has been registered in this connection at the Sector 34 police station.The police conducted a raid at the suspect’s house. However, he was not found there. “The suspect is absconding and raids are being conducted at various places to nab him,” the police said.The police said the antecedents of the suspect were being verified. His call detail records were also being scrutinised, they added.Sources said the suspect was having a dispute with his wife and they were living separately.Raids on to nab Sohana resident, say PoliceThe police conducted a raid at the house of the suspect, Sunil Kumar, at Sohana. However, he was not found there. “The suspect is absconding and raids are being conducted at various places to nab him,” the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-4-04-crore-stolen-from-bank-in-chandigarhs-sector-34-guard-missing-237823
12-04-2021||OPEN HOUSE||If 45+ vulnerable, so are people in 18 to 44 age group||Less time to ascertain side effects of vaccineIt is disturbing fact that ailments, viruses and disasters don’t differentiate on age, caste, creed, being rich or poor. All are vulnerable. Can doctors explain how those below 45 years are safe from the virus? The government is still experimenting with the vaccine against Covid because not much time has been given to ascertain its side effects on beneficiaries.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliWhat about people with drug allergy?People of all age groups should be allowed to get vaccinated. Many are hesitant about getting jabbed, but some real issues are not addressed by hospitals and media. I have drug allergy and could not get vaccinated. Doctors themselves are not sure whether persons like me should take the shot against Covid or not. Nobody or no forum is there to address the issue.IPS Anand, GurugramLower age for jab to improve herd immunityThere should be no age bar on vaccination. It sounds so ridiculous that elderly don’t come for vaccination and those below 45 years are not allowed to get jabbed against the virus. If vaccination is not opened for all age groups Covid pandemic will aggravate and soon the situation will be out of control. The more beneficiaries are vaccinated, the better it will be for herd immunity.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhBreaking transmission chain more importantMore and more people have shown up for getting jabbed after the start of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 for the people above 45 years age. While India grapples with the second wave of the coronavirus, it seems that vaccination should be open for all age groups. This will also prevent the wastage of jabs. Moreover, senior citizens go out of their houses occasionally. So, the main carriers of the Covid infection are the people who go out for work. If these young people get vaccinated, the chain of virus transmission might break resulting in fewer Covid cases.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhVaccination on doorstep for allIt is expected that the second wave of Covid-19 will cause more trouble unless basic precautions like keeping social distance, wearing mask and sanitising hands regularly are taken. It is high time that the vaccine is available for all age groups on the doorstep and that too on a war footing. Better late than never should be our motto to deal with the coronavirus.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliMass vaccination can contain virusSenior citizens have shown enough maturity by taking the first jab against the virus. Now, the working force must accept this as social challenge and get vaccinated without any further delay. There should be no age restriction and vaccination should be open to all those willing to get inoculated. Allowing beneficiaries of all age groups to get vaccinated is also necessary to have wider protection. Mass vaccination is the only way to tackle the situation and contain the spread of the coronavirus.Ryan Sood, Panchkula18 to 45 years group superspreaderOpen vaccination to beneficiaries in 18 to 45 years age group as this group is the superspreader of the infection in the country. This group accounts for 51 per cent recent surge in coronavirus cases. Vaccine protects people from Covid-19 infection and helps build herd immunity. There is no shortage of vaccines. There is a huge scope of augmenting the inoculation capacity through involvement of the private sector. The government should reduce the age bar on beneficiaries as those below 45 years go out for work and bring infection back to their families.Vijay Malia, Chandigarhhold camps in schools, collegesProfessors, schoolteachers and college students below 45 years should be vaccinated on priority along with others falling in this age bracket so that those going to educational institutions may not spread the virus. At least college students will be able to resume their classes after getting jabbed. If one teacher contracts virus, then studies of approximately 40 students will be affected for 15 days. Teachers should also be regarded as frontline workers and given vaccine. Vaccination camps can be held in schools and colleges for 100 per cent coverage of the population.Shimmi Jassal, ChandigarhNumber of young patients risingWith the spurt in daily Covid cases, a new trend is being witnessed, young coronavirus patients are increasing day by day, which is an alarming issue. This has necessitated vaccination of the younger generation along with elders to combat the pandemic. Sufficient availability of vaccine must be ensured for administering the second dose to beneficiaries, who have been jabbed once. An expert advice to finalise the minimum age of the person, who could be vaccinated, can also be sought.Gobind Ahuja, Chandigarhgive jab to everyone by all meansIt will be right step to lower the age of beneficiaries for vaccination. Sudden upsurge in Covid cases might induce a lockdown in the city. In such a scenario, all must be vaccinated irrespective of the age of the recipient. Similarly, domestic helps must be given the shot on priority.SC Luthra, ChandigarhVaccination, following guidelines only solutionIt is true that the expansion of the vaccination drive is the need of the hour. Those, who are ready to get vaccinated, should be administered the dose irrespective of their age or profession. We need to understand that vaccination and following the guidelines is the only solution to contain the virus. The authorities should remove hesitancy among people to get jabbed against virus. Special vaccination camps can be organised by the government and NGOs. Private institutions can also opt for voluntary vaccination of their employees. Not a single stone should be left unturned to make the vaccination process a success.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhVaccinate maximum to tackle pandemicWith Covid-positivity rate rising among the younger population, which is no longer confined to their homes, the government should include them for the vaccination. The authorities must seriously consider allowing all above 18, who are willing, to take the jab. To tackle the pandemic maximum beneficiaries should be vaccinated in the shortest possible time. Vaccination camps should be organised at the Police Lines, educational institutions, prisons, offices and industrial complexes. Mobile vaccination vans should be deployed in densely crowded places. Any complacency in following the Covid-appropriate behaviour at both the individual and institutional level will have repercussions. Ramping up sampling, testing and tracing contacts of Covid patients is urgently needed to containthe virus.Sanjay Chopra, Mohalionly Vaccine can save livesYes, the age bar on Covid vaccination should be lifted with immediate effect. More the number of people get vaccinated, less will be the positivity rate. Youngsters are more vulnerable to the virus due to their asymptomatic conditions. Time has come to jab beneficiaries on door-to-door basis. The fatality rate has been increasing from last one month, which indicates that only vaccination can save people from deadly virus. Lockdowns may reduce the virus spread, but the economy will crash. So, the better approach would be vaccination for all ages and at all places.Wg Cdr Jasbir singh Minhas (retd), MohaliInoculate all to check infectionThe surge of Covid cases during the second wave has reached an alarming point. Many schoolteachers and students are getting infected with the new strain of the virus. People at gatherings do not bother about the safety measures. The administration should inoculate beneficiaries among lower age groups so that the infection can be controlled to some extent. The public must adhere to Covid safety protocol as the curse of the pandemic has not subsided.MR Bhateja, NayagaonVaccinate below 45 yrs only if experts permitAs per reports, many eligible persons are not getting vaccinated. As such, doses of vaccine are wasted. It’ll be better to lower the age limit of beneficiaries for vaccination. All citizens of 18 years and above should be vaccinated if permitted by medical experts. Vaccination should be mandatory for all those eligible.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliThose who venture out are vulnerableUnion Health Ministry presently aims to administer the vaccine to those who ‘need’ it and not to those who ‘want’ it. Priority is decided on vulnerability, to reduce mortality and severity of the disease. The narrative is to be seen in a scientific way and not as a ploy in state-verses-centre one-upmanship politics. Logic supports flexibility in the age bar of 45 plus because all those, who go out for work or studies, intermingle the most and can contract virus. The apprehension that lifting age bar will flood vaccination centres is virtual as prior registration specifies the times lot and the centre. Wherewithal of educational institutions and other establishments can be used to set up ad hoc vaccination centres for people.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDon’t lift age bar on vaccinationThe age bar on the Covid-19 vaccination should not be lifted. Teenagers can be allowed to get vaccinated. Children’s immune system is different from adults and can respond differently to diseases. The research for Covid vaccine has to be repeated for children. Vaccination is the need of hour, but should be undertaken safely, while keeping in view its effects on different age groups.Adish Sood, AmlohAge bar okay, if there is waiting periodThe government should remove the age bar for vaccination. An app can be launched to register persons, willing to get vaccinated. This will create data of such people, who can be approached for giving the jab against the virus. Restriction on age can help if there is waiting period as it’ll prevent chaos at vaccination centres. But, in the present scenario, there is poor response from eligible beneficiaries to get vaccinated.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhRamp up vaccination drive to reach allPeople of all age groups must be vaccinated starting with healthcare workers. Vaccination drive must be ramped up as it will reduce virus transmission. As more vaccine stocks arrive, the government must expand the inoculation programme to cover more segments of the population.Anit Tandon, KhararVirus deadly for all age groupsAge bar on vaccination against Covid should be lifted. Vaccination should be open for everyone. People have to learn to live with the virus and get jabbed to ward off infection while following safety protocol strictly. Everyone is at risk of contracting the disease. The workforce, who are the sole bread winners of their families, must be vaccinated irrespective of the age group with any further delay.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliWill prevent Wastage of vaccine dosesAlthough senior citizens must be vaccinated on priority, yet vaccination drive must include persons below 45 years to curb the virus transmission. Hospitals are witnessing a surge in the number of young Covid patients. If the virus does not differentiate between age groups, why should we. The vaccination vials, Covishield and Covaxin, which contain 10 to 20 doses per vial, once opened must be used within four to six hours. By allowing people of all age groups to get inoculated wastage of vaccine doses can be prevented.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhWorkforce must be Inoculated firstPeople are not coming forward for vaccination, so the authorities concerned should open vaccination drive for all. Senior citizens can stay at home safely, but the younger group has to venture out for duty/work and to fulfil day to day requirements of the family. Cab drivers, rickshaw pullers, daily wagers like construction workers, hawkers and businessmen must be vaccinated on priority because if they contract virus their whole family will be ruined.Bharat Bhushan SharmaVaccinating teenagers may not be safeThe age limit for vaccination against Covid can be lowered to bring more people under the ambit of the inoculation drive. However, the authorities must ascertain sufficient availability of vaccine, the staff and infrastructure to administer doses. Also, scientists have tested vaccine only on adults. So, vaccinating people below 18 years may not be safe. Just vaccinating people is not a solution to control pandemic. More important is to enforce the Covid protocol and take safety measures. The idea that after vaccination no precautions are needed should also be dispelled.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhInoculate those who need the  JABThe government is still struggling to inoculate all those who are above 45 years as there is vaccine hesitancy due to various reasons. Ideally, the age bar should be lifted. All should be considered for vaccination as that will help in creating herd immunity. But, at this juncture, this will not be possible due to vaccine supply constraints. Further, vaccine should be first given to those, who genuinely need it and not, who want it. The government should increase vaccine manufacturing capacity. It’s not a time for playing politics at the centre and state level when Covid infection is once again gripping the entire country.Dr Anil Yadav, ChandigarhInvolve Pvt sector in campaignVaccination is a single evidence-based resource for us to restrict Covid cases by raising personal immune response and pave the way for herd immunity and decrease severity of the disease. Experts have emphasised that face masks and social distancing are the best precautionary steps to ward of infection. India has more than adequate vaccine production capacity. The government should involve private health sector to ramp up vaccination drive and remove hesitancy among beneficiaries to get inoculated. Speedy massive vaccination of all age groups along with effective disease surveillance is needed.Dr Manjinder Kaur, ManaliWill create shortage of vaccine dosesVaccines shouldn’t be administered to all above 18 years because it will lead to shortage of doses. At present, many states are facing a shortage of vaccines. The government should open vaccination drive gradually so that every citizen is inoculated against Covid.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONAs second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is at its peak, will night curfew in Chandigarh and Mohali help in restraining the spread of the deadly virus?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/if-45-vulnerable-so-are-people-in-18-to-44-age-group-237826
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees three deaths, 402 fresh cases||The city recorded 402 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 3,307. With three more deaths, the toll has reached 399. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 30,743. A total of 357 patients recovered. TNS4 succumb, 300 test positive in MohaliMohali: Four more fatalities were witnessed in Mohali district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 477. Meanwhile, 300 fresh cases surfaced till Sunday evening and 556 were cured of the virus. The total number of positive cases in the district so far is 31,440. There are 4,749 active cases in the district. TNS116 contract virus in Panchkula districtPanchkula: After three consecutive days of over 200 cases, Panchkula on Sunday reported 116 new cases of Covid-19, taking the active caseload to 1,409. With no fresh fatality, the toll remained 158. Of 14,853 cases reported so far, 13,286 patients have recovered from the disease. The recovery rate stands at 89.44 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-three-deaths-402-fresh-cases-237829
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||4 arrested for violating curfew in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-arrested-for-violating-curfew-in-chandigarh-237837
