13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Doctor's jewellery worth Rs 10 lakh stolen from hospital locker||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-jewellery-worth-rs-10-lakh-stolen-from-hospital-locker-238535
13-04-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal ||Locals inconvenienced as Zirakpur's Dhakoli is declared containment zone||Tribune News Service Zirakpur, April 13Chaos reigned at K-Area lightpoints and other entry points to Dhakoli on Tuesday after police barred public entry in and out of the area.Locals were taken unawares as the Mohali administration orders of Dhakoli being declared a containment zone came on Monday night.Some of the Baltana residents said they were unaware of the orders and police are not allowing them to go for their work in and around Dhakoli.A teacher in a private school, who commutes from Dhakoli to Gazipur, said, ''There was no restriction around 7.30 am but I am not sure if the police will allow me to return home in the evening.''Zirakpur DSP Amroj Singh said, ''No movement will be allowed in the area according to the administration's order. The public was informed well in time.'' Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, ''We have allowed the commuters till noon but after that restrictions will be imposed. Those who have already left for offices may return home by showing their residence proof (Aaadhar card) to police. I have briefed the police about it. But from Wednesday no movement of people will be allowed.''Dhakoli SMO, vaccination staff member, 2 others test Covid positive Dhakoli Senior Medical Officer Pommy Chatrath, a Lady Health Visitor (LHV) involved in covid vaccination, an Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), and a staff member of Sub-Divisional Hospital, Dhakoli, have tested Covid positive in the last one week. The Mohali administration declared Dhakoli a containment zone on April 12. With 850 cases in the past one week, the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur in Mohali district has become a Covid hotspot. Around 1,100 Covid cases have surfaced from the Dhakoli area since April 1.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said Dhakoli had been converted into a containment zone in view of the high number of cases concentrated in the area for the past four days. Though no curfew had been imposed, people would not be allowed to move out till further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/locals-inconvenienced-as-zirakpurs-dhakoli-is-declared-containment-zone-238520
13-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Minister Balbir Sidhu’s brother Amarjit Sidhu elected Mayor of Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 12Amarjit Singh Sidhu, aka Jeeti Sidhu, brother of Punjab Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, was elected the Mayor at the first General House meeting of the Mohali Municipal Corporation held at MC Bhawan here today.Amarjit Sidhu (48) will hold the post for two and a half years. Punjab Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was present at the meeting as an observer.Amrik Singh Somal and Kuljit Singh Bedi were elected the Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor, respectively. Somal, a two-time councillor, had defeated former Mayor Kulwant Singh in the elections held on February 14.Meanwhile, expressing resentment, Congress councillor and former Senior Deputy Mayor Rishav Jain and his wife Rajrani Jain boycotted the meeting alleging that they were ignored by their party. Councillors of the Azad Group and other Independents also boycotted the meeting.Former Deputy Mayor Manjeet Singh Sethi said on the one hand, the Punjab Government had been making tall claims regarding giving 50 per cent representation in the civic body poll to women, while on the other, no woman councillor had been elected to the post of Senior Deputy Mayor or Deputy Mayor.Cabinet Minister Sidhu said they had declared that Rishav Jain would be the Mayor after two and a half years, while Narpinder Singh Rangi would be the Senior Deputy Mayor. He said the Deputy Mayor would be decided later. He said the names had been decided by the party high command.In the elections held for 50 wards, the Congress had won 37 seats, while the Azad Group won 10 and three seats went to Independents. For the first time in the history of the MC, not a single councillor from the SAD and the BJP is part of the House.Covid norms go for tossEven as the state government has been exhorting people to wear a mask and maintain social distance, councillors paid no heed to the guidelines. A majority of the councillors, including the newly elected Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, were seen without a mask and did not maintain the distance despite the fact that Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was present at the MC House meeting.A supporter of Amarjit Singh Sidhu had brought a tree-pruning machine and showered flower petals from atop on the leaders after they came out of MC Bhawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-balbir-sidhus-brother-amarjit-sidhu-elected-mayor-of-mohali-238353
13-04-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||11 yrs on, Chandigarh to conduct wildlife census||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12To prepare an inventory of wild animals, the UT Forest Department has decided to carry out the second wildlife census in the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said the five-day exercise would be undertaken in the first week of May.The Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) had agreed to provide technical support to the department and a three-day training of the staff would begin from April 22, he said, adding that the exact dates of the census would be finalised soon.The department had to send a reminder to the institute as the months of March and April were the best time to prepare a list of wild animals.The first wildlife census was carried out in the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, spread over an area of 26 sq km in the catchment area of Sukhna Lake, in 2010.He said the second census could not be carried out in March/April last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent imposition of lockdown in the country.Being season specific, the second wildlife census could not be carried out in 2020 as the best period to spot the animals had passed due to the lockdown, said Dalai, adding that it was difficult to locate the animals in other seasons.A team of experts from the WII, environmentalists, representatives of NGOs and biology and zoology students from Panjab University took part in the first census.The team took three days to count the nine species of mammals and 65 species of birds by using direct evidence, including the animals and birds spotted in the area, and indirect evidence such as footprints and animal faeces.As per the first census report prepared by the WII, the population of sambar in the sanctuary was between 1,000 and 1,200 and peafowl population was between 900 and 1,100. However, leopards were not spotted directly, but their foot marks were found.The main animals spotted in the sanctuary include sambar, chital, pangolin (anteater), wild boar, jackal, small Indian civet, jungle cat, porcupine, Hanuman langur, rhesus monkey, Indian hare, common mongoose and three- striped palm squirrel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-yrs-on-chandigarh-to-conduct-wildlife-census-238355
13-04-2021||---||Symptomatic devotees to be tested at Mansa Devi temple||Panchkula, April 12Amid the raging pandemic, the district authorities have braced themselves for an influx of devotees at the Mansa Devi temple and the Kali Mata temple, Kalka, during the Navaratri festival, beginning tomorrow.All devotees entering the shrine will have to undergo screening. Rapid antigen tests will be conducted for those found symptomatic. The facility would only be available at the Mansa Devi temple, said the Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur.180 devotees in 15 minutesAccording to the finalised arrangements, only 180 devotees will be allowed during a 15-minute slot to pay obeisance through an e-token system at the temple.The capping is 120 persons for 15 minutes at the Kali Mata temple, Kalka.To get an e-token, devotees are required to fill certain details on the board website — www.mansadevi.org.in. The e-token will then be sent to their mobile phones. Devotees willing to have “preferential darshan” at the Mansa Devi temple can pay Rs50 per person and register themselves. A devotee can make the registration for a maximum of 10 members at a time.No ‘bhandara’, cultural programme‘Bhandara’, cultural programmes and other entertainment activities will be prohibited during the fest.20 nakas set upAs many as 20 nakas have been set up in and around the Mansa Devi temple to ensure law and order and free flow of traffic. People have been advised to opt for online darshan and visit the temple in a limited number.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/symptomatic-devotees-to-be-tested-at-mansa-devi-temple-238358
13-04-2021||Panchkula||224 fresh cases, one death in Panchkula||The district reported 224 fresh Covid cases on Monday (including those found infected on Sunday who have now been traced), taking the tally to 15,077. The district also saw a Covid death. A 68-year-old woman from Sector 16 succumbed to the virus. The toll now stands at 159. While 13,573 patients have recovered from the disease so far, the active caseload is 1,345. — TNS4,448 vaccinatedOn the second day of “Tika Utsav” or vaccine festival, as many as 4,448 eligible people were given the Covid vaccine at 37 sites. Over 96,000 doses of the vaccine have been administered in the district so far. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/224-fresh-cases-one-death-in-panchkula-238360
13-04-2021||Panchkula||Night curfew in Panchkula||The Haryana Government has imposed a night curfew in all districts, including Panchkula, which will remain in force between 9 pm and 5 am. The curfew came into effect on Monday night and will be in place till further orders.Violators will be liable to actions as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and under Section 188 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-curfew-in-panchkula-238363
13-04-2021||nchkula||ASI hit by car, driver held for murder bid||The police have booked five persons — Sandeep, Virkrishan, Budhi Raja, Bintu Raja and Randhir Singh — residents of Chandigarh, on a charge of abetment to suicide after a record-keeper at Shakti Bhawan in Sector 6 allegedly committed suicide by taking poison due to alleged harassment over loan recovery on Saturday. According to the FIR, the victim, Sachin Tyagi, had taken several loans from them. He was struggling to pay interest in due time for the past three months and lenders had started putting pressure on him to repay the loans. Before committing suicide, he sent a WhatsApp message to his wife and maternal cousin Nitin Tyagi in which he blamed the suspects, stating that he was left with no option but to take his life. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asi-hit-by-car-driver-held-for-murder-bid-238365
13-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Now, encroachers will have to collect their seized goods from Chandigarh MC store||Tribune News ServiceChandigaeh, April 12With encroachments on corridors outside shops/showrooms rampant across the city, the MC stopped releasing the seized goods of encroachers on the spot from today.The violators will now have to collect the seized items from the MC’s store in the Industrial Area. They have to pay Rs 2,000 for any violation. At present, they pay to the MC’s Enforcement Wing’s staff on the spot.“They found it very easy to pay Rs 2,000 on the spot and get their goods back. Now, the system of collecting the stuff from the MC store may act as a deterrent. It will be a hassle to them and will also involve additional cost,” said an enforcement staff official.Earlier too, the MC had this system in place. However, after the online system of payment started, it was decided to release the stuff on the spot after getting the payment. This was more of a relief to the violators as they found paying the meagre amount no issue at all. Sectors such as 32, 34, 35, 35, 17, 15, 22, 21, 27, 28, 29, 19 and markets on Madhya Marg are full of encroachments. Even in small colonies and villages of the UT, encroachment outside shops is widespread.“The MC should be held answerable for the encroachments,” said Ranjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 21. MC officials, however, maintained that they were issuing around 80 to 100 challans every month and carrying out regular encroachment drives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-encroachers-will-have-to-collect-their-seized-goods-from-chandigarh-mc-store-238367
13-04-2021||---||Chandigarh: Guard took Rs 4.04 cr from Axis Bank in 2 bags||Chandigarh, April 12The 33-year-old security guard, Sunil Kumar, who is accused of stealing Rs4.04 crore from the currency chest of Axis Bank in Sector 34, reportedly took the money in two bags.The amount was in the denomination of Rs2,000. The CCTV footage of one of the cameras installed on the premises shows the guard taking two bags between 3.09 am and 3.11 am.Rs 4.04 crore stolen from bank in Chandigarh's Sector 34, guard missingThe police said the suspect transferred the money in the bags and then fled when police personnel were not alert.According to the FIR, the money was stolen from one of the boxes after breaking it.Sunil Kumar is a native of a village in Morni, Panchkula, and was residing in Mohali. The police raided his village, but he was not found there. His family was also questioned by the police.He is suspected to have fled on his motorcycle. “He arrived for his duty on a motorcycle, which was not found at the spot in the morning,” said a police official.Meanwhile, the police today decided to announce a reward of Rs10,000, which will be given to anyone providing information about the suspect leading to his arrest. They even prepared a pamphlet. However, later the police claimed that they had not finalised the reward amount yet.The police said the security guard’s mobile phone was switched off after the incident. His call detail records were being scrutinised, said a police official.The police also questioned friends of the security guard to know his whereabouts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-guard-took-rs-4-04-cr-from-axis-bank-in-2-bags-238370
13-04-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University sportspersons’ wait for cash awards ends||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12After a year’s wait, Panjab University (PU) sportspersons finally got cash awards.Several meritorious sportspersons, who were scheduled to get cash awards in March 2020 (2019 session) for bringing laurels to the university in various international, national and state tournaments held in the previous session, are now a relieved lot.The Directorate of Sports, PU, organises its annual prize distribution function in the last week of March every year. However, due to the countrywide lockdown, the authorities did not organise the event.The delay in releasing awards was extended further for one reason or the other. Now, the department has finally released the amount.“Cash awards amounting to over Rs1.5 crore have been given to the beneficiaries. The rest of amount will also be dispersed in a day or so. The delay was for technical reasons, but the department is committed for the welfare of the players,” said Prof Prashant Kumar Gautam, University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management, who has been given the additional charge of the Director Sports (PU).Last session, the department had distributed the cash prize of approximately Rs2 crore. This session, in addition to the international, national and state achievers, those who performed in the 1st Khelo India University (Odisha) Games were also honoured.In February this year, hundreds of sportspersons had sent a legal notice for not getting cash awards for year 2019. The issue soon picked up the heat as the PU had won the last two editions of the prestigious Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy.Reimbursements soonPU players, who participated in the 30th Summer Universiade (University) Games in Napoli (Italy) from July 3 to 14 in 2019, will also now soon get the entitled reimbursements. Players claimed that their expenses included money spent on air travel tickets (to and fro), kits, blazers, cancellation of tickets and others. The total reimbursement amount came down to approximately Rs2 lakh per player, which was to be reimbursed after the production of bills. As many as 16 players from the PU and its affiliated colleges were selected to participate in the championship. “The reimbursement process has also been started and the players will soon get their entitled amount,” said Gautam. The players had claimed that they have approached the officials many a time, but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-sportspersons-wait-for-cash-awards-ends-238372
13-04-2021||Mohali||Parth Sharma defeats Anuj Pal, enters next round||Parth Sharma logged a comeback 0-6, 6-3(10-8) win over third seed Anuj Pal to move into the next round of boys’ U-14 category in the ongoing Roots-AITA CS (7) National Ranking Championship.Akshat Dhull, meanwhile, easily defeated Himanish Brinda 6-0, 6-1 and Nirvaan Singh ousted Samvir Singh 6-2, 6-2. Aryaveer Sharma defeated Akshit Ratti and Divyam Sharma beat Kirtarth Singh by identical scores of 6-0, 6-3. Advit Tiwari faced a tough resistance from Aarya Vaibhav before logging a 3-6, 6-3(8) win. Abhinav Sangra registered an identical hard-fought 7-6(3), 6-2 win over Sukhraj Preet and Aarush Sharma defeated Rehaandeep Singh 6-3, 6-1.In the girls’ U-14 category, Ira Chadha outclassed Aisha Gupta 6-0, 6-1 and Ekam Kaur overpowered Paavni Panwar 6-4, 6-2. Agampreet Kaur logged a 6-1, 6-1 win over Mannat Awasthi and Gurnaaz Toor defeated Ajenika Puri 6-2, 6-0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parth-sharma-defeats-anuj-pal-enters-next-round-238374
13-04-2021||---||Additional constructions in CHB units: Temporary exemption from demolition extended till Dec||Chandigarh, April 12The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to extend the temporary exemption from immediate demolition of additional constructions in CHB dwelling units up to December 31, subject to payment of penalty charges on the additional area.As per the order issued by Manoj Parida, UT Adviser-cum-CHB Chairman, additional construction in CHB dwelling units were earlier given temporary exemption from immediate demolition up to December 31, 2020, subject to payment of penalty charges and terms and conditions provided in the order issued on July 15, 2019.The CHB had allowed the allottees to self-certify the area of additional construction to work out the applicable fee/penal charge. In case of any complaint, the CHB may check the self-declared area by the allottee and take further action in the matter.However, the allottees, who do not deposit the penal charge on the basis of self-certified area, may be issued notices of demolition/cancellation thereafter.The penal charges are imposed in view of the fact that demolition of additional construction at large scale may eventually be the only alternative. However, the allottees may get some time to rectify these violations in conformity with the need-based changes orders.In 2019, the CHB allowed residents to regularise many of the unauthorised construction in their flats. The regularisation policy was announced in 2017, but only 40 applications were received. Later, a survey conducted by the CHB revealed that 90 per cent of its nearly 60,000 dwelling units had massive structural alterations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/additional-constructions-in-chb-units-temporary-exemption-from-demolition-extended-till-dec-238376
13-04-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Farmers' agitation: Elderly Nihang alleges harassment by Chandigarh police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12Laabh Singh, a slouching, frail, old man, believed to be in his 80s, has been frequenting the protests against new farm laws in the city. Dressed in the traditional blue “baana”, with kirpans in his hands, he identifies himself as a Nihang, and has sworn to peacefully sit at one of the dividers facing Matka Chowk till the farmers’ demands are met. However, today, Laabh Singh had to brave not just the scorching summer heat, but also alleged harassment by cops.“I have been sitting here since March 6. I come here at 5 am everyday. I have sworn that I will not budge an inch till the farmers’ demands are met. However, this afternoon, the police came and harrassed me no end,” Singh begins to tell his story as videos of him and other protesters at the chowk do the rounds on Instagram.He continues, “Tomorrow, as part of Basakhi celebrations, I have got some ration, just wheat, sugar and ghee, for prasad. I’ll do the ardaas here, offer my prayers for the farmers and distribute the prasad. However, the police asked me to remove my bag of ration and even tore the ‘chaddar’ (bedsheet) I sat on. What kind of behaviour is this?”Satnam Singh Tanda of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta, who rushed to the chowk on getting to know of Laabh’s ordeal, shared, “This is not the first time the police have come here to harass this old man, who can barely speak. His kirpans were taken by the police earlier. This is plain humiliation. Baba ji cannot even walk properly. He is just peacefully protesting here. Are the police trying to provoke a reaction?”Rajwinder Gill, who also reached the spot, said, “When I saw the police taking away Baba ji’s umbrella, I could not believe it. When I confronted them, they said they had orders to remove him from the chowk. When I asked them to show the orders, they didn’t have an answer. They just left when more and more protesters started gathering to support Baba ji.”The Sector 17 SHO refused to comment or reply to messages sent by this correspondent. DSP (Central) Krishan Kumar said he was on leave. DSP Rashmi Yadav, who is substituting for Kumar, said, “Talk to the SP (City).”SP (City) Ketan Bansal said, “I wasn’t at the spot, but we can’t allow weapons at the chowk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-agitation-elderly-nihang-alleges-harassment-by-chandigarh-police-238377
13-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||House-to-house survey in Mohali soon||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 12The administration will soon carry out a house-to-house survey in the district to identify all healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) and people aged above 45 and ask them to get themselves vaccinated.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan here today issued orders directing sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to appoint supervisors and BLOs with static teams/Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) to identify all HCWs, FLWs and people aged above 45 through house-to-house survey. He also directed to set a daily target of vaccinating 3,000 beneficiaries in each sub-division in the district.Dayalan directed the MC Commissioner to put up flexes urging people to get vaccinated and signboards in all major locations guiding them to vaccination centres.He said it would be the responsibility of officers, including general manager, district industries, executive engineer, PPCB, area SHOs, Assistant Labour Commissioner, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner, and District Education Officers, to motivate people for vaccination in industrial units, brick-kilns, factories, marriage palaces, restaurants, bars, shops, etc.He said these officers would also report that as to how many people they had been able to motivate for vaccination each day. All leave/station leave, including gazetted holidays, stand cancelled.He said failure to adhere to these directions would attract criminal penalty as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and relevant provisions of the IPC.Leave cancelledDistrict Magistrate Girish Dayalan said these officers would also report that as to how many people they had been able to motivate for vaccination each day. All leave/station leave, including gazetted holidays, stand cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/house-to-house-survey-in-mohali-soon-238378
13-04-2021||---||Weeds removed from Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, April 12 To maintain the beauty of the major landmark of the city, the UT Engineering Department has started removing weeds and lotus plants from the regulator end of Sukhna Lake. CB Ojha, Chief Engineer, UT, said the process to clean the lake would continue till the arrival of monsoon season. The drive would be speeded up as water would start receding in the lake. He, however, ruled out de-siltation of the lake this year as its water level was still high. The lake faces the problem of weed and lotus due to high nutrient level, which is conducive to the growth of aquatic weed. A few years ago, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the UT Administration to remove weeds from the lake.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weeds-removed-from-sukhna-lake-238379
13-04-2021||---||Housing Board finalises pending disputed cases||Chandigarh, April 12The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has finalised all pending disputed cases under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) Scheme of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said four more families were found to be eligible under the scheme after disputed cases were settled down. A mini-computerised draw for allotments of flats at Maloya-I to these four eligible applicants was today held.He said in November and December last year, a total of 1,703 families of the pre fab shelters in Sector 56 were relocated to EWS flats at Maloya-I under the ARHCs scheme.Accordingly, a total of 1,707 families of pre-fab shelters have been allotted flats in Maloya under the scheme,” he said, adding that this initiative of the UT Administration had not only provided an opportunity for dignified living to the families but also the government land worth over Rs1,200 crore had been recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/housing-board-finalises-pending-disputed-cases-238380
13-04-2021||---||Dhakoli declared containment zone||Mohali, April 12In view of the surge in Covid cases in the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur, the district administration today declared it a containment zone.With 850 cases in the past one week, the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur in Mohali district has become a Covid hotspot. Around 1,100 Covid case have surfaced from the Dhakoli area since April 1.Confirming the same, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said Dhakoli had been converted into a containment zone in view of the high number of cases concentrated in the area for the past four days. Though no curfew had been imposed, people would not be allowed to move out till further orders.Dayalan said there would be 100 per cent testing of people residing in this zone and till then no one would be allowed to enter or leave the area. He said after testing, every eligible person in the area would be vaccinated before opening the containment zone. What else has been decidedThere will be 100 per cent testing of people residing in this zone and till then no one would be allowed to enter or leave the area. After testing, every eligible person in the area will be vaccinated before opening the containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-declared-containment-zone-238381
13-04-2021||Mohali||10 nabbed for hooliganism at Mohali's Purab Apartments||Ten youths were arrested for hooliganism and flouting Covid norms at Purab Apartments in Sector 88 here on Sunday night. The police have also seized two cars from the suspects. They have been identified as Arundeep, Parampreet, Gurvinder, Amanjot, Pantprakash, Arshpreet Singh, Simranpreet Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Amanpreet Singh and Parvinder Singh. A case has been registered against them under Section 188 of the IPC at the Sohana police station. The suspects were later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-nabbed-for-hooliganism-at-mohalis-purab-apartments-238382
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure all HCWs get jabbed, GMCH-32 asks dept heads||The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has issued a letter to heads of all departments to ensure that all healthcare workers (HCWs) are vaccinated during ‘Tika Utsav’.The letter issued by the Director-Principal reads, “In compliance with the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, all categories of staff and students of the GMCH/MHI/College of Nursing, Chandigarh, are hereby directed to get themselves vaccinated under the “Tika Utsav” drive immediately.”“As the compliance report is to be submitted to the higher authorities by tomorrow, all HODs, including MS, JDA, branch in-charges, CRs of all classes, contractors, supervisors, etc., have to ensure that all staff/students get themselves vaccinated by Monday evening. Staff members and students, who are on leave, must also be informed regarding this drive,” it reads further.However, some healthcare workers of the hospital say the directions for ensuring vaccination to all stands against the very mandate of the government that vaccination is a “voluntary” exercise.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal of GMCH-32, said: “We are not forcing anyone for vaccination. This is a voluntary exercise, but the HoDs have been told to call each and every healthcare worker and counsel them for vaccination.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-all-hcws-get-jabbed-gmch-32-asks-dept-heads-238383
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 424 cases||At 662 cases, Mohali sees pandemic’s biggest spikeMohali: The district witnessed the highest single-day spike as 662 cases surfaced during the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, 414 patients were cured of the virus and one death was reported till Monday evening. So far, the total number of cases in the district stands at 32,102. There are 4,996 active cases with 478 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-424-cases-238384
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Fire in jungle area of Sector 49||Electricity cable stolen in cityChandigarh: An unknown person stole an electricity cable from Kishangarh. The police have registered a case against an unknown person on the complaint of Sanjeev Saini at the IT Park police station. TNSBid to steal BSNL cables, 1 bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked an unknown person for an attempt to steal BSNL cables. Complainant Ritu Garg, SDO, BSNL, Panchkula, reported that an unknown person pulled out two cables from the BSNL existing ducts near Gate No. 3, MHC, Mani Majra, on the intervening night of March 21 and 23. The suspect made multiple cuts on these cables with a motive of theft. A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNS2 booked under Mining ActZirakpur: The police have registered a case against a truck driver, Kulwant Singh, and its owner Gurvinder Singh, both residents of Mithayara village, under the Mining Act at the Zirakpur police station. The police stopped an earth-laden tipper near the Chhat light point. During checking, the driver could not produce valid documents, following which the vehicle was seized. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fire-in-jungle-area-of-sector-49-238385
13-04-2021||---||5 booked for abetting suicide||Panchkula, April 12The police have booked five persons on a charge of abetment to suicide after a record-keeper at Shakti Bhawan in Sector 6 allegedly committed suicide by taking poison due to alleged harassment over loan recovery on Saturday.According to the FIR, the victim, Sachin Tyagi, had taken several loans from them.“He used to pay Rs1 lakh instalment every month on a Rs 15 lakh loan, but was struggling to pay interest in due time for the past three months and lenders had started putting pressure on him to repay the loans,” the contents of the alleged WhatsApp note sent by the victim to his wife and maternal cousin stated.The note indicated that the victim was in a partnership with the suspects to issue loans to others.Citing his bad health, the victim had sought more time to clear the dues.However, the suspects had issued life threats to the victim on several occasions.Tired of harassment, the victim took the extreme step.Before committing suicide, he sent a WhatsApp message to his wife and maternal cousin Nitin Tyagi in which he blamed the suspects, stating that he was left with no option but to take his life.He was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 from where he was referred to the PGI, where he died during treatment yesterday.The FIR has been filed against Sandeep, Virkrishan, Budhi Raja, Bintu Raja and Randhir Singh, residents of Chandigarh, under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) at the Sector 20 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-booked-for-abetting-suicide-238396
13-04-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Three run over by CTU bus in Anandpur Sahib||Three persons were crushed to death and another seriously injured by a Chandigarh Transport Undertaking bus here today.The deceased have been identified as Veena Devi and Rama Devi, both from Rurki village near Bahadurgarh in Patiala, and Mohammad Yashan (55), a migrant labourer belonging to West Bengal. Subash Rai, also from West Bengal, who was injured, was taken to the local Civil Hospital, from where he was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. While the deceased women were returning home after visiting their relatives at nearby Tapparian (Nangli) village, the other victims were on their way to work.SHO Harkirat Singh said the bus was on its way from Nangal to Chandigarh when it hit four pedestrians near Bhanupali village at 7.30 am. Veena and Mohammad Yashan died on the spot, while Rama succumbed to injuries on way to hospital. The bus staff fled the spot after the accident, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-run-over-by-ctu-bus-in-anandpur-sahib-238269
13-04-2021||---||Dhakoli area of Zirakpur declared containment zone as Covid cases surge||Mohali, April 12In view of the surge in Covid cases the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur, the district administration here on Monday declared the area as containment zone.With 850 cases in past one week Dhakoli area of Zirakpur in Mohali district has become the hotspot as maximum number of cases has surfaced in the area. About 1,100 Covid positive cases have surfaced in the Dhakoli area since April 1.Confirming the same Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said Dhakoli has been converted into containment zone in view of the high number of cases concentrated in the area for the last four days. He said even though no curfew has been imposed but people would not be allowed to move out till further orders.Dayalan said there shall be 100 per cent Covid testing of the people residing in this zone and till then no one would be allowed to enter or leave the area. He said after the Covid testing every eligible person in the area would be vaccinated before opening the containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-area-of-zirakpur-declared-containment-zone-as-covid-cases-surge-238202
