15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 412 fresh COVID-19 cases||Chandigarh reported 412 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday. With this, the union territory’s case count has reached 32,397, a medical bulletin said.There are 3,371 active cases in Chandigarh.As many as 409 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 28,619, the bulletin stated.So far, 3,52,815 samples have been taken for testing. While 3,19,357 samples have tested negative, reports of 65 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-412-fresh-covid-19-cases-239511
15-04-2021||Roorkee||IIT-Roorkee student from Chandigarh dies at quarantine centre; had tested negative for COVID||A student died at a COVID quarantine centre on the IIT campus here after he tested negative for the infection, prompting the authorities to launch a magisterial probe.The 23-year-old MTech student, a resident of Chandigarh, died on Wednesday night.Garhwal Division Commissioner Ravinath Raman said the RT-PCR test report of the IIT student had come out negative recently.A magisterial inquiry will be launched into the incident to find out the cause of his death, he said.Eighty-nine students of the IIT-Roorkee tested positive for COVID-19 recently, prompting the authorities there to declare three buildings on its campus as containment zones. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iit-roorkee-student-from-chandigarh-dies-at-quarantine-centre-had-tested-negative-for-covid-239460
15-04-2021||---||Mandal: Make GST regulations trader-friendly||Chandigarh, April 14A delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has handed over a memorandum containing some suggestions for a simple and trader-friendly goods and services tax (GST) to UT Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner Rakesh Popli.CBM president Charanjiv Singh said their main suggestions included only three standard tax slabs of 0%, 5% and 15%, permission for submitting revised GST returns, doing away with the provision of criminal cases and instead imposing only penalty in case of any lapse in the GST return.GST coordination committee chairman Ram Karan Gupta and CBM general secretary Sanjeev Chadha were also part of the delegation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandal-make-gst-regulations-trader-friendly-239118
15-04-2021||---||In Mohali, 3K get first dose of Covid vaccine||Mohali, April 14As many as 1,022 senior citizens and 2,465 in the 45 to 59 age group with comorbidities were administered the first shot of the Covid vaccine here today. Besides, 246 senior citizens and 125 in the 45 to 60 age group were given the second dose.In the healthcare workers’ category, 24 were given the first shot and 22 the second. In the frontline workers’ category, 1,180 were given the first shot, while 34 were administered the second dose of the vaccine.A total of 34,821 senior citizens and 28,124 persons in the age group of 45 to 59 years have been jabbed so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-3k-get-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-239119
15-04-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Top Punjab dog training institute in Dera Bassi faces existential crisis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14Popular across the country for providing trained dogs for detecting drugs and explosives, Punjab Home Guards Canine Training and Breeding Centre, Dera Bassi, is under review over its viability.From Indian Army to Ministry of External Affairs, the EC to security units in J&K and from prisons of other states to top industrialists like Mukesh Ambani, the institute has a long list of illustrious clientele.While it has supplied nearly 250 dogs to other states in the last five years for Rs 3.45 crore, Punjab has not placed a single order during this period.The Punjab Government recently formed a committee to review its viability. Newton Sidhu, institute director, alleged a lobby of officers wanted to damage the institute. Questioning the legality of the committee, he has already written to the CM, Chief Secretary and the DGP.Sidhu alleged DGP (Home Guards) VK Bhawra had got the committee constituted in contravention of his authority. He said Bhawra wrote a DO letter to the Home Secretary, seeking its review.“The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the authority of the DGP (Home Guards) and thus the demand is illegal and amounts to contempt of the court,” Sidhu claimed, seeking the CM’s intervention.Bhawra said the government had every right to review the projects under it from time to time.“This is procedural. There is nothing personal about it,” the DGP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-punjab-dog-training-institute-in-dera-bassi-faces-existential-crisis-239158
15-04-2021||Mohali||Sidak Kaur eases into semifinals||Top seed Sidhak Kaur eased into the girls’ U-14 semifinals in the ongoing Roots-AITA CS (7) U-14 National Ranking Championship with a comfortable 6-2 6-4 win over Mehakpreet Kaur here today.Second seed Isheeta Midha edged Agampreet Kaur 6-0 6-2 in the quarterfinals, while third seed Akshdha Sharma ousted Krittika Katoch 6-1 6-4 to seal a berth in the semis, where she will meet fourth seed Akshita Vashisht.Akshita had an easy outing against Ekam Kaur, winning the quarterfinal tie 6-2 6-2.In the boys’ U-14 quarterfinals, Akshat Dhull defeated Divyam Sharma 6-2 6-2, while second seed Umang Singh Cogi packed off Rian Rattan 6-2 6-1. Harwin Singh registered 6-2 6-1 win over Prabhav Sibbal.Parth Sharma moved into the semis with a 6-2 6-2 win over Advit Tiwari.Haralam Singh and Armaan Walia won the boys’ U-14 doubles final with a hard-fought 6-4 2-6 (10-4) win over Aditya Garg and Prabhav Sibbal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sidak-kaur-eases-into-semifinals-239133
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh players make a mark in National Roller Skating||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-players-make-a-mark-in-national-roller-skating-239120
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Aditya Raj guides Learning Path to victory||An unbeaten half-century by Aditya Raj helped Learning Path Cricket Academy, Mohali, beat DAV Cricket Academy, Panchkula, by four wickets in a Bal Krishan Dass Memorial U-14 Cricket Tournament match here today.Chasing 160 runs for victory, Learning Path boys reached home in 25.2 overs with four wickets to spare. Raj remained not out on 60. His 53-ball knock was studded with 10 boundaries.Rizu Shrivastwa contributed 32 runs to the chase, while Uday Veer chipped in with a useful 18.Aryan Angaria claimed two wickets for DAV Academy, while Lakshay Rana, Kunal Thakur and Yashovardhan Verma took one wicket each.Earlier, batting first, DAV boys scored 159/4 in the stipulated 30 overs.Daksh Kashyap made 68, while Parmeet Singh Gill added 45 runs to the DAV total. Samanvay Bali scored 24 runs.For Learning Path, Lakshya picked two wickets, while Manraj and Meeth bagged a wicket apiece. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aditya-raj-guides-learning-path-to-victory-239121
15-04-2021||---||‘Need-based changes should be regularised in CHB houses’||Chandigarh, April 14A delegation of Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) met the Adviser to the UT Administrator here and sought regularisation of need-based changes made to the houses built by the CHB.The association said almost half of the Chandigarh population was living in more than 60,000 houses built by the CHB.Most of them fall in the middle/lower income group and are not in position to arrange or buy new houses to meet their growing needs, FOSWAC emphasised. They made certain changes to the structure to accommodate their extended families.Almost 90 per cent houses fall in this category, and they have been facing threats of notices, department action and demolition for the past two decades, said the association.We are of the opinion that a solution to this problem lies in providing the inhabitants with a one-time settlement plan, otherwise the issue will never end, the FOSWAC added.FOSWAC representatives also demanded removal of garbage dump from Dadu Majra.The dump is not only unhygienic and detrimental to the health of residents, but also a major source of stench for the southern sectors, they said.This has been a long pending issue and we feel that this mountain of garbage dump should be removed at the earliest, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-based-changes-should-be-regularised-in-chb-houses-239122
15-04-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Unfair trade practice: No relief for travel company||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, April 14The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has upheld the order of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum directing travel company MakeMyTrip India Pvt Ltd to refund the entire booking amount to a consumer with compensation.The company had challenged the order passed by the forum on December 5, 2018.Punjab resident Kamaljit Singh Sandhu in his complaint to the forum had alleged that the travel company had failed to provide the promised services even after taking Rs2,77,179.The complainant said that he, along with his wife, had paid Rs2,77,179 to MakeMyTrip for a holiday travel package to the European continent.The company assured them that they would face no hiccups in securing a Schengen visa as the travel pack will justify the purpose and conditions of their travel.They had also submitted their documents at VFS Centre, Elante Mall, Chandigarh, for obtaining a Schengen visa and paid Rs12,744 as visa fees.But on August 18, 2017 he received a letter informing that their visa had been rejected on the ground that the information provided regarding the purpose and conditions of their intended stay was not reliable.Sandhu said after their visa was rejected he cancelled the plan and sought refund from the company. But the company refunded only Rs2,70,179 out of Rs2,07,179 and the remaining amount of Rs70,000 was retained illegally and arbitrarily.Complainant alleged that the acts of the firm amounted to deficiency in rendering service and unfair trade practice.After hearing both the parties and going through the evidences, the forum directed the company to refund the remaining amount of Rs70,000. The company was also told to pay Rs11,000 as compensation to Sandhu for causing immense mental agony and harassment, and Rs10,000 as litigation expenses.Feeling aggrieved, the firm challenged the order before the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.After hearing the arguments, the commission dismissed the MakeMyTrip appeal and noted that the application of complainants for getting a visa required was rejected by the Embassy due to the negligence of the appellant, who failed to furnish the requisite information to the Embassy concerned regarding the purpose and intended stay of the respondents.‘Deficiency in rendering service’Punjab resident Kamaljit Singh Sandhu in his complaint to the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum had alleged that the travel company had failed to provide the promised services even after taking Rs2,77,179.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unfair-trade-practice-no-relief-for-travel-company-239123
15-04-2021||---||Chahat Arora clocks 33.80s, wins gold in Uzbekistan||Chandigarh, April 14Chandigarh swimmer Chahat Arora clocked 33.80s to win the gold medal in the women’s 50m breaststroke at the Uzbekistan Open Summer Swimming Championships in Tashkent today.Chahat, who represents Punjab in national events, said the effort was “close to her best”.Chahat AroraIt was a great experience. It feels nice being a part of the Indian team. The environment here is quite good. Qualifying for Olympics is quite difficult. This (33.80s effort) is close to my life’s best….“I would like to thank Swimming Federation of India for giving me a chance to participate in Uzbekistan. It was a great experience after so long. It’s an Olympic qualifying meet and it feels nice being part of the Indian team. The environment here is quite good,” Chahat told Chandigarh Tribune from Uzbekistan.When asked about Olympic qualification, Chahat said: “Qualifying for Olympics is quite difficult. This (33.80s effort) is close to my life’s best… All the girls, however, are trying hard to get close to the Olympic qualifying mark.”Last year, while she was stuck in Thailand due to the lockdown, Chahat had won gold in the 100m breaststroke at the Arena Thailand Swimming Championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chahat-arora-clocks-33-80s-wins-gold-in-uzbekistan-239128
15-04-2021||---||Chandigarh students, parents hail Centre’s decision on Class X, XII exams||Chandigarh, April 14Students and parents hailed the Centre’s decision to cancel the Class X CBSE exams and postpone the Class XII examinations amid a surge in Covid-19 cases.The board exam for Class XII to be held from May 4 to June 14 are postponed. These exams will be held thereafter, the Ministry of Education said in a statement today.Nitin Goyal, President, Chandigarh Parents Association We welcome the decision of the CBSE to postpone the Class XII exams and cancel the same for Class X... while the hospitals have also closed their OPDs, it cannot be fair to force students to appear for board exams.The situation will be reviewed on June 1 and details will be shared subsequently. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations, read the statement.The board exams for Class X are cancelled, it added.“I’m in favor of this decision,” said Aman Sharma, a Class X student.The results for Class X will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the CBSE, stated the Education Ministry.Any candidate who is not satisfied with the marks allocated to him/her on this basis will be given an opportunity to sit in an exam as and when the conditions are conducive to hold the exams, the ministry added.“It is a good decision because if someone is not satisfied with the marks, he will have an opportunity to sit for exams as and when the conditions improve,” said Aman.“We welcome the decision of the CBSE to postpone the Class XII exams and cancel the same for Class X,” added Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents Association.“Children have already gone through the syllabus and put in their hard work while appearing for pre-board exams,” said Goyal, adding “while the hospitals have also closed their OPDs, it cannot be fair to force students to appear for board exams”.“The UT Administration should also immediately cancel the ongoing exams for Classes IX and XI,” he said.What the Union Ministry of Education said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-students-parents-hail-centres-decision-on-class-x-xii-exams-239125
15-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Amid Covid fear, crowd thins at Chandigarh markets, malls||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14It seems the resurgent Covid and restrictions by the UT Administration have reduced the crowd in the markets and most malls in the city. Rising hot weather is another reason for thin crowd during the day.Those eligible but not taking coronavirus vaccine should be named and shamed, says Chandigarh adviserDuring a random visit to usually crowded Sector 17, 19, 21, 22 and 15 markets, it was found that less number of people were venturing out.Narender Singh Rinku, Trader at Sadar Bazar in Sector 19‘Another odd-even will make us bankrupt’The rising prices of items of daily use have hit the budget of the common man. People of the country will never forgive the government for the hike in fuel prices.“The fear of coronavirus has again started to grip the city and residents are not moving out much for non-essential items. Due to restrictions on the number of persons at marriages, sales of shoes and clothes have also been affected,” said Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal.Narender Singh Rinku of Sadar Bazaar in Sector 19 said, “The crowd in our market has come down following restrictions by the Administration. If the authorities consider odd-even formula for opening of shops, small traders, who are already facing losses, will become bankrupt.”Teams collect samples at Dhakoli schoolsVinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, “Every other day, there is a new peak of Covid cases in Chandigarh. This has instilled fear into people. Night curfew in the tricity has curbed public movement. During the day, people prefer staying indoors due to summer.”Meanwhile, most people were seen wearing masks. However, there were some who were roaming without these. “Local residents know that a strict challaning drive is on, so they do not take chance to remove mask. However, people coming from other states are often seen without masks,” said Ranjit Dhal, a city resident.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore yesterday directed the DGP to intensify drive to challan violators of Covid protocol. Night curfew is in force in the city from 10 pm to 5 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-covid-fear-crowd-thins-at-chandigarh-markets-malls-239126
15-04-2021||---||Congress takes up Chandigarh issues with VP Singh Badnore||Chandigarh, April 14Senior leaders of the Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee today submitted a memorandum of demands to Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.The Congress requested Badnore to immediately rollback the increased water tariff. The leaders said the issue of notices to the owners of the Chandigarh Housing Board flats for demolition and penalties was hanging fire since long. They sought relief to the allottees by regularising the need-based changes.They demanded that the Lal Dora issue be resolved and a comprehensive plan be made and funds released for the holistic development of the UT villages. They also requested to find immediate solution of the waste dumping ground issue. They urged the Administrator not to privatise UT Electricity Department.Councillor Devinder Singh Babla alleged, “The roads are broken, parks are in a bad shape, the whole city has been dug by various companies and no maintenance is done by the BJP-led Municipal Corporation. Sehaj safai kendras are overflowing. The MC, it seems, has lost its relevance.”The Administrator assured action on their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-takes-up-chandigarh-issues-with-vp-singh-badnore-239127
15-04-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to get two automatic air quality monitoring stations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14To monitor the quality of air on a real-time basis, two more continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) will be made operational in the city soon.Debendra Dalai, vice-chairman, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), said two CAAQMS installed in Sector 22 and 53 would be commissioned by the end of this month.Apart from the air quality monitoring stations, an outdoor air purifier being installed at the Transport Chowk on Madhya Marg would also be made operational by the month-end,he said.Dalai said it would be the tallest air purifier in the country and cover nearly 1 km area around it. The purifier would be equipped with sensors to measure the air quality index and live readings would be displayed on a board, he added.Chandigarh is one of the non-attainment cities in the country according to National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) norms, which means it has not consistently met the national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) for harmful PM 10 (particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter), PM 2.5 or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) over a five-year period.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on August 21, 2020, had issued directions to assess optimal number of stations required as Chandigarh has been identified as a non-attainment city.As per the criteria prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board, the population of the city lies in the category of 10 lakh to 50 lakh and requires three manual air quality monitoring stations and five CAAQMS. However, five manual air quality monitoring stations and one CAAQMS in Sector 25 are already operational in the city.In compliance of the NGT order on prevention of dust generation, biomass and waste burning and regulating construction and demolition waste activities, the CPCC submitted that water sprinklers are procured under the NCAP for major intersections to suppress particulate matter (PM) and dust pollution in the environment.Mechanical street sweeping machines are procured under the programme for cleaning roads so that dust pollution or particulate matter is not suspended in the air. The pavements are being end-to-end covered so as to reduce the level of particulate pollution. Biomass burning or waste burning are banned within the UT. Further, a construction and demolition waste facility at the Industrial Area, Phase 1, treats construction and demolition waste with a capacity of 180 MT, submitted the CCPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-get-two-automatic-air-quality-monitoring-stations-239109
15-04-2021||---||Day 2 of Navratri festival: Over 9K devotees visit Mansa Devi temple||Panchkula, April 14As many as 9,600 devotees paid obeisance at Mata Mansa Devi temple on the second day of Navratri festival. While Kali Mata temple at Kalka saw 2,150 devotees paying obeisance, 225 devotees visited Chandi Mata temple.Besides, at least Rs11.60 lakh, along with gold and silver items, were donated at these temples.On the first day of the Navratri festival , a total of 10,400 devotees had paid obeisance at Mansa Devi temple. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-2-of-navratri-festival-over-9k-devotees-visit-mansa-devi-temple-239110
15-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Once hotspot, now only 1 active case in Bapu Dham||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26 — a Covid-19 hotspot in Chandigarh in May last year — has only one active case when the city is witnessing its second peak of coronavirus cases. Mani Majra continues to remain a Covid hotspot with over 200 active cases.PGI virologist Prof Mini P Singh said, “Asymptomatic infections were responsible for the late detection and delayed isolation of coronavirus cases leading to a widespread outbreak in Bapu Dham Colony last year. The colony has low strata population which, despite having more viral load, is asymptomatic.”Ruling out the possibility of herd immunity at Bapu Dham, Prof Singh said more than nine months had passed since the outbreak there. Antibodies do not remain for this long period. Only sero survey can tell the true picture about herd immunity. “It depends on whether any active surveillance is taking place in that area or not as there could be a possibility of asymptomatic infections,” she added.The prevalence of Covid-19 infection in the city is more concentrated in the southern sectors of the city. After Mani Majra, Sector 41, 46 and 44 have over 100 cases. Covid-19 has spread its tentacles to around 84 areas in the UT.As many as 65 containment zones and 30 new micro-containment zones have already been set up in Chandigarh by the Deputy Commissioner. A total of 20,688 Covid samples have been taken in April and 2,668 of these have tested positive. There is a positivity rate of 12 per cent in the city.The active cases during this peak (3,371) have crossed the previous peak’s 3,171.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/once-hotspot-now-only-1-active-case-in-bapu-dham-239114
15-04-2021||---||Farmers' protest: ‘Save Constitution’ march held on Dr Ambedkar’s birth anniversary in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 14A convoy of cars, motorbikes, scooters and bicycles joined foot marchers from Kisan Bhawan to Maharishi Valmiki Shakti Peeth (popularly known as Valmiki Bhawan), Sector 24, on BR Ambedkar’s birth anniversary today. The ‘Save the Constitution’ march was organised by city-based pro-farmer group Naujawan Kisan Ekta, in association with the Pendu Sangharsh Committee and the Rashtriya Valmiki Dharam Samaj on a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).Led by Gurcharan Singh, state president of Rashtriya Valmiki Dharam Samaj, marchers reached the Valmiki Bhawan while members of Raahat Musical Group sang bhajans, quoting verses of Kabir and propagated Ambedkar’s ideologues.Hailing from Ludhiana, Happy, the lead singer of the group, said, “As a musical group, we are trying to spread the message of humanity and anti-caste narratives, built on Ambedkar’s ideology, through our songs. We often quote saints, like Kabir, along with Ambedkar’s ideology so that people relate with us and connect on human grounds, not on the basis of caste.”Kanwaljeet Singh of Punjab Kisan Union, Ramandeep Singh Maan, an agriculture expert, Kirpal Singh, president of Naujwan Kisan Ekta, and Gurpreet Singh Somal, general secretary of Pendu Sanghrsh Committee, spoke on the occasion.“The best gift given to our country by Ambedkar is citizenship on the basis of being born in India. The ruling government, however, has tried to take this away from us by introducing the CAA,” alleged Kanwaljeet while addressing a crowd of over 200 people.Tejveer Singh of BKU Chaduni alleged, “The farmers’ protest is a voice of the people, but this government has tried to impinge on our freedom of speech, which is our constitutional right.” On the new agro-market laws, he asked people to stay united. “They keep saying ‘Hindu khatrey mein hai’ to create religious divide. But actually, their ‘chair’ is in danger,” he added.Candle march in support of farmersMohali: Members of the Mohali Residents’ Association and residents of Khatkar Kalan today held a candle march against the three controversial farms laws near YPS here on Wednesday. The protesters lit candles and carried out a march in support of the farmers camping at the Delhi border. The protesters appealed to the Central government to withdraw the laws in favour of the farming community. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-protest-save-constitution-march-held-on-dr-ambedkars-birth-anniversary-in-chandigarh-239116
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||4 held for BSNL cable theft in Chandigarh||2 held with 1 kg of heroin, pistolMohali: The police arrested two suspects, Mohsin Ansari and Rahul Sharma, with 1 kg of heroin, a pistol and three live rounds at Khanpur Chowk, Kharar, on April 13. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspects at the Kharar City police station. Mohsin Ansari and Rahul Sharma were coming to Kharar in a vehicle to supply heroin to their customers. During interrogation, they revealed that they used to buy heroin from Nigerian nationals in Delhi and sell it to their customers. The police said Mohsin Ansari (28), a native of Dehradun, was residing in Zirakpur and driving a taxi. His partner, Rahul Sharma (26), belonged to Moradabad and was living in Abhaypur, Panchkula. TNSCovid: City BJP office closedChandigarh: The city BJP has decided to keep its office at Sector 33 - Kamalam - closed till the Covid situation improves. According to a senior party leader, Ramvir Bhatti, due to the heightened risk of coronavirus, the office will remain closed till further decision. It will only be used for emergency meetings. TNSHP police raid Sec 49 houseChandigarh: A team of the Himachal Pradesh (HP) Police, assisted by the UT police, raided a house in Sector 49, on getting information about some persons wanted by the police of the hill state residing there. The cops carrying weapons cordoned the house that led to panic among residents. Residents made a video of cops surrounding the house. The UT police, however, claimed that no such raid was conducted by the HP Police. Sources said some persons were rounded up and taken to HP. Local residents said the HP Police had visited the sector a few days ago as well looking for the suspects. TNSSpecial lecture on AmbedkarChandigarh: Panjab University organised a special lecture to commemorate the 130th birth anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar. Avinash Rai Khanna, a socio-political thinker and national vice-president of the Red Cross Society India, presented his views on Dr Ambedkar’s contribution and vision, and emphasised his relevance in modern Indian society. Khanna urged all to dedicate their academic works and research for the development and prosperity of society and nation as a tribute to Dr Ambedkar. TNSCampaign on Covid-19 vaxChandigarh: Faculty members from School of Pharmacy and S Lal Singh Memorial College of Pharmacy, Desh Bhagat University, conducted a door-to-door campaign in the nearby villages to make people aware about the Covid-19 vaccination. Chancellor Dr Zora Singh congratulated the faculty and said such campaign could lead to a Covid-free society. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-held-for-bsnl-cable-theft-in-chandigarh-239124
15-04-2021||---||Be ready to cough up fine for water wastage from today in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 14The Municipal Corporation will start issuing water wastage challans from tomorrow under its annual drive, which will continue till June 30 to check shortage of water during the summer.Watering of lawns, washing of courtyards and vehicles with a hosepipe will be prohibited. Misuse of water in any other form such as overflow from overhead/underground water tanks, leakage in water meter chamber, leakage and overflow from desert coolers, installation and use of booster pump on water supply line and wastage due to non-installation of bib taps will also attract penalty.Violation of the order will invite a penalty of Rs5,000. The water connection of repeat violators will be disconnected. The fine for water wastage was increased from Rs2,000 to Rs5,000 by the UT Administration through a notification on the water tariff hike in September last year. The civic body is also mulling over continuing its challan drive throughout the year.What is prohibitedWatering of lawns, washing of courtyards and vehicles with a hosepipe is prohibited. Violators will have to pay a fine of Rs5,000. Misuse of water in any other form will also attract penalty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/be-ready-to-cough-up-fine-for-water-wastage-from-today-in-chandigarh-239103
15-04-2021||---||Panchkula set to get piped natural gas||Panchkula, April 14The dream of piped natural gas (PNG) for Panchkula residents is soon going to be realised as Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta laid the foundation stone of a natural gas pipeline in the vegetable market ground, Sector 15, here today.The work of laying the pipeline will be carried out by Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Limited. Describing it as a historic day, Gupta said the project would usher in a new era of development for local residents.Under this project, a pipeline of 10.85 km would be laid in the city and the work was expected to be completed in six months. He termed the occasion as fulfilment of his election promise to provide domestic gas to residents through a gas pipeline.He said in the first phase, CNG filling stations would be set up at petrol pumps in the city in one month. “In the second phase, pipelines will be laid to provide PNG to every household in the city. A target has been set up to complete this work by September 30,” Gupta said.The Speaker said earlier, there were several apprehensions among people about LPG cylinders such as leakage of gas and cylinder blast, which sometimes lead to fatal accidents. Referring to one such incident, he said seven people had lost their lives due to an explosion of cylinders at a house in Sector 10.The provision for gas through pipeline would significantly help avert such incidents, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-set-to-get-piped-natural-gas-239105
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 10L, jewellery stolen from doctor’s house in Sector 51, Chandigarh||In a daylight theft, a thief decamped with around Rs10 lakh and jewellery worth several lakhs from a doctor’s house in Sector 51. The 32-year-old doctor had kept the cash and jewellery at home for his wedding, scheduled for April 26.According to the police, Dr Gaurav Varshney, who runs a clinic in Sector 46, reported that he had gone to his clinic in the morning on April 12 and on returning home around 10 pm, he found the locks of the main door broken and the house ransacked.The complainant reported that Rs10 lakh and jewellery, including 60 gm of gold, two diamond rings, a gold ring, a gold chain, four gold bangles and a mangal sutra, were stolen from the house. The police have registered a case at the Sector 49 police station. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-10l-jewellery-stolen-from-doctors-house-in-sector-51-chandigarh-239129
15-04-2021||---||2,602 cases in Panchkula this month||Panchkula, April 14With 276 fresh coronavirus cases reported on Wednesday, the district recorded the second-highest single-day surge of the pandemic.The infection tally now stands at 15,631. The district also witnessed a Covid death.A 55-year-old woman from Chandimandir, who was suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus, succumbed to the virus. The Covid toll now stands at 160. The district had, on Tuesday, reported its highest-ever single-day spike of 278 covid cases.The surgeAs many as 2,602 coronavirus cases have been reported from the district this month so far, which is over 16 per cent of the total infections.While the district reported 3,762 infections in September last year during the first wave, the August tally stood at 2,044.The active caseload has gone up from 953 on March 31 to 1,679. Hospitals are overwhelmed by a significant rise in the active cases – either ICU beds are full or on the brink of it. The recovery rate has also dipped to 88.23 per cent.On an average, the district has conducted over 1,800 tests daily this month, laying emphasis on enforcing the “test-track-treat” protocol.Over 15K vaccinated during four-day ‘Tika Utsav’Wednesday marked the end of the four-day “Tika Utsav” or the vaccine festival with the district vaccinating a total of 15,353 eligible persons under the campaign.Over 1.05 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine have been administered in the district so far.3 deaths, 421 cases in chandigarhChandigarh: The city recorded 421 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 3,371. With three more deaths, the toll has reached 404. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 31,985. A total of 417 patients were cured of the disease. TNSThree deaths, 373 cases in MohaliMohali: Three deaths and 373 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 307 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 172 were reported from Mohali (urban), 10 each from Lalru and Gharuan, 79 from Dhakoli, 52 from Kharar, 20 from Dera Bassi, 23 from Kurali and seven from Boothgarh. The district has so far seen 32,984 cases, while 27,660 patients have been cured. There are now 4,838 active cases. With three more deaths, the toll in the district has reached 486. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-602-cases-in-panchkula-this-month-239130
15-04-2021||---||Teams collect samples at Dhakoli schools||Zirakpur, April 14Three testing teams were stationed at government schools in the Dhakoli area to take Covid samples here today.The camps were set up at the Dhakoli, Dhakola and Kishanpura government schools.A total of 162 samples were taken at the Kishanpura government school of which 10 were found positive in the rapid antigen test. Nine positive cases were detected among the 75 samples taken at the Dhakoli government school. At Radha Soami Satsang near the Singhpura chowk, 100 samples were taken, of which all were found negative. At the Baltana dispensary, 40 samples were taken, all of which were found negative. ‘’There are multiple teams, which are conducting tests aggressively,’’ said a Health Department official.The Dhakoli area, comprising Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla, Kishanpura and Gazipur, has a population of over one lakh. “There will be 100 per cent testing. Those testing negative will be vaccinated. Those testing positive will require isolation and will be recommended appropriate care and medical attention,” Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan had said on Tuesday.A 24X7 control room has also set up at the Dera Bassi SDM office and people can dial 01762-528116 for assistance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teams-collect-samples-at-dhakoli-schools-239131
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tells Punjab and Haryana High Court it can accommodate persons in need of facilities||The UT Administration can accommodate persons requiring facilities in accordance with the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, and the rules framed under it. Information to this effect was given to the Punjab and Haryana High Court during the hearing of a contempt of court petition.As the plea filed by Aditya Vikram Rametra against UT Adviser Manoj Kumar Parida and other respondents came up for hearing, the Bench of Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu was told by the UT counsel that a draft status report was ready.The counsel added that the same could not be filed as the Adviser was not available. He pointed out that provision had been made to accommodate persons requiring facilities at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Cheshire Home, Sector 21, Chandigarh.He said the respondent (UT) was also in the process of identifying other places where such persons could be accommodated and that the facilities available were sufficient to meet the present requirements.The counsel for the petitioner, on the other hand, submitted that a large number of persons had approached the UT Administration for accommodation in accordance with the Act. However, they were not being provided the facilities.“The counsel for the petitioner may forward the list of such persons to Anil Mehta, counsel appearing for the respondent (UT), who may respond as to how they would accommodate those named persons,” Justice Sidhu asserted, while adjourning the hearing of the case to May 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-tells-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-it-can-accommodate-persons-in-need-of-facilities-239132
15-04-2021||---||Chandigarh: Guard’s run ends, nailed with Rs 4.03 cr||Chandigarh, April 14The security guard’s run with Rs 4.04 crore, stolen from the currency chest of Axis Bank in Sector 34, ended in three days after the crime branch of the UT police nabbed him today from Mani Majra. The police claimed that the suspect, Sunil Kumar, managed to spend Rs 86,000 on getting the chain set on his motorcycle repaired, buying a mobile phone and clothes for himself.PoliceHe was carrying Rs 3.14 lakh at the time of his arrest, while the remaining Rs 4 crore, which was hidden in a forest area in Hallo Majra, had also been recovered.SP (Crime) Manoj Kumar said Sunil Kumar was arrested from Mani Majra on a tip-off.The police claimed that he was carrying Rs3.14 lakh at the time of his arrest, while the remaining Rs4 crore, which was hidden in a forest area in Hallo Majra, had also been recovered.The police said the suspect got his motorcycle repaired and purchased a mobile phone and clothes for himself with the stolen money.He had switched off his mobile phone, but he was active of the social media and a matrimonial site. “His social media posts and his ID on the matrimonial site, Jeevansathi.com, was analysed which gave us information about his lifestyle and the motorcycle number which he was using,” the SP said.The police also came to know that the suspect used to frequently visit Raipur Rani.The police shared their mobile numbers with the people at Raipur Rani, who informed them about his presence in the area. Sources said the suspect was wearing the same clothes and carrying a bag with the money in it.A team, led by Sub-Inspector Neeraj Kumar, reached Raipur Rani and tailed the suspect from there and finally nabbed him at Mani Majra.The police said Sunil was the only one involved in the theft.During the past three days, he stayed in the area of Morni and Raipur Rani. “He stayed at a local hotel and also in the forest area during the past three days,” a police official said. The suspect was working at the bank for the past four years and was drunk when he committed the crime.Lapses found on part of copsThe police claimed that lapses had been found on the part of the Punjab Police personnel who were on duty at the currency chest on the day of incident and they would write to the Punjab Police in this regard.Stayed in Morni, Raipur Rani areasWas drunk at time of committing crimeThe suspect was working at the bank for the past four years and was drunk when he committed the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-guards-run-ends-nailed-with-rs-4-03-cr-239134
