16-04-2021||Tribune Web Desk||In Chandigarh, now action against shopkeepers attending to shoppers without masks||Chandigarh, April 16Chandigarh reported highest-ever single-day spike of the Covid-19 pandemic with 481 cases on Friday, taking the infection count to 32,397.There 3423 active infections in the city.With the sudden spike, the Chandigarh administration announced weekend lockdown that will start from every Friday night.The administration has directed all the three government medical institutes here to ramp-up their facilities for coronavirus patients.The UT administrator said all shops must get their staff tested and display signboards stating that their premises are coronavirus-free.Action will be taken against shoppers going to the markets without masks and also against shopkeepers attending them.Mobile teams would be sent to temples, gurdwaras, mosques and other crowded places during festivals so that visitors can be screened and symptomatic cases tested.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by UT Administrator V.P. Singh Badnore.The lockdown will be from 10 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-chandigarh-now-action-against-shopkeepers-attending-to-shoppers-without-masks-239952
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fortis, Max among seven private hospitals in Mohali to set aside 50% bed capacity for COVID patients||The Mohali administration on Friday ordered the seven private hospitals to set aside at least 50 per cent of their total bed capacity as isolation beds and wards for COVID care.The seven hospitals—Max Super-specialty, Fortis Healthcare, SGHS Sohana, Indus Hospital and Ivy Hospital, Grecian Super-specialty and Mayo Super-specialty—providing quality tertiary care (L2/L3) for COVID patients in the district shall set aside at least 50 per cent of their total bed capacity as isolation beds and wards for COVID care.“The district possesses minimal public health infrastructure, given that the district hospital is under re-construction as a medical college – which will take time. Most of the ICU beds/ ventilators (L2/L3 i.e. Tertiary Care) are in the private sector,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan in an order.The hospitals shall also put certain ambulances exclusively attending to COVID-19 patients or suspected cases.The Civil Surgeon, Mohali, shall decide on the exact number of beds and ambulances based on overall capacity of the hospital.Private hospitals in the district shall not refuse admission or treatment to patients of COVID-19 referred by the Civil Surgeon, Mohali. The hospitals shall ensure that staff – doctors, nurses, and paramedics—are all available on duty and no one shall refuse treatment.There have been 3,466 positive cases with 21 deaths in the week starting April 8 and the district has witnessed 486 deaths till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fortis-max-among-seven-private-hospitals-in-mohali-to-set-aside-50-bed-capacity-for-covid-patients-239918
16-04-2021||Mohali||7 private hospitals in Mohali to set aside 50% bed capacity for COVID care||The Mohali administration on Friday ordered seven private hospitals to set aside at least 50% of their total bed capacity as isolation beds and wards for COVID care.The seven hospitals -- Max Super-specialty, Fortis Heathcare, SGHS Sohana, Indus Hospital and IVY Hospital, Grecian Super-specialty and Mayo Super-specialty -- provide tertiary care (L2/L3) for COVID patients in the district.''The district possesses minimal public health infrastructure, given that the District Hospital is under re-construction as a Medical College – which will take time. Most of the ICU beds/ ventilators (L2/L3 i.e. Tertiary Care) are in the private sector,'' said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan in an order.The hospitals shall also put certain ambulances exclusively to attend to COVID-19 patients/suspected cases.Civil Surgeon, Mohali, shall decide on the exact number of beds/ambulances based on the overall capacity of the hospital.Private hospitals in the district shall not refuse admission or treatment to COVID patients referred by the Civil Surgeon, Mohali. The hospitals shall ensure that staff – doctors, nurses, and paramedics -- are all available on duty and no one shall refuse treatment, said the order.There have been 3,466 positive cases with 21 deaths in the week starting April 8, 2021, and the district has witnessed 486 deaths to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-private-hospitals-in-mohali-to-set-aside-50-bed-capacity-for-covid-care-239914
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||UK variant found in 70% samples sent from PGI||The National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC), New Delhi, has found UK variant (B.1.1.7) of Covid-19 in 70 per cent of the samples sent by the PGI, Chandigarh, while P681H mutation was found in 20 percent of the samples. A majority of the samples were from Chandigarh.‘Avoid crowded places’PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram advised avoiding crowded places and non-essential travel. Stressing on the need for vaccination, he said the priority groups of the population should get vaccinated against Covid-19 which would protect against this disease and reduce the intensity/severity of the disease. It will further help in breaking the chain of the Covid-19 transmission.”Out of the 60 samples sent to the centre by the PGI on March 25, 45 samples were from Chandigarh. Out of these, 31 were found having UK variant (B.1.1.7), while mutation was detected in 12 samples.About B.1.1.7 variantAccording to the Centre of Disease Control, United States, B.1.1.7 variant is associated with increased transmissibility, i.e. more efficient and rapid transmission). In January 2021, scientists from the UK reported evidence that suggests the B.1.1.7 variant may be associated with an increased risk of death compared with other variants.PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram said: “It is evident that the recent Covid-19 surge is due to high prevalence of UK variant (B.1.1.7) in the region. It is a sensitive situation as the variant is known for its increased transmissibility. There is a lot of uncertainty whenever the virus changes its characteristics or not. So, we should remain cautious from now on.”Prof Mini P Singh, a virologist at the PGI, explains that multiple mutations lead to a new variant. P681H is one of the mutations found in the UK variant. This mutation has been found in the spike region due to which entry of the virus into the host cell is increased. This will also increase the transmissibility of Covid-19.More severe with ‘immune escape’, says DHSDr Amandeep Kaur, Director of Health Services (DHS), Chandigarh, said: “Immune escape has been widely observed in the new UK variant. The virus is directly attacking the lung tissue and patients are developing viral pneumonia in a brief time of illness. A lot of patients test negative for RT-PCR, but CT scan shows that their lungs have been badly affected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uk-variant-found-in-70-samples-sent-from-pgi-239619
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Theft accused jumps from moving car in Pipli, nabbed||One of the four accused arrested by the Chandigarh Police for allegedly stealing BSNL cables from Sector 4 here, had made an unsuccessful bid to escape by jumping from a moving car while being brought to Chandigarh from Delhi.The incident took place near Pipli, Kurukshetra, when Manjoor Alam, jumped from the car. He also sustained injuries in the process.Major lapseThe incident has also pointed out major lapses on part of the police team, which was bringing the accused to Chandigarh.The police have added the charges of attempting to escape from police custody against the accused.The incident has also pointed out major lapses on part of the police team, which was bringing the accused to Chandigarh.Sources said the accused told the police that he was now feeling well and insisted on sitting on the corner seat. The police made him sit on the corner seat.He took the advantage and jumped from the moving car. However, he was apprehended on the spot as he could not escape due to the injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-accused-jumps-from-moving-car-in-pipli-nabbed-239621
16-04-2021||Mohali||‘Data mismatch’ in Centre’s report on lowest contact tracing in Mohali||Mohali has recorded the highest contact tracing of Covid-19 cases in the state, which is 22.5 persons per coronavirus case. The report of the Central Government team on lowest contact tracing in the district is just mismatch of data. ‘No adverse remarks in the report’VK Singh, Additional Secretary, Government of India, and head of the Central team, said he had not made any adverse remarks in the report and the team was just there to suggest measures to control the surge in Covid cases. They were supposed to motivate the team, which is doing its best in containing the surge, especially in Dhakoli.Stating this, a senior official of the Punjab Government said 24 additional police personnel had already been deployed with health and other officials. As many as eight teams of health officials per subdivision had been formed for ground checking.He said with the concerted efforts of the Health Department and prompt action, the case fatality rate (CFR) of Mohali was also lowest in the state, which was 1.47 per cent as compared to 2.9 per cent in the state. Last week, the CFR of Mohali district was 0.8 per cent. It was made possible because of the good referral mechanism adopted by the district administration and making ambulance service available 24X7 across the district. The Civil Hospital had the capability to give a preliminary response and then shift patients to provide L3 facilities in Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.He said though the district administration had strongly raised the issue regarding the difficulty in admission on referral to the GMCH 32, GMSH-16 and the PGI in case of critical care, especially in emergency situations. He said to ensure L3 services in the stipulated time, the Punjab Chief Minister had already flagged the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reserve beds for critical patients referred from Punjab. The district administration has deputed a L3 nodal officer, who ensures that critical patients were immediately shifted to the mapped facility on time.VK Singh, Additional Secretary, Government of India and head of the Central team, said he had not made any adverse remarks in the report and the team was just there to suggest measures to control the surge in Covid cases. They were supposed to motivate the team, which is doing its best in containing the surge, especially in Dhakoli.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had never stated that the Central team came with a negative mindset as quoted in a section of the media. He said the team had given invaluable feedback, including increasing containment zones. It was satisfied with testing and contact tracing and containment strategy upon review.Dayalan said the administration had also made a sufficient number of L1 and L2 facilities for Covid patients. A L1 Covid care hospital had been set up at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, with a capacity of 1,000 beds. At present, 100 beds had been made functional and 80 beds had been occupied. For L2 level, 80 beds had been set up at the Civil Hospital, Mohali, and 20 at the CHC, Dhakoli, and only 35 beds were occupied as of today.He said Mohali also led all districts of the state by conducting highest Covid-19 testing, where 2,686 tests were being conducted per million population as compared to 1,297 in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/data-mismatch-in-centres-report-on-lowest-contact-tracing-in-mohali-239625
16-04-2021||Mohali||Akshat-Anuj win U-14 doubles title||Akshat Dhull and Anuj Pal won the boys’ U-14 doubles final by defeating Haralam Singh and Arman Singh 6-2, 6-4 on the penultimate day of the ongoing Roots-AITA CS (7) U-14 National Ranking Championship today.In the boys’ U-14 semi-finals, top seed Akshat Dhull defeated beat Parth Sharma 6-1, 6-1. He will face second seed Umang Singh Cogi, who faced a tough resistance from Harwin Singh before logging a 7-6(4), 7-5 win, in the final on Friday.In the girls’ U-14 semis, third seed Akshdha Sharma stunned top seedSidhak Kaur 6-4, 6-4 and second seed Isheeta Midha ousted Akshita Vashisht 6-4, 6-3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/akshat-anuj-win-u-14-doubles-title-239629
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||86-yr-old heart patient gets new lease of life||Col Raj Kumar Huskar, an 86-year-old patient from Shimla, who had advanced aortic stenosis with gross heart failure and blocked coronary arteries, has been treated successfully at a non-surgical valve implant clinic of Fortis Hospital, Mohali.Fortis Hospital, Mohali’s super-specialty in heart centre, had last month launched its non-surgical valve implant clinic under the guidance of Dr RK Jaswal, Director, Cath Lab and HoD, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, for the benefit of patients suffering from advanced heart valve disease.Earlier, the only available option for these patients was open heart surgery and a surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR).Dr Jaswal, in a press conference here today, said transaortic valve replacement was attempted on the patient in Delhi three years ago, but could not be done. Now, the patient came to us with critical aortic valve and artery blockages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/86-yr-old-heart-patient-gets-new-lease-of-life-239641
16-04-2021||Mohali||Sector 63, Mohali indoor swimming pool opens after four years||In a major relief for Mohali professional swimmers, district’s only 50m indoor swimming pool in Sector 63, which was inaccessible for the past four years due to one reason or the other, has been finally repaired and now opened.No fault in poolSources maintained that experts didn’t find any fault in the pool, despite the fact that it remained closed for years. The pool was thrown open to public in 2015, but remained out of bounds. In 2016, it was closed after six pipes that carry water from the filtration tanks were damaged. In 2017, it was opened partially for a couple of months before being shut due to other technical issues. In 2018, it was reopened for sometime but was closed due to a leakage. The last championship conducted here was in 2016-17 by the Mohali Swimming Association (Punjab State Junior Championship).The Sector 63 indoor pool, only Olympic-size (50m) pool in the district, was thrown open to public in 2015. Since then, it has not catered to swimmers due to persistent technical issues. However, taking advantage of the lockdown period, the Punjab Sports Department finally repaired it and, following the guidelines, opened it strictly for high-performance professional swimmers of the district.“It’s a welcome and much-needed step considering upcoming events. Pools across India have been opened for professionals. We have been practicing out of water for the past one year and it has affected our performance,” said Varnika, a swimmer.The eight-lane pool is serving to nearly 16 swimmers at one time. As per SOPs, two swimmers practice in a single lane, following other measurements.“Only high-performance swimmers have been allowed to practice. They have lost crucial time during the Covid break. They all are mature and concerned about their performance. There are nearly 30 professional swimmers, a majority of them from Mohali district, practicing under different slots here. The department has helped these swimmers, when they needed the most. It’s an appreciable step,” said Coach Johny Bhatia.“Now that we have got the opportunity to practice in water, we all have to act responsibly. Rise in Covid cases is surely a concern, but most of the arenas are open for professional players. A sudden dip in performance can be only recovered in the coming two or three months before participating in championships,” said Jasnoor, another swimmer.“The swimmers were in dire need of a pool to practice. We have seen that India’s Sajan lost Olympics berth by just a few seconds on Tuesday. We have to plan in a better way to perform at such level. Now that the Punjab Sports Department has opened the pool, we will surely give the results,” said Parbhat Sharma, general secretary, Mohali Swimming Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-63-mohali-indoor-swimming-pool-opens-after-four-years-239652
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Liquor baron Arvind Singla denied anticipatory bail||A local court has dismissed the anticipatory bail application of liquor baron Arvind Singla, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37. Singla has been on the run since the police booked him, along with nine other accused, in the case on March 2, 2021.While Singla’s counsel claimed before the court that he was falsely implicated in the case, special public prosecutor Manu Kakkar strongly opposed the anticipatory bail plea by claiming that the police had evidence to prove his involvement in the case. Kakkar also cited the Supreme Court’s judgment that economic offences fall in different categories where interest of society is also to be considered. After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the anticipatory bail application of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-baron-arvind-singla-denied-anticipatory-bail-239653
16-04-2021||Panchkula||Kalka man held for stalking||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-man-held-for-stalking-239654
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend curfew on Chandigarh mind||Weekend curfew and closure of gyms, restaurants, cinema halls and malls may be among the new restrictions to be imposed by the UT Administration to curb the rising Covid-19 cases.Chandigarh sees 3 deaths, 412 fresh casesAccording to UT Adviser Manoj Parida, “Various measures will be discussed at a meeting scheduled for Friday.”Also read: Chandigarh announces weekend lockdownOdd-even for shops also to be taken upThe odd-even formula for opening of shops is also under consideration. Besides, like last year, only 50 per cent staff may be allowed in offices. Traders have already expressed dissatisfaction over any such move. They said businesses were yet to recover from last year’s losses.The odd-even formula for opening of shops is also under consideration. Besides, like last year, only 50 per cent staff may be allowed in offices.Restrictions may also be imposed on visitors in government offices to check rush. Ban on cultural, social or religious gatherings will also be discussed.The Administration has already shut Rock Garden, while Sukhna Lake has been closed for the public on weekends.Night curfew has already been imposed in the city from 10 pm to 5 am. There is also a restriction on gatherings — 200 persons for outdoor events and 100 persons for indoor — in the UT. The authorities may also consider reducing this number further.Name, shame those not getting jabbed: UT AdviserJabs given at 64 sitesAs many as 4,083 eligible people were administered the Covid vaccine at 64 sites across the city on Thursday.UK variant found in 70% samples sent from PGI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekend-curfew-on-chandigarh-mind-239559
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Name, shame those not getting jabbed: Adviser||Even as getting vaccinated is voluntary, UT Adviser Manoj Parida today asked the resident welfare associations (RWAs) to name and shame those not taking the jab.“The RWAs should help the Administration by persuading eligible residents to take the Covid vaccine. Defaulters should be named and shamed. In other states, people are waiting in long queue to get it, while our facilities are underutilised,” he was quoted in a Twitter post of the Administration.Weekend curfew on Chandigarh mindWhen contacted, Parida said, “The RWA should do it. We cannot name and shame because officially vaccine is optional.”However, RWAs are not impressed with the Adviser’s statement.FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said, “It is not required. People should be made aware rather than being shamed. The Administration should do governance, not dictatorship. People can be made aware through RWAs.”UK variant found in 70% samples sent from PGIVinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents’ Welfare Organisations, said, “The Administration should first name and shame its health workers or frontline workers who have not got themselves vaccinated. Residents should be named and praised, and not shamed. They should instead be encouraged for vaccination.”Meanwhile, the Adviser said, “Any group, association or society can approach the Administration with a list of 100 eligible persons for vaccination. The Administration will arrange a special camp near their place. Also, our ambulance will pick up old, disabled eligible persons for vaccination, if they register with us.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/name-shame-those-not-getting-jabbed-adviser-239560
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 3 deaths, 412 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-3-deaths-412-fresh-cases-239561
16-04-2021||Mohali||Testing contacts: 58 found +ve in Dhakoli containment zone||Fifty-eight contacts of Covid positive cases have been found to have contracted the virus in Dhakoli. Health teams took a total of 2,000 samples of contacts of positive cases during the past two days. Dhakoli has been turned into a containment zone after a large number of cases were being reported from the area.The district administration has now opened the K-Area and areas of Dhakoli before the railway crossing after completing the sampling process.Mohali’s big surge — 860 infectedMohali: Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the district witnessed its highest-ever single-day case spike with 860 cases surfacing in the past 24 hours. A total of 472 patients were cured, while one more death was reported. Among the the fresh cases, 399 were reported from Mohali (urban), four from Banur, 11 each from Lalru, Boothgarh and Kurali, 34 from Gharuan, 47 from Dera Bassi, 147 from Kharar and 196 from Dhakoli. A total of 33,844 cases have been reported from the district so far. TNSDivulging details, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the Dhakoli area had been divided into 10 zones and teams were taking samples of the contacts of the Covid positive cases.Dayalan said the 10 teams deployed in the area were presently taking samples at five different locations, including Gulmohar area, Dhakoli, Sushma societies in Peer Muchalla, Mamta Enclave and Spandle Society. He said they were thankful to the people of the locality, who have been cooperating in sampling and vaccination. “We are opening areas after completing the sampling work,” he added.The DC said essential services of all kind and medical services were allowed in the containment zone. He said food delivery boys were also being allowed to enter the containment zone.Meanwhile, more than one lakh eligible persons have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district so far.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said till April 15, a total of 1,03,347 beneficiaries, including 37,557 senior citizens, had been given doses in the district. A total of 3,413 beneficiaries were given the jab on Thursday.Praising the entire health care staff for the achievement, she said doctors, nurses and paramedical staff were risking their lives to save the lives of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/testing-contacts-58-found-ve-in-dhakoli-containment-zone-239562
16-04-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula hits a new high with 315 fresh cases||The district reported 315 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far since the pandemic broke out.On Tuesday, the district had reported 278 cases, which was till then the highest single-day figure.High positivity rate a matter of concernThe Covid toll remained at 160 with no fresh death.Cremation grounds to be sanitisedWhile the overall case tally has reached 15,946, the cumulative recoveries stand at 13,987.VAX stats2,617 eligible persons given Vaccine at 33 sites on April 15Over 1.08L vaccine doses administered in the district so farThe active caseload is 1,799.Halfway through the month, over 2,900 cases have been reported from the district, suggesting it could turn out to be worst Covid month since the inception of the pandemic.When the first wave was at its peak, the district had reported 3,762 infections in September last year.The August tally stood at 2,044. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-hits-a-new-high-with-315-fresh-cases-239563
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Expect light rain for two days in Chandigarh||The local Meteorological Department has forecast light rain for the next two days.According to the weatherman, the sky is likely to be generally cloudy with thundery development/light rain on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday, it is expected to be partly cloudy.The maximum temperature in city today was 37.8°C, three degrees above normal, while the minimum temperature was 22.9°C, five degrees above normal.By Saturday, the maximum temperature is expected to come down to 32°C and the minimum to 20°C. The past few days have been relatively hot. A Met official said the coming few days were expected to provide some respite from the growing hot weather. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-light-rain-for-two-days-in-chandigarh-239564
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two fall prey to snatchers in Chandigarh||Two snatchings have taken place in the city. A bike-borne miscreant sped away after snatching a woman’s bag containing cash and documents in Sector 22 on April 14. Surinder Singh of Dariya village reported that Mukesh, alias Mogli, of Mauli Jagran snatched his mobile phone at the grain market in Sector 26 on April 13. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-fall-prey-to-snatchers-in-chandigarh-239565
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||5 booked for Rs 35.44L bank loan fraud||Five persons have been booked for fraudulently taking a loan of Rs35.44 lakh in the name of a doctor.The complainant, Parveen Sharma, a doctor with a private hospital, alleged that the suspects, Amrish, Mohandeep, Harshmeet, Ravinder Pal and Sangram, got a loan of Rs 35.44 lakh sanctioned on his name from ICICI Bank, Dera Bassi, in 2017.He said the suspects had approached him regarding the sale of a plot in Dera Bassi and a bank employee visited him and took some documents and blank cheques on the pretext of processing the loan. He was assured that the cheques would be returned to him after documentation of loan papers.In 2018, he came to know that a cheque has bounced. He then found that a loan was sanctioned in his name, even though he had not signed the sanction letter. He said he was shocked to know that the registry of a plot was done in his name at the Sub-Registrar’s office in Dera Bassi, though he had never visited it. The complainant approached the police.After an investigation, a case was registered against the suspects at the Industrial Area police station on April 14. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-booked-for-rs-35-44l-bank-loan-fraud-239566
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Arguments on Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s discharge plea completed in AJL case||Arguments on the discharge application of former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the framing of charges against him were completed today before the CBI Special Court, Haryana, in the Associated Journals Limited (AJL) plot re-allotment case.Hooda and M/s AJL are accused in the case. Another accused, Motilal Vora, Congress leader and then chairman of M/s AJL, died recently.Ex-cm was present at daylong hearingFormer Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and M/s Associated Journals Limited (AJL) are accused in the case. Another accused, Motilal Vora, Congress leader and then chairman of M/s AJL, died recently.Hooda has been seeking discharge from the case. The former Chief Minister remained present throughout the daylong hearing on Thursday along with his lawyers RS Cheema, PK Sandhir and SPS Parmar.Hooda has been seeking discharge from the case. He remained present throughout the daylong hearing today along with his lawyers RS Cheema, PK Sandhir and SPS Parmar.CBI counsel Kanwar Pal Singh submitted before the court that then chairman of M/s AJL Motilal Vora and then Chief Minister BS Hooda hatched a conspiracy for the restoration of the resumed institutional plot in Sector 6, Panchkula. He added that before Hooda, former Chief Minister Bansi Lal had not considered the requests for the restoration of the plot.Vora did not make any request from 2002 to 2005 for the restoration of the plot though he became chairman in 2002 as he allegedly knew that the requests would be turned down in a non-Congress regime. At that time, there was an INLD government in Haryana. There was no request from the AJL even from 1998 to 2005 for the restoration of the plot.Hooda became the Chief Minister on March 5, 2005, and Vora requested for the restoration of the plot on April 7, 2005. Hooda re-allotted the plot on August 28, 2005.Officials of HUDA, the then Legal Remembrancer, and then Financial Commissioner Town and Country Planning Department had unanimously recommended that the plot could not be re-alloted without publishing a fresh advertisement at the current rate of Rs3,200 per sq yard. However, Hooda allegedly overruled them.The 97th meeting of HUDA was held on May 16, 2006, whose chairman was Hooda himself and the ex-post facto approval of the re-allotment had been accorded.On the defence of Hooda that he passed the re-allotment order under the provision of Section 30 (2) of HUDA Act, 1977, which grants revision powers, the CBI counsel said the same power had already been exercised by ML Tayal, then Commissioner and Secretary to the Haryana Government, Town and Country Planning Department, as the powers were delegated by the President of India under Subsection 2 of Section 30.The CBI has been claiming that Hooda as chairman of HUDA misused his official position as Chief Minister by re-allotting the plot at the old rates, as applicable in 1982, causing a wrongful gain of Rs67.65 lakh to AJL and corresponding loss to the government exchequer.On the contention of Hooda that there was an amendment to the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and 13 (1) (d), which pertains to abusing official position for pecuniary advantage for himself or others, could not apply to him, the CBI counsel reasoned that as the offences had been committed before the amendment to the Act, brought on July 26, 2018, the relevant section “has been correctly attributed”.He added that the AJL availed of two-term loans of Rs42.72 crore from Syndicate Bank, New Delhi, for making payments to the Municipal Corporation, Greater Mumbai, for their construction at Bandra and Mumbai and closure of an existing loan of Rs15.25 crore with a balance of Rs14.60 crore against a mortgage of land and building at Panchkula.According to the CBI, the loan could have been taken only for the purpose for which the plot was allotted.The purpose of allotment of the plot stood defeated as Hindi daily newspaper Nav-Jivan was not published from the premises, said the CBI.CBI Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg would pronounce the order on the discharge application and framing of charges on April 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arguments-on-bhupinder-singh-hoodas-discharge-plea-completed-in-ajl-case-239567
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||8 Chandigarh residents challaned, 86 get notice for wasting water||The local MC today issued 86 notices and challaned eight persons on the first day of its drive against water wastage. The drive will continue till June 30. Of the eight challans, two were issued for washing vehicles and three each for washing courtyard and irrigation of lawns with a hosepipe.Most of the notices were issued for violations like overflowing water tanks, leakage in meter chamber, installation and use of booster pump on water supply line and wastage due to non-installation of bib taps. “We have formed various teams for visiting different localities to check the misuse of water,” said an MC official. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-chandigarh-residents-challaned-86-get-notice-for-wasting-water-239568
16-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Parents in a spot as Chandigarh schools hike fee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15After gap of a year, city schools have again started increasing the fee for the upcoming academic session. The Education Department is silent on whether the schools can increase the fee this year, leaving the parents in a lurch.Dinesh Kumar, who has a daughter studying in a Sector 7-based school, said: “Is it justified for schools to charge the full fee, including the medical and multimedia fee, when a few classes are going online and we are getting half the salaries till now due to the pandemic?”Rekha, a resident of Sector 47, said: “Till last year, we were paying only Rs2,200 as the tuition fee for our two children. Now, the school has merged all charges under the school fee head and we are forced to pay Rs4,300 from this session.”Just recently, around 40 parents had gathered outside KBDAV Senior Secondary School in Sector 7 to protest the fee payment for the 2021-2022 academic session.HS Mamik, president of the Indian Schools’ Association, UT, said: “If students cannot pay the fee, they can shift to government schools. It has been mentioned nowhere that private schools cannot hike the fee annually. As a matter of fact, no hike is beyond eight per cent.”Last year on July 3, the UT Administration ordered that no private school would increase the school fee for 2020-21 without approval from the Administration.While charging the tuition fee, the schools were directed not to include any “hidden or additional charges”. Besides, all private schools were directed by the UT Administration to display the details of the fee structure (specifically tuition fee), as per the provisions of section 5(c) of Fee Regulation Act, 2016, on their website.“While the Covid situation is worse than the last year, the middle class is already financially burdened. The fee has been hiked significantly and some schools are even asking parents to buy uniforms for attending online classes as the old uniforms have become short for most children. The Administration must immediately intervene and direct the schools to charge only 50 per cent fee, without any hike this year,” said Nitin Goyal, Chandigarh Parents’ Association.The UT Education Department apparently failed in ensuring that the private schools display a bifurcated fee structure on their websites.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director School Education, said: “We have issued orders for 2020-21 and it was challenged in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. As of now, no specific orders have been issued for 2021-22 and the Fee Regulation Act is applicable. We are assessing the situation and will seek legal opinion.”While parents are being forced to pay the hiked fee, the department has failed to check whether the hike is within the ambit of 8 per cent.As per the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, the increase in fee should not exceed eight per cent of the fee of the previous year charged by an unaided educational institution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-in-a-spot-as-chandigarh-schools-hike-fee-239569
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||PU Senate poll: List of candidates for 6 posts of Fellow released||The PU has released the final list of candidates for the election of six ordinary Fellows by various faculties for the term starting November 1, 2020, to December 31, 2024. The elections are scheduled to be held on April 26.Prof Anju Suri Arora and Dr Ronki Ram from the Faculty of Arts, Prof Gurpal Singh Sandhu and Dr Rajesh Gill from the Faculty of Languages, Dr Navdeep Goyal and Prof Promila Pathak from the Faculty of Science, Ashok Goyal and Dr Sarvdeep Singh Dhatt from the Faculty of Medical Science, Anu Chatrath and Jagjot Singh Lalli from the Faculty of Law and Dr Keshav Malhotra and Prof Naval Kishore from Combined Faculties are the candidates.The elections for the Faculty of Law will be held at the Chemistry Department (9 am to 11 am), for Arts at the Evening Studies Department, for Languages at English Auditorium, Science at Law Department (9.30 am to 12.30 pm) and Medical Sciences and Combined Faculties at Gymnasium Hall (10 am to 2.30 pm). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-senate-poll-list-of-candidates-for-6-posts-of-fellow-released-239570
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Parents, schools wait for assessment criteria||A day after the Centre cancelled the Class X board exams, schools and parents are now in a fix over the criteria for the assessment of marks.While the decision was welcomed by many students, there are a few who are worried about their percentage.“As much as parents have welcomed the decision, we are also anxious and are waiting for the CBSE to declare the assessment criteria,” said Parul, a parent.Meanwhile, school authorities are waiting for directions from the CBSE on how the students are to be evaluated and promoted to the next class. The schools are of the view that assessment should be done on a concrete basis.“The whole exercise of cancelling the examinations has been unnecessary. Only a handful of students are happy with the decision as there are many students who have skipped their pre-boards and other internal examinations. How will we assess their performance?” said HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools’ Association (ISA), Chandigarh.“We have to wait for the CBSE guidelines. We just cannot judge a student’s performance from one examination, especially in times like these. Such a criteria should be devised so that the overall performance of a student can be judged,” said Harsimran Kaur, principal, The Gurukul.“The decision to cancel the Class X board exams has come as a shock for those who have been preparing dedicatedly for the exams. Perhaps, under the current scenario, this was the only viable solution for the government but I feel that some sort of viva or offline exams, with all SOPs in place, must be conducted at least at the school level. In this way, those who have been studying hard will not feel that their efforts have been wasted,” said Amita Khorana, principal, Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22-D.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, DPI (Schools), UT Administration, also said the UT Education Department would wait for CBSE guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-schools-wait-for-assessment-criteria-239571
16-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib youth tries to put out fire, gets burn injuries; wheat destroyed||Gurwinder Singh (19), a resident of Sadoo Majra and BA first-year student, received severe burn injuries while trying to put out a fire that was spreading fast and engulfing the ripe wheat crop at the village today.Though wheat on 45 acres was destroyed, he was able to save the remaining crop of villagers. The youth was admitted to a private hospital.The 45 acres belonged to small farmers with less than two acres each. Villagers said the exact cause of the fire was unknown. They also ruled out the possibility of a spark in the power lines as there was a power cut when the fire broke out.They said they informed the Fire Station Office at Sirhind and three fire fighting engines were pressed into service. Harbans Singh, Inspector, Fire Department, Sirhind, said as soon as they got the information, three fire fighting engines, along with a team of fire extinguishing staff, was pressed into service and the fire was controlled.The farmers whose crop was damaged said the government should order ‘girdawri’ and pay them compensation. Some of the farmers had taken land on lease.AAP leader Lakhvir Singh Rai assured the farmers to take up matter with the government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-youth-tries-to-put-out-fire-gets-burn-injuries-wheat-destroyed-239572
16-04-2021||Mohali||Ranjit Singh Jiti Padiala is Kurali MC chief||Ranjit Singh Jiti Padiala was today elected the president of the Kurali Municipal Council for two and a half years.Padiala is a close aide of former Punjab minister Jagmohan Singh Kang. He was elected with the support of lone BJP councillor Lakhvir Singh Lucky.Independent councillor Simran Kaur was elected as the vice-president.Of the 17 wards in Kurali, the Congress had won nine seats while the SAD managed to win only two and BJP one. Independent candidates won five seats. The elections were held on February 14, the results of which were declared on February 17.Sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain administered the oath to all 17 councillors, followed by elections to the post of the president and vice-president. Two factions of the Congress had nominated Ranjit Singh Jiti of Kang group and Bhavana Sharma of the Balbir Singh Sidhu group for the post of president. Both got eight votes each but Lucky supported Jiti.In the last term, the SAD-BJP alliance had won nine seats, Congress six and two seats were won by Independents, who later joined the SAD. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ranjit-singh-jiti-padiala-is-kurali-mc-chief-239573
16-04-2021||Panchkula||5K stray dogs to be sterilised in Panchkula||To control the number of stray dogs in the city, the NGO employed by the Panchkula Municipal Corporation began a sterilisation drive today, with a target to cover 5,000 dogs.The target to sterilise 10-15 dogs daily has been fixed by NGO Be-Zubaan (Be The Voice), which had bagged the one-year contract in 2019, got extension for another year.For the sterilisation of each dog, the MC will pay Rs1,134 to the NGO.The sterilisation work will be done at Sukhdarshanpur dog care and rehabilitation centre.Six days after sterilisation, dogs will be released at the same place or locality from where they were captured.A helpline (9876252622) has also been issued to receive the complaints from residents.The Sukhdarshanpur centre has at least 14 kennels and there is a provision for keeping two dogs in a kennel.“They will be filled in two days. Twenty-eight more will come up,” stated an official release.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said the civic body would also adopt stray puppies.“Whichever dog gives birth to pups will be reared at the Sukhdarshanpur dog pound and all kinds of dog food, drinks and other facilities will be provided to the pups there. After this, the facility of online adoption will also be made available,” he said.He added said an eight-member committee had been formed to identify dogs with rabies.The committee would investigate rabies in dogs and if the behaviour of the dog was found to be improper, the dog would be treated and thereafter, left at the same location from where they were picked up.The dogs will also be brought to the dog care centre for their treatment.The treated dogs will subsequently be released to their original habitat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5k-stray-dogs-to-be-sterilised-in-panchkula-239574
16-04-2021||Mohali||Sewerage work will be completed before monsoon: Mohali Mayor||Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu today reviewed the ongoing sewerage-laying construction work and assured the citizens that the work on the main road in the city, along with reconstruction of roads, would be completed before monsoon.The Mayor was accompanied by Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Singh Bedi.The construction work is being carried out under the Amrut Scheme. Under this, 8.8 km of sewerage line is being laid, of which, 6 km have been completed.Mayor Sidhu also directed the authorities to resume reconstruction of road within a month. The Mayor asked the authorities to complete the work and get the road operational before the monsoon season. Sidhu said his team would continue to monitor other ongoing works. “The new sewerage line is the lifeline of Mohali. Only quality work will be handed over to people,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewerage-work-will-be-completed-before-monsoon-mohali-mayor-239575
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lecture on 'Science and technology for society and economy'||As part of an agreement to promote high-end research and development in the field of science, the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) organised the Dr RS Khandpur Memorial Lecture on ‘Science and technology for society and economy’ through an online mode today.Prof K Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, was the key speaker.A book written by Dr Khandpur, known as the ‘Science Man of Punjab’, was also released on the occasion by Dr Hemant Darbari, Director General, C-DAC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lecture-on-science-and-technology-for-society-and-economy-239576
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||5,000 job offers for university students||Chandigarh University topped in campus placements in the zone by clocking more than 5,000 job offers for the 2020-21 batch. More than 500 multinational companies conducted virtual campus placement drives for engineering, MBA, hotel management, pharmacy, bio-technology and architecture students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-000-job-offers-for-university-students-239607
16-04-2021||---||70 pc samples sent to NCDC by PGI had UK variant of Covid-19: Jagat Ram||Chandigarh, April 15With Covid-19 cases surging at a rate much faster in the second wave than the first wave, it was being assumed that UK variant could be responsible for this faster rate. “The same has been amply proved by the latest findings of the PGIMER samples sent to National Centre for Diseases Control as 70 per cent of the samples had UK Variant of COVID 19 and 20 per cent of the samples had 681 H mutant of Covid 19,” stated Prof Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER here on Thursday.The UK variant found in 70 per cent of the samples sent by PGIMER, Chandigarh is B.1.1.7. This variant is associated with increased transmissibility -- more efficient and rapid transmission.The Director said, “The Department of Virology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, had sent 60 positive samples of Covid-19 to the National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC), New Delhi in the month of March 2021. It was found that 70% of the samples had UK variants of Covid-19, one sample was found to have double mutation. 681H mutant of Covid-19 was observed in 20% of the samples. Majority of the samples were from Chandigarh.”Sending a note of caution, Jagat Ram said, “Considering the high transmission and faster spread of COVID-19 by the UK variant, it is suggested that everyone should follow COVID Appropriate Behaviour by wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and frequent use of sanitiser/hand washing.” The director advised to avoid crowded places and non-essential travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-pc-samples-sent-to-ncdc-by-pgi-had-uk-variant-of-covid-19-jagat-ram-239504
16-04-2021||---||Those eligible but not taking coronavirus vaccine should be named and shamed, says Chandigarh adviser||Chandigarh, April 15UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday said those eligible for coronavirus vaccine but not taking it should be named and shamed.He said, “Resident Welfare Associations should help the administration by persuading eligible residents to take coronavirus vaccine. Defaulters should be named and shamed.”Parida said, “In other states people are waiting in long queues to get it, while our facilities are underutilised.”“Those who are not taking vaccine will be termed defaulters in Chandigarh. They will be named and shamed,” he said in a statement issued by the Department of Public Relations, UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/those-eligible-but-not-taking-coronavirus-vaccine-should-be-named-and-shamed-says-chandigarh-adviser-239440
