17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 431 cases, 2 deaths||Chandigarh reported two deaths and 431 cases, pushing the infection count to 33,309 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana.               So far, the infection has claimed 410 lives in the union territory, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases stands at 3,414, it said. A total of 438 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 29,485. A total of 3,58,865 samples have been taken for testing, of which 3,24,486 tested negative while reports of 106 are awaited, the bulletin said.            Meanwhile, markets in the union territory wore a deserted look due to lockdown imposed by the authorities here. The city administration on Friday had announced to clamp weekend lockdown from 10 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday. Essential activities and services were exempted from the purview of the lockdown. Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Charanjiv Singh urged the city administration to review its decision, saying fresh restrictions will further hit their businesses. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-431-cases-2-deaths-240458
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Youngster held with ganja||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youngster-held-with-ganja-240297
17-04-2021||In view of the weekend lockdown||PU dental hospital to remain shut||Lecture on science, innovationsThe Department of Biotechnology, Panjab University, in association with the Punjab Academy of Sciences and Indian Science Congress Association, Chandigarh Chapter, organised a lecture by Dr Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, Government of India. Dr Swarup talked about ‘Science Technology and Innovations: Key Drivers for Economic Growth’. She elaborated how Department of Bio Technology was leading the country towards self-reliance or Aatmanirbharta. Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU, in his inaugural address said the current crisis provided an opportunity to reconsider our lives and reorganise them in a way that has less impact on our planet. TNSIAS centre extends last dateThe Centre for IAS and other Competitive Examinations, Panjab University, has extended the last date of submission of applications forms for the coaching of PCS (Executive), HCS (Executive) and other state civil services (preliminary) examinations to April 30. The classes shall commence from May 3 onwards. The admission will be based on first come, first served basis. TNSPU to release pending DMCsPanjab University has allowed the pending DMCs/degrees to be released of those Post Matric Scholarship enrolled SC/ST students for whom the examination fee has been paid, informed Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, PU. He said the step would benefit a large number of students. Out of 194 affiliated colleges, around 90 per cent colleges have already deposited the examination fee and their degrees were pending because of issue of late fee, he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-dental-hospital-to-remain-shut-240296
17-04-2021||Mohali||Two booked for Rs2.5-crore fraud||The police have booked two suspects, Deepak Chopra and Sonia Chopra, for duping a Fazilka resident, Ajay Nagpal, of Rs2.5 crore on April 13.The suspects, directors of Macro Group Private Limited in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, lured the complainant to invest Rs2.5 crore in a two-wheeler company for higher returns. The suspects refused to entertain Nagpal after receiving the money, the police said.The complainant alleged that the suspects were introduced to them as employees of a prominent two-wheeler company, they said.A case under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the suspects at the Phase 1 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-for-rs2-5-crore-fraud-240295
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Get inoculated, grab free BSNL SIM card||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-inoculated-grab-free-bsnl-sim-card-240293
17-04-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula admn accused of bias by senior citizens||A local body that works for the welfare of senior citizens today questioned the ‘double standards’ of the district administration with regard to implementation of Covid-19 SOPs and guidelines.The Senior Citizen Council of Panchkula, which alleged their application for holding regular activities has been put on the back burner by the local administration, has pointed out permission given to religious congregations being held at temples and gurdwaras, and political gatherings being allowed in the district.“While political meetings, huge press briefings by the police and religious congregations in the country as well as the district are being allowed, senior citizens are not allowed to hold activities for their betterment,” said president of the council RK Malhotra, adding that they are ready to follow all Covid norms issued by the authorities from time to time.“The council has also showed concern about the pain of loneliness of senior citizens who had remained in confinement for the entire year 2020 due to the SOPs issued by the government. When all activities are open with certain riders, why is permission to hold the activities of the council is not being accorded?’’ says a press release of the council.The council has also urged the administration to implement the rules seriously and strictly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-admn-accused-of-bias-by-senior-citizens-240292
17-04-2021||---||SFS slammed for its statement on sexual harassment||Chandigarh, April 16A statement by Students for Society (SFS) over the sexual harassment of one of its members has drawn flak from Panjab University’s left-wing parties like the PSU (Lalkaar) and the Student Federation of India (SFI).About a week ago, a city-based poet and one of the members associated with SFS had accused another party member of sexual harassment on Facebook. Soon after, the accused was expelled from the party. However, a statement by the SFS on Thursday evoked some sharp reactions, with the PSU (Lalkaar) and SFI condemning the “feudal moral values” of the group. ‘Democratic right’The report denounces many issues of civil liberties as imperialist culture. If a man and a woman have consensual sex before marriage, it is their democratic human right. State power, society or anyone else has no right to interfere in their personal matter. Similarly, living together without marriage is also a question of free choice of citizens. This is, by no means, an imperialist culture.The SFS’ executive committee in its statement had said: “In the name of ‘freedom’, imperialist culture introduces various trends like pre-marital sex, live-in relations, multiple relations, etc., which ultimately result in the exploitation of women.”PSU (Lalkaar) retorted: “The report denounces many issues of civil liberties as imperialist culture. If a man and a woman have consensual sex before marriage, it is their democratic human right. State power, society or anyone else has no right to interfere in their personal matter.”“Similarly, living together without marriage is also a question of free choice of citizens. This is, by no means, an imperialist culture.”PSU (Lalkaar) further stated: “To condemn issues of pre-marital sex and the right of men and women to engage in live-in relationship as imperialist culture shows that the SFS leadership is yet to do away with feudal moral values themselves.”SFI member Abhilash Rajkhowa said: “In this era when a lot of people are trying to tackle the regressive norms of patriarchy and feudalism, a statement which speaks against pre-marital sex or live-in relationship, and calls them imperial policies harming women, is nothing but a clear indication of the fact that people are yet to liberate themselves from these age old demons.”“The group (SFS) even gave a free hand to the person who’s accused of sexually harassing many girls. I hope they wake up and join the battle against rampant rise in crime against women and more significantly, in the war against patriarchy and feudalism,” Rajkhowa added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sfs-slammed-for-its-statement-on-sexual-harassment-240290
17-04-2021||---||Suspending travel passes without notice ‘unfair’||Not accepting the valid bus pass without prior notice has cost Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) dear.Terming the act as deficiency of service, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here not only directed the CTU to refund the cost of the ticket - Rs 20 - to a senior citizen but also told it to pay Rs 2,000 as compensation for harassment and litigation cost.OP Verma, a resident of Sector 21, approached the commission after he was allegedly forced to buy a ticket by a bus conductor despite having a valid bus pass.In his complaint, the 65-year-old claimed that he was issued a local pass for AC buses by the CTU after paying Rs 2,430. The pass was valid for six months from December 23, 2019 to June 22, 2020.Verma said on June 9, 2020, when he boarded a non-AC CTU bus from Sector 21 market to Housing Board chowk, Mani Majra, for getting his new spectacles, the conductor asked him to buy a ticket. He said when he showed him a valid bus pass the conductor refused to accept it and insisted on purchasing a ticket.Verma said the doctor had prescribed him new spectacles after he had undergone a surgery for a cataract in right eye.On being asked, why the pass was not being recognised, the conductor replied that as per instructions issued by the CTU, bus passes were suspended due to spread of coronavirus.Verma said that when he demanded a copy of any such notification/instructions, the conductor expressed his inability to produce the same. However, he again insisted on purchasing a ticket.Left with no other option, Verma had to purchase a ticket for Rs 20.Alleging that the act amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on the part of the CTU, Verma filed the complaint.The CTU in its reply before the commission claimed that it was following the pandemic guidelines strictly, and that the complainant had boarded a non-AC bus and did not present the pass and purchased a ticket.If he had presented the pass, the conductor would have de-boarded him from the bus because senior citizens were not allowed to travel due to pandemic as per the guidelines issued by the government, the CTU claimed.Pleading that there was no deficiency in service on their part, a prayer has been made for dismissal of the complaint.After hearing both the sides, the commission noted that persons above 65 years of age were only advised to stay home, except for essential and health purposes.In the present case, the complainant had undergone eye surgery and had to travel for getting new spectacles which is admittedly an essential health purpose. Hence, the act of the CTU in suspending the valid bus passes without any notice and compelling the complainant to purchase a fresh bus ticket amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade on their part.In view of this, the CTU is directed to refund an amount of Rs 20 towards the cost of ticket and pay Rs 1,000 as compensation for deficiency in service and another Rs 1,000 as litigation expenses.Case file||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspending-travel-passes-without-notice-unfair-240274
17-04-2021||---||New lockdown measures condemned||Chandigarh, April 16Student and youth bodies of the city have condemned the re-imposition of lockdown by the Chandigarh Aadministration.Releasing a joint statement on behalf of Naujwan Bharat Sabha (NBS) and Punjab Students Union (Lalkaar), Manavjot said by introducing lockdown on weekend, the UT Administration has reminded the city workers of the horrific days of the last year.Last year’s lockdown ruined the businesses of millions of people, took away the livelihoods of day labourers and street-hawkers and caused severe loss to the students, read the joint statement.It further stated: “Tens of thousands of migrants who returned to UP, Bihar were forced to walk on foot hundreds of kilometers back to their homes. Even last year’s losses have not been reimbursed yet and the administration has again imposed a lockdown.”Amandeep Singh, a student leader from PSU (Lalkaar), said according to many experts and scientists, lockdown was not a cure for any such viral disease.Last year too, the lockdown was not a gain but a major loss, he said.This loss was not only economic and social but also made it very difficult for many patients to get treatment for other diseases, Amandeep added.“With lockdown for the people, on one hand, the rulers, on the other hand, are holding huge election rallies in Bengal and other states, and the Kumbh Mela is also going on in Haridwar. All of this shows that other interests are being served under the pretext of corona,” Amandeep alleged.The youth leaders said that if the government thinks that by imposing such a lockdown it would end the ongoing struggle against agricultural laws or further pass any other anti-people decision, it was their fallacy.“The people are not at all ready to tolerate these corona bans anymore, and in future, these deadly restrictions will be resolutely opposed by the people. At the same time we appeal to all the democratic organisations, youth, market associations and all justice loving people of Chandigarh to raise their voice against these restrictions,” read the statement. NBS, PSU (Lalkar) joint statement||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-lockdown-measures-condemned-240251
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Youth stabbed to death by friends over money in Mauli Jagran||A 21-year-old youth was stabbed to death by four friends over a money dispute at Mauli Complex, Mauli Jagran, today.The victim has been identified as Amit, a roadside vendor. He used to sell snacks on his cart. The police said Amit had borrowed a scooter from one of the suspects on Holi. The scooter met with an accident following which it was damaged. “The victim had paid Rs1,500 to the person. However, he was demanding more money,” the police said.Today, the suspects, Bharat, Rahul, Guru and Pardeep, all residents of Mauli Complex, entered into an argument with the victim over the money. They then stabbed the victim on his back. “He was stabbed once, which turned fatal for him,” said a police official. The police have registered a case of murder at the Mauli Jagran police station. The police said raids were being conducted to nab the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-stabbed-to-death-by-friends-over-money-in-mauli-jagran-240221
17-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||With IAS officers as witnesses, trial against Bhupinder Singh Hooda to start on May 7||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16With present and past IAS officers as witnesses, the trial against former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda will start on May 7 for criminal conspiracy, cheating and under the Prevention of Corruption Act in the Associated Journals Limited (AJL) plot re-allotment case.Some of these officers had closely worked with him during his tenure as Chief Minister.Hooda still has time to file an appeal before the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the dismissal of his discharge application.The institutional plot of M/s AJL was resumed in 1992 as the company did not carry out construction as required under the rules. Ramshekhar (IAS officer) as Administrator (Panchkula), Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), rejected the appeal of the company in 1995.Former IAS officer ML Tayal, then Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, had dismissed the revision petition of the company in 1996, and the matter achieved finality.However, Hooda re-allotted the plot on August 28, 2005, after coming to power in an alleged conspiracy with then chairman of AJL Motilal Vora. He bypassed the opinion given by then Chief Administrator, HUDA, SS Dhillon, then Financial Commissioner, Town and Country Planning Department, Shakuntla Jakhu and even Joint Legal Remembrancer Jagdeep Jain.Dhillon, Jakhu and Jain are CBI’s witnesses in the case. Jain had given his opinion that the plot could not be allotted once the revision petition had been dismissed by Tayal and if allotment was to be made, it had to be at the current prices as per the procedure.The 97th meeting of HUDA was held on May 16, 2006, whose chairman was Hooda himself and the ex-post facto approval of the re-allotment had been accorded. Former IAS officer Prem Prashant, who was Chief Secretary in 2006 and had participated in the 97th meeting as vice-chairman, told the CBI that the matter for ex-post facto approval of the Chief Minister’s order, dated August 28, 2005, was not required to be put before HUDA, but instead if any ratification was required, it was to be placed before the Cabinet.He added that had he been informed about the noting on the files, he would have dissented as its approval by then Chief Minister did not make any sense. Former IAS officer RN Prashar, then Principal Secretary, Power Department, and member of HUDA, and former IAS officer N Bala Bhaskar, then PS to the Urban Development Department and also member of the authority, recorded that ex-post facto approval was a mere formality because re-allotment had already been made. Former IAS officer ML Tayal, then PS to the Chief Minister and member of the authority, told that he had “agitated at the meeting held on May 16, 2006, before the Chief Minsiter of Haryana and other members” that ex-post facto approval for re-allotment “was not correct” as he had himself dismissed the revision petition of the AJL in 1996. However, he was overruled, as he claimed.IAS officer Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, as Administrator (Panchkula), HUDA, told the CBI that there was no instance at the meeting where members of the authority had shown resentment in writing.Assistant District Attorney Navneet Singh Sodhi of HUDA told the CBI that the AJL case was the only matter where ex-post facto approval was taken after the orders of the revision authority.The CBI case is that Hooda could not have exercised the revision powers as the same had been exercised by former IAS officer ML Tayal in the case as the power was delegated to him under the HUDA Act.The CBI alleged that the AJL availed of two-term loans of Rs42.72 crore from Syndicate Bank, New Delhi, for making payments to the Municipal Corporation, Greater Mumbai, for their construction at Bandra and Mumbai and closure of an existing loan of Rs15.25 crore with a balance of Rs14.60 crore against mortgage of land and building at Panchkula.According to the CBI, the loan could have been taken only for the purpose for which the plot was allotted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-ias-officers-as-witnesses-trial-against-bhupinder-singh-hooda-to-start-on-may-7-240220
17-04-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 314 cases, two deaths||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-314-cases-two-deaths-240216
17-04-2021||Mohali||Mohali sees seven deaths, 605 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-seven-deaths-605-cases-240211
17-04-2021||Mohali||In Mohali, maximum 20 can attend marriages, funerals||The Mohali administration today announced a cap on gatherings at marriages and funerals. It said the number of people at marriages and funerals would henceforth be restricted to 20.Special nakas are being set up around containment zones to keep a strict vigil over any unauthorised movement in or out of the zones.Besides, police and revenue officers will conduct surprise checks at markets and crowded areas for challaning protocol violators. They will also conduct joint inspections at marriage banquets and take action against owners found violating the Covid guidelines.To ensure that no one violates the curfew, the police will impound cars plying on roads after 9 pm. The police will also ensure that all liquor vends remain closed after 9 pm. Joint teams of civil and police officers will keep tabs over home isolation and geo-fencing breaches by Covid-19 patients.“We have constituted additional 10 rapid response teams per subdivision for quick response to distress calls. They will ensure the distribution of Covid-19 kits and monitor the health of patients,” said an official. We would also monitor oxygen supply to prevent shortage and overpricing, he said. Additional IT teams have also been deployed for better data management of patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-maximum-20-can-attend-marriages-funerals-240205
17-04-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Weekend lockdown will deal irreparable blow, reconsider move: Chandigarh traders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16Taken aback by the decision of the UT Administration to impose a weekend lockdown, the business community today said it would deal an irreparable blow to them.“Traders are not happy with the decision on lockdown when neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab have not imposed it,” said Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal.He added that the UT Administration should reconsider its decision in the interests of the business community. Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said, “We are surprised at the UT move. Even in Delhi and Mumbai, the industry is not closed during lockdown. With SOPs in place, the industry should be allowed to operate like essential services.”The manufacturing activity had just started limping back. The lockdown would be a big blow to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in particular and the whole economy in general, he added. “The production once lost cannot be recovered. Rather it has a rippling negative effect,” he said, adding that there would be loss of revenue, including GST, to the government.Fearing loss of work force, he said longer shutdown could lead to migration of labour as well. Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, said the lockdown decision was not good for traders of the city. Last year, lockdown had proved as a jolt to the business community, he added. “We appeal to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to kindly reconsider the decision and take on priority the interest of traders and announce some major relief schemes in their favour as they have suffered the most during the pandemic,” he said.In view of an abnormal increase in Covid-19 cases in the city, they had already decided to hold a free Covid testing camp in coordination with the UT Health Department for traders, their staff and family members, he said, and added that the association was also planning to organise a vaccination camp for traders.Narinder Singh, a shopkeeper at Sadar Market in Sector 19, said the decision would badly impact the small shopkeepers as they get a good number of customers on Saturdays and Sundays. They were expecting a good sale during the marriage season, but it would ruin their business, he said, adding that instead of imposing weekend lockdown, the Administration should have strictly implemented the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality and Hotels Association, said, “While the hands of the UT Administration are also tied, the hospitality industry in the current scenario will collapse. We appeal to the Chandigarh Administration to announce a relief package to our industry, considering that it is one of highest job generators and a major tax contributor.”“The hospitality industry is staring at very bleak times. Many food and beverages units had pulled down shutters in the first Covid onslaught and we are afraid that some more would follow suit this time around. It must also be remembered that when hospitality industry suffers, many allied services, suppliers, transporters, employees and tax collection suffers too,” said Manmohan Singh, president, Chandigarh Hotels Association.“At the same time, we do realise that nothing is above human life and our industry like many other institutions stands committed to community health,” association president Manmohan Singh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekend-lockdown-will-deal-irreparable-blow-reconsider-move-chandigarh-traders-240203
17-04-2021||---||Chandigarh clamps weekend lockdown, traders fume||Chandigarh, April 16To restrict the movement of people, the UT Administration has imposed a weekend lockdown from 10 pm on Friday till 5 am on April 19 in the city. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore here today.Also readExpressing serious concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases and related fatalities in the city, the Administrator directed that all shop owners must get their staff tested and display a signboard stating that their premises were Covid-free. Action would not only be taken against the shoppers found not wearing masks but also the shopkeepers who attend to such customers, he ordered.Lockdown restrictions: No person shall leave home or move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public placeAn order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar stated that no person should leave their home or move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the lockdown period.All private offices will remain closed during the weekend lockdown. However, only industries manufacturing essential products such as masks, sanitisers and medicines can remain open.Similarly, essential commodity shops and vendors dealing in food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy products, meat and fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment shall be allowed to open for home delivery only.There will be no curbs on interstate and intrastate movement of essential and non-essential goods and all vehicles or persons in bona fide transit (interstate/intrastate) will be allowed to pass, but only after due verification of the points of origin and destination.During the weekend lockdown, restaurants, hotels and food joints/courts in malls can remain open only for home delivery till 9.30 pm. The restaurants and home delivery staff will be allowed to move on production of a valid ID card issued by their respective establishments.However, all marriage functions, for which the permission was taken from the SDM concerned, will be allowed subject to the limit of 100 people for outdoor events or 50 for indoor events or 50 per cent of the total capacity of the venue, whichever is less.All passes related to the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the District Courts shall be issued by the Registrar General of the High Court. Any breach of the order shall invite action under Section 188 of the IPC.In view of a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases during the past few days, the UT Administration has imposed certain other restrictions which will remain in force till April 30. Now, all gymnasiums and spas will remain closed.Similarly, all government offices will function with 50 per cent staff. However, all officers ofthe level of Deputy Secretary, equivalent or above, shall attend office on a regular basis. Visitors will be allowed to meet officials only on prior appointment.All private offices to remain closedSampark centres will be closed on Saturday. Online services will be available on www.sampark.chd.nic.inThose issued special curfew passThose tasked with law and order, emergency and municipal services, police, military or paramilitary personnel in uniform, health, electricity, fire employees, mediapersons with accreditation and government machinery tasked with Covid-related duties (all on production of ID cards)Movement passMarriage organisers or other persons seeking movement pass may contact on 0172-2700076 and 0172-2700341 or apply on www.admser.chd.nic.in.dpc for movement passWhat’s exemptedCurbs that will be in place till April 30||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-clamps-weekend-lockdown-traders-fume-240197
17-04-2021||Mohali||2-3L tonne of trash will be processed within a year: Mohali Mayor||Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu visited the dumping ground along with other officials here today. He said the company which had been given the contract, Eco Stan, would process 2-3 lakh tonne of garbage within a year.  Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present. Sidhu instructed the officers to hand over the order to the company today and get the work started by installing machines here within a month. Officials of the corporation told the Mayor that two large machines would be installed by the company to dispose of 50 tonne of garbage every hour, about 600 tonne of trash a day.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-3l-tonne-of-trash-will-be-processed-within-a-year-mohali-mayor-240059
17-04-2021||---||51 out of 1,321 found infected in Dhakoli containment zone||Zirakpur, April 16As many as 51 persons tested positive for Covid-19 out of the 1,321 rapid antigen tests conducted in the Dhakoli containment zone here today.Of 213 persons tested for Covid-19 at Sushma Crescent Housing Society, 18 were found infected.Health Department teams conducted tests at Bollywood Heights-1, 2, Royal Estate, Golden Sands, Green City Society, MS Enclave, Wellington Heights, Mamta Enclave, Laxmi Enclave and Spangle Heights Housing Societies.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan and Mohali SSP Satinder Singh visited the Dhakoli area and took stock of the situation.Covid beds doubled at Mohali Civil HospitalMohali: The Mohali Health Department has increased the number of beds in Level-2 Covid ward of the Civil Hospital, Phase VI, here from 30 to 60. Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said a 20-bed Covid ward had been reserved at Government Hospital, Dhakoli, so that it could be used as and when required. There was a Level 1 hospital with 100 beds at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. Meanwhile, Dr Jaskirandeep Kaur took over as the Senior Medical Officer of the Primary Health Centre, Boothgarh. Earlier, she was serving as the District Immunisation Officer at Rupnagar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/51-out-of-1-321-found-infected-in-dhakoli-containment-zone-240060
17-04-2021||---||Public dealing suspended in PUDA, GMADA offices||Mohali, April 16The Punjab Urban Planning & Development Authority (PUDA) has suspended public dealing in its office till April 30 with immediate effect.As Covid-19 cases are on the rise, entry of public into the offices of PUDA and GMADA in Sector 62 has been suspended till the month-end. However, the single window service counter would remain operational. To adhere to various public complaints and issue required receipts, a counter has been set up on the ground floor of the office building.People can seek prior appointment on email id pudagmada.appointments@gmail.com. They will be required to provide the reason for their visit, along with the name of the officer whom they want to contact.No entry for public till month-endAs Covid-19 cases are on the rise, entry of public into the offices of PUDA and GMADA in Sector 62 has been suspended till the month-end. However, the single window service counter will remain operational. To adhere to various public complaints and issue required receipts, a counter has been set up on the ground floor of the office building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/public-dealing-suspended-in-puda-gmada-offices-240061
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hits a new high with 481 fresh Covid-19 cases||In what could be called as worrisome state of affairs, the city today broke all previous records of single-day spike with 481 cases of Covid-19.During the previous surge, the highest single-day spike was reported on September 13 with 449 cases. City hospitals are bearing the brunt of sporadic increase in cases as Covid bed occupancy has reached to its maximum capacity. The city has also witnessed 29 deaths in just two weeks of this month.Helpline numbers for covid patients0172-2752038, 2634074, 2738087, 9646121642, 9779558282 & 7087577447The UT Administrator today expressed concern over the rising number of Covid cases in the city and also high fatality being observed here. He directed all three medical institutions to ramp up their facilities for accommodating increasing number of coronavirus patients.At present, 222 patients are admitted to the PGI’s Covid hospital. Out of this, 67 belong to Chandigarh, 82 to Punjab, 41 to Haryana, 22 to Himachal Pradesh and 10 from other states. The institute’s 75 per cent Covid bed capacity has been utilised.The PGI tested 3,492 Covid samples on Friday. Out of this, 552 were found to be positive, thereby recording a high positivity rate of 15.8%.As many as 38 patients are admitted to Dhanwantry College, 37 in Sood Dharamshala, 36 in Sector 48 hospital and 38 in the GMCH, Sector 32.In order to enhance the collection of samples, the GMCH authorities have increased the number of mobile teams from 2 to 10.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director Health Services, stated that they tested 8,834 Covid samples in the month of April. Out of this, 1,230 were found to be positive. Thus, the positivity rate was 13.9 per cent. She also mentioned that cumulative positivity rate for the entire city since the beginning of Covid-19 has been 9.2 per cent.UT DGP contracts virusUT DGP Sanjay Baniwal has tested positive for coronavirus. Sources said the DGP had isolated himself at his house in Sector 5. — TNSPGImer’s 75% bed capacity utilisedAt present, 222 patients are admitted to the PGI’s Covid hospital. Out of this, 67 belong to Chandigarh, 82 to Punjab, 41 to Haryana, 22 to Himachal Pradesh and 10 from other states. The institute’s 75 per cent Covid bed capacity has been utilised.UT Administrator directs...||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hits-a-new-high-with-481-fresh-covid-19-cases-240062
17-04-2021||Naina Mishra---||Younger patients developing Covid pneumonia early: Experts||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 16 The new strain has changed the algorithm of clinical symptoms of Covid-19 illness as it has been observed that the disease progression is much faster in younger patients with severe lung involvement and need for critical care. What is more worrisome is that there is growing incidence of Covid pneumonia among children. Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, PGI, said: “A lot of younger patients need intensive care treatment and many of them are in their 20s or 30s only. The patients are deteriorating faster than before and developing severe illness. Previously, the progression of disease among patients used to time. Among children, there is an incidence of serious symptom that were not observed last time.” “The deterioration was slow last time as the oxygen saturation used to dip at a slower pace. This time, the oxygen saturation dips faster as soon as it dips below 95 if there is lung involvement. Patients should not wait if the baseline saturation falls below 94 per cent or drops after walking and immediately report to hospital,” added Dr Puri. Dr Zafar Ahmed, Senior Consultant, Critical Care, Pulmonology and Chest & Sleep Medicine, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said: “The second wave has more and more patients presenting with aggressive symptoms including fever of one-three days’ duration followed by rapidly worsening breathlessness and oxygen desaturation. More extra pulmonary involvements are seen, including cardiac, neurological and gastrointestinal systems. Younger children are also getting infected. Treatment options remain the same, though aggressive approach is required to control rapid worsening.” Dr Ahmed added: “In our practice, most of the cases we have suspected have been detected by RT PCR, though reports from colleagues do suggest false negatives getting higher. It will require a virologist to comment whether this strain is dodging RT PCR.” Dr Deepak Bhasin, Director Pulmonology, Critical Care at Max Healthcare, said: “Covid-19 illness used to give a time of seven days, and condition of patients used to deteriorate after 7th day. This time, a lot of younger patients are deteriorating faster in just 4-5 days. In first or second CT scan itself, lung involvement is diagnosed in patients. Patients are presenting directly with Covid pneumonia, breathlessness, chest tightness and abdominal symptoms like diarrhoea. The cough is coming late in these patients and high grade fever is there. This strain is highly contagious as all family members are getting infected, including children.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/younger-patients-developing-covid-pneumonia-early-experts-240063
17-04-2021||Panchkula||Driver, 4 friends held for carjacking, kidnapping employer at gunpoint near Raipur Rani||The crime branch of the local police has arrested a driver, along with his four friends, for allegedly committing a carjacking and kidnapping his employer at gunpoint near Raipur Rani in a broad daylight on April 13. The suspects have been identified as Satwinder, alias Sonu (25), Ravi Sharma, alias Pandit (25), Kamaljeet, alias Succha, Yazur Pandey, alias Noni (26), and Jaswinder, alias Jassi (26). They were produced in a local court today, which sent them to three-day police remand. According to the police, the driver, Sonu, had been working with Nisha Chaudhary, the victim, for the past five months. The incident took place around 3:10 pm on April 13 when the victim, along with her son’s friend Rahul and the suspect driver, were on their way to Dehradun. According to the police, the other four suspects abruptly stopped their car near Raipur Rani on the Naraingarh road, forced the two men, including the driver, out of the victim’s vehicle after thrashing them, held the victim hostage for a while before dumping her in a forest area and fleeing with the car.  Suspecting involvement of insiders, the police began monitoring the driver’s movement. It was finally revealed during the investigation that the driver had planned the crime. The complainant woman, who lives in Victoria Tower at Zirakpur and works in Eklavya Estate, Chandigarh, said she was sitting on the rear seat of the car while Rahul was seated on the passenger seat next to the driver’s seat. Sonu was driving the car. Around 6 km ahead of Raipur Rani towards Naraingarh, the four suspects abruptly blocked their car with their own. “They came out of their car and slapped the driver and Rahul before forcing them out of our car. The suspects then started driving our car towards Naraingarh and threatened to shoot me. One of the suspects also slapped me,” the complainant stated. Before throwing her out of the car and driving away, the suspects took away her five credit cards, an ATM card, two mobile phones, Rs4 lakh and gold and diamond jewellery she was wearing. A case was registered under Sections 364, 392 and 394 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/driver-4-friends-held-for-carjacking-kidnapping-employer-at-gunpoint-near-raipur-rani-240065
17-04-2021||---||7 pvt hospitals asked to keep 50 pc beds for Covid care in Mohali||Mohali, April 16 The administration today ordered seven private hospitals to set aside at least 50 per cent of their total bed capacity as isolation beds and wards for Covid-19 care. The seven hospitals are Max Super Specialty Hospital, Fortis Heathcare, SGHS Sohana, Indus Hospital, IVY Hospital, Grecian Super Specialty and Mayo Super Specialty Hospital. These hospitals, providing quality tertiary care (L2/L3) to Covid-19 patients in the district, have been asked to set aside at least 50 per cent of their bed capacity as isolation beds. “The district has minimal public health infrastructure, given that the District Hospital, which is being upgraded to a medical college, is under re-construction. Most tertiary care-level ICU beds/ventilators are with the private sector,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan in an order. The hospitals shall also put certain ambulances exclusively in the service of Covid-19 patients and suspected cases. The Mohali Civil Surgeon shall decide on the exact number of beds/ambulances to be reserved, based on the overall capacity of a hospital. Private hospitals in the district shall not refuse admission/treatment to Covid-19 patients referred by the Civil Surgeon. The hospitals should also ensure that staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedics, on duty are penalised if they refuse treatment. This week alone, the district has witnessed 3,466 positive cases and 21 deaths. The number of Covid-19 deaths recorded to date in Mohali is 486.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-pvt-hospitals-asked-to-keep-50-pc-beds-for-covid-care-in-mohali-240066
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend lockdown in Chandigarh: Only essential activities allowed, gyms and spas to be closed||Governor of Punjab and Administrator, UT Chandigarh, VP Singh Badnore on Friday presided over the war room meeting where it was decided that there will be a weekend lockdown in the city starting from 10 pm on April 16 (Friday) till 5 am on April 19 (Monday).The meeting was attended by Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, and Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary Home at Punjab Raj Bhawan.The UT Administration has urged the people not to believe in a fake report being attributed to The Tribune on lockdown. The fake news is being circulated by someone on social media. The Administration has clarified that official orders on lockdown are on the UT Administration website. The report being shared is a news item from last year.Also read: Chandigarh announces weekend lockdownWeekend LockdownThere will be a weekend lockdown starting from 10 pm on 16/04/2021 (Friday) till 5 am on 19/04/2021 (Monday).Other RestrictionsFollowing restrictions will apply till 30/04/2021.(1) All gymnasium and spa will remain closed till 30/04/2021.(2) The cinema halls can run with 50% capacity.(3) The residents must stay indoor during the lockdown period. Only essential activities will be allowed.  Detailed orders will be issued by Deputy Commissioner.(4) All government offices will function with 50% of staff till 30/04/2021(5) Public visitors will be allowed to meet the officers only with prior appointment.(6) There will be a ban on social, cultural, political, religious events etc.(7) The existing limit of gatherings in permitted functions will be reduced to 100 (outdoor) and 50 (indoor).(8) The transport buses will run with 50% capacity only.(9) The museums, libraries, coaching institutions etc. will remain closed. However, online coaching will be permitted.(10)  During the lockdown period, those going for examination and those on examination duties will be allowed movement on production of admit/identity cards.(11)  There will be screening of all visitors to the city at airport, railway station, ISBT etc.(12)  During the weekend lockdown, home delivery of food will be allowed.(13)  All vaccination centres/testing centres/dispensaries/medical facilities will remain open during lockdown and people going there will be allowed.(14)  All inter-state travellers will be allowed on all days including lockdown period.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, stated that they have 222 Covid cases in Nehru Extension Block, out of which 67 belong to Chandigarh, 82 to Punjab, 41 to Haryana, 22 to Himachal Pradesh and 10 from other states. He mentioned that they have tested 3,492 Covid samples, out of which 552 were found positive. Thus, the positivity rate was 15.8 per cent.The director further mentioned that the samples which were sent to genome testing reveal that 70 per cent of the affected cases carried UK strain.This strain apparently affected younger patients and spread much faster than the earlier strain.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director Principal, GMCH-32, stated that they have tested 1,971 Covid samples, out of which 209 were found positive. Thus, the positivity rate was 10.01 per cent. She further mentioned that there were 38 patients in Dhanwantry College, 37 in Sood Dharamshala, 36 in Sector 48 hospital and 38 in GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. She mentioned that the number of mobile teams have been increased from two to 10, so that collection of samples from outside can be substantially increased. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director Health Services, stated that they have tested 8,834 Covid samples, out of which 1,230 were found positive. Thus, the positivity rate was 13.9 per cent.She also mentioned that cumulative positivity rate for the entire city since the beginning of COVID-19 has been 9.2 per cent.She mentioned that six vaccination teams are available to be sent to various sites for conducting vaccination sessions. She also mentioned that till date 1,33,132 vaccine doses had been administered in the UT. Governor Badnore expressed serious concern about the rising number of Covid cases in the city and also the high fatality being observed. He gave the following directions to the authorities.(a) All the three medical institutions should ramp-up their facilities for accommodating increasing number of corona patients.(b) All corona related deaths must be specifically audited and reports sent. Sector 48 Hospital should be made fully functional, so that it can function as an exclusive Covid hospital. (c) All hospitals must store enough oxygen, adequate vaccines etc. for use by corona patients along with required medicines.(d) All corona patients presently under home quarantine must be regularly contacted and necessary assistance provided to them for recovery. Helpline numbers (0172-2752038, 2634074, 2738087, 9646121642, 97795-58282 & 70875-77447)(e) Mobile teams should be sent to temples, gurdwaras, mosques and other crowded places during festival season, so that visitors could be screened and symptomatic cases could be tested.(f) All shops must get their staff tested. Such staff should display a signboard stating that their premises are corona free.(g) Action will be taken against not only the shoppers who go to markets without wearing masks but also against those shopkeepers, who attend to non-mask wearing customers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekend-lockdown-in-chandigarh-only-essential-activities-allowed-gyms-and-spas-to-be-closed-239943
17-04-2021||---||Chandigarh announces weekend lockdown||Chandigarh, April 16As the Covid cases increase, the Chandigarh administration on Friday announced weekend lockdown.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.The lockdown will be from 10 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday.Also read: Weekend lockdown in Chandigarh: Only essential activities allowed, gyms and spas to be closedEssential services will be allowed and restaurants can do home-delivery.Weddings will be allowed with only limited number of guests. The deputy commissioner will issue passes in such cases.Adviser Manoj Parida said the NDA and other exams would not be affected as students could travel carrying their admit cards.He said the Covid vaccination programme would continue despite the lockdown.Earlier, Delhi had announced the weekend curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-announces-weekend-lockdown-239905
