19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali to be under lockdown on Ram Navami||Mohali will remain under lockdown on the occasion of Ram Navami on Wednesday as the Punjab government imposed new movement restrictions on the festival to prevent mass gatherings in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder decided at a high-level meeting on Monday to impose lockdown on Wednesday after Chandigarh Advisor Manoj Parida asked him to take that call to shut down all of Tricity.A notification will be issued accordingly, a press release from the Punjab government said.This comes as Amarinder Singh appealed to people across Punjab to avoid mass gatherings as the state struggles to deal with alarmingly rising COVID-19 cases.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Administration is likely to impose lockdown on Wednesday. However, final decision will be taken in a meeting on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-be-under-lockdown-on-ram-navami-241260
19-04-2021||Solan||Himachal drug authorities constitute panel to enquire into Remdesivir case||In a bid to enquire into the illegal manufacture of 3,000 vials of Remdesivir seized by the Chandigarh police on Saturday from Baddi-based Health Biotech Limited pharmaceutical unit, the State Drug Controller on Monday constituted a five-member panel headed by deputy drug controller(DDC).State Drugs Controller, Navneet Marwaha, said a committee comprising the DDC, assistant drugs controller and two drug inspectors will probe the issue and submit a report within seven days.They will inspect all records pertaining to the manufacture and export of the vaccine in the last ten months. "Though the records are examined routinely since violations like diversion of the vaccines meant for exports have been detected by the Chandigarh police, a thorough probe would bring out the extent of irregularities," informed Marwaha.Notably, the unit director Gaurav Chawla is among six people arrested by the Chandigarh police on Saturday. Printed labels had been found pasted on the 3,000 vials by the unit staff. The government of India had banned the export of Redmesivir on April 11 given its shortage in the domestic markets. It is a key anti-viral vaccine for severely ill hospitalised Covid patients and was much in demand due to a surge in Covid cases.Apart from this, assistant drug controllers of respective areas of Sirmaur and Baddi have also been directed to verify records of 5 other pharma units, including 2 at Baddi and 3 in Sirmaur district, who manufacture Remdesivir for exports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himachal-drug-authorities-constitute-panel-to-enquire-into-remdesivir-case-241249
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cops collect Rs 52K fine in day||Youth held with 500-gm opiumChandigarh: The Operation Cell of the UT police has arrested a 23-year-old youth while possessing opium. The suspect, identified as Sunil, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was arrested from Kishangarh while possessing 500 grams of opium. A case has been registered against the suspect the under NDPS Act at the IT Park police station. TNSEight booked for child labourChandigarh: The UT police have booked eight shopkeepers of the motor market, Sector 48, for employing child labourers. Nine children were also rescued from the shops. According to the police, complainant Mohammad Irshad, Child Protection Officer, District Child Protection Unit, Sector 39, reported that minors were engaged as labourers at the shops. A case under Sections 75 and 77 of the Juvenile Justice Act and Sections 3(1) and 14(1A) of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act – 1986 has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. TNS2 held for theft of copper wireChandigarh: The UT police have arrested two persons for theft of a copper wire from a shop during the lockdown. A team of Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, nabbed the accused, identified as Mandeep Singh, alias Deepu, and Mukhtiar Ahmed. Complainant Sawran Singh reported that he runs a cable network shop at the Krishna market, Mani Majra. He reported that AC copper wire was stolen from his shop. The police registered a case. The police said six cases were already registered against Mandeep in the past. TNSPO lands in police netMohali: The police arrested a proclaimed offender (PO) with a pistol and four live rounds from Kharar. The accused has been identified as Hardil Singh, a resident of Sirsa. Hardil, who was currently staying in Zirakpur, was wanted in several high-profile cases of Punjab. He was nabbed at the Badala T-point on the Landran-Kharar road while riding a car. The suspect is a close aide of gangster Naveen Kumar of Panipat, who had committed a murder in the Ambala court. He used to supply weapons to his contacts. A case has been registered against the suspect under the Arms Act at the Kharar City police station. He was sent to two-day police remand on Saturday. TNSOne held for illegal miningDera Bassi: The police seized a sand-laden tractor-trailer and arrested its driver for illegal mining at Handesra on Sunday. The police seized the tractor-trailer at the Sehpur junction. During checking, the driver, identified as Jasveer Singh, a resident of Raiwali village in Ambala district, could not produce any mining slip or bill. Mining Inspector Pradeep Kumar was called on the spot. A case was registered. TNS2 nabbed for illegal miningMohali: The police have arrested two Mullanpur Garibdas residents allegedly for illegal mining and seized a tractor-trailer and an excavator from their possession. On the statement of sub-inspector Harpal Singh, suspects Mandeep Singh and Prabhjot Singh were arrested on April 17. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-collect-rs-52k-fine-in-day-241132
19-04-2021||---||More worry, 10 deaths, record 1,684 cases surface in tricity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18The tricity today witnessed a record high of 1,684 Covid cases since the start of the pandemic and 10 deaths. This month, the tricity has reported 117 deaths and 20,074 cases.While Mohali witnessed 880 cases, Chandigarh recorded 625 cases, a quantum jump of 45 per cent from the previous day, and Panchkula saw a slight dip in its Covid count with 179 cases.Despite no increase in tests conducted in the UT today, the positivity rate on a single day increased to 17.6 per cent. With the same rate of tests, around 450 average infections were being reported, which rose to 625. In view of the new Covid strain, experts doubt any respite this month.Dr Rajesh Kumar, a former head of the Department of School of Community Medicine, PGI, said: “The peak will be higher this time as a new variant has been found in the region. The virus has almost been replaced with more contagious characteristics. The restrictions imposed by the UT Administration in controlling the spread will show some effect in the next two weeks. When the cases started increasing in mid-March, people did not adhere to the norms. So, the cases rose exponentially in April.”The fatalities in Mohali also increased to 69 this month. Last month, the district had seen 49 deaths due to Covid. The district has so far logged 9,380 cases this month. A total of 448 patients were cured and three deaths were reported in Mohali today. There are 6,211 active cases and 502 have died so far.Chandigarh has seen 34 deaths in 18 days of the month, while last month, 27 deaths were reported. The city has seen 6,934 cases in April. The number of active cases rose to 3,625 in Chandigarh. With three more deaths, the toll has reached 413. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 33,934. As many as 411 patients were cured.With four more deaths in Panchkula, the fatality has reached 168, while 1,976 are active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-worry-10-deaths-record-1-684-cases-surface-in-tricity-241022
19-04-2021||Mohali||Heavy machinery-laden truck damages electricity poles, wires near Gilco Valley||Four electricity poles broke due to the alleged negligence of the driver of a truck-trailer that was loaded with heavy machinery last night near Gilco Valley on the Kharar-Landran road.After the incident, power was disrupted in the residential areas on one side of the Kharar-Landran road for more than 15 hours and massive traffic jam was witnessed. Traffic was then diverted.Kharar PSPCL Executive Engineer Amandeep Singh said the rashly driven truck-trailer damaged six or seven electricity poles last night causing major losses to the PSPCL. He said they had to shut five feeders to carry out repair work to restore the power supply in the residential areas. He said the Mohali traffic police closed the vehicular traffic on the section for the day. Later in the evening, traffic was restored on one side of the road and power supply was restored to many parts of area.Amandeep Singh said they got a case registered against the truck driver.He said a major tragedy was averted as the truck driver could have been electrocuted if the high tension wires had fallen on the heavy vehicle.Residents said power was yet to be restored in many localities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heavy-machinery-laden-truck-damages-electricity-poles-wires-near-gilco-valley-241023
19-04-2021||---||Pharma firm head among 6 held for illegally dealing in remdesivir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18The operations cell of the UT police has arrested six persons for illegally dealing in remdesivir, a Covid-19 treatment drug, by selling it in the market in India at a higher cost. The police recovered 3,000 remdesivir vials from a pharmaceutical plant in Baddi.The police got information that some illegal trade of remdesivir was going on at an upscale hotel in Sector 17.Acting on the tip-off, a team, led by ASI Surjit Singh, conducted a raid and nabbed Abhishek, a resident of Kerala, Susheel Kumar of Delhi, Prabat Tyagi of Bhopal and Philip Jacob and KP Francis, both residents of Kerala.The police said all suspects were dealing in the sale and purchase of remdesivir without any permit or licence. A sample of the vial with an MRP of Rs4,700 on it was also recovered from them.SP (Operations) Ketan Bansal said a raid was then conducted on the pharmaceutical plant in Baddi, and 3,000 remdesivir vials were seized in the presence of a local drug inspector. The director of the pharmaceutical company, Gaurav Chawla, was also arrested.The police said glaring irregularities were found in the physical verification of the stock, pointing towards diversion of the said medicine towards the local market after the ban on export by the government.“The company director claims that he has a licence for exporting the medicine, which is being verified. However, the export is banned by the government,” the SP said.The SP said the verification of company records revealed that 11,000 vials were transported to Thane on April 16.A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC, Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and Section 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, has been registered against all suspects at the Sector 17 police station. They were produced in a court and sent to four-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pharma-firm-head-among-6-held-for-illegally-dealing-in-remdesivir-241024
19-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala staff violate norm, give 2nd dose after 28 days||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 18Violating the directions of the Central Government, health officials at the Patiala Police Lines reportedly gave the second dose of Covishield to police personnel before the lapse of the time window of six to eight weeks.Last month, the Centre had issued directions to administer the second dose of Covishield between six and eight weeks of the first dose. However, health officials did not wait and jabbed the beneficiaries after 28 days only.The negligence came to the fore when a DSP-rank officer called up another health official to enquire about the guidelines after he was given the second dose of Covishield on Saturday. Sources said many police personnel got their second shot before six weeks.Health experts have already claimed that protection from the novel coronavirus will be greater if the second dose of Covishield is taken between six and eight weeks after the first one. Both doses should be taken within the recommended time for stronger immunity and both doses must be of the same vaccine, said the experts.On the negligence, Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said she was not aware about it. However, she would ask the staff concerned about the issue. “It may be Covaxin, which can be given after 28 days of the first dose. However, I will look into it.”The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “ I have directed the staff concerned to be careful in future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-staff-violate-norm-give-2nd-dose-after-28-days-241026
19-04-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Lockdown improves Chandigarh air quality||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18The Covid-induced weekend lockdown brought down the levels of air pollution in the city.According to the Chandigarh Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the city recorded a 58 on the air quality index (AQI) today, showing a significant dip in particulate matter 10 (PM10) level — the lowest this month.Commenting on the decline in the city’s air pollution, Debendra Dalai, member secretary, CPCB, said: “Well, the decline in air pollution is certainly because of the lockdown, which has brought the city’s public transport to a halt and people aren’t driving around much either. The construction work has been stopped too.”Last year too, with the advent of lockdown, the city recorded a 35 on the air quality index (AQI) on April 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-improves-chandigarh-air-quality-241027
19-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||SE among top Panchkula civic body officials indicted  for lapses||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 18An inquiry by the Urban Local Bodies Department (ULBD), Haryana, into the treatment of legacy waste at the dumping ground in Sector 23, Panchkula, has indicted officials of the Municipal Corporation (MC) for lapses.AnomaliesA committee comprising Additional Director (Administration) YS Gupta, Chief Town Planner KK Varshney, Chief Engineer Ashok Rathee and Executive Engineer Ranbir Singh looked into whether the work of bioremediation of legacy waste was executed as per the contract and instructions issued by the ULBD. It has indicted Superintending Engineer (SE) Vijay Goyal, who is the technical head of the MC.Executive Engineer Ankit Lohan, Executive Engineer Sanjeev Gupta, Assistant Engineer Ravinder Singh, and Municipal Engineer Raj Kumar Sharma have also been named in the report, along with Junior Engineers Parveen Malik and Lokinder. All these officials were assigned the work of overseeing the bioremediation work.Goyal said: “As the SE, I have not been involved in the day-to-day monitoring of the treatment of the legacy waste. It is looked over by officers of the level of Executive Engineer and below.”Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who represents the Panchkula constituency, said: “I had complained to the Chief Minister on lapses in the treatment of the legacy waste and after that, an inquiry was marked to the Director, ULBD. Serious lapses have been pointed out.”Director, ULBD, Ashok Kumar Meena said they would send the report to the government for action on Monday. The committee visited the dumping site on March 6.Ind Sanitation Solution Pvt Limited was allotted the work of bioremediation of waste at Rs947 per MT through the tender process. The agency started the work on September 19, 2020.The committee has noted that Superintending Engineer Vijay Goyal did not appear before it during the inspection of the site “which was a serious matter” and showed “lack of seriousness” of the issue.It added that a payment of Rs4.94 crore was made to the private agency, but they were not in a position to evaluate the quantum of the legacy waste processed by the agency because contours were not drawn and third party evaluation was not carried out.The MC also did not produce documents regarding the quality of groundwater, work zone air quality, and ambient air quality regularly. Regarding “failures” of the MC, the committee noted that it was required to earmark a land parcel at the Sector 23 dumpsite or any other location for dumping and segregation of the fresh waste so that legacy waste could be handled. It was observed that fresh waste was still being dumped there.However, a new site had been identified.It pointed out that the local body failed to obtain all mandatory clearances concerning the project. It added that “mechanism to receive any domestic hazardous waste or biomedical waste from the agency and their disposal as per the Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016, has not yet been devised.” It also commented that the MC failed to devise an effective process for monitoring the project, roles, and responsibilities of officers, forms, registers, and record to be kept in the manner.On “failures” of the agency, the committee said it did not deposit the performance security and also the reclamation and remediation plan for the first quarter. The plan would have had details on the schedule for obtaining regulatory approvals, manpower and equipment details, and implementation schedule for setting up of remediation facility. Though a weight bridge was installed, its feed was not made online due to which it was not stored in any server. The geotechnical survey of the site was not carried out, added the committee. Also, CCTV cameras were installed in February 2021, whereas these were supposed to be installed before the commencement of the processing of the legacy waste, and no standard procedure was adopted to keep backup of the cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/se-among-top-panchkula-civic-body-officials-indicted-for-lapses-241035
19-04-2021||Mohali||Avoid non-essential activities, Mohali admn advises people||In view of the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Mohali district since the outbreak of the pandemic, the administration here this evening advised people to avoid non-essential activities.Don’t come out of houses, says DCDeputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said Covid peak would be for about another two weeks and people should follow proper precautions by not coming out of their houses. Strict enforcements had been imposed for the benefit of people. This year, it was seen that younger people were also being infected with the virus.Vaccination only long-term solutionDayalan said the only long-term solution to coronavirus was to get vaccinated to develop herd immunity. Though persons who have completed the vaccination course were also getting affected, the virus would have lesser impact on them. He urged all eligible people, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, to come out and get vaccinated.In a video message to the people, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said people came out of the lockdown last year with great difficultly and they don’t want to impose lockdown again, which would not only affect people but also industry and business establishments. It would further affect workers in the district.Dayalan said they had imposed strict restrictions on gatherings at marriage ceremonies and funerals in the district by not allowing more than 20 people, besides imposing night curfew.The Deputy Commissioner said Covid peak would be for about another two weeks and people should follow proper precautions by not coming out of their houses. Strict enforcements had been imposed for the benefit of people. This year, it was seen that younger people were also being infected with the virus.He said the administration was fully prepared as seven big hospitals had been directed to reserve 50 per cent beds for Covid patients. He urged all eligible people to get vaccinated.‘Patients with pre-existing liver disease should be vaccinated on priority’Mohali: Prevention is always better than cure. Hence, lead a healthy lifestyle and avoid excessive use of alcohol for healthy liver, said Dr Arvind Sahni, Director, Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Fortis Hospital, Mohali. On World Liver Day, which is observed on April 19, Dr Sahni said, “Covid-19 has added another dimension to liver disease. Covid infection can cause liver damage. In cases of pre-existing liver damage, the disease may become life-threatening. Hence, patients with pre-existing liver disease must be vaccinated against Covid-19 on a priority basis.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-non-essential-activities-mohali-admn-advises-people-241044
19-04-2021||Zirakpur||Dhakoli: Hotel owner among 9 held for organising rooftop party after 9 pm||The police arrested nine persons, including the owner of Hotel Grand Suites in Dhakoli, for organising a rooftop party after 9 pm on Saturday. Marriage palace owner bookedThe Zirakpur police also registered a case against the owner a marriage palace, AKM Resorts, for arranging a marriage party wherein 200 persons were present.The Zirakpur police also registered a case against the owner a marriage palace, AKM Resorts, for arranging a marriage party wherein 200 persons were present.As many as 12 cases have been registered for violation of orders under the Disaster Management Act.Police officials said: “We got information about a marriage party being held at AKM Resorts on Saturday evening. There were around 200 people in the party. A case under the Disaster Management Act and under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against the owner of AKM Resorts”.The police registered 11 more cases - five in Mataur, three in Lalru, one each in Kharar, Balongi and Dera Bassi - for violation of orders under the Disaster Management Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-hotel-owner-among-9-held-for-organising-rooftop-party-after-9-pm-241049
19-04-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh: Functioning of District Courts restricted||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18Functioning of the District Courts, UT, has been restricted in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. As per the order issued by the District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, only urgent and selective matters will be taken up for hearing from Monday.Apart from stay and bail matters, selective cases will only be taken up by the Sessions Court and Courts of Civil Judges till further orders.In the District and Session Courts, only cases to be heard by fast-track special court for speedy disposal of rape and POCSO Act, cases pertaining to the MACT in which the evidence of the parties has been closed and fixed for arguments, all cases which can be disposed of in terms of compromise between the parties or by way of withdrawal, matters under Section 13(B) of the HMA, time-bound cases or cases in which directions have been received from the Apex Court or the High Court, criminal cases in which defence evidence has been closed and matter has been fixed for arguments, criminal appeals that are fixed for arguments or in which accused are in custody, application for suspension of sentence in which accused are in custody, applications for release of case property on ‘sapurdari’, application for release of compensation amount in LAC and MACT cases and cases that are fixed for ex parte evidence or ex parte arguments.Applications for release of case property on ‘sapurdari’, matters relating to compoundable offences and cases that can be disposed of in terms of compromise between parties or by way of withdrawal, cases pertaining to Section 138 of the NI Act that are at the stage of preliminary evidence, cases in which defence evidence has been closed and matter has been fixed for arguments, criminal cases that are fixed for arguments or in which accused are in custody, cases which are fixed for ex parte evidence or ex parte arguments and time-bound cases or cases in which directions have been received from the Apex Court or High Court will only be taken up in Courts of Civil Judges-cum-Judicial Magistrates.In addition to these cases, any category in which both parties have given consent will also be heard by the courts. The consent in this regard will be submitted with the concerned court well before the date fixed so that the said case can be taken on the date fixed. Apart from this, if the court considers that a particular matter is required to be taken up, the court concerned is at liberty to take up the matter. Any case that can be heard and hearing of which is feasible through virtual mode may be heard through virtual mode so that the footfall in the District Courts can be restricted. The remaining cases fixed for the period w.e.f. April 19 to April 30 will be adjourned by the courts concerned on a daily basis to the suitable future dates.Only advocates will be allowed to enter the judicial block of this Sessions Division. However, access of litigants/witnesses to the courts will only be allowed when their physical presence is absolutely necessary in the courts and they have been directed by the court to put their appearance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-functioning-of-district-courts-restricted-241050
19-04-2021||---||Seek medical help if O2 saturation level goes below 95: Panchkula Civil Surgeon||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 18With the district reporting four deaths due to the Covid-19 in a day on Sunday, highest single-day toll in the current wave, Panchkula Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur appealed to Covid patients in home isolation to self-monitor themselves comprehensively and regularly and seek timely admission to a hospital, if needed.“Patients in home isolation should not take their well-being lightly. With 2,000 plus active cases, the health authorities may sometime not pick up warning signs early as situation of some patients is deteriorating quickly. Our efforts will be enhanced further, but keep yourselves alert. If the O2 saturation level is going below 95, don’t wait and seek medical help. Family members of patients in home isolation are requested to call for ambulance as soon as possible. Timely admission can save lives. Let us help each other and save lives,” Dr Jasjeet Kaur said.While speaking to Chandigarh Tribune, Dr Kaur said: “In the past few days, we have observed that patients rush to the hospital when their complications start progressing to moderate or major ones. It sometimes gets too late to save a patient’s life. I have requested field teams to be on alert for non-hospitalised patients.”Dr Kaur also clarified that she did not intend to create panic among non-hospitalised patients. Her statement came at a time when hospitals are already overwhelmed with the number of active caseload reaching unprecedented levels.The number of active cases, which crossed over the 2,000-mark for the first time yesterday, was 1,976 on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seek-medical-help-if-o2-saturation-level-goes-below-95-panchkula-civil-surgeon-241053
19-04-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI’s Nephrology Dept plans to start independent dialysis centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18The Department of Nephrology at the PGI, Chandigarh, plans to start an independent maintenance dialysis centre for end-stage kidney disease patients by 2023-24. The department has been chosen as the Regional Training Centre for the South Asian region.The department also plans to start special out-patient clinics to provide focused care, including post-acute kidney injury care clinic, living kidney donor clinic, comprehensive kidney care clinic for patients with diabetic kidney disease, in order to provide multi-disciplinary care at one place.The department also plans to start an adolescent care clinic to aid the transition from pediatric to adult care services in children with kidney diseases.Prof HS Kohli, who is currently heading the department, said, “Creating access for dialysis is one of the most important steps which ensures adequate delivery of dialysis to end-stage kidney disease patients.”“Scaling up of the interventional nephrology unit will ensure independent management of difficult to treat cases. Availability of multiple options in the department is likely to enhance patient convenience and experience,” he said.“The PGIMER is one of the leading tertiary-care referral centres in north India, which caters to a lot of critically ill patients. Acute kidney injury is a common complication in such patients and needs to be managed aggressively,” Professor Kohli emphasised.“Upscale the infrastructure to improve assessment of critically ill patients and provide newer forms of extracorporeal therapies will be important focus areas for the department in the coming time,” he added.Simulation modelsThe department will have a functional ‘clinical skills and training lab’ for training professionals on simulation models before the end of this year.The lab is being built as per the existing international standards and will increase the exposure and enhance the confidence of trainees in practical procedures.The Department of Nephrology was selected as one of the Regional Training Centres (RTC) by the International Society of Nephrology for 2021-26.Under the RTC programme, the department will impart professional training to trainees and practising nephrologists from various countries of the South Asian region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgis-nephrology-dept-plans-to-start-independent-dialysis-centre-241055
19-04-2021||---||Lockdown: No farmers' protest held at Matka Chowk, Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18Keeping in view the lockdown situation and to avoid any confrontation with the UT police, at a meeting, farmer unions and civil society members decided to call off the symbolic protest today.However, Laabh Singh, the 80-something protester, who’s a baptised Sikh, held the fort all alone, with occasional visitors.Santam Singh Tanda of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta said, “This morning, we had a meeting with people who assemble here at Matka Chowk. Yesterday, the police tried to arrest a protester too, after allowing us to protest here peacefully and following Covid guidelines. So, we spoke to SKM leaders too and they advised us to avoid confrontation with the police.”Tanda and a couple of other civil society members stood near the chowk to stop any protester from coming there. “As such, not many cars are passing through during the lockdown. We have, however, requested the SHO of Sector 17 if just four people could be allowed to stand at the four dividers each during the lockdown,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-no-farmers-protest-held-at-matka-chowk-chandigarh-241057
19-04-2021||---||Udayvir to take charge as Zirakpur MC chief today||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, April 18Udayvir Singh Dhillon will take the charge as the president of the Zirakpur Municipal Council tomorrow.The House meeting, which will be held at 10:30 am tomorrow, will be attended by newly elected councillors of the civic body.Senior vice-president and vice-president are yet to be elected. Ward No. 12 councillor Udayvir Singh Dhillon was unanimously elected the president of the Zirakpur Municipal Council on April 7. There are 23 Congress councillors and eight SAD councillors in the House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/udayvir-to-take-charge-as-zirakpur-mc-chief-today-241060
19-04-2021||Will night curfew in ut and Mohali check the spread of deadly covid-19 virus?||Curfew can help, but guidelines need to be followed strictly||It is A step in the right directionThe Covid-19 pandemic has comeback and is proving to be deadlier than its earlier wave. The Chandigarh Administration and the Punjab Government has imposed night curfews in their respective domains. It is presumed that night curfews will control the spread of virus as it will restrict movement within cities. Late night gatherings will be restricted. It is a step in the night direction. The night curfew should continue till there is some respite from the virus.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhCheck movement of peopleThe second wave of Covid -19 has hit much hard than the first one. People have taken the spread of the deadly virus lightly while disregarding all safety measure like wearing face mask and maintaining distances. When this menace started, lockdown and curfew from dusk to dawn proved effective. To break the chain of virus movement of people, who don't adhere to norms, has to be controlled. The perception that vaccine is a potent tool is not relevant. Random challaning of people for not wearing mask can help. When the Prime Minister and Home Minister attend elections rallies without wearing mask crowds also don't adhere to norms. Politicians must show self-discipline and concern for the life of people.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliVaccination is the best optionSomething is better than nothing, but still people are not mending their ways when it comes to following safety guidelines. The best option instead of imposing night curfew is vaccination against Covid, which should be open for all. The Covid pandemic should be taken seriously.Opinder Kaur Sekhon ChandigarhEnforce Covid protocol strictlyThe UT Administration should seriously focus on implementation of wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Even after such a hue and cry, people roam in markets/public places without following the Covid protocol. There is no one from the Health/Police Departments to penalise such people, who flout norms. Night curfew is just a ritual and will be of little help.KC Rana, ChandigarhTake violators of norms to taskNight curfew is not going to help combat spread of the virus if masses don't follow Covid protocol. Owners of food joints and marriage resorts have already suffered huge losses. The government should lift night curfew and get more stricter with people violating safety measures. Now it's time for the people to earn their livelihood. The government should open Covid vaccination for all to prevent the spread of the virus.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliEducate people rather than imposing curfewThe second wave of Covid-19 is more deadly. It's better to educate public on war footing in order to encourage them to maintain social distance, wear face masks and sanitise hands. The authorities must challan persons not following safety norms. Night curfew or lockdown will only affect the common men financially, physically and mentally. Let us take pledge to follow Covid guidelines seriously.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliVaccinate people on the doorstepTo prevent the further spread of the Covid-19 pandemic mere imposition of the night curfew will hardly have any desired impact. As there are necessary restrictions on holding social events like marriages and private parties and hotel timings have been reduced, night curfew will hardly serve any purpose. It looks more like a cosmetic treatment than a solution to the problem. The authorities concerned must pool all their resources to vaccinate people of all age groups possibly on doorstep. Till then, enforce all Covid safety protocol rather sternly in the day time at crowded places of the city. Violators should be shamed in the public and penalised with hefty fines.SC Luthra, ChandigarhImpose Section 144 at public placesNight curfew will not prevent the spread of Covid cases in the tricity. Rather, the Administration should impose Section 144 at public places, which are thronged by outsiders in groups. Besides, Covid test should be mandatory for every resident. The authorities concerned have to take more tough decisions to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhMakes no sense whatsoeverImposing night curfew or weekend lockdown will not prevent the transmission of the deadly virus. The government should ramp up free testing for Covid. Only good healthcare system can reduce the spread of the virus. Coronavirus does not rest during the day and becomes active in the night. It's difficult to fathom what is the logic behind night curfew or weekend lockdown? On one hand, there is a total disregard for Covid-19 regulations in political rallies and on the other there is night curfew or lockdown in the tricity. In fact, night curfew can be counterproductive as the authorities are forcing people to get work done before a certain time, which leads to crowding at public places during the daytime. If there is no curfew, at least people will have the option to buy groceries or other products they need in a less crowded environment. Night curfew/lockdown makes no sense whatsoever.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliFollow norms to eradicate menaceCovid-19 pandemic spread more than a year ago. At present, the second wave of the virus is at its peak. Many people roam on roads during late night hours throwing the safety norms to the winds. Kudos to the UT and Mohali police force, which challans violators of the norms. Still, the force will have to keep a strict vigil at night so that people don't roam on roads and infection does not spread further. The pandemic menace can be eradicated if all adhere to the safety protocol strictly.MR Bhateja, NayagaonClamp Curfew from 6 pm to 5 amNight curfew in Mohali and Chandigarh is not so effective because mostly people are at home during this time. The rush hours are from 6 pm onwards. So, the curfew should be from 6 pm to 5 am. As second Covid wave is at its peak extending curfew hours will check the spread of deadly virus. Besides, lockdown on Saturday and Sunday should continue.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhNo use if precautions are not takenSecond wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is at peak and dangerous. Night curfew in the tricity will help in restraining the spread of the deadly virus. Curfew will serve little purpose if people do not follow safety guidelines. The Administration should ensure that all residents in the tricity follow guidelines and don't take the pandemic lightly. Violators of the norms should be punished.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliMay not be effective as presumedImposing curfew in the tricity may not be effective. Markets, lake and other such locations remain crowded till curfew comes into force. Residents ignore Covid precautions at such places. No doubt advancing curfew timings will effect economy and other services. But, the situation demands that the curfew should be enforced from 7 pm to 5 am. The authorities should ensure that the curfew restrictions are strictly followed by residents in the tricity.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliA mere eyewashNight curfew to check the spread of the coronavirus is simply not effective. The main events that spread infection are political rallies, social and religious gatherings, crowding at markets, bus stands and railway stations and other public places mostly during the daytime. Traffic is normally less at night. So curfew, after shops, cinemas and malls are closed is of no use. Round-the-clock strict enforcement of the Covid protocol is the need of the hour. Public by and large does not follow rules unless there is fear of punishment. Unless stringent penalties are imposed on violators, night curfew will be eyewash.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhDiscourage people from gatheringNight curfew after 9 pm in big cities in order to discourage people, particularly youngsters, from socialising unnecessarily makes sense. In Chandigarh night rides with friends/family has become a social norm and that includes halts for street food or drinks. Such unnecessary and public gatherings, however small, should be discouraged, with curfews if required. Young urbanites don't respect rules and sometimes give silly excuses to circumvent them. During the Covid-19 crisis, public must exercise restraint and maintain discipline. Imposing night or weekend curfew/lockdown will not control transmission of the deadly disease.Akshar Kumar Singla, ChandigarhNot enough to control virusNight curfew has limited impact on containing the virus transmission. The Administration should take stringent measures like complete ban on political gatherings and social events, which are superspreaders of the coronavirus. The Administration should focus on the implementation of preventive guidelines to contain the virus.Anita Tandon, KhararImplement curfew norms strictlyCovid-19 pandemic is not over yet as we see positive cases multiply with each passing day. Night curfew must be implemented strictly to prevent social gatherings. People must not be allowed to go out for a walk even around the block with their family during curfew hours.Parampreet Kaur, ChandigarhWill serve no purposeThe night curfew is a farce. When Covid-19 norms are openly flouted at public places during the day, night curfew serves no purpose. Instead of the illogical night curfew, stricter restrictions should be imposed during the day, which must be complemented by round-the-clock vigil by the authorities concerned. The police must step up vigil at public places like parks, markets and other crowded spaces. People not complying with the Covid-19 norms and SOPs must be punished. Night curfew must be lifted immediately.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhA futile exerciseThe second wave of deadly coronavirus has infected more people than the first. The Administration's restrictions must be followed and implemented in true spirit. Political rallies, religious functions and other crowded events have rendered imposition of the night curfew a futile exercise. People don't follow norms like wearing face masks or maintaining distance. Strict action should be taken against all, including political big wigs and others, who pull crowds and spread virus.Wg Cdr Jasbir singh Minhas (retd), MohaliStrict lockdown can be imposedNight curfew will not help in restraining the spread of the coronavirus in Chandigarh or Mohali. In the present situation, people don't wear face mask, maintain hand hygiene or follow social distancing norm. Heavy fine must be imposed on those, who don't follow Covid guidelines. Only strict lockdown is an option to prevent the spread of the deadly virus.Adish Sood, AmlohFocus on trace, test, treatmentNight curfew will stop unnecessary crowding and movement of residents. Some say curfew is only an eye wash while other opine that it is good step to prevent the spread of virus and lockdown in future. People should follow safety norms strictly. The government should focus on trace, test, treatment and improve healthcare facilities in the tricity.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaNight curfew Does not make any senseThe recent decision of the Chandigarh and Mohali Administrations to impose night curfew in their respective areas defies logic that the virus can spread only in the night. This shows the helplessness of the government, which cannot impose complete lockdown due to adverse impact on the economy. Night curfew does not make sense as most of human activities take place in the day time. Unless public realises the importance of adhering to the Covid management protocol infections will go on rising.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhUnemployment will increaseNight curfew would not restrain the spread of the virus. Rather, it would only create unemployment at an alarming rate and jeopardise the economy. When it comes to political rallies then there is no fear of coronavirus. When it is common man's business then government comes up with lot of restrictions and guidelines. Exams can be cancelled or postponed, but elections cannot. Leaders are protected during rallies, but common man gathers in groups, which are at high risk of contracting the disease. The need of the hour is to rethink about development. Flattering case load curve or imposing lockdown comes at an economic cost. It's important to teach people to follow precautions and protect themselves. Open all activities to revive economy, but while taking all precautions.Charu Malhotra, MohaliMay help to some extentImposing night curfew in Chandigarh and Mohali can have a solitary affect on controlling the spread of the pandemic. Effective and strictly imposed pandemic specific rules can be more effective in the present scenario. We cannot afford another lockdown because of the already dwindling economy. Citizens can help the authorities to fight and control the pandemic by following guidelines honestly. Golden rules are "venture out only when necessary, wear mask properly, keep distance of six feet, and wash or sanitise hands regularly".Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhPersuade residents to get inoculatedNobody knows when and how he/she can contract virus. Only follow protocol issued by the government regarding Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. It can help restrain the spread of the deadly virus. Resident welfare associations should persuade eligible residents to get them vaccinated.Jai Goel, ChandigarhA nuisance tool in hands of copsCaution is the eldest child of wisdom. Only precautions like frequent hand sanitisation, maintaining social distance and wearing face masks can restrain the spread of the virus. With night outlets closed and other activities curtailed, people out on roads are few during the odd hours. Whom does the Administration want to target with night curfew? There is little use of night curfew, which will only be a nuisance-tool in the hands of policemen to harass individuals. The second Covid pandemic wave is result of laxity and complacency on the part of common man and the authorities. The need of the hour is Section 144 like ban on mass gatherings during normal hours.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaWill jeopardise economyThe second Covid-19 wave is more virulent and could send more people to hospital. Looking at the gravity of the situation, the Chandigarh Administration has imposed night curfew/lockdown, which is undesirable as it may create alarming unemployment, jeopardise the economy and hurt migrant labour. The only option to contain the virus is to go back to "test, trace and treat". Stress should be on inoculating maximum beneficiaries, creating awareness about vaccine and ensure compliance of the Covid safety measures. Greater citizens' responsibility, aided by the Administration's stern action against violation of norms and vaccination is the only way out to control the deadly virus.SK Khosla, ChandigarhWeekend lockdown will helpImposing night curfew won't check the spread of the second Covid wave in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. There aren't too many parties at night. Most restaurants close unlike those in metropolitan cities. So, night curfew will prove futile. The weekend lockdown will be much more helpful.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONAs the second Covid-19 pandemic wave is at its peak, will the weekend lockdown help curb the rising coronavirus cases in Chandigarh?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curfew-can-help-but-guidelines-need-to-be-followed-strictly-241063
19-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Virus doesn’t matter, Chandigarh okay with Class IX, XI offline exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18At a time when the CBSE has postponed/cancelled the board examinations as the second Covid wave has gripped the country, the UT Education Department is hell bent on calling students of Classes IX and XI to appear for the examinations.What is more disturbing is that students are being called to give PISA preparatory tests, an international survey scheduled for 2022.“With reference to the CBSE, all recognised schools of UT are directed to conduct the assessment test as prepared by the Pratham Society; government schools will conduct the test for Class IX of the 2020-2021 session on April 19. Private and government-aided schools can conduct it at their own convenience within a week (offline mode). The assessment test can be printed through the PISA fund allocated to schools,” official instructions sent by the department state.Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents Association, said, “On the one hand, the Administration is resorting to imposing a curfew to check the spread of Covid-19, while on the other, the Education Department is forcing students of government schools to physically appear for the exams. This shows the insensitivity of the department towards the lives of students. The CBSE and ICSE have already cancelled the board exams. Even OPDs of all government hospitals have been closed. It’s insane to continue with offline exams in this situation.”A city-based parent said on condition of anonymity, “There is an exponential rise in Covid infections in Chandigarh with 625 reported cases today. The CBSE Class X exams have cancelled while the Class XII exams have been postponed across the country, but the UT Education Department is still continuing to hold offline exams for Classes IX and XI in all govt schools of Chandigarh. What is the use of a weekend lockdown if the UT is insisting on bringing out thousands of government school students to take offline exams?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-doesnt-matter-chandigarh-okay-with-class-ix-xi-offline-exams-241064
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University wins award||Chitkara University has become the first university in the country to be awarded the coveted Platinum rating by QS I-GAUGE, a comprehensive and independent rating system for universities and colleges.The QS I-GAUGE has been adapted to capture the reality of the Indian education sector without compromising the strict quality standards.Chitkara University was rated in four key indicators – employability, facilities, entrepreneurship, governance and structure. In the other five indicators – research, teaching and learning, faculty quality, diversity and accessibility and social responsibility – the university was rated ‘diamond’.The award certificate was presented during the felicitation ceremony at Bangalore by Dr Ashwin Fernandes, QS regional director. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-university-wins-award-241065
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Virtual lecture on neuroscience||The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, organised an International Brain Research Organisation (IBRO)-funded international event on virtual platform yesterday. Prof Walter J Koroshetz, Director, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National Institutes of Health, US, delivered a public lecture on “Golden age of neuroscience” during the event.He apprised the audience that neuroscience was entering the golden age. Researchers could now map, monitor and modulate complex neural circuits, enabling the pursuit of research questions previously considered unapproachable. He dwelt on the recent advancements in the field of modern and systems neuroscience.Prof Vivek Ranjan Sinha, DUI, presided over the event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virtual-lecture-on-neuroscience-241066
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC plans to have own panel of advocates||As the Municipal Corporation (MC) is caught in litigation in several court cases, the authorities have felt the need of getting own panel of advocates.The MC is planning to have 15 to 20 lawyers in its panel. At present, the civic body is using panel of the UT Administration and has only one law officer.“We have to depend on the Administration’s panel. If we have our own panel of advocates, they will be able to better understand corporation matters,” said Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. “The issue will be brought in the MC House meeting on April 28. If approved by the House, it will be sent to the UT Administration for the final approval,” he added. “The MC is also bringing the agenda of regularising 72 employees, who are working on contractual basis,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-plans-to-have-own-panel-of-advocates-241067
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||3,000 Remdesivir injections seized from Himachal's Baddi, 6 held||Three thousand injections of Remdesivir were seized and six people arrested for allegedly trying to sell the medicine used in the treatment of COVID-19 without any licence or permit, said the Chandigarh Police on Sunday.                            Acting on a tip-off, a team of police raided a local hotel here and apprehended five persons for trying to strike an illegal deal, said police.Three accused belonged to Kerala while one each from Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, they said. A pharma unit was also raided in Himachal Pradesh’s Baddi and police seized 3,000 Remdesivir injections from there, an official statement said. Police said a director of the unit was also arrested.A case under relevant sections of the IPC, the Essential Commodity Act and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act was registered in this regard. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-000-remdesivir-injections-seized-from-himachals-baddi-6-held-240905
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports new high; records 625 new COVID cases||Chandigarh recorded 625 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, a health bulletin showed—the highest number of infections the union territory has recorded in 24 hours since the pandemic first began last March.The city now has 3,625 active COVID-19 cases—a 124 per cent rise since the beginning of the month.The city reported three new COVID-19 deaths, taking the fatality count up to 413.The union territory has been seeing a steep rise in cases since March, prompting the Chandigarh Administration to announce new measures—first nighttime restrictions and then a weekend lockdown—in an attempt to slow the spread.  March saw the union territory record a 765 per cent rise in infections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-new-high-records-625-new-covid-cases-240866
19-04-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University concerned over illegal hostel inmates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 17Amid the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the Panjab University authorities have shot off a letter to its wardens asking them to stop ineligible students from staying at hostel rooms without permission.A circular stated: “It has been reported that students, who have not been allowed to stay in the hostels due to Covid-19 are opening and entering rooms. The committee constituted for the reopening of Panjab University hostels has not allowed all residents to stay at hostels. As you are already aware that only PhD research scholars and final-semester postgraduate students (having lab work and others) are allowed to stay in the hostels, therefore, no other resident should be allowed to enter the hostels. Wardens are advised to look into the matter and comply with the orders strictly.”This circular was issued by the Dean Student Welfare (DSW) on April 16.The orders came at a time when many students’ political parties have started demanding opening of campus. “The students, who had locked their rooms, have been coming to Panjab University and staying here. This was observed by some wardens, who then informed the higher authorities. Amid increase in the number of cases, the authorities have already limited the number of hostel residents and the students should also follow the rules,” said a PU official.Protest against closing of libraryA day after the Panjab University authorities decided to shut AC Joshi Library following weekend lockdown by the UT Administration, students in the library protested against the decision. Later, library authorities retracted the order from “till further orders” to till April 18. Students later agreed and lifted their spontaneous protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-concerned-over-illegal-hostel-inmates-240477
