20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 602 new Covid cases; 4 die||Chandigarh reported 602 Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the infection tally to 35,148.Death of four more people, including a 92-year-old patient, took the fatality count to 421 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases stood at 3,959, the bulletin said, adding that 443 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection.So far, 30,768 people have recovered from the disease, the bulletin said. A total of 3,68,438 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 3,32,216 tested negative while reports of 68 are awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-602-new-covid-cases-4-die-241773
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Traffic Police announces new speed limits||Chandigarh Traffic Police announced on Tuesday they had revised up speed limits within the city.Cars can now go up to 60 kmph on roads separating sectors from 50 kmph previously.  All passenger vehicles with no more than eight seats can go up to 60kmph on dual carriageway roads (i.e. roads with dividers) and 50 kmph on the single carriageway roads (without dividers) and 40 kmph on sector roads.Passenger vehicles with nine or more seats and vehicles transporting commercial goods can go up to 50 kmph on dual carriageway roads, and 40 kmph on single carriageway roads and sector roads.Motorcycles and three-wheeled vehicles can go up to 45 kmph on dual carriageway roads and 40 kmph on the single carriageway roads and sector roads.Traffic Police said they would write the civic engineering wing to revise sign boards.Speed limits on major roads like Dakhsin Marg, Purv Marg and Madhya Marg remain unchanged at 60 kmph.Speed limits revised on various roads in Chandigarh @thetribunechd pic.twitter.com/7SGQdvBEvv||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traffic-police-announces-new-speed-limits-241771
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to continue with weekend lockdowns||Chandigarh Administration decided on Tuesday to continue enforcing weekend lockdowns as the union territory's COVID-19 cases remain alarmingly high.Weekend lockdown will be in force from 8 pm on April 23 (Friday) up to 5 am on April 26 (Monday).  The administration said in a press statement that it would take a call on whether to enforce a 7-day lockdown to stop the spread of COVID-19 on Friday.Besides, the UT Administration has already called for a complete lockdown on Wednesday to prevent any form of mass gathering on Ram Navami.  Only essential activities and movements will be allowed on this day.The administration also advanced night curfew by 2 hours on weekdays. Curfew hours will now begin at 8 pm instead of the previous 10 pm and will remain in force until 5 am.Only essential and emergency services will function at this time. Any violation could lead to a fine and an impounding of vehicle, the administration said in a press release.Additionally, UT Administration VP Singh Badnore appealed to people to avoid crowding hospitals, saying that those with milder form of COVID-19 should opt for home isolation and leave hospital beds for critical cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-continue-with-weekend-lockdowns-241760
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Big surge — 81% Covid beds in tricity occupied||As Covid-19 cases are spiralling in the tricity, beds reserved for such patients at both private and government facilities are getting exhausted rapidly. Eight-one per cent of the 1,686 Covid beds in the tricity region, dedicated to moderate to severely ill patients, are already full.With more than 6,000 active cases, Mohali district is worst affected in the region as 88 per cent of the Covid beds in the district are full. In Chandigarh, 72 per cent of beds are full.Although the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) was made a Covid-dedicated hospital for Chandigarh at the start of the pandemic, the hospital shares the burden of Covid patients from other states as well. Around 100 patients from Punjab are admitted to the Covid hospital at the PGI. Around 80 per cent capacity of Covid beds is full at the institute and 77 per cent ICU beds (with ventilators) are also occupied.The medical institute increased 30 Covid beds as per the directions of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. PGI Director Jagat Ram said, “The hospital is catering to 1,800 non-Covid patients admitted to the hospital, including 360 in the Emergency complex. We have already reduced non-Covid services due to increase in the Covid caseload. Our Covid beds are full. We may have to compromise on non-Covid services for expanding the Covid services. The situation in hospitals is very serious but we are doing the best we can.”The overall occupancy of Covid beds at the hospitals in Panchkula district has reached 84 per cent.Panchkula Chief Medical Officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Health services are under pressure for Covid patients, especially severely ill patients who require ICU facilities. Panchkula has four Covid hospitals, including three in private sector.”Availability of ventilators/ Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machines is already a challenge. Efforts are on to provide more BiPAP machines at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. Reservation of more beds in private sector for Covid patients is on the cards. Another block in the Civil Hospital will be made available, if necessary, by shifting some services to the polyclinic in Sector 26,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur.(with inputs from Sanjay Bumbroo and Amit Bathla)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/big-surge-%E2%80%94-81-covid-beds-in-tricity-occupied-241406
20-04-2021||Mohali||Mohali under lockdown tomorrow, on Sunday||In view of the spurt in Covid cases, Mohali will observe a complete lockdown on Wednesday to restrict large gatherings on the occasion of Ram Navami. The lockdown will not affect the movement of vehicles on highways.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh decided this during a high-level Covid review meeting today. He added that lockdown had been announced for Sunday as well.Dayalan said in addition, stricter restrictions, including extension of night curfew timings (now 8 pm to 5 am), closure of bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres, sports complexes and opening of restaurants and hotels only for takeaway and home delivery, would begin tomorrow.The DC said the new restrictions, which also included closure of all malls, shops and markets on Sunday, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, would remain in effect till April 30. He directed the Police Department to strictly enforce the restrictions, taking support of civil society organisations where needed. All weekly markets had also been ordered to shut, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-under-lockdown-tomorrow-on-sunday-241407
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to take call on Wednesday lockdown today||To prevent gatherings, the UT Administration is likely to impose one-day lockdown on the occasion of Ram Navami on Wednesday. The Punjab Government has already announced lockdown in Mohali on Wednesday to prevent mass gatherings in view of the surge.Also read: UT Administration imposes lockdown in Chandigarh on Wednesday; no lockdown in PanchkulaPunjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh decided to impose lockdown on Wednesday after UT Adviser Manoj Parida asked him to take a call so as to shut down the tricity.No decision yet, says Panchkula DCOn the proposed lockdown in the tricity on Ram Navami, Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar said till now, no such decision had been taken in this regard.However, the final decision on imposing the restrictions would be taken in a meeting tomorrow, said Parida. He said they were yet to receive confirmation from the Harayana Government for imposition of lockdown in Panchkula on Wednesday.Sources said the UT Administration might not go for lockdown on Wednesday if the Haryana Government refused to follow suit.To break the chain of transmission of coronavirus, the UT Administration had imposed weekend lockdown in the city from 10 pm on Friday to 5 am today.CHB CEO in charge of Covid management at GHCH-32In view of the increasing number of Covid cases in the city, Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), has been appointed the overall in charge of Covid management at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.According to an order issued by UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Garg will coordinate with the Director-Principal and theMedical Superintendent of the GMCH to ensure that adequate number of beds, medicines, doctors and infrastructure is available for treatment of Covid patients.Sorabh Arora, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, will assist Garg in day-to-day matters of Covid management at the GMCH-32. Both the officers would function from a temporary office in the GMCH. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-take-call-on-wednesday-lockdown-today-241409
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 49 more zones in Chandigarh||To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration today notified 49 more micro-containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said the issue of outbreak of Covid-19 was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as containment zones in the city.4 deaths, 612 +ve in UTChandigarh: The city recorded 612 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the number of active cases to 3,804. With four more deaths, the toll has reached 417. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 34,546. As many as 429 more patients have been cured of the disease. TNSBrar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. The zones were declared in parts of Sector 7, 11, 15, 18, 19, 20, 22, 27, 28, 29, 32-D, 33, 34, 35-C, 35-D, 37-B, 37-D, 38-D, 39-B, 40-C, 42-C, 44-A, 45-A, 49 (Nirwana Society), 50, 51, 51-B (New Light Society), 52, 63, 63 (Block 8), New Indira Colony, Kishangarh, Dhanas (HBC) and Raipur Khurd. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-49-more-zones-in-chandigarh-241410
20-04-2021||Panchkula||4 more deaths set alarm bells ringing in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-deaths-set-alarm-bells-ringing-in-panchkula-241412
20-04-2021||Mohali||4 deaths, 792 cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-deaths-792-cases-in-mohali-241413
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Power staff strike today; no work, no pay: Chandigarh||The UT Administration has warned of enforcing the “no work, no pay” rule on members of the UT Powermen Union, which has given a call for observing a one-day strike tomorrow.The union has decided to observe the strike in support of its long-pending demands, but the Administration has stated that it has always been sympathetic to the genuine demands of power employees and there was no cause for any strike by them. The principle of “no work, no pay” would be strictly enforced. The employees were, therefore, advised to attend duty. The defaulting employees would also be liable for other disciplinary action.Necessary arrangements for maintaining the continuity of power supply has been made, but chances of power failure due to any untoward incident cannot be ruled out. The UT authorities have requested electricity consumers to kindly cooperate with them.The authorities requested the public to contact complaint centers in their area for electricity complaints. Besides, they can also contact the control room. The public is also requested to keep a vigil on electricity lines and in case they find anyone indulging in sabotage, they may inform the PCR and contact the control room, Sector 17: 0172-2703242, control room, Sector 9: 0172-2740475 and 9779152283 and Citizen Facilitation Centre: 0172-4639999. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-staff-strike-today-no-work-no-pay-chandigarh-241414
20-04-2021||Panchkula||Man refuses to wear mask in Panchkula, booked||A man, who entered into a verbal duel with a policewoman in response to a request to wear a mask, has been booked by the police under relevant sections of the IPC.The suspect has been identified as Vijay Goyal.On Sunday, around 7.30 pm, the police were patrolling the Sector 20 market when they saw five-six people in the grain market speaking to each other in a high-pitched voice. One of them, after seeing the police, wore a mask.A police official immediately approached them and asked why they were not wearing face masks as their complacency could contribute to the spread of the infectious disease.“When the police official said they would be issued challans for violating Covid-19 guidelines, the suspect said he would not wear a mask and started misbehaving with the police,” the FIR stated.As many as 23,513 people have been challaned for not wearing face masks so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-refuses-to-wear-mask-in-panchkula-booked-241415
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mani Majra: BoD nod to 24X7 water project||The 24X7 water supply pilot project for Mani Majra today cleared the final hurdle of the Board of Directors (BoD) of Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL). The final nod came from the BoD at a meeting today. CSCL General Manager NP Sharma confirmed that a letter of intent would be issued to SB Engineering and Tapi Prestressed Pvt Ltd tomorrow.It would have to submit a bank guarantee within a week. The CSCL had earlier cleared a bid of over Rs162 crore under the joint venture of these firms.The work is expected to start by May 15. It will have a two-year deadline. The firms will have to take care of the maintenance for 15 years after completing the project. Later, the project will be implemented in the entire city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-bod-nod-to-24x7-water-project-241416
20-04-2021||Panchkula||Man held on charge of illegally selling remdesivir in Panchkula, 18 vials recovered||A joint team of the Drug Control Department and the police nabbed a Bahadurgarh resident, at present staying in Dera Bassi, for illegally selling antiviral remdesivir injections at an exorbitant price. The injection is in great demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients amid a sharp rise in cases.The suspect, Shiv Kumar, was selling a Rs 3,490 Covifor injection to customers for Rs13,000 per vial. At least 18 remdesivir injections were also recovered from the suspect.On April 18, Inspector Aman Kumar, in-charge of the Sector 26 crime branch, had informed the drug control officer that the suspect had been selling remdesivir injections illegally in Panchkula after receiving a tip-off.A team comprising Inspector Aman Kumar, Panchkula Drug Control Officer Parveen Kumar, Head Constable Pardeep Kumar, Head Constable Ramesh Kumar and EHC Suresh Kumar was constituted. A police official, who agreed to become a decoy customer, contacted Shiv Kumar and demanded remdesivir.He called the decoy to meet him behind a mobile showroom in Sector 11.After turning up at the spot, Shiv Kumar handed over a remdesivir injection to the decoy and sought Rs13,000 from him. The decoy immediately sent a signal to the joint team, which nabbed him from the spot. The team then searched a car belonging to Shiv Kumar and recovered 17 remdesivir injections kept on the front passenger seat.The suspect was asked to submit a copy of the purchase record and the drug sale licence required to procure, stock and sell. However, he failed to do so. He was subsequently questioned about his source of the injections. The suspect allegedly told the joint team that he had procured these drugs from Sudhir Kumar from his office in Sector 11. He then informed that of the 30 injections he procured from Sudhir, he had already sold 12 to three persons. The team then rushed to Sudhir’s office, which was found locked.The caretaker of the property called Sudhir’s peon Ravi, who reached there and opened the premises. However, no stock of remdesivir injection was recovered from the premises.A case against Shiv Kumar, Sudhir Kumar and others was filed under Sections 27(b)(ii), 28 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, Section 3 and 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-on-charge-of-illegally-selling-remdesivir-in-panchkula-18-vials-recovered-241421
20-04-2021||Mohali||Election to Kharar MC top posts deferred||High political drama was witnessed as Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors clashed over Independents’ votes during the elections to the posts of president and vice-president of the Kharar Municipal Council here today.The councillors abused and threw chairs at each other and even broke the tables in the committee room, following which the elections were postponed to May 3. The drama continued for around 30 minutes.While the Congress alleged that the SAD was trying to influence the Independent councillors by offering them money, the SAD accused the party of misusing power.Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain, who was conducting the election, had to leave the committee room, along with other officials, from the back door as some of the councillors allegedly tried to attack him. The latter even broke the SDM’s table.The Congress claimed that all eight Independents were on their side and the SAD had kidnapped them and were even offering them money for supporting their party.SAD in-charge for Kharar Ranjit Singh Gill refuted the claims and insisted that it was a planned move by the Congress representatives. They have 15 councillors on their side and all of them were wearing saffron colour clothes as a dress code, he pointed out.The Congress councillors not only hurled abuses but also threw chairs at our members, he alleged, adding that it was “total misuse of power” by the Congress.We have requested the authorities to check the video of the incident and register the cases against the guilty, said Gill.Jagmohan Singh Kang, former Punjab minister and Congress in-charge for Kharar, said he was not aware of the incident. However, Kang claimed that he had learnt from his party councillors that Harinder Jolly, an Independent who is siding with SAD, was luring other Independent councillors by offering them money.Kang said they want the elections to be held in a transparent manner.Out of the total 27 seats in the Kharar Municipal Council, 10 went to Congress, while SAD had won eight seats in the elections held in February. One seat had gone to AAP and rest of the eight seats were claimed by Independents.SDM Himanshu Jain said due to some law and order problem they had postponed the elections for May 3.He said a report was being prepared which would be submitted to the Deputy Commissioner for appropriate action against the guilty.Nayagaon civic bodyMeanwhile, the elections to the posts of president and vice-president of the Nayagaon MC have been postponed to April 26.Jain said the elections were postponed due to some protests in the Majri block.Some SAD councillors though protested in Nayagaon alleging that as the Congress did not have majority it was “playing dirty politics” by postponing the elections.In a House of 21, the SAD had won 10 seats, while the Congress managed to bag six seats. Three seats went to the BJP and two to Independents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/election-to-kharar-mc-top-posts-deferred-241423
20-04-2021||Panchkula||NMT corridor: Panchkula civic body expects to save Rs2.5 crore||The Panchkula Municipal Corporation is expecting to save at least Rs2.5 crore with the “some changes” in the construction of the non-motorised traffic (NMT) corridor. The project was allocated Rs5.5 crore initially.The savings on the project cost will be utilised for the beautification works, said the civic body.Hailing it as a personal achievement, Kulbhushan Goyal said he had been reviewing the infrastructure projects on a daily basis since the day he took over as the Mayor.“When I held a review meeting for the NMT project, the officials concerned agreed upon some changes in the construction of the project that can save a lot of money,” Goyal informed.“The project is nearing completion…We are hoping to save Rs2.5 crore. The savings will be utilised for beautification works,” he said.“The cycle tracks were to be built on the side of the road using pavement blocks, leaving the slip road. But now, a yellow strip on the main road has been earmarked for cycling,” said Goyal.The corridor will connect the entire Bell corridor, including the middle road, bus stand, Shalimar Mall, Bela Vista Chowk and the seven main roundabouts in the city.The corridor has been designed by Deenbandhu Chhoturam University of Science and Technology. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nmt-corridor-panchkula-civic-body-expects-to-save-rs2-5-crore-241429
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||5 months on, panel fails to reach consensus||Findings of a committee, which was constituted five months ago to decide the fate of smart GPS-enabled watches meant to track 4,000 MC employees, has remained inconclusive.According to the report of the committee, councillors are of the view that the watches should not be used while officers differ and are in favour of these watches.Now, the report will be tabled at the MC House meeting scheduled for April 28. It was the same House which resolved on October 30 last year to form the committee to decide on the issue after the former failed to reach a consensus.On April 11, Chandigarh Tribune highlighted that the committee was sitting on the issue for a long time while the MC has spent about Rs2.2 crore on the project in a year.Former mayor and current councillor Rajesh Kalia, who was one of the members of the committee, said: “We have held in the report the system of making the staff wear watches should be abolished as these show faulty location. Secondly, when we asked the officials to show us how many ghost employees (said to be around 200-250) have been caught through such watches, they had no answer. We could have hire 200 more employees with Rs18 lakh to be given as rent per month for the watches. There has been no utility of these watches till now.”Additional Commissioner Sorabh Arora, who was also one of the panel members, stated: “Two views emerged in the report. The officers wanted to continue with the system while the councillors were against it. Now, the committee report will be tabled at the coming House meeting for taking a decision.”It was in February last year that the corporation started distributing 4,000 watches to its employees in a phased manner. A three-year contract was signed with a private company to provide the watches to the staff. As per the deal, the corporation has to pay about Rs18 lakh per month as rent of watches, which comes to about Rs2.2 crore per annum.Many staff members, especially sanitation workers, have not been wearing these watches since then. Contrary to the purpose for which the watches were acquired, the corporation did not make salaries on the basis of these.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-months-on-panel-fails-to-reach-consensus-241437
20-04-2021||Mohali||6 injured in group clash||Six persons suffered injuries in a clash between two groups in Boothgarh on Sunday evening.The incident took place when devotees were offering prayers at a church. A land owner, Lakhmir Singh, wanted to harvest his crop adjoining the church. Pastor Baljinder Masih sought time from him till the prayer is over, said the police.A verbal altercation ensued and people from both groups hurled sticks, bricks and stones at each other. Six persons, three each from both sides, sustained injuries. The injured have been admitted to the hospital.Pastor Baljinder Masih and his followers blocked the road on Sunday night, demanding action against Lakhmir Singh and others.The police said there was an old land dispute between the two groups and the matter was in the court.Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain met the protesters on Monday. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-injured-in-group-clash-241443
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to function with only 50 per cent staff||As per the orders of the UT Administration, Panjab University will function with 50 per cent staff strength till April 30, officials informed here today.The university office will function with 50 per cent of staff till April 30, said the PU spokesperson.“All the heads/offices of the departments will prepare a roster in such a manner that the routine day-to-day work as well as work pertaining to examination, Senate elections and other time-bound assignments may not get delayed,” said the spokesperson.“The offices of the level of office superintendent and above all will attend office daily on basis of scattered timings, as notified in an existing order,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-function-with-only-50-per-cent-staff-241451
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||PUTA writes to Chancellor, wants disbanding of high-level panel||The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has written to Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, Chancellor, Panjab University, seeking disbanding of the high-level committee formed for governing reforms. The committee was formed in February.In a letter to the Vice-President, PUTA stated: “A high-level committee has been appointed to examine various facets of the existing governance structure of the university in the light of National Education Policy 2020 and recommend the way forward.”“The new Senate which was supposed to be in place with effect from November 1, 2020, could not be elected well in time, thus putting the university in an unprecedentedly difficult situation from the governance point of view. However, with the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the election process is already under way and the new Senate is likely to be constituted well before May 31, 2021,” PUTA stated.As the Senate, the only competent body to examine and initiate steps in light of the NEP 2020 - to be implemented by the year 2035 - is being constituted, there is no need of any committee to function as a substitute of the Senate and that too in violation of Statutes of the University.“...It is prayed that in compliance with the Panjab University Act and its Regulations, and in reverence to the Orders of Punjab and Haryana High Court passed on March 23, 2021, the high-level committee, which has no relevance, as of now, whatsoever, may be disbanded to avoid any legal implications...,” they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-writes-to-chancellor-wants-disbanding-of-high-level-panel-241457
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traders call on UT Adviser Manoj Parida||Representatives of the Chandigarh Business Council (CBC) and the Business Promotion Council (BPC), Sector 17, today met UT Adviser Manoj Parida to discuss the Covid-19 situation.Neeraj Bajaj, president, CBC and BPC, and office-bearers Harvinder S Gujral, Praveen Gulati and Sharanjit Singh requested the Adviser that the city is not ready for a lockdown. It will hamper business and other economic activities as people had still not recovered from the repercussions of the previous lockdowns.Strict measures required to break Covid chainUT Adviser Manoj Parida said strict measures were required to break the chain of coronavirus. He asked associations to spread the word on taking precautions. He also asked representatives to promote the vaccination drive. The representatives assured him on behalf of the association that they would take all necessary steps to promote the vaccination.Parida assured them that Chandigarh comes under the guidelines of the Centre and the government does not promote the idea of a long lockdown. The Adviser said strict measures were required to break the chain of coronavirus. He asked the associations to spread the word of taking precautions.He also asked the representatives to promote the vaccination drive. The representatives assured him on behalf of the association that they would take all necessary steps to promote the vaccination.Bajaj also requested the Adviser to allow takeaway orders, along with home delivery, if at any point a lockdown would come into effect.The assurance given by the Adviser was a relief. Since last year, businesses had been suffering huge losses due to the pandemic, he said.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Hospitality Association has sought relief for the tourism and hospitality sector.In a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, association president Ankit Gupta stated that the tourism and hospitality industry was one of the biggest contributors towards tax collection and employment generation.Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the industry faced several hardships during 2020-21, resulting large-scale retrenchment and financial losses. However, with gradual opening up of the industry and steps such as collecting excise licence fee on pro-rata basis, the industry had subconsciously accepted its yearly losses with the hope of some recovery in 2021-22, he stated.However, with the current wave of pandemic and new restrictions, the industry was on the verge of collapse, he said, adding that unlike other industries, nearly 70-80 per cent revenue was generated in late evenings and weekends.With this notion, he requested the Administrator to provide relief in ground rent or lease money, property tax, excise assessment fee, VAT, UTGST and electricity charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traders-call-on-ut-adviser-manoj-parida-241471
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Spread awareness regarding vaccination, Chandigarh DC asks RWAs||Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar today held a meeting with Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman Baljinder Singh and Chandigarh Residents’ Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri to seek their cooperation in checking the spread of Covid-19.Due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Deputy Commissioner instructed the RWAs to spread awareness regarding vaccination among eligible persons. The Deputy Commissioner also directed the SDMs to strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines. The Additional Deputy Commissioner, SDMs and Director Public Relations from the UT Administration attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spread-awareness-regarding-vaccination-chandigarh-dc-asks-rwas-241476
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cops summon two pharma firm officials for questioning||The UT police have summoned two officials of the Baddi-based pharmaceutical company for questioning regarding the case of illegal dealing in remdesivir, a Covid-19 treatment drug.The operations cell of the UT police had arrested six persons, including Gaurav Chawla, director of the pharmaceutical company named Health Biotech Limited in Baddi, for illegally dealing in remdesivir.The police had recovered 3,000 remdesivir vials from a pharmaceutical company.SP (Operations) Ketan Bansal said two more persons of the pharmaceutical company had been summoned for questioning.“We are also investigating the price on which the vials were being sold in the market in the country,” the SP added.During the investigation, the police had found glaring irregularities in the physical verification of the stock, pointing towards diversion of the said medicine towards the local market after the ban on export by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-summon-two-pharma-firm-officials-for-questioning-241477
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Combating Covid: Western Command HQ to assist states||With the country witnessing a surge in the cases of Covid-19 infection, the Headquarters of Western Command will render all possible assistance to the state governments within its area of responsibility in their efforts to combat the pandemic.This includes assistance in providing medicare to civilians, maintenance of law and order, setting up of quarantine facilities, distribution of essential items as and when called upon to do so.According to sources, senior officers at the Command Headquarters had discussions with the civil authorities of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Delhi and Jammu this evening on modalities for providing the Army assistance.The Army will keep on standby fully equipped medical teams and, if the need arises, open its medical facilities to treat civilian patients. It will also assist the local authorities in providing medical aid, ferrying essential items in remote or far-flung areas and evacuating persons requiring immediate medical attention.The Army is also providing its railway rolling stock to the Indian Railways for transport of oxygen tankers and oxygen cylinders to various parts of the country in the wake of the spike in demand of medical oxygen. The Railways is running special trains for the purpose.To combat the pandemic, the Army also issued fresh instructions this week, which included reducing office attendance to 50 per cent, conducting meetings through videoconferencing and staggering office timings. Only emergency medical treatment would be permitted in military hospitals and all training activities would be conducted while adhering to Covid-19 protocols.About 40,000 personnel in all three services have been infected with the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/combating-covid-western-command-hq-to-assist-states-241478
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sanitiser, face masks distributed in Sector 11-D||In view of the increasing coronavirus cases, an awareness drive was conducted in the market area of Sector 11-D here today. It was organised jointly by the Labour Welfare Committee of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) and the Market Welfare Association of Sector 11-D.The drive was headed by Ravinder Singh Billa, chairman of the sub-committee, and Diwakar Sahoonja, patron, CBM, and president Market Welfare Association, Sector 11-D, Chandigarh.In this door-to-door drive, people were cautioned about the virus and told about the preventative measures to be adopted. Face masks and sanitiser bottles were also distributed free of cost among the public and staff of shopkeepers.Awareness campaign held in Mani MajraRuchi Singh Bedi, SDM (East), organised a Covid-19 awareness campaign at Mani Majra. The Mani Majra SHO, police personnel, BLOs and the Executive Magistrate took part in the campaign. Announcements were made with pre-recorded corona songs and messages. The audio messages primarily focused on preventive measures and initiatives taken by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitiser-face-masks-distributed-in-sector-11-d-241481
20-04-2021||Mohali||Minister flags off tractor, tree-pruning machine in Mohali||Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu here today flagged off a tree-pruning machine and a tractor purchased for the Mohali Municipal Corporation.Balbir Singh Sidhu said this machine had been purchased at a cost of Rs 35.70 lakh and tractor had been purchased for Rs 6.40 lakh. Prior to this, he purchased two machines from his quota and presented these to the Municipal Corporation.Sidhu said the new MC team, led by Mohali Mayor Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu, should work for the development of the city with full passion and there would be no shortage of funds for the development of the city.Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, while thanking Balbir Singh Sidhu, said grown-up trees with huge branches had become a menace in the city and this machine would be helpful in solving the problem. They said the machine and the tractor had been purchased at the right time.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg, SE Sanjay Kanwar and XEN Harpreet Singh were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-flags-off-tractor-tree-pruning-machine-in-mohali-241482
20-04-2021||Mohali||Murder case: Cops accused of inaction||Gurinder Singh and Parminder Singh, both residents of Khamano, today alleged that the Kharar Sadar police were not arresting the suspects in the case pertaining to the murder of Avtar Singh.“Gola, Mani and Sohna, all residents of Daunmajra, and Jaspreet Singh and Harman have been booked at the Kharar Sadar police station. The suspects are roaming fearlessly and pressuring us to reach a compromise,” said Parminder. Avtar succumbed to injuries he suffered in a sword attack over a financial dispute at Daunmajra on March 14. Kharar Sadar SHO Ajitpal Singh said: “One suspect has been held in the case.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-case-cops-accused-of-inaction-241483
20-04-2021||Zirakpur||Udayvir takes charge as Zirakpur MC chief||Ward No. 12 councillor Udayvir Singh Dhillon took charge as the Zirakpur Municipal Council president here today.During the installation ceremony at the MC office, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, Revenue Minister Gurpreet singh Kangar, Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Dhillon, Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon and Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu were present.Udayvir said: “Development is my main agenda and my main focus will be freshwater supply, garbage management and its disposal and checking and curbing illegal construction. I will try to move Zirakpur towards the era of planned development.”Over 200 persons were present during the ceremony. On being asked about the crowding, the Punjab Health Minister had an interesting take on flouting social distancing norms. He replied: “Khushi ke pal enjoy karne chahiye (We should celebrate the moments of happiness).”Sidhu clarified that a simple function was held in which few persons were invited. Most of the people came on their own. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/udayvir-takes-charge-as-zirakpur-mc-chief-241484
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Permanent Lok Adalat starts functioning at Chandigarh District Courts||Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat of UT, Chandigarh, started functioning at the District Legal Service Authority premises, ADR Centre and the District Courts, Sector-43, today.The Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat was constituted in 1998 and was earlier functioning from the premises of the State Legal Services Authority, Sector 9, Chandigarh.Earlier, parties appeared in person before the Lok Adalat, but most of the times they were assisted by their respective advocates also who generally came from the courts complex in Sector-43. Parties had to keep waiting for advocates.Keeping all these factors in mind and for a smooth functioning of this Lok Adalat, as also to avoid inconvenience to the litigant public and advocates who have to travel all the way to Sector 9, Chandigarh, Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and Executive Chairman of the State Legal Services Authority, has decided that the Lok Adalat be shifted to Sector 43, as this initiative will save the time of both litigants and advocates who can participate in proceedings whenever they are free from regular court work.This Lok Adalat will be headed by Ashok Kumar Mann, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, and assisted by two nominated members, VK Kapoor, former IPS officer, and Narinder Dalal, an advocate.Bhag Singh Suhag, president of the District Bar Association of Chandigarh, hailed the decision and said it had been their long-standing demand that the Permanent Lok Adalat be shifted to the District Courts. He said it would now be convenient for advocates to manage their work at both courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/permanent-lok-adalat-starts-functioning-at-chandigarh-district-courts-241485
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mini-Sports Complex comes up at Sector 8 govt school||Enriched with sports infrastructure, the UT Sports Department got another complex in its kitty to run — this time at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 8.Now, the department has a total of 20 sports complexes of various disciplines to run across the city. This Sector 8 complex is named as Mini-Sports Complex, which has a 25mx15m indoor low-depth swimming pool and three indoor badminton courts.Swimming pools have now increased to 12, including two on the Panjab University campus, to cater to professional and recreational swimmers, while the number of badminton arenas is now up at seven.“The Sector 8 Mini-Sports Complex has two facilities (swimming and badminton), which will be open for both professionals and sports lovers in the coming days. Like other complexes in government schools, this arena has also been built by the UT Education Department and will be run and operated by the UT Sports Department. Other criteria, from taking membership to using the arena, will be same as other complexes. It’s a boon for both swimmers and shuttlers,” said Tejdep Singh Saini, Director Sports (UT).The complex is yet to open for public. “We are yet to throw open this facility for public. The formalities will be completed soon and it will be open as per the requirement of users. The process to allot memberships for professionals and others will also be started,” said Saini.Decision on opening pools soonThe department will take some decision on opening local pools for professional swimmers in the coming days. Though the department was ready to open the facilities (strictly for professionals), the rise in number of Covid cases has delayed the proceedings. “We will discuss this with higher authorities. The department was ready to open the facility for the benefit of competitive swimmers, but the rise in number of Covid-19 cases has now delayed the process,” said Saini. The local swimmers had a sigh of relief, after a gap of one year, when the department opened the pools in January. A trainee, Chahat Arora, recently bagged two gold medals in the Uzbekistan Open Summer Swimming Championship in Tashkent on April 14. She was practising here and at Mohali swimming pool like other professionals, preparing for competitive events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mini-sports-complex-comes-up-at-sector-8-govt-school-241487
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Water supply in Chandigarh to be hit for 11 days||Youth held for snatching mobileChandigarh: A 21-year-old youth was nabbed by two cops while he was escaping after allegedly snatching a mobile phone. The police said Vicky Ram of Ram Darbar, Phase II, was escaping after snatching a phone from an 18-year-old girl, Monika, near the Poulty Farm chowk, Industrial Area, Phase I. The victim raised the alarm following which the two constables, Sunil and Ravinder, who were present near the spot, nabbed the suspect. TNSTwo borrow phone, escapeChandigarh: Two fraudsters, including a woman, borrowed a mobile phone from a person and escaped from the spot. The complainant, Sandeep of Kaimbwala village, reported that the suspects, riding a white car, asked for his phone to make a call near the Sector 44/45 light point. However, they escaped with the phone. TNSJind man held with 1-kg opiumLalru: The police arrested a Jind resident with one-kg opium near Ravidas Bhawan in Lalru on April 16. The suspect has been identified as Monu, who worked as a taxi driver. He brought the contraband from Aagar in MP. The police said he was supplying it to someone in Zirakpur for money. A case has been registered against the suspect under the NDPS Act. He was remanded in police custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-in-chandigarh-to-be-hit-for-11-days-241488
