21-04-2021||Panchkula||19-year-old jumps off building in Panchkula after parents test positive for COVID-19||A 19-year-old jumped off the seventh-floor terrace of his building in Panchkula’s Sector 20, police said on Wednesday.  Suryansh Pathak was a first-year engineering student whose parents both tested positive recently for COVID-19. His body was handed over to his family after autopsy, Sector 20 police station SHO Inspector Dalip Kumar said.Police officially maintain they’re investigating the reason for his suspected suicide, but sources in the department claim that it was possibly because of a fear of having contracted COVID-19.No note has been found indicating reasons, police say.SHO Dalip Kumar cautioned against jumping to conclusions. “It’s very easy to assume he ended his life over COVID-19. But the case is still being investigated,” he said.  It is very easy to say that he ended his life over the COVID scare, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-year-old-jumps-off-building-in-panchkula-after-parents-test-positive-for-covid-19-242226
21-04-2021||---||Chandigarh wears deserted look as lockdown throws life out of gear||Chandigarh, April 21Normal life was affected in Chandigarh on Wednesday as the one-day lockdown imposed by the UT Administration prevented the residents from venturing out of their houses for non-essential activities.Being a holiday, all government and private offices, markets and malls remained closed in a move aimed at checking the surge in Covid cases. The essential commodity shops and vendors dealing in food, groceries, fruits and vegetable, dairy products, drugs and medical equipment, however, remained opened.Due to the restrictions, there was thin traffic on the roads. However, there were no curbs on inter-state movement of essential and non-essential goods and all vehicles or persons in bonafide transit were allowed to move out. Passengers going to or returning from airport, or railway or bus stand were also exempted from the curfew. As restaurants or eating places, hotels, including food joints/courts in various malls, were allowed to open only for home delivery, the restaurants and home delivery employees were allowed to move on production of valid ID card issued to them by their respective establishment.The administration has exempted certain categories of people who need to go out during the curfew for necessary services and activities like vaccination, as all vaccination centres, testing centres, dispensaries and medical facilities remained open during the curfew.  Those tasked with law and order, emergency and municipal services, police, military or paramilitary personnel in uniform, health, electricity, fire, mediapersons and government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties were also exempted from the curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-wears-deserted-look-as-lockdown-throws-life-out-of-gear-242180
21-04-2021||---||Chandigarh: Scooterist dragged by drunk SUV driver,  dies||Chandigarh, April 20A 39-year-old man, riding an Activa, was killed after an SUV, being driven by a drunk man, hit the scooter from the rear side, dragged it for several metres and went out of control before turning turtle on a cycle track after hitting two trees and a streetlight on the road separating Sector 35 and 43 on Monday night. There were two persons in the SUV, who escaped unhurt.The victim, identified as Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Sector 32, was returning home from Mohali when the accident took place.The police said the rashly driven SUV first hit the scooter following which the victim fell on the vehicle’s bonnet. The driver kept on driving the SUV and dragged the scooter along for several metres. The SUV then went out of control and hit two trees and a streetlight pole before overturning on a cycle track.The police said the victim was found lying around 20 metres ahead of the spot where the scooter was hit. “The victim was found lying near one of the trees hit by the SUV,” said a police official. The vehicles were found around 30 metres ahead of the spot.Passersby and local residents gathered at the spot and informed the police. A PCR vehicle rushed the victim to the PGI where doctors declared him brought dead.The SUV was being driven by Gurprasad Prajapati of Maloya. He was nabbed from the spot. The police got his medical examination done, which confirmed that he was in an inebriated condition. He is a driver by profession.A case was registered. The driver was arrested and later released on bail.Victim was sole breadwinnerThe victim was the sole breadwinner of his family. He is survived by his mother, wife and two kids — a one-year-old son and a six-year-old daughter.Liquor bottle, cups found in carA liquor bottle and disposable cups were lying in the car at the time of the accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-scooterist-dragged-by-drunk-suv-driver-dies-241938
21-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Tocilizumab ‘out of stock’, Covid patients in tricity left in the lurch||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20The tricity is now facing a shortage of tocilizumab injections, an essential drug in the treatment of severe Covid-19 patients. Patients are left at the mercy of medicine distributors and pharmacists for the drug, but all they get in response is “out of stock”.With Covid-19 cases surging, Cipla, one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in the world, has already run out of its stock of tocilizumab.A nine-month pregnant woman is struggling against Covid-19 at the PGI’s ICU ward and requires tocilizumab, prescribed by doctors. Her family members have raised numerous demands on the social media for the drug, but to no avail. A relative of the patient said, “I have been trying to source the injection, but all efforts have gone in vain. These are testing times for us.”Many hospitals in the tricity have prescribed tocilizumab for Covid patients, leaving their families in search of this drug all over the tricity.Dr HK Kharbanda, who set up the helpline for tricity residents, said, “The only query we have received till now is about the tocilizumab injection, which is currently out of stock. We have managed to arrange two injections today.”Amit Duggal, Drug Inspector, UT, said, “The drug is currently out of stock, not just in Chandigarh but also in the adjoining states. The only supplier, Cipla, will send the injection in batches in the coming days to various states.”This is the next drug to be given after remdesivir, which is used to treat patients with moderate symptoms, while the latter works for those who need intensive care unit (ICU).A Zirakpur-based distributor said, “The company has stated that the drug will be made available by April 30.”Remdesivir in short supplyIn some parts of the northern region, including the tricity, chemists are running out of remdesivir stock. Remdesivir is an anti-viral drug used in the treatment of Covid patients in critical condition.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said the state had procured remdesivir in advance in anticipation of a rise in the cases. Government hospitals in the UT have been supplied sufficient stock of remdesivir.The PGI today said the institute was in the process of procuring remdesivir and tocilizumab for patients.About tocilizumabIt is an immunosuppressant, commonly used for rheumatoid arthritis, and marketed as actemra by Swiss pharma company Roche. It was repurposed in January to fight severe lung infection in Covid-19 patients. Roche supplied it to Cipla, which supplied it further. The drug is an anti-IL-6 receptor-a monoclonal antibody that is indicated for the treatment of IL-6-mediated inflammatory disorders. It calms the inflammatory storm in the respiratory system by blocking IL-6 receptors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tocilizumab-out-of-stock-covid-patients-in-tricity-left-in-the-lurch-241940
21-04-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Forcing to pay for insurance policy sans consent unfair||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Chandigarh, has penalised a bank for forcing consumers to pay for an insurance policy which they never willingly opted for.Terming the act as an unfair trade practice, the commission directed the bank to not only refund insurance amount of Rs3,39,975 with 12 per cent interest, but also to pay Rs25,000 as compensation to the consumers for mental agony and harassment.Deepak Agnihotri and her wife Urvashi Agnihotri approached the commission through counsel Uday Agnihotri after a bank allegedly forced them to pay Rs3,39,975 for the policy which they never opted for. In the complaint before the commission, the complainant said they availed of a home loan of Rs24.40 lakh on March 8, 2013. They deposited all necessary documents and title deeds with the State Bank of Patiala, which was later merged with the State Bank of India with all its assets and liabilities.The complainants repaid the entire loan within five years and intimated the bank on September 17, 2018, to return the title deed along with the NOC. However, a bank official told that in addition to mandatory house insurance, the bank also issued another insurance policy known as ‘SBI Suraksha Policy’ for which an amount of Rs3,39,975 was outstanding. The complainants opposed the demand and told that they never opted/applied for such an insurance policy nor was it ever issued by the bank. However, the bank refused to return the original title deeds, etc., unless the entire amount of premium amounting to Rs3,39,975 and interest thereon of the Suraksha Policy were first paid. Left with no alternative and under compelling circumstances, the complainants deposited the amount of Rs3,39,975 under protest and got the Suraksha Insurance Policy closed, reserving the right to claim refund of the amount and interest.The complainants said they never applied for any Suraksha Insurance Policy from the bank nor it was ever issued to them. The bank issued the policy without informing them.In its reply before the commission, the bank stated that the complainants were given two policies and it was also mentioned in the agreement. Denying allegations and pleading no deficiency in service, the bank prayed for the dismissal of the complaint.After hearings the arguments and examining the documents, the commission noted forcing a consumer to take insurance from the specific insurer to enhance their “other income” portfolio was a clear case of breaking the sanctity of the agreement and against the “fair practice codes” implemented by the RBI under the Banking Codes and Standards Board of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/forcing-to-pay-for-insurance-policy-sans-consent-unfair-241942
21-04-2021||---||New speed limits announced for Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 20 The Transport Department, UT, today issued a notification regarding new speed limits in the city. The sector-dividing roads where the maximum speed was 50 km per hour (kmph) will now have the top speed limit of 60 kmph. With this, the speed limit will be uniform on all sector-dividing roads in the city. Earlier, the speed limit for cars on some roads, including Dakshin Marg, Purv Marg and Madhya Marg, was 60 kmph. Police officials stated that vehicles used for carriage of passengers having not more than eight seats would have the maximum speed limit of 60 kmph on dual carriageway roads (roads with dividers), 50 kmph on the single carriageway roads (without dividers). Meanwhile, the speed limit on sector roads will be 40 kmph. The police clarified that the commercial goods vehicles and vehicles used for carriage of passengers having nine or more seats would have the maximum speed limit of 50 kmph on dual carriageway roads and 40 kmph on the single carriageway roads and sector roads. Motorcycles and three-wheeled vehicles will have the maximum speed limit of 45 kmph on dual carriageway roads and 40 kmph on the single carriageway roads and sector roads. The traffic police will be writing to the engineering wing to install the signages on roads with revised speed limits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-speed-limits-announced-for-chandigarh-241943
21-04-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Dhakoli: 43 test +ve for Covid in Shree Deva Ji Residency housing society||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, April 20As many as 43 persons of a housing society in Kishanpura locality of Dhakoli tested positive for Covid here today. The Health Department took 171 samples in the Shree Deva Ji Residency housing society recently of whom 43, including workers, returned positive.In some cases, more than two members of a unit have been found positive.Officials said it was the biggest cluster of cases found in the area till now.As a precautionary measure, the society has been declared a micro-containment zone by the administration. The entry and exit to the housing society has been restricted for now.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, “All residents will be sampled here now. Close to 1,500 samples are being taken in Dhakoli everyday. Twenty teams have been deployed in the Zirakpur area. The administration appeals to residents who have tested negative to join the vaccination programme as it is the only long-term solution now.”Recently, 18 residents of the Sushma Crescent housing society in Dhakoli were found positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-43-test-ve-for-covid-in-shree-deva-ji-residency-housing-society-241944
21-04-2021||---||Union Home Secretary reviews situation in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 20 Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla today held a review meeting to assess the status of Covid-19 situation and steps taken to contain the spread of infection in Union Territories (UTs). Bhalla, along with Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, chaired the meeting to review and discuss the Covid-19 status and the management and response strategy with the Chief Secretaries of all UTs. UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that the Union Home Secretary had directed that strict enforcement measures should be taken in Chandigarh. Action against persons disobeying Covid protocol should be intensified. He also mentioned that the Ministry of Home Affairs had advised that more restrictive measures should be imposed to contain the spread of virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/union-home-secretary-reviews-situation-in-chandigarh-241945
21-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Congress divided over lockdown move||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20It seems the Chandigarh Congress is divided over lockdown in the city. Senior leaders of the party have been issuing contradictory statements regarding the lockdown for the past few days. HS Lucky, chief spokesperson for the Congress, today termed the “lockdown decision of the UT Administration” completely wrong.”Yesterday, Leader of Opposition in the MC House and Congress Councillor Devinder Singh Babla had written to the Punjab Governor to impose a 15-day lockdown in the city.After the UT today announced lockdown on Wednesday, Lucky issued a press note stating: “Complete lockdown is not a solution to the increasing Covid problem. Alternatively, it will affect the livelihood of people, especially the common man. There are a large number of people, including daily-wage labourers, those selling small items such as hawkers, small businessmen or traders, who cannot eat a square meal without earning every single day.”“Lockdown is not a solution to Covid-19, but testing, contact tracing, vaccination, right treatment, medicine, oxygen and hospitalisation. Lockdown only reflects carelessness, incompetence and then nervousness. The Central Government lost precious time from October to March. That loss cannot be offset by a lockdown. The administration is giving proof of its failure by imposing the lockdown. The Administration gave a wrong message by imposing a lockdown on the day of Ram Navami,” said Lucky.Contrary to it, Babla yesterday wrote to Badnore, stating: “I request you to impose a complete lockdown for the next 15 days in the city. I can understand the grief of businessmen that their business will be affected, but if there is no life what will the business do. Saving life should be the utmost priority at this moment.”“You are the Administrator of Chandigarh. It is your responsibility to save city residents from the second wave of Covid-19. I request you to immediately call for a war-room meeting to discuss how to tackle the situation and announce lockdown as early as possible with fresh guidelines,” he requested.On April 18, Congress spokesperson councillor Gurbax Rawat had criticised the weekend lockdown.City Congress president Subhash Chawla said: “Views of the party spokesperson are our official views. Babla told me that his statement was an emotional outburst after he saw someone close to him passing away due to Covid-19.”Babla told Chandigarh Tribune: “It is my personal view. I have seen several families suffering from Covid in my ward. There are no arrangements in hospitals. If life is there, then there is business. Lockdown should be in one go, not in parts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-divided-over-lockdown-move-241946
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown step taken in a hurry: Chandigarh Beopar Mandal||The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) denounced the decision taken by the UT Administration to impose the lockdown tomorrow, stating that the step had been taken in a hurry and without taking into confidence the stakeholders, which are predominantly traders of the city.Earlier, the CBM had appealed to the Administration to announce such harsh steps as last resort only and must keep the trader bodies like the CBM as part of proceedings finalising such lockdowns.Charanjiv Singh, president, and Diwakar Sahoonja, patron-cum-chief spokesperson, CBM, said last year, the lockdown had crippled the economy and small and medium traders were the worst-hit section of society.No compensation in form of reduction in property tax, electricity, GST, lease money, water charges and towards rentals, etc., had been announced by the government towards this revenue and employment generating section of society, they said.Charanjiv said they would hold a meeting on Thursday to decide ways of protest to stop further lockdowns and demands an urgent meeting with the Administrator to finalise steps to strengthen the revival of economy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-step-taken-in-a-hurry-chandigarh-beopar-mandal-241948
21-04-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Not repairing mobile within warranty costs firm dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20Not repairing a mobile handset within the warranty period is deficiency of service. Stating this, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has directed a company to not only refund the entire cost of the mobile phone to a consumer, but also pay Rs10,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and litigation cost.Hunar Sehgal, a resident of Sector 61, Chandigarh, approached the commission after the company failed to rectify the defects of the mobile handset. Sehgal said he purchased a POCO F1 mobile phone on December 9, 2018, online from XIAOMI Technology India Private Limited for a sum of Rs17,817.The mobile phone carried a warranty of one year. Sehgal started facing problems in the handset such as auto power off, Wi-Fi not working and heating issue soon after its purchase.When her mother visited the service centre to get the mobile handset repaired, the company demanded Rs6,016.82. When her mother resisted, the centre refused to repair the mobile set. It charged Rs118 and returned the handset to her.The complainant alleged deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on part of the company and sought direction either to replace the handset with a new one or refund the invoice amount 17,817, along with Rs30,000 compensation. The company contested the complaint. In its reply, the company said the product was rendered out of warranty due to customer-induced damage.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the claims of the company had no basis. The complainant went to the service centre with the complaints of auto power off, Wi-Fi not working and heating issue in the mobile handset in question and not for the replacement of touch panel.Instead of resolving the issues, the centre raised a demand of Rs6016.82 by taking shelter of display damage. Small/minuscule scratch cannot be termed as damaged or violated the terms and conditions of warranty. The commission said in its view, the mobile set cannot be termed as physically damaged and the opposite party (company) was duty bound to repair the same.Hence, the act of the opposite party in not repairing the handset and demanding Rs6,016.82 from the complainant certainly tantamount to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.In view of this, the opposite party is directed to immediately refund the invoice price of the mobile phone in question i.e. 17,817 to the complainant and pay Rs5,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-repairing-mobile-within-warranty-costs-firm-dear-241949
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh RWAs set up helpline for bed availability, oxygen, vaccine||Members of the Chandigarh Residents’ Associations Welfare Federation and city doctors have set up a Covid-19 helpline for residents seeking admission to hospitals, availability of Covid beds, vaccine and treatment protocol. Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents’ Associations Welfare Federation, said RWA representatives were asked for help by the UT Deputy Commissioner in tackling the grim situation. Hence, we have taken this initiative in addition to government helpline. We have roped in teams of our RWAs and a team of Dr RS Bedi and Dr HK Kharbanda to help the suffering people of the tricity. Be it the availability of a bed, medicine, vaccine, oxygen or support of food, counselling, help to elderly or sick, our members of the RWA will help the callers throughout the day from 9 am to 7 pm”. Dr RS Bedi said: “Time and again, we are stressing the need to wear face mask and timely vaccination. Now, through this helpline, we will again be just a call away to help people”. Dr HK Kharbanda said: “We have been sensitising people to fake news and spreading awareness about the latest development regarding the virus via social media. Answering the queries of the common man will relieve their fear and stress”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-rwas-set-up-helpline-for-bed-availability-oxygen-vaccine-241950
21-04-2021||---||Chandigarh set to get 3 oxygen plants||Chandigarh, April 20Three oxygen plants will be commissioned within two days in the city to augment the oxygen supply to patients, this was announced during a Covid review meeting here today.A Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plant has already been installed at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, with the help of Government of India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, for combating the ongoing oxygen crisis.The plant will suffice at least 50 per cent of the total oxygen demand at the GMCH-32. It will generate 1000 LPM per day.Prof Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, GMCH-32, said: “The plant will provide round-the-clock oxygen supply and will definitely help in the fulfilment of oxygen demand in the hospital amid the present Covid pandemic.”“It will also reduce the number of oxygen cylinders. The plant will generate oxygen gas from air and it will be delivered to the patients through the medical gas pipeline system,” she said.Patient rushDr Bipin Kausal, PGIMER, meanwhile, said they had 244 Covid cases in the Nehru Extension Block, out of which 90 belonged to Chandigarh, 82 to Punjab, 42 to Haryana, 18 to Himachal Pradesh and 12 were from other states.Dr Kausal informed that they had tested 4,588 Covid samples, out of which 1,360 were found positive.Doctors also mentioned about an alarming development in which many patients were found to have been infected with Covid even after receiving the first dose of vaccine.Dr Jasbinder Kaur said they had tested 2,739 Covid samples, out of which 367 were found positive, which implies a positivity rate of 13.4 per cent.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director Health Services, said they had tested 12,595 Covid samples, out of which 2,149 were found positive. The positivity rate thus stands at 17 per cent.She also mentioned that the fatality rate in Chandigarh during the last month was 0.5 per cent.Dr Kang further informed that 59 per cent of health workers and 67 per cent of front-line workers in Chandigarh had got themselves vaccinated.Increasing casesPunjab Governor UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed serious concern about the alarming rate at which the Covid cases were increasing in the city.Badnore directed all medical institutions to enhance their capacity of beds and store adequate quantity of medicines and equipment to handle the increasing number of patients.He also directed the PGIMER authorities to convert Infosys Sarai into temporary hospital, where at least moderate patients could be kept and treated.Badnore also suggested that some spare technical health staff should be deputed from PGIMER to GMCH-32 or GMSH-16, where temporary staff shortage was being faced.He asked for better coordination among all three medical institutions for optimal utilisation of staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-set-to-get-3-oxygen-plants-241953
21-04-2021||---||PU governance reforms: Panel discusses recommendations||Chandigarh, April 20A meeting of the high-level committee constituted for the Panjab University governance reforms was held today. The online meeting was headed by Prof RP Tiwari, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda.The 11-member committee discussed in detail the subcommittee recommendations, which were mainly related to the composition of the Senate, Syndicate, faculties and appointment of Deans. The nominees from the Punjab Government sought one week’s time to compile the government’s view, which will be incorporated in the final report.Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, IIM Amritsar; Prof VS Chauhan, Chairman, Executive Committee, National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) - Nominee of Chairman, UGC Member; Prof PK Raina, Director, IIT Ropar; Prof KN Pathak, former Vice-Chancellor, PU; Prof Raj Kumar, Vice Chancellor, PU; Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and Nominee of the Punjab Chief Minister; Paramjit Singh, DPI (Colleges), Government of Punjab; Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director (Higher Education), Chandigarh Administration; Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor General of India - Nominee of the Chancellor, Panjab University; and Vikram Nayyar, Registrar, PU, Member Secretary, attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-governance-reforms-panel-discusses-recommendations-241958
21-04-2021||---||Lockdown in Chandigarh, Mohali today, not Panchkula||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20To stem the spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration and the Punjab Government have decided to impose a complete lockdown in Chandigarh and Mohali on the occasion of Ram Navami tomorrow. However, the Haryana Government has decided not to follow suit in Panchkula.The Punjab Government had yesterday announced to impose lockdown in Mohali on Wednesday to prevent religious gatherings during the Covid-19 pandemic.UT Adviser Manoj Parida had asked the governments of the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana to impose simultaneous lockdown in the tricity to break the chain of the coronavirus transmission.A decision to impose a complete lockdown in Chandigarh was taken at a meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore here this evening. It was decided that the lockdown would start at 10 pm on Tuesday and end at 5 am on Thursday. All non-essential movement will be prohibited during the lockdown period.Like the previous weekend, the UT authorities have also decided to impose a weekend lockdown from 8 pm on Friday (April 23) till 5 am on Monday (April 26).To prevent the movement of people, the Administration has also decided to extend the timings of the night curfew by two hours. Instead of 10 pm, the curfew timings will now be from 8 pm to 5 am.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said lockdown would begin at 8 pm on Tuesday and end at 5 am on Thursday. However, the lockdown will have no effect on the movement of traffic on national or state highways passing through the district.Advising the residents to perform Ram Navami puja at their homes, the DC cautioned that all those returning from a religious or any other gathering must home-quarantine themselves for at least five days.Instead of imposing lockdown, the Panchkula administration has issued guidelines /standard operating procedures to be strictly adhered to in temples situated in the district.Keeping in view the religious importance of the festival of Ram Navami, Mukul Kumar, District Magistrate-cum-Chairman, District Disaster Management Authority, Panchkula, said preventive measures, including simple public health measures like social distancing and wearing face cover or masks, needed to be observed by all. Proper crowd management in the parking lots and in corridors by duly following social distancing norms would be done, he added.Kumar said only individual prayers would be allowed and no mass or collective ‘aarti’, congregation or gathering for prayers would be permitted. He said prasad distribution or sprinkling of holy water, etc, in and around religious places would not be allowed. Sanitisation of temple premises would be done at regular intervals by the temple management, he added.The DM said to prevent overcrowding, the temple managements were advised to make arrangements for the devotees in such a manner that not more than 20 persons were allowed at a time to offer prayers in the temple on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the UT Administration has decided to consider the proposal of imposing a seven-day lockdown during a meeting on Friday after taking into account the number of Covid cases in the city.The Administrator directed the police authorities to be extremely strict in enforcing lockdown instructions and the night curfew. All violators must be strictly dealt with. If necessary, the vehicles should be seized and heavy fine imposed on those indulging in non-essential travel or those violating the Covid protocol, he stated.Those exemptedOver 31K visit Mansa Devi templePanchkula: Over 36,250 devotees paid obeisance at the Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula, the Kali Mata temple in Kalka and the Chandi Mata temple on the eighth of the Navratri festival.Mukul Kumar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Chief Administrator of the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, said: “A donation of over Rs19.96 lakh was received on Tuesday, taking the total to Rs 91.03 lakh during the Navratras at the Mansa Devi temple and the Kali Mata temple. Nine items of gold and 140 items of silver were also donated at the temples.”Mukul Kumar said over 31,000 devotees visited the Mansa Devi temple, while 4,380 devotes visited the Kali Mata temple and 220 devotees visited the Chandi Mata temple on Tuesday. TNSHoliday todayThe UT Administration has declared a public holiday in Chandigarh on April 21 on account of Ram Navami under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. All Sampark centres will be closed on April 21 on account of Ram Navami.Movement passMarriage organisers or others seeking movement pass may contact on 0172-2700076, 2700341 or apply on www.admser.chd.nic.in.dpcNight curfew now begins at 8||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-in-chandigarh-mohali-today-not-panchkula-241960
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 602 cases, four deaths||Five die in Mohali, 697 contract virusMohali: Five more fatalities due to Covid were witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 511. Meanwhile, 697 fresh cases surfaced till Tuesday evening, taking the total number of cases to 37,562. As many as 527 more patients have been cured of the disease, pushing up the number of recoveries to 30,496. Among the fresh cases, 333 were reported from Mohali (urban), six from Banur, 14 from Lalru, 15 from Kurali, 19 from Boothgarh, 30 from Dera Bassi, 41 from Gharuan, 89 from Kharar and 150 from the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. There are 6,555 active cases in the district. TNS299 test positive in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Tuesday reported 299 fresh cases of Covid. There was no fresh fatality due to the virus during the past 24 hours. So far, the district has witnessed 17,364 cases and 14,835 recoveries. There are 2,357 active cases with 172 deaths in the district. Meanwhile, 773 persons above the age of 45 were given the first dose of the vaccine while 295 received the second dose. Similarly, 451 senior citizens got the first dose while 911 were administered the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-602-cases-four-deaths-241961
21-04-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Questions over Senate elections as PUSA, PUCCSA poll deferred||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20In view of the fresh guidelines issued by the UT Administration and the Punjab Government to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Panjab University has postponed the PUSA and PUCCSA elections 2021.The questions now remain on the status of the Senate elections, as the polling is scheduled to start from April 26 with the constituency of faculties, which has 12 candidates in the fray and 754 eligible voters. A total of six polling booths have been set up on the Panjab University campus for the April 26 elections.Earlier this month, Panjab University had announced to hold the Senate elections between April 26 and May 16 after the Punjab and Haryana High Court pulled up Vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar for the delay.The university had told the court that it had sought permission from six state governments – Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan – where polling booths for different constituencies had to be set up. The permission has been granted after the court’s order. However, amid the spike in number of cases in other states as well, sources claimed that the authorities might end up thinking on fresh dates.“There has been no update on delay in Senate elections. Our process will start after April 30. The postponement of the PUSA and PUCCSA elections has nothing do with the Senate elections…this is a mutual decision taken by the contesting candidates. As of now, there is no change in the Senate elections,” said Vikram Nayyar, Registrar, PU.As per the press commune, the decision regarding postponement of the PUSA and PUCCSA elections had been taken in view of the latest guidelines on Covid control. The matter is considered to be important as the PU had last year decided to postpone the Senate elections due to spike in Covid infections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/questions-over-senate-elections-as-pusa-puccsa-poll-deferred-241964
21-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib AAP councillors allege neglect||All three AAP councillors, along with the party workers led by Pardeep Malhotra, today staged a sit-in in front of Municipal Council office at Sirhind in protest against the "partisan attitude" of the council officials.The AAP councilors alleged that local Congress MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra was not able to digest their victory, and on his directions, the council officials were not paying heed to their wards.They also claimed, the development projects initiated in their respective wards had been stalled. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-aap-councillors-allege-neglect-241990
21-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Harpreet Singh takes charge as Mandi Gobindgarh MC president||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 20Harpreet Singh Prince today took charge as the president of the Municipal Council Mandi Gobindgarh in presence of Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh.Interestingly, five or six Congress councillors were conspicuous by their absence.The District Magistrate's order regarding gathering in view of Covid-19 pandemic were violated as a majority of Prince's supporters and Congress workers were seen without masks. Social distancing norms also went for a toss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harpreet-singh-takes-charge-as-mandi-gobindgarh-mc-president-241992
21-04-2021||Panjab University will conduct the PU-CET (PG) 2021 on June 12 and 13. The prospectus||PU-CET (PG) 2021 from June 12||More wireless sets for PU securityTo enhance the security services at Panjab University, Vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar on Tuesday distributed 32 new wireless sets among the security staff. The wireless sets will facilitate effective communication for urgent messages. Vikram Singh, chief of university security, informed that earlier 26 wireless sets were used for security purposes. TNSInternational lecture seriesThe English Literary Club of GGDSD College, Sector 32, organised the five-day-long international lecture series - Unravelling the Bard: Through Global Perspectives. The event was attended by professors and scholars from around the world. Principal Dr Balraj Thapar lauded the efforts of the organising team. TNSStudents join fight against CovidForty students of Sri Sukhmani College of Nursing, Dera Bassi, help administer Covid-19 vaccines and testing in Dhakoli, Zirakpur, which has been declared a containment zone. Health team from the college has been collecting samples of contacts of the positive cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-cet-pg-2021-from-june-12-241993
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Purse snatched in sector 32||Worker beaten up, 3 arrestedChandigarh: Three persons have been arrested for allegedly thrashing a worker at the Sector 44 petrol pump. Complainant Shahnoor Abbas (23) reported that he was on duty when a cab arrived to get CNG refilled at 5.20 am on April 19. The driver started arguing with him over payment. The driver then called his accomplices to the spot. All of them then thrashed Abbas before fleeing. Later, the suspect, Monu of Maloya, and Shovinder Singh and Muni Dev of Shahpur Colony, Sector 38 (West), were arrested. TNSBook on acid attacks launchedChandigarh: The book, Acid Attacks on Women: A Socio-Legal Perspective, authored by Dr Navpreet Kaur, a Chandigarh-based advocate and co-founder of The Laxmi Foundation, an NGO dedicated to the support of acid attack survivors, was launched on Saturday. The book contextualises acid violence within a framework that measures gender-based inequality. The book makes an essential contribution to the understanding of the issues, in confronting the problems being faced by acid attack victims and in increasing awareness of its various impacts throughout society. TNSTanmay excels in GATE, UPSCChandigarh: Tanmay Mahajan, a resident of Sector 37, has secured all-India rank six in the GATE. He also bagged 64th position in the UPSC Engineering Services. The 23-year-old completed his BTech from Punjab Engineering College (PEC) in 2019. Mahajan lost his father when he was just three days old. His mother works as a tailor. “My mother is the sole inspiration behind my success. She has suffered a lot…,” said Mahajan. TNSJobless man ends his lifeZirakpur: A Pabhat resident hanged himself to death at his house on Monday evening. The victim, Satish Kumar, who used to work as a labourer, was unemployed for the past few days. He committed suicide by hanging himself from a fan in his house on Monday evening, the police said. TNSCurfew: Eatery owner bookedZirakpur: The police have registered a case against the owner of an eatery on the Patiala road for violating the night curfew. Simran Singh, a resident of AKS Colony, was booked for keeping the eatery open late at night and serving food to customers on Monday night. TNSSpurious ghee: Sohana man heldDera Bassi: A team of the Food Safety Department, along with the police, nabbed a person for supplying spurious Verka ghee to shopkeepers in the area. The suspect has been identified as Gurmukh Singh, a resident of Sohana. The police have registered a case against the suspect under various sections. According to information, the Food Safety Department had received information that spurious ghee was being sold in the area. Investigating Officer ASI Mewa Singh said the suspect was being questioned about his source of spurious ghee. TNSCase registered under Cinematography ActChandigarh: A case under Section 7 of the Cinematography Act, 1952, has been registered on the complaint of Ashok Kumar R Parmar, Joint Secretary (Films), Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, New Delhi, who stated that inputs were received from the Ministry of Home Affairs that a documentary titled “Punjab Disappeared” is screened by Punjab Documentation and Advocacy Project’s Satnam Singh. The documentary was screened at DR PN Chhuttani Memorial, IMA complex, Sector 35, in May 2019 without certification by the Central Board of Film Certification. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/purse-snatched-in-sector-32-241995
21-04-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Minor bike rider apprehended||The police apprehended a minor for riding a motorcycle with a fake number plate and sent him to the juvenile home on Tuesday.The suspect was apprehended at a naka on Monday evening. Investigating Officer Rajesh Chouhan said the suspect had been sent to a juvenile home after being produced in a court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-minor-bike-rider-apprehended-241997
21-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Covid: High Court puts Punjab, Chandigarh on notice over ‘grim’ situation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20Taking cognisance of the “grim” situation in the region following surge in Covid cases — including the non-availability of beds in the hospitals and “depleted” oxygen supply, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the state of Punjab and Chandigarh on notice after impleading the two as party-respondents in an ongoing petition on the pandemic management. The newly added respondents were given two days’ time to address the Bench on the issues after seeking instructions. The state of Haryana also undertook to file a status report on the requirement and supply of oxygen to the hospitals.As the case came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh, senior advocate and amicus curiae Rupinder Khosla contended there was a complete chaos due to the situation arising out of Covid-19 spread and the government guidelines were not being followed in the region. Beds were not available to those seeking admission to the hospitals and the supply of oxygen was “severely depleted”.Praying for impleading Chandigarh and Punjab as parties as the conditions were “equally grim” in the two states and the UT, he further submitted that the situation demanded the Court’s immediate attention.He also brought to the Court’s notice the “casual attitude of the general public even at a stage when spread of Covid-19 was reaching its peak”. The Bench was told that the public places were crowded and the government guidelines were not being followed. “The situation, to say the least, is alarming,” he added.Haryana Additional Advocate-General Ankur Mittal submitted appropriate steps were being taken, as submitted in an affidavit filed by Haryana Home Department Secretary Pankaj Yadav. At the same time, he did not dispute that something more was required to be done to bring the situation under control.He added that a state-level monitoring committee headed by the Haryana Health Minister had already been constituted to look into various issues, particularly timely supply of oxygen to the hospitals.He added daily requirement of oxygen, as on date, was 70/80 MT, while the production in the Haryana was 270 MT. The directions came on a petition filed against Haryana and other respondents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-high-court-puts-punjab-chandigarh-on-notice-over-grim-situation-241817
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||UT Administration imposes lockdown in Chandigarh on Wednesday; no lockdown in Panchkula||To prevent mass gatherings, the UT Administration has decided to impose lockdown on the occasion of Ram Navami on Wednesday. The decision was taken in a high-level meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore here this evening. The Punjab Government had already announced the lockdown in Mohali on Wednesday to prevent mass gatherings during the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the Panchkula administration has refused to impose a lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-administration-imposes-lockdown-in-chandigarh-on-wednesday-no-lockdown-in-panchkula-241730
21-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Incessant water woes cripple Raipur Khurd||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18Despite the fact the Municipal Corporation took over Raipur Khurd village over two years ago, low water supply has been a persistent problem.The water supply is low. A booster must be set up here and supply timings should be increased. After the village came under the civic body, things in all sectors have only deteriorated — Laxman Singh, Former SarpanchVillagers have demanded that a booster be set up in the village so that they can get relief from the problem. They said: “If water motor goes out of order, no one cares to repair it for days, which further aggravates our hardships.”Former sarpanch Laxman Singh said: “The water supply is low. A booster must be set up here and supply timings should be increased. After the village came under the civic body, things in all sectors have only deteriorated.”Besides, like other villages, sewerage and storm water system is overburdened and roads are in a dilapidated condition in the village.The houses outside the Lal Dora, which are not yet under the MC, are the worst hit as they often have to depend on water tankers. The supply is irregular and low.“We have been getting up at 4 or 5 am to fill our water buckets. In our area, water is unavailable after 7 am. Even when it is available, the pressure is very low,” lamented Suresh Kumari, who has been living in the village since 1996. Another resident Maniram shared: “We are managing with water tankers. It is a normal thing here.”This village is situated at the entry of the UT near the Zirakpur-Chandigarh barrier. “It should have been a role model as this is the first residential area of the city on this end. However, we have been subjected to step-motherly treatment for years,” said Baljit, another resident.Read also: Dry taps rile Raipur Khurd residentsSimilar story at Raipur Kalan, BehlanaThese two UT villages, which were also merged with the MC, have been struggling with worn out storm and sewerage water system and poor road condition. Gurdeep Singh, former sarpanch of Raipur Kalan, which falls near Baltana, said leave alone any new development work after theMC took over, even routine works such as cleaning of inner roads was not being done. Jit Singh, former Sarpanch of Behlana, said: “The MC formed committees for development of villages, but they have no idea about our issues. The panels are only a political thing. No work has started, but the MC has is charging commercial tax.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/incessant-water-woes-cripple-raipur-khurd-241028
