22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen situation okay, says UT advisor as Chandigarh sees record 634 cases in day||The oxygen supply situation in Chandigarh is okay, UT Advisor Manoj Parida said on Thursday.The oxygen generator plant has started functioning in GMSH-16 with 95 per cent purity at 4.5 bar pressure and 500 litre per minute capacity. Another functional at GMCH-32 with 1,000 litre per minute capacity, UT Advisor Manoj Parida said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh also reported a record single-day rise of 634 COVID-19 cases, taking the Union Territory’s tally to 36,404, a medical bulletin said.The city’s previous biggest single-day jump of 625 cases was recorded on April 18.Four more people succumbed to the contagious disease, pushing the death toll to 427, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in Chandigarh stands at 4,273, it said.It added that 482 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. With this, the number of cured persons has reached 31,704.So far, 3,74,392 samples have been taken for testing. Of these, 3,36,913 have tested negative, while reports of 55 are awaited, the bulletin stated. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oxygen-situation-okay-says-ut-advisor-as-chandigarh-sees-record-634-cases-in-day-242725
22-04-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula reports vaccine shortage, chaos at inoculation centres||The vaccination drive in the Panchkula district was affected on Thursday owing to a shortage of vaccines.Several vaccination centres, including Sector 20 Civil Dispensary and Civil Hospital, witnessed chaos with numerous citizens claiming that despite waiting for a long time, they did not get the jab.Health officials stated with the arrival of new stock from Kurukshetra, the vaccination centres will be functional on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-vaccine-shortage-chaos-at-inoculation-centres-242668
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Admn to decide on weekend lockdown in Chandigarh on Friday||A decision on continuing the weekend lockdown and imposing a longer lockdown during the week in Chandigarh will be taken by the administration in a war room meeting on Friday.The night curfew timing will continue to be 10 pm to 5 am, said Adviser Manoj Parida.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admn-to-decide-on-weekend-lockdown-in-chandigarh-on-friday-242667
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tocilizumab, Remdesivir no wonder drugs in reducing mortality: PGI Doctor||Amid a shortage of Tocilizumab and Remdesivir in Chandigarh, and patients' attendants running from pillar to post to procure these drugs, a PGI doctor dealing with covid patients requiring critical care has clarified that these have not been proven in reducing mortality.Prof GD Puri, Intensive Care, PGI said, "Remdesivir is an antiviral drug and it was the first drug to be approved by FDA USA for treatment of covid 19. Various studies have found that Remdesivir given in patients of moderate covid 19 disease (covid 19 patients developing hypoxia at room air), reduces the duration of hospitalization, only if started within first 8 days of symptom onset."He said, "It doesn't have any effect in reducing mortality. It is not effective in patients requiring high oxygen support or ventilation. So, if it has to be rationally used, use it within first 7 to 8 days, in patients developing room air hypoxia ( oxygen saturation < 94%).""Remdesivir is not likely to be beneficial after 10 days, in patients already on a ventilator. It is also not indicated in patients with raised liver enzymes (>5 times normal limit). It has the potential to worsen renal functions and may cause arrhythmia, so needs to be used with caution/ under monitoring," said Prof Puri.He warned: "There are very limited indications for using Remdesivir and a very narrow therapeutic window, so it should be judiciously used."The only medicine with a definite effect on reducing mortality in critically ill patients is steroids (dexamethasone), which is beneficial only when covid positive patients develop hypoxia at room air, said Puri.The use of steroids in patients not having room air hypoxia is associated with an increased risk of mortality. So steroids have to be used under medical supervision, judiciously, he said.There is an acute shortage of Tocilizumab in the country and the supply in Chandigarh has been interrupted till April 28.Prof Puri clarifies that in case Tocilizumab is not available, good supportive care, steroids and ventilation may be tried. Off label use of any other experimental agent should only be exercised under the trial setting. Only after obtaining permission from requisite authorities and informed consent from patients/relatives.Tocilizumab, is a strong immune system suppressant, and is indicated to control "cytokine storm" rapidly. Its use has to be guided by the clinical condition of the patient. Since it can increase the incidence of secondary bacterial infections in the patients, it should be used only after ruling out significant bacterial or fungal infections. Various studies have not shown any mortality benefit in critically ill patients, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tocilizumab-remdesivir-no-wonder-drugs-in-reducing-mortality-pgi-doctor-242611
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Three held on charge of theft in Chandigarh||Jewellery stolen from house in ChandigarhChandigarh: A theft was reported from a house in Sector 41. Complainant Atish Kumar said jewellery items were stolen from his house between April 16 and 20. A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSOne booked for serving hookahChandigarh: The UT police have booked Amar Singh, aka Sidhu, for serving hookah to customers at Hotel Whispering Oaks at Kishangarh village on April 20. A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 58 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against him at the IT Park police station. TNSCovid helpline no. launchedChandigarh: The city unit of the BJP on Wednesday launched a Covid helpline number to help the needy. City unit head Arun Sood said: “A helpline number — 8699999599 — was launched today. Those in Chandigarh who need help related availability of Covid beds, oxygen, medicine or food may contact on this number.” Sood also said the party leaders from the city were told to focus on their wards. “They were asked to focus on their respective wards and help people who are in need,” he said. TNSEntrance exam postponedMohali: The Common Entrance Examination (CEE) for Soldier General Duty which was scheduled for April 25 at the CG Complex, Ludhiana, has been postponed due to COVID-19 situation, informed Colonel Sajeev N, Director, Recruitment. The fresh dates for the exam will be intimated later, he said, adding that the candidates will be informed accordingly to collect fresh admit cards. The candidates may keep themselves updated with latest information through www.joinindianarmy.nic.in, he added. The CEE was to be held for the candidates hailing from districts of Ludhiana, Moga, Roopnagar and Mohali who were declared medically fit after the Army recruitment rally at AS College, Khanna, in December last year. TNSFive cheating cases registeredMohali: The police here have registered five cases of cheating against several persons. The accused allegedly cheated people on the pretext of providing jobs. As many as 33 complaints of cheating were received by the police in the past few days. An equal number of complaints have also been received by the cyber cell of the Mohali police. Cases have been registered against different accused in Phase-1, Mataur, Kharar city, Handesra and Dhakoli police stations, said the police. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “Strict action will be taken against those who are found guilty.” TNSCricket league postponedChandigarh: The inaugural Dinesh Verma Memorial U-19 Cricket League has been postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic, the organisers said here on Wednesday. A total of 12 teams had confirmed their entries for the tournament. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-on-charge-of-theft-in-chandigarh-242261
22-04-2021||The Department of English||Webinar on English language||Talk on pharmaceutical drugsAn online talk on ‘Instrumental Methods of Pharmaceutical Drugs Characterisation and Evaluation’ was conducted by Desh Bhagat University (DBU). Dr Manoj Kumar Gautam, assistant manager, Biocon Pharma Limited, Bangalore, interacted with the students. The objective of the lecture was to describe theoretical understanding, practical execution, and critical evaluation of pharmaceutical instrumental chemistry principles. Dr Gautam explained about drug analysis that reveals identification, characterisation, and determination of drugs in dosage forms, biological fluids and others. TNSDiscussion on startupsDesh Bhagat University in collaboration with Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India organised an online panel discussion on “The Approach Towards Developing Sustainable Startups and Its Opportunities in Indian Ecosystem”. The objective of the discussion was to bring perspective among youth towards adopting entrepreneurship as a career opportunity. Chancellor Dr Zora Singh said this type of collaboration would surely be beneficial for students and will help in developing an entrepreneurial ecosystem. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-english-language-242262
22-04-2021||---||ATM card snatched from girl in Dera Bassi, Rs 15,000 withdrawn||Dera Bassi, April 21Two youths reportedly snatched the ATM card of a 15-year-old girl at an ATM kiosk in the main market and withdrew Rs. 15,000 from her account.Simran, a resident of Gulabgarh, said the duo was already present in the kiosk and pretended to be withdrawing money when she entered it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-card-snatched-from-girl-in-dera-bassi-rs-15-000-withdrawn-242263
22-04-2021||---||Expect light rain for 2 days in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 21The Chandigarh Meteorological Department has issued a forecast for light rain two days.According to the department, it is expected to be a cloudy sky with thundery development/light rain on Thursday and Friday. On Saturday, the city is likely to see a clear sky.The city today recorded a maximum temperature of 30.7°C, five degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 17.4°C, three degrees below normal. The minimum and maximum temperatures were not expected to see a major change over the next three days, the weatherman said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-light-rain-for-2-days-in-chandigarh-242264
22-04-2021||Panchkula||BTech student jumps off building in Panchkula, dies||A 19-year-old first year engineering student allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the terrace of a seven-floor building in his housing society in Sector 20 early this morning.The victim has been identified as Suryansh Pathak, a resident of GHS-79, Sector 20.Sources said Suryansh took the extreme step suspecting that he had contracted the coronavirus infection. However, the police said the reason of the suicide was yet to be ascertained.No suicide note has been recovered, the police added.Suryansh’s parents had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 and are in home quarantine. A postmortem was carried out on the body at the Civil Hospital here and the body has been handed over to the family, the police said.The postmortem revealed that Suryansh also had contracted the infection.Inspector Dalip Kumar, SHO, Sector 20 police station, said a probe into the matter was on and it was too early to say that the boy ended his life due to Covid scare. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/btech-student-jumps-off-building-in-panchkula-dies-242265
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Protester rounded up, let off with warning||Today, as pro-farmer groups and civil society members took to Matka Chowk and protested against the farm laws, Satnam Singh Tanda of Nojawan Kisan Ekta was rounded up by the UT police. After an hour and a half, Tanda was let off with a warning.Satnam Singh Tanda, Member, Nojawan Kisan Ekta There were many people at the protest and cops targeted me alone. We had halted the protest on the weekend too, keeping the lockdown in mind, but on Wednesday, a few people turned up, including me.Tanda said: “There were many people at the protest and the police targeted me alone. We had halted the protest on the weekend too, keeping the lockdown in mind, but today, a few people turned up, including me.”He added: “We were all obeying Covid guidelines and staging a peaceful protest. I even distributed sanitisers and masks to the protesters who had come today.”The police post in-charge, Sub-Inspector Jaiveer Singh, said: “We took Satnam Singh from the protest site and asked him the reason for coming to the chowk. We have shown him the orders issued by the DC and taken an undertaking from him for complying with the orders in future, and let him off after a warning.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protester-rounded-up-let-off-with-warning-242267
22-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Public Accounts Committee pitches for special audit of Panchkula Municipal Corporation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21After a string of complaints against the functioning of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation (MC), the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the Haryana Legislative Assembly has requested the Principal Accountant General to conduct a special audit of the civic body.The PAC had received a complaint from BJP councillor of Ward No. 2 in Panchkula, Suresh Kumar Verma, against alleged corruption in the MC.On April 13, the PAC, under the chairmanship of MLA Harvinder Kalyan, decided to forward Verma’s complaint to the Principal Accountant General (Audit), Haryana. It requested that “a special audit” be got conducted thoroughly in six matters of “alleged embezzlement”, as enumerated in Verma’s complaint, “by constituting a team in a time-bound manner, preferably within a fortnight, and also submit a report to the committee at the earliest”.Verma, in his complaint, dated April 12, alleged corruption in the treatment of legacy waste at the dumping ground in Sector 23, Panchkula, purchase and the functioning of e-cart rickshaws, purchase and functioning of night sweeping machines, bio-methanation gas plant at Jatwar (Panchkula), allotment of temporary night shelters during the winter season and property tax and fire tax in the matter of Shalimar Mall, Sector 5, Panchkula.Talking to The Tribune, Verma said, “There is corruption in the treatment of legacy waste at the dumping ground in Sector 23. Close to Rs5 crore has been paid to the private agency. More waste has been shown as lifted from the dumping ground than the actual.”There is another complaint by a Panchkula resident regarding the quashing of a property and fire tax notice against Shalimar Mall, which was also forwarded to the PAC.A notice was issued to Shalimar Mall for the deposit of Rs4.26 crore property and fire tax in 2017. The firm approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which ordered it to deposit Rs1 crore and asked the authorities to decide its appeal. The appeal was lying with the Divisional Commissioner.The Divisional Commissioner asked the Commissioner to pass a speaking order in the matter.On March 30 this year, MC Commissioner RK Singh quashed the tax notice of Rs4.26 crore and ordered M/s Shalimar Pvt Ltd to give an affidavit on oath to provide the details of rented property and non-rented property in question to re-assess the tax by the MC. The Zonal Taxation Officer was asked to raise a fresh property tax bill after reassessment on or before March 31, which was complied too.Commissioner RK Singh said, “Nothing in the MC is hidden. Everything is open for all, even under the RTI or for audit. Anyway, an audit is already going on in the civic body.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/public-accounts-committee-pitches-for-special-audit-of-panchkula-municipal-corporation-242268
22-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation House to decide on tech for waste plant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21Ten months after taking over the city’s waste-processing plant from Jaypee Group, the Municipal Corporation House, which is scheduled to meet on April 28, will deliberate on which technology is to be adopted for processing garbage.As many as 13 companies had evinced interest in the project in January this year. But the MC is still taking presentations from the firms and preparing the agenda.Ravi Kant Sharma, MayorI will ensure that the machinery is set up and processing starts within three months. Terms and conditions regarding the tender will be decided later.The House will decide whether plasma, electricity or fuel-based technology is adopted for processing waste at the plant. “After deciding the technology, we will float a tender in this regard. Following which, an agency will be finalised,” MC Commissioner KK Yadav told Chandigarh Tribune.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said: “I will ensure that the machinery is set up and processing starts within three months. Terms and conditions regarding the tender will be decided later.”Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said: “A committee formed in this regard had taken presentations from all agencies and studied the whole concept. Following which, the proposal is being brought before the House.”The selected company will be upgrading, maintaining and running the city’s waste processing plant.Earlier, the bone of contention between Jaypee and the MC had been the low quantity of waste processing. According to the MC, while the city produced 470 tonne of waste daily, the plant processed only 120 tonne. The remaining garbage is thrown in the open dumping ground, leading to foul smell and health problems among the local residents.Though the MC staff are running the plant, residents are not much impressed with their work. “After the MC took over the plant, its staff are processing less garbage than what used to be processed earlier. The corporation should have made arrangements for hiring a new firm before taking over the plant from Jaypee,” said Dyal Krishan, president of the Dadu Majra Dumping Ground Joint Action Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-house-to-decide-on-tech-for-waste-plant-242269
22-04-2021||---||Gian Chand Gupta launches work to paint back walls of houses in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 21Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta launched painting work on back walls of houses along the sector-dividing roads and planting of grass alongside roads here today.Gupta called the work, launched from the Sector 8-17 dividing road, yet another step towards making Panchkula more clean, green and beautiful. The beautification work is likely to be completed within three months.SK Nayar, President, Citizens’ Welfare AssociationA waste of money, say residentsThe Municipal Corporation authorities should think wisely and spend public money on fulfilling the basic needs of people.He said during the Assembly and Municipal Corporation elections, he had promised people to make Panchkula more clean, green and beautiful.“Beautiful and lively colourful images would be drawn on the back walls of houses under the beautification work. An amount of Rs36.50 lakh would be incurred on this work. After cleaning the walls, images of beautiful flowers and those associated with the rich heritage of India would be drawn and painted on the walls,” he added.Gupta said in order to make the city clean and green, nine tenders of about Rs65 lakh had been allotted for different sectors in Panchkula to plant grass on the vacant spaces along the roads.“Ever since the people of Panchkula gave a clear mandate to the BJP in the civic body elections and all the councillors under the leadership of Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal are striving to make the town green and beautiful,” he said.However, the move did not go well with residents, who termed it wastage of money.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gian-chand-gupta-launches-work-to-paint-back-walls-of-houses-in-panchkula-242271
22-04-2021||---||Senior citizens irked over sealing of house in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 21Senior citizens of a micro-containment zone in Sector 51-B have expressed anger over their first floor house being sealed after members of families residing on the second floor tested positive for Covid-19.In an email to the UT Adviser, Narindra Khosla (78) has stated that he is a retired government servant and resides with his 74-year-old wife on the first floor (1257) of New Light Society, Sector 51-B, Chandigarh.Members of the family residing in house numbers 1258 and 1255 on the second floor were suffering from Covid for the past many days. About 9 am yesterday, a nodal officer came with his team and put up barricades on the stairs between the ground and the first floor instead of the second floor where the residents are actually sick.“As a result, even the garbage collector is unable to collect our kitchen waste etc,” he says, adding that even a few other houses in the society were having Covid patients, yet no measures have been taken to cordon off their flats.He requested the authorities to get the things set right at the earliest as they are feeling suffocated as if they were under house arrest without their fault or any reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senior-citizens-irked-over-sealing-of-house-in-chandigarh-242266
22-04-2021||---||Markets shut, traffic stays off road in Mohali||Mohali, April 21Markets wore a deserted look and there was minimal traffic on the roads as the police enforced lockdown in Mohali district today.Police pickets were set up in most parts of the town, especially commercial hubs, to curb unnecessary movement of people in public places.Most of the shops remained closed, except for those dealing in essential commodities. The bus service plied as usual but there were very few passengers.On the Kharar flyover, there was negligible traffic for most part of the day.The police largely persuaded the commuters to wear face masks but there were several instances where challans were issued to the non-conforming, argumentative individuals.The lockdown though did not deter the devotees from thronging various temples in the town on the occasion of Ram Navmi. Maa Durga temple in Sector 68 and a few other temples in Mohali had a sizable gathering. The police allowed the devotees to enter the temples in a queue with social distancing.Meanwhile, an FIR was registered against an immigration consultant in Phase-1 for keeping his office open.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “There were police pickets in most of the markets. Only those moving unnecessarily were challaned.”Two firm owners held for defying curfewMohali: The police arrested two owners of an immigration firm, Brilliant Consultants, situated in Phase 1 for flouting curfew norms this afternoon. The suspects have been identified as Karmjit Singh Sandhu of Phase-1 and Pradeep Singh of Daun. Phase 1 SHO Shivdeep Singh Brar said: “An FIR under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered against both persons.” In Baltana, a mobile shop owner, Mahesh Kumar, was booked for violating Covid norms yesterday. Two vegetable vendors were also booked in Dhakoli. The Dera Bassi police booked 25 persons for violating the norms. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/markets-shut-traffic-stays-off-road-in-mohali-242270
22-04-2021||---||Remdesivir trade: Suspect tests +ve for Covid||Chandigarh, April 21One of the suspects arrested by the UT police in a case of illegal dealing in remdesivir, a Covid 19 treatment drug, has tested positive for the virus.The suspect, Philip Jacob, tested positive for Covid at the GMSH-16. Jacob, who is presently on police remand, has been hospitalised.The tests of other suspects will be conducted tomorrow.The police had arrested six persons, including Gaurav Chawla, director of a pharmaceutical company named Health Biotech Limited in Baddi, for illegally dealing in remdesivir.The police had recovered 3,000 remdesivir vials from the company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remdesivir-trade-suspect-tests-ve-for-covid-242273
22-04-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Positive in RAT, negative in RT-PCR test||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, April 21At least four persons today tested negative in the RT-PCR test after returning positive in the rapid antigen test conducted by the Health Department in the Sushma Elite Cross housing society on April 19.Among the four, who returned negative in a RT-PCR test, is a six-year-old boy. The residents said they wanted to confirm the rapid test and therefore gave samples at a private laboratory in Panchkula for the RTPCR test. Today, four of them returned positive. "More results are expected tomorrow and the residents here are in a fix which test result to believe," said a resident, on the condition of anonymity. The residents have apprised the RWA of the society about the latest results.As many as 22 residents of Shree Devaji housing society in Kishanpura locality of Dhakoli tested positive, taking the count to 65. Today, 286 samples were taken by teams of the Health Department. Yesterday, 43 samples, of 171, returned positive. The housing society is now one of the biggest cluster (65) of cases returning positive in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/positive-in-rat-negative-in-rt-pcr-test-242276
22-04-2021||---||Celebrations in Chandigarh remain low key||Chandigarh, April 21Forced to stay indoors due to one-day lockdown imposed by the authorities in view of the increasing Covid-19 cases, the city residents today restricted the Ram Navami celebrations to their homes.The low-key celebrations started early morning with ‘kanyaa puja’, a Hindu ritual carried out on the eighth and ninth day of the Navratri festival.The ceremony primarily involves the worship of nine girls, representing the nine forms of Goddess Durga.“This year, we aren’t going to the temple, but performing kanya pooja here at home. We performed the pooja outdoors, keeping social distancing in mind,” said Manju, a Burail resident.Anandini Singh, a resident of Sector 15, said, “We skipped the celebrations and observed only the fast. The cases are on a rise and we can’t take any risk at this stage. So, praying at home was the only option.”The city wore a deserted look and the usual festivities were missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/celebrations-in-chandigarh-remain-low-key-242277
22-04-2021||---||Chandigarh demands 30 ventilators from Centre||Chandigarh, April 21Apprehending a shortage of ventilators in view of the Covid surge, the UT Administration has sought 30 units from the Central Government. These ventilators will be provided to the GMCH, Sector 32, and the PGI for treating Covid patients.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said the two hospitals had sent their requirements for ventilators and the same had been communicated to the ministry. There are less than 100 ventilators in Chandigarh and as the cases are rising, a majority of these are already occupied.Of the 53 ICU beds available at the PGI, 52 are occupied while the total Covid bed occupancy is 69 per cent. The institute today added 17 beds to the Covid hospital, making it a 300-bed facility.At the GMCH, only nine ICU beds, including ventilators, are vacant of the total 31. A total of 475 ICU beds at the South Campus, Sector 48, are full and four of the six ventilators at the GMSH, Sector 16, are occupied.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-demands-30-ventilators-from-centre-242274
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 deaths, 622 positive in Chandigarh||3 deaths, 209 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported three coronavirus deaths, taking the toll to 175. An 82-year-old man from Sector 16, an 81-year-old woman from Sector 7 and a 70-year-old man from Sector 25 succumbed to the disease. Two of them had no known comorbidities. The district also logged 209 fresh cases. TNSSix deaths, 754 cases in MohaliMohali: Six persons succumbed to Covid-19 while 754 contracted the virus in the district on Wednesday. As many as 308 patients have been cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. With six fresh deaths, the toll reached 517. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-622-positive-in-chandigarh-242275
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 2.03-lakh fine collected from violators in Chandigarh||The UT police collected a fine of Rs 2.03 lakh for violation of Covid norms today.The police said 255 challans were issued for violating social distancing, 80 for spitting at a public place and 30 for not wearing a mask. Four persons were arrested for violations.A bride on her way to the wedding venue was challaned for not wearing a mask. Sources said her car stopped at the red light and cops noticed her sans a mask and issued a challan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-2-03-lakh-fine-collected-from-violators-in-chandigarh-242272
22-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Second wave: Covid patients see rapid fall in oxygen level||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21With a massive second wave of Covid-19 sweeping through the city, it has been observed that the oxygen level drops faster in patients once the saturation falls below 94 per cent.Chandigarh Tribune spoke to Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, PGI, who explained the relation between blood oxygen level and Covid-19, and spoke about how to use the six-minute walk test for early detection.Prof GD Puri, Head, Intensive Care, PGI In the first surge of Covid, usually the pattern was that the saturation used to fall slowly in the initial phase even when a patient used to have saturation below 95 per cent. However, in the current surge, it has been seen that the fall is rapid once the saturation drops below 94 per cent.Professor Puri said, “In the first surge of Covid, usually the pattern was that the saturation used to fall slowly in the initial phase even when a patient used to have saturation below 95 per cent. However, in the current surge, it has been seen that the fall is rapid once the saturation drops below 94 per cent.”“In the present surge, we have seen patients’ saturation dropping from 94 per cent to 88 per cent within a few hours. This may be an indication of the cytokine storm, which the Covid virus elicits in the patients’ lungs and body,” said Professor Puri.“Another difference we have found is that the recovery of such patients in whom the intervention is done at the right time is very quick. One of the reasons may be that these young individuals without any comorbid condition have better reserves and better healing power and timely intervention is helpful,” he said.“Covid lung damage can result in decrease in the saturation as measured by the pulse oximeter. Normal individuals have 97-99 per cent saturation. Any decrease in the saturation is an indirect ‘reflectance’ of lung damage. If such patients can be detected early and the management started quickly, associated complications can be minimised and long-term outcome can be improved,” said Professor Puri.Why is SpO2 (blood oxygen) importantIt is now well-known that the Covid-19 virus affects the lungs adversely, which in turn can lead to decrease in partial pressure of oxygen in the blood. Reduction in blood oxygen (SpO2) can lead to more complications and hence tracking this level can be an early indicator of potentially serious implications.Why pulse oximeterSix-minute walk test||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-wave-covid-patients-see-rapid-fall-in-oxygen-level-242247
22-04-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to review weekend lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated that lockdown should be the last resort for state governments, the UT Administration decided to review the implementation of the weekend lockdown in the city.“The weekend lockdown will be reviewed at a meeting soon. However, no final decision has been taken on imposing a seven-day lockdown in the city,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.Manoj Parida, UT AdviserThe weekend lockdown will be reviewed at a meeting soon. However, no final decision has been taken on imposing a seven-day lockdown in the city.Meanwhile, markets wore a deserted look as the one-day lockdown threw life out of gear in the city today.To prevent religious gatherings, the UT Administration had yesterday decided to impose a complete lockdown in the city on the occasion of Ram Navami today. All non- essential activities were prohibited during the lockdown. Sukhna Lake and other parks also remained out of bounds.Most markets in the city, including those in Sector 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23 and 24, and malls remained closed. Essential commodity shops and vendors dealing in food, groceries, fruits and vegetable, dairy and milk booths, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment remained opened for home delivery. However, a few shopkeepers in Burail tried to open their shops of non-essential supplies, but the police forced them to pull down the shutters.Being a holiday, all government and private offices also remained closed. Due to restrictions, there was thin traffic on the roads.The Administration had exempted certain categories of people who need to go out during the curfew for necessary services and activities like vaccination, as all vaccination centres, testing centres, dispensaries and medical facilities remained open during the lockdown.The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) operated skeletal bus service on local routes. Most of the buses ran with a few passengers. Nearly 70 buses were operated by depot number 1 and 72 by depot number 2 on both long and local routes, while nearly 50 buses ran on local routes from depot numbers 3 and 4.In view of sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration yesterday extended the timings of the night curfew by two hours. The new timings now are from 8 pm to 5 am.Traders’ meet todayThe Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has decided to hold a meeting on Thursday to decide on steps to be taken to stop further lockdowns in the city. Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said they had demanded an urgent meeting with the UT Administrator in this regard. He said small and medium traders were still to recover the losses suffered during the previous lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-review-weekend-lockdown-242259
