23-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||No more weekend lockdown in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration said on Friday it is revising its night curfew timings and doing away with the weekend lockdown announced last week. The decision was taken at a review meeting that UT administrator VP Singh Badnore chaired. Night restrictions will be enforced from 9 pm to 5 am, a press release from the administration said.Sukhna Lake will remain closed over weekends. Museums, libraries, spas, and such public places will remain closed. Hostels and residential educational institutions have been asked to ensure that only students whose stay is unavoidable are allowed to remain. Heads of such institutions must ensure those that remain are tested.  Estate Office, Sub-Registrar Office & RLA Office, where several infections were detected will be closed until April 30.Industries could continue with night shifts only after ensuring COVID protocols are safely in place. Managements of establishments found in breach will be held responsible.Police been ordered to intensity patrols and have been asked to ensure COVID-protocols are followed strictly in crowded places like markets, malls, bus stands, and the railway station. Traders have been openly critical of the administration's decision to announce a weekend lockdown. Hours after these decisions were announced, a health bulletin from the administration said that the union territory reported 828 new infections in the last 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-more-weekend-lockdown-in-chandigarh-243086
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||14-yr-old girl ends her life in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-yr-old-girl-ends-her-life-in-chandigarh-242932
23-04-2021||Mohali||Man held for molesting minor in Kharar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-molesting-minor-in-kharar-242931
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tri-webinar concludes||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tri-webinar-concludes-242930
23-04-2021||Mohali||Ex-cop held by Mohali police with sedatives||The Mohali police today claimed to have arrested a former Punjab Police constable from Lalru for possessing 23,100 tablets of a sedative.The suspect has been identified as Baldev Singh, resident of Behramput Bet in Chamkaur Sahib, Ropar.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said a police team led by Lalru SHO Inspector Sukhbir Singh held Baldev Singh at a bus stop.The SSP said during the search, the police found 23,100 tablets of lomotil in Baldev’s bag. A case under Section 22/61/85 NDPS Act has been registered against the Baldev Singh at Lalru police station.During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he worked as a vegetable vendor and had acquired the tablets from a medical store in Baroli village on Meerut road in Uttar Pradesh, said the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-cop-held-by-mohali-police-with-sedatives-242929
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||NGO ArriveSafe for reducing revised speed limits in Chandigarh||Harman Singh Sidhu, president of NGO ArriveSafe, has written to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, seeking reduction in the maximum permissible speed limits in Chandigarh that were increased recently. Sidhu said: “We agree that simplification of speed limits was required, but this never meant the limits should be increased as it may lead to accidents.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngo-arrivesafe-for-reducing-revised-speed-limits-in-chandigarh-242928
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||‘0001’ goes for Rs 13.18L||The much sought-after fancy registration number ‘0001’ of the CH01-CE series was sold for record Rs13.18 lakh during an e-auction of fancy registration numbers conducted by the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA). Hartinder Singh, a farmer and a businessman, bought the number for his Land Cruiser SUV.Number “CH01-CE-0009” received the second highest bidding price of Rs5.75 lakh. It was followed by “CH01-CE-0002”, which was auctioned for Rs3.31 lakh. Fancy numbers 0003 went for Rs2.11 lakh, 0004 for Rs1.58 lakh, 0005 for Rs2.71 lakh, 0006 for Rs1.72 lakh, 0007 for Rs3.85 lakh, 0008 for Rs2.60 lakh and 0010 for Rs1.03 lakh.The RLA earned a total revenue of Rs1,15,72,000 from the e-auction of the fancy numbers of the new series, CH01-CE, along with the re-auction of leftover numbers of the previous series CH01-CD, CH01CC, CH01CB, CH01CA, CH01BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS held today.Pradhuman Singh, Registering and Licensing Officer, said: “This is the first time the revenue has crossed one-crore mark in an auction.”The successful bidders will be required to get their vehicles registered as well as deposit the bidding amount within one month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10 per cent as well as interest at the rate of 10 per cent on the balance amount will be charged till the date of payment. The result of the auction has been put on the RLA website and the successful bidders will also be informed through SMS and e-mail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/0001-goes-for-rs-13-18l-242927
23-04-2021||---||Physical voting for 6 fellows||Chandigarh, April 22Despite a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, Panjab University has decided to hold physical voting for election of six ordinary fellows to the Senate.The elections will be held on April 26 at five venues on the university campus. However, the compulsory formal meeting of the respective faculties will be held online.“In order to comply with the Covid-19 guidelines, it has been decided that the formal meeting of the respective faculties to be held on April 26, which has been scheduled for single agenda (election of six ordinary fellows to the senate), shall now be held online,” the PU stated in a release today.“The login details will be issued separately. The online meeting shall be followed by physical voting at the respective venues as has already been notified,” it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/physical-voting-for-6-fellows-242926
23-04-2021||---||Chandigarh MC serves Rs 7.5-cr tax notice on PU||Chandigarh, April 22The Municipal Corporation here has issued a fresh Rs7.5-crore property tax notice to the Panjab University.Earlier, Rs13.61-crore notice was issued to the university. However, after reconciliation, the fresh notice has been issued.“Some of the buildings and shops in the market area have been excluded. The owners concerned will be issued separate notices to clear their dues. Thus, the amount for the PU came down,” said an MC official.The tax branch of the MC had earlier asked the university to pay the amount within 15 days at any Sampark Centre of the city, failing which, action to recover the dues had to be initiated under Section 138 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, as extended to the UT without any further notice.Following the notice, the PU and MC officials worked out details and the revised notice was issued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-serves-rs-7-5-cr-tax-notice-on-pu-242925
23-04-2021||Mohali||Chandigarh airport donates 5 ambulances to government hospitals||Under its corporate social responsibility activity, Chandigarh International Airport has handed over five fully equipped ambulances worth about Rs65 lakh to government hospitals in Punjab and Haryana.The airport spokesperson said five ambulances include three Force Trax Cruisers and two Force Travellers. These ambulances had been donated to government hospitals in Moga, Mohali, Ferozpur in Punjab, Nuh (Mewat) and Ambala in Haryana.He said more than 200 people were vaccinated during a two-day vaccination camp organised at the airport on April 20 and 21 with the help of the District Health Department, Mohali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-airport-donates-5-ambulances-to-government-hospitals-242924
23-04-2021||---||29 micro-containment zones in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration has declared 29 more micro-containment zones in the city.District Magistrate (DM) Mandip Singh Brar said the outbreak of Covid-19 was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as containment zones in the city.Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted. Residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.The micro-containment zones are located in parts of Sectors 7, 20, 21, 27, 28, 32, 33, 34, 35-A, 36-B, 37-A, 39-C, 40-D, 42-B, 44, 45-C, 46, 49 (Ashirwad Enclave and RCS Society), Mauli Jagran, Vikash Nagar, Old Indira Colony, Mani Majra, Pipli Wala Town and Modern Housing Complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/29-micro-containment-zones-in-chandigarh-242920
23-04-2021||Mohali||FIRs against 45 for violation of Covid guidelines in Mohali district||The Mohali police have registered 45 FIRs against violators of the Covid-19 guidelines in the district during the past 24 hours.Divulging details, Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh said FIRs had been registered against 17 shops, three dhaba and one restaurant owner. Besides, FIRs had been registered against 24 persons for violation of lockdown guidelines on Wednesday.Singh said the district police issued 677 challans for not wearing face mask during the same period. He made an appeal to the general public to follow the Covid-19 guidelines to protect themselves and their families from the pandemic.“The SAS Nagar police are there to serve the people. We all can overcome this pandemic with the support, commitment and cooperation of people,” said the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firs-against-45-for-violation-of-covid-guidelines-in-mohali-district-242917
23-04-2021||---||Traders oppose lockdown, to hold protests in Chandigarh today||Chandigarh, April 22Senior functionaries of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) have decided to hold a series of protests against the lockdown policy of the UT Administration.When and whereCharanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said a meeting of the Beopar Mandal was held today in the Sector 21 market over adverse impact of recent lockdowns in markets enforced by the government and likely announcement of more of such lockdown on weekends in near future. It was decided to hold a series of protests tomorrow in the markets of Sector 46, Sector 45 and Sector 17 from noon to 1 pm and in Sector 23 from 1 pm to 2 pm against the lockdown policy.He said a protest against the lockdown policy was held in the Sector 21 market today after the meeting.He said traders expressed unhappiness over such abrupt lockdowns without taking into confidence the stakeholders, which are predominantly traders of the city.He said the step should only had been taken after some survey or data justifying such move and that also after keeping the trader bodies such as the CBM as part of the proceedings finalising such lockdowns.He said trader leaders were of the view that the lockdown imposed last year had crippled the economy and small and medium traders were the worst-hit section of society. Hence, any repetition of such situation would be drastic for the trading community.It was demanded that compensation in form of reduction in property tax, electricity, water charges, parking fee, lease money, rentals and extending liberal loans and subsidies, etc., must be announced by the government to support this revenue and employment-generating section of society.Later, Charanjiv Singh, along with some prominent office-bearers of the CBM, protested against the lockdown as part of the Lockdown Virodhi Morcha at the Sector 17 Plaza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-oppose-lockdown-to-hold-protests-in-chandigarh-today-242913
23-04-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula to add 105 more oxygen beds||The Panchkula Health Department has decided to add over 100 oxygen beds to tackle the prevailing Covid-19 situation.“Healthcare system has come under immense pressure with the second wave raging the district. So, we have decided to add 105 more oxygen beds at the Civil Hospital and three private hospitals to tide over the situation,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur.The Health Department has decided to increase home isolation teams from 16 to 25 by roping in AYUSH officials. The number of vehicles to ferry Covid patients has also been increased. The Civil Surgeon said in view of the rapid increase in active caseload, facilities at Covid care centres were also being spruced up.Scary positivity rate“The positivity rate of the district was around 30 per cent today. We didn’t expect it to be this bad. If this trend goes on, we will soon be struggling to cater to the critical care needs of the population,” said Dr Kaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-to-add-105-more-oxygen-beds-242910
23-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Monitoring oxygen availability, no reason to panic: Mohali DC||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 22Concerned over the message being circulated on the social media by a Mohali-based company, the district administration on Thursday said it was an old message as the company was not extending or supporting any supply of free oxygen to home isolated patients.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they took up the issue with Hitech Industries Limited, Mohali, and the company had informed that it was an old message. The company, as of now, was not extending or supporting any supply of oxygen to patients in home isolation.Dayalan stated this after a review meeting held here today to assess the Covid surge management in the district. He said effective measures were afoot for prevention, treatment and mitigation of second surge of Covid-19. Refuting the need for oxygen cylinders for patients in home Isolation, he said self- medication was not recommended. If fall in oxygen level was observed, the patient must be hospitalised without any delay. Moreover, home supply of oxygen cylinders might lead to hoarding of cylinders.Dayalan said: “We are constantly monitoring the availability of oxygen in each hospital having dedicated Covid care blocks/beds. As of now, there was sufficient oxygen available with each hospital for Covid and non-Covid patients”.He said some hospitals flagged the need for portable cylinders for patients to be taken for scanning/tests, which had been successfully resolved. He reassured people that there was no reason to panic as requirement and utilisation of every litre of medical oxygen gas in the district was being closely monitored.He said several private hospitals in the district had dedicated 50 to 75 per cent of their health infrastructure to Covid care whereby they require additional manpower to cope up with the pressure of increased number of beds for Covid patients. He said this calls for support from nursing students who could work, learn and earn by rendering services to these hospitals. So, all nursing students desirous of assisting in Covid care might, through the head of their institution, covey their consent to the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monitoring-oxygen-availability-no-reason-to-panic-mohali-dc-242906
23-04-2021||---||Chandigarh: GMCH-32 starts virtual interaction of Covid-19 patients with family||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has taken an initiative to arrange daily virtual interaction of Covid patients (through video call) with their family members and relatives.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) and in-charge, Covid management at the GMCH-32, said: “The intention is to bring down the possible stress level of patients admitted to the hospital because they may feel better after interacting with their families or relatives. Tablets/smart phones have been arranged and the facility has already been introduced for patients at the Sector 48 hospital.”Video interaction with patients in home isolationIn another initiative, the GMCH, with the assistance of the CHB, has started video interaction with Covid patients in home isolation within the jurisdiction of South Zone and some part of the East Zone.Video calling facility at 7657977814-815Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board and in-charge, Covid management at the GMCH-32, said patients in home isolation could avoid unnecessary travel to the GMCH-32. They could interact with doctors through video calling at phone numbers 7657977814-815.Similar facility would be started for the patients admitted to the Sector 32 hospital also from tomorrow, he said, and clarified that the existing system of daily briefing to attendants/relatives of the Covid patients admitted to the hospital would continue without any change between 11 am and 1 pm.Appreciating the initiative, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore also desired to ensure regular checking of food being provided to the patients to maintain its quality and also to have variation in food items.In another initiative, the GMCH-32, with the assistance of the CHB, has started video interaction with Covid patients in home isolation within the jurisdiction of South Zone and some part of the East Zone.He said the video interaction was held with patients from Sector 32 to 46, Sector 49 to 63, Attawa, Kajheri, Burail, Palsora, Badheri, Shahpur, Buterala, Dadu Majra and Maloya in the South Zone and Sector 48, Grain Market and Nizampur in the East Zone.“Interaction of doctors with patients in home isolation will reduce the possible anxiety level and will also provide a sense of security,” Garg said.He said patients in home isolation could avoid unnecessary travel to the GMCH-32. They could interact with doctors through video calling at phone numbers 7657977814-815.Meanwhile, UT Adviser Manoj Parida has desired that to ensure the availability of required medicines and supportive staff, advance actions are needed to take care of the possible delays in supply chain.“The stock of required medicines for Covid-related issues is being monitored and advance supply orders are being placed for sufficient quantity. A screening committee has also been constituted to be ready with a waitlist of qualified/suitable support, which can be deployed with a brief in-house training,” he said.Garg said: “There are sufficient arrangements in Level-1, Level-2 and Level-3 facilities with sufficient availability of oxygen and required medicines. Patients are being discharged and also being shifted from one level facility to another based on the requirement and the prescribed protocol.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gmch-32-starts-virtual-interaction-of-covid-19-patients-with-family-242903
23-04-2021||---||Covid: Mohali hospital goofs up, hands over wrong body to family||Mohali, April 22In a bizarre incident, a private hospital here handed over a wrong body to a family whose patient had died due to Covid-19.The incident came to light after the family members of the deceased, Kulwant Rai Aggarwal, reached Shalby Hospital in Phase 9 to receive the body. At the mortuary, the family members insisted on seeing the face of the body. They were left shocked on finding that the body was of someone else.The family members raised the alarm following which the hospital authorities admitted their mistake and revealed that Aggarwal’s body had been taken by a family from Balongi.Inquiry into the caseThe Mohali district administration has ordered an inquiry into the case. In a press release, the district administration stated that a serious view of the case had been taken. The hospital admitted to their fault and it was done due to excessive rush of Covid-19 patients. There was a lot of pressure on health institutions. However, hospitals needed to be more vigilant so that such mistakes do not occur again and hurt the feelings of people, stated the release.Rajesh Garg, nephew of the deceased, said, “When we complained to the hospital authorities, they expressed their helplessness. We then clicked the pictures of the body shown to us and rushed to the cremation ground where the Balongi family had taken the body. We showed them the pictures and they immediately recognised it. We then performed the last rites even as my uncle’s body had already been consigned to the flames.”Garg said the other family would now visit the hospital tomorrow to take the body of their relative.The district administration has ordered an inquiry into the case.Garg, meanwhile, said his uncle lived in Rourkela and had come to Panipat to see his mother.“He was admitted to a hospital there after contracting the virus. However, the facilities were not up to the mark at the Panipat hospital and we brought him here,” Garg said.The family has lodged a complaint against Shalby Hospital at the Phase 8 police station.Abhinav Srivastava, chief administrative officer, Shalby Hospital, said two persons died due to Covid on the same day and the bodies were kept in the mortuary. Srivastava said one of the families visited the hospital today, identified the body and took it for cremation. But when the other family came to get their body, they informed that it was not their patient.The district administration, in a press release, stated that a serious view of the case had been taken. The hospital admitted to their fault and it was done due to excessive rush of Covid-19 patients. There was a lot of pressure on health institutions due to the surge in Covid cases. However, hospitals needed to be more vigilant so that such mistakes do not occur again and hurt the feelings of people, it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-mohali-hospital-goofs-up-hands-over-wrong-body-to-family-242895
23-04-2021||---||PCR vehicle vandalised at Mauli Jagran||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22Unknown persons threw stones at a PCR vehicle at Mauli Jagran after they were questioned by the police over roaming outside during the lockdown on Wednesday.According to the police, Constable Shiv Kumar of the PCR wing reported that he, along with Home Guards volunteer Ravinder, was on patrolling duty when they saw five persons standing at Mauli Jagran village.They questioned the suspects following which they threw stones at the PCR vehicle and escaped from the spot. The rear windscreen of the vehicle was broken during the incident.The police have registered a case under Sections 332, 353 and 188 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act at the Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pcr-vehicle-vandalised-at-mauli-jagran-242876
23-04-2021||---||Tocilizumab, remdesivir no wonder drugs in reducing mortality: Expert||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22Amid a shortage of tocilizumab and remdesivir in Chandigarh, and patients’ attendants running from pillar to post to procure these drugs, a PGI doctor dealing with Covid patients requiring critical care has clarified that both these have not been proven to reduce mortality.Prof GD Puri, Head, Intensive Care, PGI, said, “Remdesivir is an antiviral drug and it was the first drug to be approved by the FDA, USA, for the treatment of Covid-19. Various studies have found that remdesivir given to patients with moderate disease (Covid patients developing hypoxia at room air), reduces the duration of hospitalisation, only if started within the first eight days of symptom onset.”He said, “It doesn’t have any effect in reducing mortality. It is not effective in patients requiring high oxygen support or ventilation. So, if it has to be rationally used, use it within the first seven or eight days in patients developing room air hypoxia (oxygen saturation less than 94 per cent).”“Remdesivir is not likely to be beneficial after 10 days, in patients are already on ventilator. It is also not recommended for patients with raised liver enzymes (greater than five times the normal limit). It has a potential to worsen renal functions and may cause arrhythmia, so it needs to be used with caution/under monitoring,” said Professor Puri.He warned: “There are very limited indications for using remdesivir and a very narrow therapeutic window, so it should be used judiciously.”Professor Puri said the only medicine with a definite effect on reducing mortality in critically ill patients was steroid (dexamethasone), which was beneficial only when Covid positive patients developed hypoxia at room air.The use of steroids in patients not having room air hypoxia was associated with increased risk of mortality. So steroids have to be used under medical supervision, judiciously, he said. There is an acute shortage of tocilizumab in the country and the supply in Chandigarh has been interrupted till April 28.Professor Puri said in case tocilizumab was not available, good supportive care, steroids and ventilation could be tried. Off-label use of any other experimental agent should only be exercised under trial setting only after obtaining permission from the requisite authorities and informed consent from patients/relatives.Tocilizumab is a strong immune system suppressant and is indicated to control “cytokine storm” rapidly. Its use has to be guided by clinical condition of the patient. Since it can increase the incidence of secondary bacterial infections in patients, it should be used only after ruling out significant bacterial or fungal infections. Various studies have not shown any mortality benefit in critically ill patients, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tocilizumab-remdesivir-no-wonder-drugs-in-reducing-mortality-expert-242868
23-04-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula worry grows, 23 die in 22 days due to Covid-19||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 22Since the beginning of April, Covid-19 deaths in the district have started increasing again. On an average, one death is being reported each day this month. In 22 days, 23 deaths have been reported.The death rate is still relatively on the lower side compared to the previous wave.As many as 66 deaths were reported in September last year during the first wave.However, the high mortality rate in the recent days has set alarm bells ringing for the local Health Department with 13 deaths reported in the past five days.Of the 13 deceased, seven had no known comorbidities.The Health Department, while terming it a cause for concern, attributed most deaths to reporting late for seeking medical help.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, had recently advised Covid patients in home isolation to timely check their oxygen level.“Most of the deaths are happening due to a delay in reporting at hospitals. With 2,000 plus active cases, the health authorities may not pick up warning signs early. If home-quarantined patients experience a fall in the oxygen level, they should seek medical help immediately and get themselves hospitalised, if needed, before it gets too late,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-worry-grows-23-die-in-22-days-due-to-covid-19-242867
23-04-2021||Mohali||At 931, biggest spike in Mohali||The district has witnessed its highest spike in Covid cases in a single day with 931 persons testing positive for the virus during the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, 748 more patients have got better of the disease while seven succumbed to it till Thursday evening. Among the new cases, 350 were reported from Mohali (urban), 16 from Lalru, 21 from Boothgarh, 39 from Gharuan, 40 from Kurali, 65 from Dera Bassi, 190 from Kharar and 210 from Dhakoli. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-931-biggest-spike-in-mohali-242866
23-04-2021||Panchkula||With 459 cases, Panchkula district sees another high||With 459 fresh Covid cases, the district on Thursday recorded its highest one-day jump since the inception of the pandemic. While the active caseload stands at 2,493, the overall tally has reached 18,032. The district also witnessed two Covid deaths. Those who died were a 75-year-old woman from Billa and a 45-year-old man from Pinjore. The death toll is now 177. As many as 15,362 patients have recovered from the disease so far. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-459-cases-panchkula-district-sees-another-high-242865
23-04-2021||Amit Bathla||In Panchkula, jab shortage hits vaccination campaign||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 22The vaccination drive in the district was affected owing to shortage of vaccines today.Several vaccination centres, including the Sector 20 Civil Dispensary, saw chaos with several citizens claiming that despite waiting for a long time, they did not get the jab. These centres subsequently had to be closed early.Vinod Sarin, a local resident who came to take the vaccine at the Civil Hospital, said, “I have been waiting for almost 45 minutes. Officials have told us that new stock will arrive in an hour or so.” At the same centre, Basanti, an elderly woman had to go through the same ordeal. After waiting for over 45 minutes, she said, “We have no clue when the vaccine will arrive.”A doctor at the Sector 20 dispensary said they had to shut the centre by 12.30 pm due to the shortage of vaccine.The issue is prevalent in the whole district as conveyed by senior officials, she said, adding that she had been told that new stock would arrive from Kurukshetra soon.According to the Health Department, as many as 2,443 eligible people were vaccinated today. Over 1.25 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine have been administered in the district so far.District Immunisation Officer Dr Meenu Sasan said they ran out of the vaccine stock due to the delay in arrival of their shipment. “The stock available in the field was distributed among beneficiaries till it lasted. The vaccine distribution will normalise tomorrow,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-panchkula-jab-shortage-hits-vaccination-campaign-242864
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh slow on HCW vaccine coverage||Even though the country is gearing up to vaccinate all above 18 years of age from May 1, the UT has so far vaccinated only 59 per cent of its health workers (HCWs), much less than the national average of 87.17 per cent.Among the 11 states and UTs with less than 75 per cent coverage of the registered health care workers, the UT stood at the second spot only after Nagaland (as of April 22).Of 31,741 targeted health workers, only 18,662 have been vaccinated.The UT Health Department stated that it was because of vaccine hesitancy. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “The registered HCWs were increased by private hospitals and that is why there is a low turnout. We have decided to follow up on the left-out HCWs.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-slow-on-hcw-vaccine-coverage-242862
23-04-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Up PGI Covid bed capacity to 500,  ICU  to100, Centre urged||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22In the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has sought immediate intervention of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for apt utilisation of the infrastructure of the PGI.In a letter to Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that the Covid cases in the city were increasing at an alarming rate. “As of now, we have 4,273 active cases, and the number of positive cases reported daily is to the tune of over 600. While we are trying to tackle the crisis by enhancing the capacity of the GMSH-16 and the GMCH-32, yet the help of the PGI is urgently required,” he wrote.Decision on lockdown todayParida sought directions to the PGI authorities to enhance the capacity of their Covid beds to at least 500, as they have nearly 2,000 beds, and dedicate at least 100 ICU beds to Covid patients.Although the PGI was initially made a Covid-dedicated hospital for the UT, the hospital shares the burden of patients of other states too.As of now, the PGI has a total of 283 Covid beds, 230 non-ICU oxygen beds and 53 ICU beds (including ventilators).For successful implementation of the Covid management plan of the UT Administration, the PGI might be directed to coordinate with the Principal Secretary, Health, UT, Parida stated.As the Covid-19 cases are spiralling in the city, Covid beds reserved in both private and government facilities are getting exhausted rapidly. Chandigarh has a total of 648 Covid beds and 99 ICU beds. Of the total beds, more than 80 per cent are occupied by Covid patients. There are less than 100 ventilators and as the cases are rising in the city, a majority of these are in use. Record 634 cases, four deaths in cityChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported 634 fresh coronavirus cases, the highest single-day surge since the pandemic broke out, taking the UT tally to 36,404. The city also saw four Covid deaths. Those who died included a 40-year-old man from Sector 30, a 52-year-old woman from Sector 51, a 70-year-old man from Mani Majra and a 62-year-old man from Sector 26. So far, 427 people have died of Covid. A total of 482 more patients have been cured of the disease, taking the cumulative recoveries to 31,704. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/up-pgi-covid-bed-capacity-to-500-icu-to100-centre-urged-242860
23-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Adequate oxygen supply for 10 days, Chandigarh Administration tells HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22Amid the rising number of Covid cases in the city, the UT Administration today told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that the government hospitals had adequate oxygen supply for the next nine or 10 days.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that the government hospitals in Sector 16 and Sector 48, besides the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, had got pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generators installed. Jain also told the Bench that the generators would be operational by this evening. PSA generators separate oxygen from compressed air, consisting of approximately 21 per cent oxygen.PSA oxygen generators installedAppearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that the government hospitals in Sector 16 and Sector 48, besides the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, had got pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generators installed. Available information suggests the generators will go a long way in augmenting the oxygen supply to patients. The PSA generation plant installed at the Sector 32 hospital, with the help of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, is expected to suffice at least 50 per cent of the total oxygen demand. It is expected to generate 1,000 LPM per day.Available information suggests the plant will provide round-the-clock oxygen supply and will help meet the oxygen demand in the hospital during the pandemic. It will also reduce the number of oxygen cylinders. The plant will generate oxygen from air and it will be delivered to patients through the medical gas pipeline system.The High Court, on the previous date of hearing, had made the UT Administration a party in the ongoing case on pandemic management. The Bench had put the Administration on notice after taking cognisance of the “grim” situation in the region following a surge in Covid cases, including the non-availability of beds in hospitals and “depleted” oxygen supply.Estate Office closed todayChandigarh: Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer Mandip Singh Brar has ordered that the UT Estate Office will be closed on April 23 as its 10-12 officials and employees have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days. A few employees have been quarantined due to positive cases in their families. Brar said however, the staff involved in urgent matter and court cases could attend the office for their work. He also gave directions to sanitise the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adequate-oxygen-supply-for-10-days-chandigarh-administration-tells-hc-242854
