25-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Avoid shops that don't say their staff is tested, vaccinated against COVID: Parida||Avoid shops that do not display a signboard stating their staff was tested/vaccinated against COVID-19, said Advisor Manoj Parida in Chandigarh on Sunday.The city recorded 711 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the active case count to 4,902. With three more deaths, the toll has reached 433. The UT has so far seen 37,943 cases. A total of 428 more patients have defeated the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-shops-that-dont-say-their-staff-is-tested-vaccinated-against-covid-parida-243996
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||One held with 100-gm charas||40-year-old Man ends his lifeZirakpur: A 40-year-old married man hanged himself to death at his home in Lohgarh on Friday night. The deceased has been identified as Rohit Kumar, who used to work in a pharmacy and lost his job recently. The police said he had opened a coaching centre on the VIP Road but it was closed some time ago. As a result, Rohit was in financial distress. The father of a three-year old-child, he hanged himself from a fan in his room in an inebriated condition. No suicide note was found on him, the police said. TNSTwo girls go missing in cityChandigarh: The assistant warden of Women Hostel, Sector 24, reported that a girl, aged around 16 years, had been missing from the hostel premises since April 23. In another case, a Mauli Jagran resident reported that his daughter, aged around 17 years, had been missing from the house since April 22. Cases have been registered. TNSCycle stolen from houseChandigarh: Satish Kumar, a resident of Sector 30, reported that an unknown person stole his bicycle from his house on April 23. A case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered. TNSTwo books launchedChandigarh: To mark World Book Day and Copyright Day, the Panjab University Alumni Association (PUAA) organised an online event for launching two books — ‘12 Sweet & Sour Years in China’ and ‘Destiny of an Alien Life’ authored by PU alumni Alok Joshi and Dr Jadab Sharma, respectively. Highlighting the importance of World Book Day and Copyright Day, Prof Anupama Sharma, dean of alumni relations, said in the times of the pandemic, books had proven to be powerful tools to combat isolation, reinforce ties among people and expand their horizons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-held-with-100-gm-charas-243927
25-04-2021||---||Adequate Covid beds, oxygen supply, says Panchkula ADC||Panchkula, April 24Amid a shortage of beds at hospitals due to the increasing number of Covid patients, Panchkula Additional Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Imran Raza assured people that there was no need to panic as the situation was completely under control.He said the district had adequate Covid beds and oxygen supply.He urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing a mask and following social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus.He said strict action would be taken against those violating the Covid rules.Raza said directions had been issued to private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of all beds for Covid patients referred by the Civil Hospital.“Incident commanders have been told to ensure surveillance in their areas to curb the spread of the infectious disease,” he said.Chandigarh Tribune had recently highlighted 100 per cent occupancy of ICU beds in all four Covid-dedicated hospitals in the district. ‘Wear face mask to prevent the spread’Panchkula Additional Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Imran Raza urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing a face mask and following social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adequate-covid-beds-oxygen-supply-says-panchkula-adc-243645
25-04-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh adopts three-pronged strategy to deal with Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24The UT Administration has adopted a three-pronged strategy to check the rapid spread of coronavirus in the city. With 711 new Covid cases, the UT now has a total of 4,902 active cases.“We have adopted three steps — testing, isolation (micro-containment zone) and vaccination — so as to fully overcome the pandemic in the city,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.For timely identification of infected persons, they had intensified testing, and apart from testing at the government hospitals and private laboratories, mobile testing teams were also pressed into service which visited different locations of the city every day, he said. So far 3,82,125 samples had been tested in the city, of a total population of nearly 12 lakh.To prevent the further spread of the virus, their emphasis was immediate isolation of the infected person, he said. They were carefully demarcating containment zones at a micro level for isolation of infected persons. So far, 136 micro-containment zones have been declared in different areas of the city.So far, the vaccine has been administered to 1,71,118 people, including 49,476 first dose recipients in the age group of 45-60 and 2,507 second dose recipients in the same group.As the authorities yesterday decided not to impose the weekend lockdown, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore specifically directed the authorities to focus on crowded areas such as markets, malls, railway stations, ISBT etc, where Covid protocol needs to be strictly followed, and challan defaulters. So far, nearly 62,000 persons have been challaned by the executive magistrates for not following the Covid appropriate behaviour in the city.The Administrator had appealed to the public representatives, councillors, market associations and resident welfare associations to persuade people to wear masks and to get themselves vaccinated.‘VAX only solution’“Vaccine is the only everlasting solution to stop the transmission of the virus. We received 1 lakh doses of the vaccine from the Government of India for Chandigarh on Saturday,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.3 deaths, 711 +ve in UTChandigarh: The city recorded 711 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the active case count to 4,902. With three more deaths, the toll has reached 433. The UT has so far seen 37,943 cases. A total of 428 more patients have defeated the virus. TNS11 deaths in MohaliMohali: With 11 deaths, the district hit the highest single-day Covid-19 death count since the outbreak of the pandemic, taking the total number of deaths to 540. Meanwhile, 802 fresh cases surfaced in the district and 351 were cured. TNS252 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 252 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the active caseload to 2,648. Three ITBP personnel and an equal number of healthcare workers were among those found positive. The Covid toll remained 180 with no fresh death. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adopts-three-pronged-strategy-to-deal-with-covid-243646
25-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Tricity Private hospitals gasping for oxygen||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24Private hospitals of the city and adjoining areas are gasping for oxygen as there is a spurt in the number of critical Covid patients.Dr Hardeep Santokh of Santokh Hospital, Sector 38, said: “The oxygen suppliers/vendors have raised the price of medical oxygen from Rs225 per cylinder to Rs300 and they want to again increase the rate to Rs500. It was difficult coping with the prevailing oxygen shortage. Prior to Covid, we used from 15 to 20 cylinders a day. Now, our demand has gone up to 40-50 cylinders a day. At present, we have 12 hours of supply. Next delivery is expected by 9 pm.”Hospital tells kin to shift patientMy cousin has been admitted to Amcare at Zirakpur for the past eight days. She requires oxygen round the clock but now, the hospital authorities have told us to shift the patient to another hospital as it cannot supply oxygen for 24 hours. —Khurram Khan, Kin of a Covid patientDr RS Bedi, a member of the Indian Medical Association, Chandigarh, said: “As the Covid peak is likely to come by mid-May, the oxygen requirement is going to increase manifold. We need to be prepared to augment our resources. A central agency/committee should monitor and regulate the procurement, requirement and distribution of oxygen to determine the place of need and to prevent hoarding and overpricing.”He said: “Many private hospitals are purchasing oxygen from agencies, but these are already under stress with regard to supplies. The supply is being made on a day-to-day basis. They are asking one another for oxygen, and wherever there are some extra cylinders available, they are picking them up. But it is an acute problem and likely to increase rapidly.”“By night or tomorrow morning, the cylinders at private hospitals will be refilled with the help of bottling plants located in Punjab. Oxygen has been provided to the plants and it will be allocated to hospitals through cylinders as per the requirement,” said Arun Gupta, Principal Health Secretary, UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-private-hospitals-gasping-for-oxygen-243647
25-04-2021||---||Poll for six Fellows postponed||Chandigarh, April 24Panjab University has rescheduled the date for the elections for the six posts of ordinary Fellow from various faculties from April 26 to May 19.The timings of meetings of the faculties would be intimated through meeting notices, said Vikram Nayyar, Officiating Registrar, PU.“Given the number of members in each faculty, it was difficult to conduct physical meetings of the faculties (which is a mandatory component of election) in the wake of restrictions imposed on physical gatherings by the UT Administration. It was decided to hold the formal meetings of the faculties in an online mode and accordingly, a notice of the revised timing/mode of meetings and election of faculties was scheduled for April 26,” said Nayyar.He said: “The office received representations from some of the members of faculties to postpone the elections as they expressed their inability to participate in the election process due to recent surge in Covid-19 cases throughout the country. After seeking a legal opinion on the issue to avoid any complication at a later stage, the competent authority rescheduled the polling schedule to May 19.”The office received representations from some of the members of faculties to postpone the elections as they expressed their inability to participate in the election process due to recent surge in Covid-19 cases throughout the country. After seeking a legal opinion on the issue to avoid any complication at a later stage, the competent authority rescheduled the polling schedule to May 19. —Vikram Nayyar, Officiating Registrar, PUAccording to the information, there are 53 voters listed in law faculties, 112 in arts, 94 in languages, 137 science, 87 social science and 272 combined.What about Senate elections?“Since the faculty elections have been rescheduled, will the elections dates of various teachers’ constituencies, scheduled for next month, also be rescheduled? Will the elections to graduates constituency rescheduled?” said Dr Mohammed Khalid, former Fellow and Syndic.In another jolt to candidates, the Director Higher Education (DHE), Himachal Pradesh, has withdrawn the previous orders regarding conducting the Senate elections. In a circular, the DHE stated: “This is in continuation to this office letter of dated April 12, 2021, and to inform that the same has been withdrawn with immediate effect due to the massive spread of Covid-19.”Murderers of democracy succeed, says Goyal groupMeanwhile, keen on conducting the Senate elections, members of the Goyal group issued a statement and alleged that the murderers of democracy have succeeded in scuttling the elections. “In complete defiance of the court orders and with no respect for the law of the land, they have stopped postponed the elections,” read a statement issued by Keshav Malhotra, Navdeep Goyal , Ronki Ram, Anu Chatrath, Rajesh Gill and Ashok Goyal. Manoj Lubana, president candidate of the Youth Congress, Chandigarh, also condemned the rescheduling of elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-for-six-fellows-postponed-243763
25-04-2021||Mohali||Over 7,500 industrial workers jabbed in Mohali||More than 7,500 industrial workers of various industrial units in Mohali district have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine during camps organised by the Mohali Industries Association (MIA). MIA president Yogesh Sagar said regular camps were being organised at the MIA Bhawan and on the industry premises here to enable factory workers to get the jab free of cost. The camps were being organised in association with staff from the General Hospital, Mohali. The MIA president said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan also visited the MIA Bhawan on Friday and appreciated the work being done by the association. The Deputy Commissioner also suggested arranging the data entry staff so that the target of 500 vaccinations per day could be achieved on the MIA complex. Rajeev Gupta, general secretary, Mohali Industries Association, said vaccination camps were part of the CSR activity being done by the MIA and they would continue their service towards the community and society with the help of the district administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-7-500-industrial-workers-jabbed-in-mohali-243765
25-04-2021||Mohali||Two booked for cheating, forgery||The police have booked two Mohali residents for cheating, forgery and criminal breach of trust in a case related to property dispute involving crores.The suspects have been identified as Sukhchain Singh and Hoshiar Singh, co-partners in M/s Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Enterprise, a real estate firm in Sector 91. A case under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC was registered on April 23, said Balongi police in-charge Bhagwant Singh.Complainant Sushil Dhara, a resident of Sector 48, Chandigarh, alleged that the duo entered into a partnership with him for real estate business in October 2015.“During our partnership, I arranged an investment of around Rs9 crore in the firm through my own capital contribution and from various investors. In October 2019, the duo opened a bank account in the name of the firm without my authorisation and removed my name as a partner in the balance sheets and the ITR to show them as sole owners. They sold the property and diverted funds of the firm, denying me 1/3 share of business profit of the firm,” the complainant alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-for-cheating-forgery-243766
25-04-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Not delivering plot for 8 years costs builder dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24Not delivering a plot in a housing project for over eight years has cost a builder dear. Holding the delay as deficiency in service, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed the builder not only to refund the booking amount of Rs2.60 lakh to a consumer but also pay Rs25,000 as compensation on account of mental agony and litigation cost.While pronouncing the order, the Commission said the consumer could not be made to wait for an indefinite period and the builder, who is not in a position to deliver the possession of the unit as promised, has no right to retain the hard-earned money of the complainant.Jyoti Bhatia, a resident of Sector 38, approached the commission through counsel Gurjot Singh Sadhrao after the builder, BCL Homes Limited, failed to deliver the plot for over eight years.Bhatia said she booked a 200 square yard plot on August 8, 2011, in the project Chinar city on the Patiala road, Zirakpur, @ Rs13,000 per sq yd after paying a sum of Rs2.60 lakh as booking amount.She repeatedly approached the builder regarding the construction of the project and allotment thereafter, but to no avail. Later, it came to her knowledge that no formal approval has been obtained by the builder to carry out the construction at the relevant place. In June 2019, she requested the builder to refund the money. However, the builder refused to refund the money and offered her an investment in other projects.Alleging that the aforesaid act on part of the opposite party (builder) amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, she filed a complaint with the commission. No one from the opposite party (builder) appeared before the commission despite notices.After hearing the arguments, the Commission found the builder guilty and noted that non-appearance of the builder also shows that they had nothing to say in their defence against the allegations made by the complainant. The Commission directed the builder to refund Rs2.60 lakh to the complainant, along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of deposit till its realisation. The Commission also directed the builder to pay Rs15,000 as compensation on account of mental tension and physical harassment and Rs10,000 as litigation expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-delivering-plot-for-8-years-costs-builder-dear-243767
25-04-2021||---||Residents write to Haryana CM against decision||Panchkula, April 24Residents of Sector 25 here have written to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar against the local civic authorities’ decision to dump garbage at the Jhuriwala site, which is just a few metres from the residential area.“We protest the directions issued by Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta to the civic body for dumping the garbage of the entire city at the Jhuriwala site,” said BR Mehta, senior vice-president of a citizen committee.He said it would contaminate the groundwater in the surrounding areas.“Adverse impact of heaps of garbage at dumping ground in Sector 23 is before all of us. It has made the groundwater from all tube wells in the vicinity unfit for human consumption,” Mehta said.He urged the authorities to shift the proposed solid waste management plant from Jhuriwala to a place which is distant from the residential population of the trans-Ghaggar sectors. He warned if their demands were not taken into consideration, they would launch a protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-write-to-haryana-cm-against-decision-243768
25-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali dist witnesses 24.71% Covid deaths in past 24 days||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 24The district has witnessed 24.71 per cent increase in the Covid death count during the first three weeks of April. On March 31, the district toll stood at 433, which has swelled to 540.On an average, the district has reported an average five deaths per day in April as 107 persons have succumbed to the virus in the past 24 days. In the month of March, 48 deaths due to Covid took place in the district.Mohali also witnessed 53.48 per cent increase in the number of cases this month. From, 26,693 cases on March 31, the tally has shot up to 40,969. There was a 152.57 per cent increase in active cases. The number of active cases now stands at 8,042 against 3,184 on March 31.The recovery rate in the district has improved from 76.93 per cent to 79.05 per cent in the same period.A random survey of the markets in the city and other places of the district revealed that people still ventured out of their homes without wearing a mask, exposing themselves to the deadly virus.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the sudden spurt in Covid cases in the district was due to the increased testing. She said a large number of cases were coming from the rural areas of the district. She said people should not take the second wave lightly and wear a mask while moving out of their houses. She urged people above the age of 45 to get themselves vaccinated. She said the vaccine was being administered at 58 government and 40 private hospitals in the district.It is pertinent to mention here that the district administration had already doubled the penalty from Rs500 to Rs1000 for not wearing a mask and spitting in public places. Any violation also invites criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dist-witnesses-24-71-covid-deaths-in-past-24-days-243769
25-04-2021||Mohali||‘Government misleading people on wheat procurement’||The Punjab Government, led by Capt Amarinder Singh, has been misleading people of the state by presenting incorrect figures on procurement and payment of wheat, said Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Senior Vice-President Prem Singh Chandumajra.He submitted a memorandum to the Punjab Governor through the Deputy Commissioner today. Chandumajra said due to the negligence of the government, the procurement of wheat in the state was delayed by 10 days. He said the government, instead of mitigating the problems of the farmers, was shifting its responsibility on the commission agents. He said the government should compensate farmers for the lesser yield due to unseasonal rains. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/government-misleading-people-on-wheat-procurement-243773
25-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC committee recommends ownership rights for 48 vendors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24Around 48 licencees of a shed market in Sector 23 may get the ownership rights of their respective sheds. A committee of the Municipal Corporation, comprising three councillors and officers, has approved ownership rights for these licencees.The committee was formed with the approval of the MC House to resolve the issue of monthly fee slapped on these vendors. Now, the agenda will be tabled at the House meeting scheduled for April 28 for approval. If accorded approval, the matter will go to the UT Administration for the final nod.“The panel has recommended to give them the ownership of the sheds. Like the shed markets in Sectors 22, 42 and others, ownership should also be given to them. They are poor people, some are selling fruits, “gol gappas” or running stitching stalls. Keeping in view their welfare, I have been taking up the issue,” said committee member and area councillor Sunita Dhawan.According to the BJP councillor, the vendors have been sitting here since 1960s. In 1971, the administration had constructed booths for them. Of a total of 78 vendors, 30 had got ownership rights then.The licencees at present have been paying Rs14 per month as rent. But recently, the MC issued an order to charge about Rs20,000, including the GST, from them.They raised the issue with the area councillor who then took up the matter at a House meeting. The officers told her that the rent was as per the present market value and these vendors are earning enough to pay it.But, the coucillors were of the view that the rent should be nominal. After the House failed to reach a consensus, the panel was ordered to be formed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-committee-recommends-ownership-rights-for-48-vendors-243797
25-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Rift in city Cong? Ex-chief floats front||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24A former president of the city Congress, Pradeep Chhabra, who recently floated a “non-political” Chandigarh Progressive Front, and the party seem to be treading different paths, hinting at a major rift in the party.Yesterday, the city unit of the party held a virtual party meeting without inviting Chhabra. The latter, along with his supporters, had held a major event on the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar in Ram Darbar recently. The Congress had organised various Ambedkar Jyanti programmes in different parts of the city and Chhabra was not present in any of these.The ex-president of the city Congress has also been sharing day-to-day messages under the banner of his newly formed front. Such a front was earlier formed by former MPHarmohan Dhawan, who later left the BJP and contested the last parliamentary elections from the city on the AAP ticket.‘Had no choice’I have formed a non-political front only to raise city issues and for social works. I had to form it as I was not being invited to the party’s events in the city. —Pradeep Chhabra, Former President, City Congress“If things do not improve between Chhabra and the city Congress, the former may independently fight the next MC elections to be held at the end of this year,” said a source close to him.However, Chhabra, ex-Mayor, said, “I am a Congressman and will remain so in future as well. I have formed a non-political front only to raise city issues and for social works. I had to form it as I was not being invited to the party’s events in the city.What is my fault? I even attended the swearing-in ceremony of my successor.”His close associate and Congress general secretary Sandeep Bhardwaj today criticised the move of not inviting Chhabra and him to a party meeting yesterday. “I have been in the Congress for 36 years, but was not invited to the meeting. Even a previous party president was not invited. Let the time come, we will seek answers.”City Congress president Subhash Chawla said, “We are calling all leaders through a common group and no personal invitation is sent to anyone. Only in yesterday’s virtual meeting, he (Chhabra) was not invited as only 25 people were called due to Covid.” He added, “No office-bearer of the Chandigarh Congress has been appointed yet. Only four spokespersons, block presidents and the Leader of Opposition have been appointed.”Central Congress leadership had declared former Mayor Chawla the new head of the party’s city unit on February 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rift-in-city-cong-ex-chief-floats-front-243808
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two succumb in hit-&-run cases||Two persons died in separate incidents of hit-and-run in the city.A woman from Zirakpur, one of the victims, has been identified as Krishna Devi.In his complaint to the police, her husband Rajveer stated that the driver of an unknown vehicle sped away after hitting his scooter near Sector 17 on April 23.The woman, who was riding pillion on the bike, sustained injuries and was admitted to the PGI, where she died during the treatment. A case under Sections 279, 337 and 304A of the IPC has been registered.In another hit-and-run case, a motorcyclist was injured after an unknown driver of a pickup truck sped away after hitting the bike on the road separating Sector 39 and Sector 38 (West) on April 22.The motorcyclist got injured and was admitted to the GMSH-16. On a complaint of Constable Sant Lal, a case under Sections 279 and 337 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-succumb-in-hit-run-cases-243825
