26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Professional associations should set up COVID centres for its members: Manoj Parida||Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida on Monday said to reduce pressure on government infrastructure, groups and associations like those of advocates, architects, CAs, traders, PSU should set up small covid care centres in the city.The centres, with 10 or more beds for the members of the various associations, would be run under the supervision of available health workers from private or government hospitals."Our city should be dotted with such mini centres that provide bed, food, and care up to oxygen level. Our community centres are available. Some bhawans can be used. Philanthropists can fund a few of these, meant for the poor only," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/professional-associations-should-set-up-covid-centres-for-its-members-manoj-parida-244442
26-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Supplier flags oxygen diversion from Patiala||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25In view of a huge shortage of medical oxygen in the tricity, a Chandigarh oxygen trading unit has expressed its inability to meet the ever-increasing demand for oxygen by hospitals due to the diversion of oxygen from Patiala.An attendant, who was in dire need of an ICU bed in Chandigarh for her 63-year-old relative, critically ill due to Covid, said he was admitted to Indus Hospital, Mohali, but the hospital staff told them that the oxygen reserve would be over anytime and, if possible, they should make alternative arrangements.Dr Manbir Singh from Kare Partners, Sector 19, said, “Our hospital requires more than 40 cylinders a day and we are able to manage only 10, which runs for over two hours only. Each oxygen cylinder is exhausted in less than 30 minutes. Due to heavy shortage, we are trying to source it from multiple vendors. No help has been provided yet by the higher authorities.”A written communication sent from Chandigarh Gases, Industrial Area, a trading unit involved in procuring medical gases from the principal manufacturer based in Patiala, says, “…in order to meet the increased demand, we are also in the process of procuring it from other sources. However, all suppliers are now overstretched and the maximum supply of Jalan Gases (our main principal manufacture) has been diverted to Patiala district, as directed by the local administration there.”According to a note sent to all hospitals, the delivery vehicles containing oxygen supply are being escorted by the police and diverted to their own district first. “To meet the situation, we have also approached other suppliers, but they are also overstretched and can’t refill our cylinders. In this situation, it is not possible for us to procure oxygen to meet the increased demand of hospitals. We have also informed the local administration in writing, but haven’t received any response or solution,” it stated.The oxygen supplier has requested them to take up the matter with the authorities, otherwise it would be difficult to meet the future requirements of the hospitals. “If the situation doesn’t change, you are also requested to look for a second source simultaneously; we will not be liable for any loss to human life because of non-supply of medical gases,” the note reads.The written communication was sent to 13 private hospitals in the tricity, including Santokh Hospital, Landmark Hospital, Cloud 9 Care, Healing Hospital, Kare Partners, Shalby Hospital, Chaitanya Hospital, Bedi Hospital, Trinity Hospital, Raffels Hospital, Eden and Surgical Hospital.Practice uncalled for, says Patiala DCSuch a practice of interrupting oxygen supply was uncalled for and he would get it checked at local level, said Patiala DC Kumar AmitWill take up matter, says UT adviserAdviser to the UT Administrator Manoj Parida said he would take up the matter if the “concerns were found authentic”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/supplier-flags-oxygen-diversion-from-patiala-244189
26-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Water supply, sewerage woes haunt residents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25Even after Daria and Makhan Majra villages were merged into the Municipal Corporation more than two years ago, the basic problem of poor water supply continues to haunt the residents of these villages.As per residents of Daria, situated in front of the Chandigarh railway station, around half of the village area is facing a shortage of water supply. The houses near the gas agency here are affected the most.“Water supply is irregular and very low. We get water for half an hour and can fill a few buckets. The situation has worsened in the past four-five months. The MC should either start another tubewell or set up one more booster,” said Ajay Pandey, former member of Pachayat Samiti.Ashish Ghaznavi, a local resident and Youth Congress leader, shared, “More tubewells are needed to be opened as people often have to call water tankers. After the corporation took over, things have only deteriorated here. Garbage can be seen dumped in open areas. Street lights are not working.”Another local resident, Sumit, said, “Every week, there is a sewer line leakage and we have to bear with foul smell. Inner streets are not cleaned. We thought the MC will crack down on encroachments by some residents outside their gates, but it is disappointing to see nothing being done in this regard. Encroachments block the way of vehicles.”The residents hoped the things may improve after the MC elections, which are scheduled in the year-end. They feel since panchayat system is abolished at present, they have none to air their grievances. But once a councillor is elected, they will have some voice to raise their issues.Meanwhile, the neighbouring Makhan Majra also has mainly water and sewerage issues. Surmukh Singh, former member of Panchayat Samiti, rued, “Sewerage is very old and pipelines often get blocked. Water pressure is low and sometimes supply is muddy. Even after the corporation took over the village, roads here have not been recarpeted.”MC officials said they had recently received funds from the UT Administration and tenders for various works were being allotted to different villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-sewerage-woes-haunt-residents-244190
26-04-2021||Sandeep Rana||Pan-city 24X7 water supply: Project cost up, to impact residents, Chandigarh MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25With the cost of the pan-city 24X7 water supply project increasing, residents and the Municipal Corporation will have to shell out more.The project cost has increased from Rs440 crore to Rs591.59 crore. Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) will contribute an already committed Rs60 crore while the MC will now have to pay Rs22 crore.“About Rs97 crore will be a grant from the European Union. The remaining amount (about Rs412 crore) will come as a loan from a French firm, Agence Française de Développement (AFD),” said NP Sharma, General Manager, CSCL.It means that not only the civic body, but residents too will have to pay more.The Rs440 crore project cost was approved in the MC House meeting on November 26, 2019. Of this, an estimated Rs380 crore was passed as a loan from a French firm while Rs60 crore was to be paid by the CSCL.The Rs380-crore loan was approved to be paid by the consumers through increased monthly water tariff to be effective from 2027 onwards. The loan repayment tenure was fixed at 15 years with a six-year moratorium.But with the loan amount going up from Rs380 crore to Rs412 crore, the residents will also have to pay more in the form of monthly water tariff from 2027 onwards. The agenda regarding the whole issue is being brought in the MC House meeting on April 28 for information and approval.It will be a big blow to the city residents after a three-fold water tariff hike implemented last year.“It is a fraud. They are only wasting the public money.There is no need for such service, which burns a hole in the common man’s pocket. Only pipelines need to be changed,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC, an umbrella body of city RWAs.Sharma, however, claimed that the residents will not have to bear any extra burden. He said the project cost increased due to the revised estimates of water pipelines, water treatment, the Kajauli waterworks and taxes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pan-city-24x7-water-supply-project-cost-up-to-impact-residents-chandigarh-mc-244192
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Student organisations, pro-farmer groups protest at Sector 17 Plaza||Today, student and youth organisations, along with pro-farmer group Naujawan Kisan Ekta, staged a protest at the Sector 17 Plaza against the government’s ban on 16 mass organisations fighting for the people. Aman from Naujuan Ekta Manch talked about how Indian state is handing over people’s resources to imperialist and sending people to jail under draconian UAPA and its similar variants in states.From SFS, a student organisation in Panjab University, Sandeep spoke against the fascist attack on all democratic voices. Aman from PSU (L) emphasised that all exploited sections must unite to resist fascist onslaught on the working people. Advocate RS Bains said the ruling dispensation is dividing people on religious lines so as to oppress and expedite exploitation of toiling masses.Satnam Tanda and Kirpal Singh from Naujawan Kisan Ekta also expressed their anguish against the ban. Speakers also urged to release all political prisoners.The Telangana government has banned 16 organisations, including Telangana Praja Front (TPF), Telangana Asanghatitha Karmika Samkhya (TAKS), Telangana Vidyarthi Vedika (TVV), Democratic Student Union (DSU), Telangana Vidyarthi Sangham (TVS), Adivasi Students Union (ASU), Committee for Release of Political Prisoners (CRPP), Telangana Raithanga Samithi, Tudum Debba (TD), Praja Kala Mandali (PKM), Telangana Democratic Front (TDF), Forum Against Hindu Fascism Offensive (FAHFO), Civil Liberties Committee (CLC), Amarula Bandhu Mithrula Sangham (ABMS), Chaitanya Mahila Sangham (CMS) and Revolutionary Writers Association (RWA).The government declared these organisations as unlawful alleging that these were frontal bodies of the CPI (Maoist). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/student-organisations-pro-farmer-groups-protest-at-sector-17-plaza-244194
26-04-2021||---||Chitkara makes it to top 10 universities||Chandigarh, April 25Chitkara University has been ranked among the top 10 Indian universities in the Times Higher Education (THE) impact rankings-2021 for achieving individual sustainable development goals (SDGs). The university was ranked 401 to 600 among world’s 1,115 institutions from 94 countries.Besides, the university has been ranked among the top 100 globally in the “affordable and clean energy” category of the SDG and attained 301+ ranking in the “partnership for the goals” category among 1,154 participating institutions.“The university has always strived to provide knowledge and learning-centric platform to students, a work-friendly and progressive environment to faculty and an inspirational platform for society, with an intent to nurture the future and make this nation proud,” said Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University.Under the impact rankings 2021, universities were assessed across 17 different parameters listed as the sustainable development goals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-makes-it-to-top-10-universities-244195
26-04-2021||andigarh||Exhibition of string instruments concludes at Sec 34 gurdwara||The Gurmat Sangeet Department, Punjabi University, Patiala, organised a week-long exhibition of traditional string instruments at the Sector 34 gurdwara, which concluded here today.Kanwaljit Singh, in-charge, Gurmat Sangeet Department, said, “Instruments such as ‘rabab’ introduced by Guru Nanak Dev, ‘saranda’ adopted by Guru Amar Das and Guru Arjan Dev, ‘taus’ introduced by Guru Hargobind, and ‘dilruba’, ‘israj’, ‘tanpura’ and ‘jodi’ were on display.”Rajesh Mohan, head, Music Department, Government College, Faridkot, said string instruments symbolised the true spirit of the Hindustani music. Tejwant Singh, secretary, Gurudwara Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib Parbandhak Committee, said, “Devotees showed curiosity, enthusiasm and reverence for these instruments.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/exhibition-of-string-instruments-concludes-at-sec-34-gurdwara-244196
26-04-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula district on the brink, all oxygen beds now occupied||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 25All oxygen beds at hospitals in the district were occupied by this evening, pushing the healthcare system to the brink. All 332 oxygen beds at four Covid-dedicated hospitals - Civil Hospital, Ojas Hospital, Paras Hospital and Alchemist Hospital - are occupied.All 50 ICU beds, including 20 with ventilator support, were already full.CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur confirmed the development. Terming the situation extremely serious, she said they were struggling to tackle the heavy inflow of infected patients into the hospitals.She said they were sprucing up the facilities at BRS Dental College in Barwala, a Covid care centre, to deal with the prevailing situation.It came on a day when District Magistrate Mukul Kumar ordered all public and private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of general beds and 70 per cent of ICU/ventilator beds for treatment of Covid patients.However, time and again, the district administration has refuted reports of bed crunch in district hospitals.On Saturday, Additional Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Imran Raza had said that Covid situation in the district was under control and there was no need to panic. ICU beds already fullAll 50 ICU beds, including 20 with ventilator support, are already full.Staff shortage at Civil HospitalThe Civil Hospital is also reeling under staff shortage. A senior doctor at the Civil Hospital, on condition of anonymity, said: “With the addition of more Covid beds, it is getting tough for the staff to attend to the patients. There are lesser number of non-Covid patients.” “A maximum of 126 Covid patients were admitted to the Civil Hospital in the first wave. The number is almost double now,” another doctor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-district-on-the-brink-all-oxygen-beds-now-occupied-244197
26-04-2021||---||Private diagnostic centres can’t charge more than Rs 2K for scan: Mohali DC||Mohali, April 25Taking a serious view of overcharging by private diagnostic centres in the district for chest CT scan, the Mohali administration has issued orders that no private diagnostic centre will charge more than Rs2,000 inclusive of taxes for CT scan/HRCT chest.According to information, the administration had been receiving complaints from people about overcharging by diagnostic centres for CT scan.The scan is done generally to determine the extent of infection in Covid patients.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the state government, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (Covid-19 Regulations - 2020), had issued orders that no private diagnostic centre would charge any amount more than Rs2,000 for CT scan/HRCT chest, inclusive of GST/taxes, documentation and reporting in the state.Dayalan said all diagnostic centres in the district should adhere to the orders. All private diagnostic centres conducting chest CT scan must share their data with the district Civil Surgeon. The centres should not declare any Covid positive or negative report on the basis of the chest CT scan without confirmation from the Covid-19 testing lab.The Deputy Commissioner said every diagnostic centre must submit weekly report of CT scan/HRCT chest to the Civil Surgeon. As per the instructions of the state government, diagnostic centres must display scanning rates in a visible manner.‘Share data with district Civil Surgeon’Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said all diagnostic centres in the district should adhere to the orders. All private diagnostic centres conducting chest CT scan must share their data with the district Civil Surgeon. The centres should not declare any Covid positive or negative report on the basis of the chest CT scan without confirmation from the Covid-19 testing lab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-diagnostic-centres-cant-charge-more-than-rs-2k-for-scan-mohali-dc-244198
26-04-2021||---||Reserve 50% general, 70% ICU beds for Covid patients: Panchkula DM||Panchkula, April 25Keeping in view the surge in Covid-19 cases, Mukul Kumar, District Magistrate-cum-Chairman, District Disaster Management Authority, has directed all public and private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of general category beds and 70 per cent of ICU/ventilator beds for Covid patients.Adequate availability of human resource and logistics should also be ensured, the District Magistrate said.One vaccine session in urban PanchkulaIn view of a surge in Covid-19 cases, only one vaccine session will be conducted in urban Panchkula from Monday till further orders. The vaccination drive will only take place at the community centre in Sector 12-A.The Health Department has also decided not to hold any vaccination session at the Civil Hospital. A senior official said the decision was taken after staff involved in the vaccination programme at two centres was found positive for coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reserve-50-general-70-icu-beds-for-covid-patients-panchkula-dm-244199
26-04-2021||---||727 violators challaned, 38 vehicles impounded in Mohali||Mohali, April 25The police laid pickets on several roads and markets to check Covid violations during the weekend lockdown.In a special drive during the past 24 hours, 727 persons were challaned for not wearing a face mask. The police also impounded 38 vehicles of those found driving in the city during the lockdown timings without any valid reason.The police also registered 31 FIRs, including 15 shops, two restaurants and 13 individuals, for violation of Covid-19 guidelines.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said: “The police are persuading the public to follow guidelines as it is for their own safety.”The Mataur police issued 23 challans and impounded three vehicles, while the Phase 11 police issued 20 challans and impounded two vehicles till Sunday evening. The traffic police challaned 26 vehicles and impounded three others.SI Narinder Sood said most of the residents from Mohali city follow the guidelines, but some persons coming from outer areas say they were not aware of the weekend lockdown.The Sohana police issued 32 challans and impounded eight vehicles for flouting Covid guidelines till Sunday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/727-violators-challaned-38-vehicles-impounded-in-mohali-244201
26-04-2021||Deepankar Sharda---||Uncertainty over PU Senate poll continues||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 25 A day after Panjab University postponed elections for choosing six faculties to the Senate, will the elections for graduate constituency head in the same direction? The elections for the graduate constituency are scheduled for May 16. A total of 43 candidates are contesting for 15 seats. Suspicion has also been raised on elections scheduled for constituencies of principals of technical and professional colleges and the staff of technical and professional colleges on May 3, constituencies of professors and associate/assistant professors and constituency of heads of affiliated arts colleges and constituency of associate professors/assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges on May 16. The registered graduate constituency has 3,61,879 eligible voters for which polling booths are set up in different states apart from Chandigarh and Punjab. The four-year term of the previous Senate ended on October 31, 2020. Sources claimed that the Haryana and Himachal governments have withdrawn their previous orders in which Panjab University was allowed to have pooling booths in the state. The Director Higher Education (DHE), Himachal Pradesh, has already withdrawn previous orders regarding conducting Senate elections. “These state governments have withdrawn their previous orders considering a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. Hundreds of voters are eligible to vote under this graduate constituency elections conducted at various places, including Chandigarh. While some contestants are keen to conduct elections, others are opposing it,” said an official. The Panjab University Registrar was unavailable for his comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uncertainty-over-pu-senate-poll-continues-244202
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two die, 749 contract virus in Chandigarh||Five deaths, 893 new cases in MohaliMohali: Five more Covid fatalities were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 545. Meanwhile, 893 persons tested positive for the virus, pushing the tally to 41,862. Besides, 932 more patients have defeated the virus. Among the fresh cases, 267 came from Mohali (urban). TNSThree deaths, 368 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported three deaths and 368 fresh coronavirus cases. The deceased were a 66-year-old woman from Moginand, a 60-year-old woman from Mankiyan and an 88-year-old woman from Ghatiwala. The Covid toll has reached 183 and the overall tally 19,105. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-die-749-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-244206
26-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Only 15 ICU beds available in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25The government and private hospitals serving severely ill Covid-19 patients have only 15 intensive care unit (ICU) beds available as on Sunday.There are five private hospitals, each with a capacity of fewer than 50 beds for Covid patients. All private hospitals, including Santokh, Landmark and Eden, are short of ICU beds.Patients are facing a harrowing time to find an ICU bed in Chandigarh and ordeal is aggravated if there is a requirement of a ventilator.“My father is currently admitted to the GMSH-16 on normal oxygen but there is no ventilator available here. His oxygen level dropped to 70 in the morning. We even tried to shift him to some other hospital but couldn’t find a ventilator bed. This night is going to be tough as the oxygen level is continuously falling,” said Amit, son of a Covid patient.On shortage of ICU beds in the city, Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT, said all hospitals were trying to scale up their beds but creation of ICU was a difficult task. “We are mainly trying to shift other ICU beds to the Covid ICUs to tackle the situation,” he added.Release 3K remdesivir vials for use: CourtChandigarh: The local court has directed the UT police to release the 3,000 remdesivir vials, a Covid treating drug, seized earlier this week, to the Director, Health & Family Welfare, UT, for further distribution to hospitals for proper utilisation. The police had arrested six persons, including Gaurav Chawla, director of a pharmaceutical company, Health Biotech Limited, in Baddi, for illegally dealing in remdesivir. The police had recovered 3,000 remdesivir vials from the firm. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-15-icu-beds-available-in-chandigarh-244207
26-04-2021||Will the weekend lockdown help curb the rising coronavirus cases in the UT?||Vaccination, not weekend lockdown, the way forward||Youngsters loiter during weekendsIt is a cause of concern that Covid cases are on the rise in our City Beautiful. Chandigarh is considered as one of the best cities to live and is much clean and well maintained than many other cities. It has been observed that people get infected even after taking two doses of the vaccination. Many residents especially youngsters loiter during weekends. The weekend curfew will contain the spread of the virus. All necessary steps be taken to curb the second wave of the pandemic. Essential services can be permitted during the weekend curfew. Strict action be taken against those, who violate curfew and Covid prevention guidelines.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhWeekend restrictions no solutionIf the public is allowed to violate Covid norms for five days then what is the purpose or benefit of imposing lockdown for two days in a week. Instead, the Administration must enforce Covid guidelines strictly and penalise violators on daily basis. This will have cascading effect on containing the spread of the virus. The Administration should prevent large gatherings. The miseries of the lockdown outweigh its benefits for the common man.KC Rana, ChandigarhCan prevent the spread of the virusThe situation going from bad to worse in Chandigarh. The government is busy in election rallies. Weekend lockdown or night curfew will not curb the spread of the deadly virus. Only complete lockdown for two weeks is the need of the hour. Public can be seen in parks even during the weekend lockdown. Chandigarians are not taking the pandemic seriously.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhWill do more harm than good to peopleHasty decision to impose weekend curfew or lockdown will cause more harm to the common people. Rather, public should be educated to follow Covid prevention guidelines strictly like keeping social distance, sanitising hands regularly and wearing face mask. People may be fined for not adhering to the safety norms. At the same time vaccination of all age groups by mobile teams on the doorstep should be compulsory.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliAn exercise in futilityClamping weekend curfew has created problems for daily wagers, petty shopkeepers, traders and senior citizens living alone and that too without any impact on problem at hand. In order to have some sort of check on galloping infection, the ongoing drive to track, test, treat and isolate must be ramped up in every nook and corner of the city. Simultaneously, the age limit of vaccine recipients must be lowered to cover maximum youngsters as they are more vulnerable to the deadly virus. All shopkeepers with delivery boys, domestic help of senior citizens, including personal drivers must be vaccinated on priority.SC Luthra, ChandigarhBreak the virus transmission chainThe only and best way to tackle the coronavirus menace is to break its chain. The weekend lockdown with strict adherence to the Covid- 19 norms like wearing face mask and maintaining proper social distance is must. Lockdown will ensure less personal contact of people and prevent further transmission of the deadly infection. Election rallies and religious gathering must be suspended to break the transmission chain.Amarjeet Kumar, ChandigarhFocus on awareness of safety measuresDetermination is the key to success and success demands perseverance. The authorities in the tricity lack coordination. Lockdown or weekend curfew along with other restrictions is not the only solution to solve the pandemic problem. Businessmen, industrialists and migrant workers have already borne heavy mental, physical and financial losses last year. People should be educated about impending dangers if they do not follow the guidelines. The police should ensure that the public wear face masks and maintain social distancing.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliMalls, eateries packed to their capacityRising Covid cases in the UT is a matter of concern for all. It is common for city residents to go out for shopping and eating/dining on the weekends. As a result, shopping malls and eateries in the city witness large crowds on the weekends. Besides, people in large numbers from the adjoining states of Punjab and Haryana come to Chandigarh on the weekend making the situation worse. In view of this, weekend lockdown can be a better option.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliSafety measures can help check pandemicLockdown by the Chandigarh Administration on the weekend may control the virus, but at the same time economy will fail. Instead of lockdown, the Administration should act tough against violators of safety guidelines through round-the-clock check and punish them. Why UT residents don’t understand the gravity of the dangerous situation created by the pandemic? They are putting their and others lives at risk. Lockdown/curfew is not the solution. Actually, it lies in hands of UT residents, who must follow safety protocol to eliminate coronavirus.MR Bhateja, NayagaonClamp curfew for 15 daysThe second wave of coronavirus is more dangerous and spreading fast. Instead of weekend lockdown clamp curfew for 15 days to break the transmission chain of the virus. Also, the availability of vaccine, medicines and oxygen supply should reach the required level during this period. Strict implementation of lockdown norms would go a long way in restricting the spread of the contagion. Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh should consider the option of 15-day curfew to break the chain.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliSmall businesses will be destroyedWeekend lockdown is just one of the measures to control the pandemic. Doctors are of the view that in such a situation only full lockdown is an option to contain the virus. If people show laxity towards the Covid guidelines, then only strict measures will contain the virus. So, we must follow the lockdown norms properly to avoid curfew. If full lockdown is imposed, it will destroy many small businesses. Therefore, behave wisely and don’t make things worse for the authorities.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhLess people will move aroundThe weekend lockdown will definitely contain the virus. In Chandigarh most people are working. They often go out for shopping and dining on weekends. Lockdown will curtail their movement on weekends.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhInoculate beneficiaries of all age groupsWeekend lockdown cannot curb the rising coronavirus cases in Chandigarh. Lockdown help partially as such measures cannot contain the spread of the virus. Vaccination drive must be ramped up to inoculate people of all age groups. Only complete lockdown will control huge wave of the coronavirus.Adish Sood, AmlohIndividuals can help combat virusWith increase in Covid cases in Chandigarh, weekend lockdown can be of help to some extent. Residents should realise the importance of following protocols and step out of their homes only if necessary. Offices need to work with 50 per cent capacity. Online education should continue for students of all institutions. Shopkeepers must take precautions while attending customers as laxity is seen on their part. The Administration should keep a check on violations of safety norms. Every individual’s contribution counts and can help combat the coronavirus.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliImpose more restrictionsChandigarh has witnessed a huge spike in Covid cases in the last fortnight. Although the Administration imposed weekend lockdown and night curfew, yet the infection is still on the rise. The UT Administration should impose more restrictions at public places like Sector 17 Plaza, markets of Sector 22, 35, hotels of Sector 26 and other place with big footfall. Step up vaccination drive. People should be encouraged to get vaccinated through posters and advertisements in newspapers.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhWill not flatten covid curve in UTNo doubt lockdown and night curfew has been imposed to flatten the Covid curve in the UT, but it will not reduce positive cases. Actually, it won’t break the virus transmission chain, but might slow down the spread. Focus should be on vaccination and ensuring that people wear masks and maintain social distance. Safety norms must not be flouted by the people. Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoiding crowded places will bring down the number of Covid cases in the UT.Anita Tandon, KhararImpose weekend lockdown strictlyThe weekend lockdown/curfew helps, but only if enforced strictly by the authorities concerned. During the weekend lockdown, people and children can be seen in parks exercising and even riding bikes on roads. They also travel to their relatives’ place or nearby town where lockdown hasn’t been imposed. They proudly post their pictures of their unlawful travel on social media, thereby inciting others to do the same. Such people should be dealt with strictly. The police should set up barriers on inner roads and near parks to check flouting of the lockdown. Violators of norms and the ones, who wander aimlessly outside their houses, should be punished. People must understand that the weekend lockdown is not for socialising, exercising or loitering outside their homes.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhA welcome step of the administrationThe Administration’s decision to impose weekend lockdown in the UT is certainly a welcome step. It will help in breaking the chain of Covid-19 transmission. Safety of residents is much more important than anything else. Whatever action can minimise infections must be initiated by the Administration immediately and followed by the public. Many people don’t wear face masks or follow social distancing norm. It’s duty of all to take ample precautions to keep ourselves and others safe from the deadly disease and help the authorities in containing the spread of the virus.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliInitiate steps to reduce crowdingThe second wave of Covid-19 has put the Union Territory in a troubled situation. Undoubtedly, the weekend lockdown is not going to curb the rising coronavirus cases, but will slow down the infection upto certain extent. Focus should be on creating awareness about Covid guidelines and safety norms. It will stop people from going out unnecessarily. Besides, steps to reduce crowding will definitely reduce virus transmission.Parampreet Kaur, ChandigarhA Govt’s ploy to convince publicWeekend restrictions like night curfew is just a ploy to convince public that the authorities are doing something and not shying away from their efforts to contain the pandemic. In reality, however, these measures are ineffective. When all vehicles and transport is allowed, offices are working, gatherings are allowed at religious places, weddings and funerals, the purpose of lockdown is defeated. If anybody loitering on roads is challenged, he/she will give 20 excuses to get exemption from challan. Only complete lockdown for a short span with strict closure of all activities rather than weekend lockdown will contain the virus.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhTricity should be under lockdownWeekend Lockdown cannot help if whole tricity does not impose it as one unit. Last week only Mohali and Chandigarh imposed lockdown. The purpose is half achieved as people moved from Panchkula to Chandigarh and Mohali and vice-versa, which might have spread the virus. Partial Lockdown give poor results because of the porous boundaries with the surrounding areas, which cannot be sealed effectively. We must not fear, but fight the pandemic unitedly by following norms strictly.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhAvoid repetition of last year restrictionsWeek end lockdown may not be effective as presumed. Rather, it would jeopardise the economy. Avoid repetition of last year restrictions, which disrupted the financial cycle. Even, our Prime Minister has said that lockdown should be the last resort and can be avoided. The government is doing its best to control the virus. Now, its citizens turn to follow Covid norms, get vaccinated and stay safe.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaResidents must act responsiblyImposing weekend lockdown in Chandigarh may not be enough. Covid-19 cases are going out of control. In this situation residents should realise their responsibility and take precautions strictly. We can check the spread of virus. On the other hand the authorities should not hesitate to impose strict restrictions. Shopping timing need to be curtailed to avoid rush in markets, besides imposing night curfew.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliSafety guidelines not enforced properlyExcept for the business and the trading community the decision of imposing weekend lockdown by the Chandigarh Administration has been welcomed by all. But, the main issue with these lockdown is that there is no proper enforcement of the guidelines. Many people still flout the Covid management guidelines openly. Unless people do not get disciplined no lockdown or curfew will contain the coronavirus. Sometimes it appears that lockdown is a late decision as the infection has increased exponentially.Dr Anil Yadav, ChandigarhA panic reaction‘Auron ko nasihat, khud mian fazihat’ (precept sans example). This sums up the root cause of the alarming escalation of the Covid menace. But panic reactions like weekend curfews and lockdown kill the patient more than the virus. For many life is meaningless without livelihood. Instead, Section 144 like restrictions need to be clamped all over till the Covid monster is tamed. All congregations whether social, commercial, religious or political must be banned without exception. Guards are lowered only at our peril. Weekend lockdown are akin to pennywise pound foolish. Such restrictions do more harm than good and should best be avoided.Lalit Bharadwaj , PanchkulaWill stop outsiders from entering UTWeekend lockdown/curfew was a good step to stop the second wave of the coronavirus. As Chandigarh is famous tourist place people from all over country come here and spend their weekends. People are not taking coronavirus seriously. One can well imagine malls and eating joints full to their capacity the whole day without any fear of the virus. Lockdown will slowdown movement of the people in the city and also stop outsiders from entering the UT. The Administration can instal vending machines for masks and sanitser dispensers at crowded places in the city to protect them from the pandemic.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhRealise severity of the second waveCovid cases are rising in the city. Realising the severity of the second Covid-19 wave it is essential that weekend lockdown should be imposed not only in the UT, but in the entire tricity to break the pandemic chain and abate the present crisis.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhSelf help is only remedyRising coronavirus cases have jeopardised the economy. It highlights carelessness on part of the public and inefficiency on part of the government. Lack of preparation for emergency and rallies/elections have added fuel to the fire. People should find means to protect themselves. Night curfew will only affect hospitality business. To cut the transmission of the deadly pandemic the government should impose total lockdown for 15 days.Charu Malhotra, MohaliWill not help in battle against coronavirusLooking at the gravity of the situation, state after state including the Chandigarh Administration is imposing night curfew/lockdown, which is undesirable. This was the horrified experience India had faced during the first Covid wave. During his address Prime Minister Narendra Modi admitted indirectly that the last lockdown imposed across the nation in 2020 proved disaster. The lockdown is the last resort to face the virus. The only option to contain the virus is to vigorously test, trace, isolate and treat infected persons. Administering vaccine to maximum beneficiaries, creating awareness about benefits of inoculation and ensuring compliance of the Covid safety measures is the need of the hour.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONWith a shortage of ICU beds in hospitals, Covid drugs and oxygen, how can the Administration deal with increasing cases of coronavirus in Chandigarh? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-not-weekend-lockdown-the-way-forward-244209
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Snatcher takes away handbag||Criminal breach of trust: 1 heldChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Sector 35 resident for criminal breach of trust. According to the police, complainant Mahinder Kumar, a resident of Sector 33, reported that an unknown person took his mobile phone to make a call in Sector 33 on April 24. The person, however, escaped from the spot after borrowing the phone. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Sector 34 police station. Later, the suspect, identified as Anil Kumar, was arrested. TNSAanchal bags 2 gold medalsChandigarh: Former swimmer and athlete Aanchal Bajwa bagged two gold medals for the best private, social emcee and stylish emcee during the BW Applause Awards 2021. Earlier, she won the National Child Award, a Presidential award that is India’s highest civilian honour bestowed upon exceptional achievers under the age of 18. She was also honoured by the Punjab Government two times in a row for excellence in sports, co-curricular and academics. “It was always my dream to work in a field that involved communicating with people, connecting with their minds and understanding their perspectives,” said Aanchal. TNSThree booked for extortionMohali: The unidentified persons posing as journalists have been booked for extortion. In his complaint, the owner of Shama Dhaba at the Landran chowk stated that three persons entered his eatery on Saturday, shot a video purportedly showing unhygienic condition of the place and demanded Rs10,000 for not airing the video. The eatery owner paid them Rs6,000. A case under Sections 384 and 506 of the IPC has been registered at the Sohana police station. TNSWoman dies in road accidentDera Bassi: A 27-year-old woman died while her brother suffered injuries when a truck hit their scooter from the rear near Bhankharpur here on Saturday. Pillion rider Diksha Bansal, a resident of Gulabgarh road and a private schoolteacher, was coming back from D-Mart along with her brother Ashish Bansal when a truck hit their scooter from the rear. The duo fell on the road. The truck driver fled from the spot along with the vehicle. The police have registered a case. TNSProtest over lack of gunny bagsDera Bassi: SAD Mohali district president Manjit Singh Malikpur on Sunday held a protest against the state government, alleging that lifting of wheat was not taking place for the past several days in the Dera Bassi mandi due to the lack of gunny bags. He was accompanied by youth workers who hoisted banners in support of their demands. He said if the government did not solve the problems of farmers soon, the Youth Akali Dal would stage a massive protest. Youth Akali Dal Dera Bassi (rural) president Ravinder Singh Ravi, Kimmi Poonia and Major Singh Pragpur were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatcher-takes-away-handbag-244210
26-04-2021||Panchkula||Section 144 imposed in Panchkula||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Kumar Handa on Sunday imposed Section 144 of the CrPC that prohibits the gathering of more than four persons at any time in a public space. The restrictions will remain in force until further orders. Any person found guilty of violation of the orders will be liable for punishment under Section 188 of the IPC. Ruling out a lockdown, the Haryana Government had on Saturday authorised the district administrations to impose Section 144 to curb the spread of the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/section-144-imposed-in-panchkula-244218
26-04-2021||---||Indoor gatherings capped at 30, outdoor 50 in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 25District Magistrate-cum-Chairman, District Disaster Management Authority, Panchkula, Mukul Kumar today limited all kinds of gatherings in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases.For indoor events, a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 30 people."This will also include all cinemas/theaters/multiplexes/bars/hotels/clubs/gyms. The capacity of indoor places will be specified by the urban local bodies/department concerned keeping in mind a calculated correlation between the number of chairs/seating or standing capacity and the covered area in sq yards/sq feet," the order said.In open spaces, gatherings have been reduced to 50 people.Earlier, the attendance for indoor events was capped at 50 and 200 for outdoor events.For funerals and cremations, participation will be limited to a maximum of 20 persons.Organisers shall take prior permission of the respective Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), the order stated.Besides, people have been asked to hold marriages and other functions during the day time to avoid rush/traffic inconvenience at the time of commencement of the "corona curfew".Gatherings will only be allowed in areas outside containment zones with strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour.As per the orders, all IT/ITES units and corporate offices in the district will operate their offices through work from home up to May 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indoor-gatherings-capped-at-30-outdoor-50-in-panchkula-244219
26-04-2021||Mohali||Man booked on rape charge||The police on Saturday booked Jaswinder Singh, a Ferozepur resident, on the charge of raping a married woman of Sector 66 here.The police have registered a case of rape against the suspect at the Sohana police station. In her complainant, the victim stated that after a marital discord in 2015, she was living in her aunt’s house in Sector 66. The suspect was staying as a tenant at her aunt’s house.The suspect lured her on the pretext of marriage and started living with her in a rented accommodation in Sector 78 where he raped her. When the victim insisted on marriage, the suspect backtracked and threatened her of dire consequences. Investigating officer Barma Singh said the suspect was absconding. The complainant had lodged a complaint on April 2, 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-on-rape-charge-244266
26-04-2021||---||Adviser Manoj Parida's appeal to Chandigarh shoppers||Chandigarh, April 25UT Adviser Manoj Parida today appealed to people that they should avoid visiting shops not displaying a signboard stating their staff is tested or vaccinated.In response to his appeal, Charanjiv Singh, president of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, and Diwakar Sahoonja, former president- cum-patron of the traders’ body, issued a statement that they were already running mass campaigns in this regard. To follow all Covid prevention measures by shopkeepers, yet getting staff vaccinated and tested in a short period was not feasible as the government was busy vaccinating population above the age of 45 only.Traders also requested the MC to sanitise the markets regularly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adviser-manoj-paridas-appeal-to-chandigarh-shoppers-244314
