27-04-2021||Chandigarh||100 Covid deaths, 5,932 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday reported 100 coronavirus deaths, the biggest fatality count in a day this year, as 5,932 fresh cases took the state’s infection count to 3,51,282, according to a medical bulletin.So far, 8,630 people have died from the infection in the state. The state had seen 106 deaths, its highest daily death number, in September last year.On Monday, 98 people had lost their lives to the viral disease.The number of active cases rose from 49,894 on Monday to 51,936, the bulletin said.Seventeen people died in Amritsar, 13 in Ludhiana, 11 in Mohali and nine in Patiala, it said. Ludhiana saw the maximum number of cases at 1,136, followed by 828 in Mohali, 636 in Bathinda, 565 in Jalandhar and 492 in Patiala. A total of 3,774 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,90,716, as per the bulletin.There are 83 critical patients who are on ventilator while 677 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 70,54,436 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, the state government said during the night curfew from 6 pm till 5 am, all non-essential activities will be prohibited.The weekend lockdown will start from 5 am on Saturday till Monday 5 am. However, all essential activities will remain exempted, according to an official release. Chemist shops and others dealing in the supply of essential items like dairy products, vegetables, fruits and the manufacturing industry have been exempted from the restrictions, subject to the adherence of the COVID protocols, it further said. On Monday, the state government had ordered the closure of shops by 5 pm besides imposing a weekend lockdown and extending the night curfew by two hours. Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported a record 837 fresh infections, taking its total count to 40,350. With the death of six more persons, the fatality count reached 446 in the city, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases was 5,980.A total of 426 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 33,924, as per the bulletin.A total of 3,94,029 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 3,52,598 tested negative while reports of 94 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-covid-deaths-5-932-fresh-cases-in-punjab-245008
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Army moving field hospital from Himachal to Chandigarh for setting COVID centre||The Army is moving a field hospital from Himachal Pradesh to Chandigarh after the UT Administration requested the Western Command for setting up a COVID-19 care centre in view of the spike in infection cases.The 100-bed facility will come up at the International Students Hostel in Panjab University’s Sector 25 campus.The Army will begin moving in the equipment and staff tomorrow and the facility is expected to be fully functional in five days.According to Col Jasdeep Sandhu, Director Civil-Military Affairs at Headquarters Western Command, the Army will be providing medicines, oxygen, ambulances and other supplies for the centre, besides doctors, para-medical and support staff.Specialist medical cover will also be provided by the Command Hospital in Chandimandir.In addition, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Research and Education, Sector 12, and the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, would also be available for any support. Civilian doctors would also be deputed for liaison.A meeting was held by the Governor of Punjab and Administrator of Chandigarh, VP Singh Badnore, with officers from Headquarters Western Command today, where modalities for setting up the centre were discussed.The International Students Hostel was selected by the Army after a survey of several sites as it has over a 100 air-conditioned rooms and open space adjacent to it. The Chandigarh Administration had earlier earmarked it as a COVID care centre on payment basis.The Army is also moving a couple of field hospitals from different locations to other cities in the region, besides working with the civilian administration to make oxygen generation plants functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-moving-field-hospital-from-himachal-to-chandigarh-for-setting-covid-centre-244991
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-engineer sets up 3 oxygen plants in Chandigarh||Chandigarh has no shortage of oxygen with a former engineer installing three plants voluntarily, its Advisor Manoj Parida said on Tuesday."I record my appreciation for Mukesh Anand, retired Chief Engineer, who set up three oxygen plants in record time in Sector 16 and 32 hospitals, during height of corona crisis," Parida said in a statement."Resultantly, we have no oxygen shortage in govt facilities in Chandigarh," he added.This comes amid crippling shortage of oxygen in several states and health facilities across the country. Medical oxygen is a key component in the fight against Covid-19. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-engineer-sets-up-3-oxygen-plants-in-chandigarh-244914
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Open to lockdown, but only if Mohali, Panchkula agree: Chandigarh||Given the number of Covid cases, the UT Administration is open to imposing a lockdown, but only if Mohali and Panchkula agree to a simultaneous lockdown in the tricity.An official said the Administration was in touch with the authorities of the neighbouring cities as they would not achieve the desired results if a complete lockdown was not imposed in the tricity.The Centre has advised a 14-day lockdown in districts, cities and municipal areas reporting over 10 per cent positivity rate or operating at 60 per cent ICU or oxygen bed occupancy.UT Adviser Manoj Parida had recently asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to impose a simultaneous lockdown in the tricity to prevent the spread of the deadly virus. However, only the UT and Mohali imposed the lockdown and the proposal was turned down by the Haryana Government.Meanwhile, the UT Administration has called an all-party meeting tomorrow to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the city. The meeting will be chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Chander Mukhi said the party was ready for all-round help at this hour of need.“In government hospitals, Covid patients are asked to go to their houses on their own. Once a person is found positive, he/she should not be asked to go back on his/her own and be provided with an ambulance facility,” he suggested.Except gynaecology and children wards, all government hospitals and dispensaries should be converted into Covid care centres, he said. Only emergency surgeries should be performed, he said.He said a 50-bed government hospital in Palsora, which had not been utilised so far, could now be dedicated to Covid patients. Similarly, a hospital in the Police Lines in Sector 26 could be upgraded to a Covid hospital, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-to-lockdown-but-only-if-mohali-panchkula-agree-chandigarh-244627
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||5 deaths, 821 +ve in Chandigarh||Virus claims 11 more lives in Mohali distMohali: Eleven persons succumbed to the virus during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 556. A total of 749 fresh cases were reported, while 585 patients were cured of the disease. Among the fresh cases, 218 were reported from Mohali (urban), five from Banur, seven from Boothgarh, 14 from Kurali, 16 from Lalru, 27 from Gharuan, 84 from Kharar, 87 from Dera Bassi and 291 from Dhakoli in Zirakpur. There are now 8,151 active cases in the district. TNS434 fresh cases, two deaths in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Monday reported 434 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 19,539. It also witnessed two Covid deaths. One of the deceased had no known comorbidities. The active caseload stands at 2,633. As many as 16,721 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-deaths-821-ve-in-chandigarh-244642
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||We are overstretched, say hospitals as cases mount||With a persistent need for increasing the capacity of Covid ICU beds in government hospitals, the authorities are hard-pressed. The hospitals and the Administration echo a similar sentiment — “we are overstretched.”The PGI has added 10 ICU beds with ventilators. Despite this, only 19 ICU beds were vacant on Sunday.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said the institute had stretched its limit of ICU beds for Covid patients and it would be difficult to accommodate more patients requiring ventilator support if cases keep on increasing like this. “We have already scaled up the capacity of ventilator beds to 70 and we may not be able to increase it beyond this point till the time we receive 20 ventilators from the Centre. There are 200 ventilators for non-Covid patients, but using them will mean risking the lives of non-Covid patients.”Dr Jagat Ram said there were 40 Covid patients waiting to be shifted to the PGI Covid hospital. “Every third patient in the emergency is Covid positive,” he said.Arun Gupta, Principal Health Secretary, UT, said: “We are trying to scale up our bed capacity, but manpower remains a challenge. All hospitals are overstretched and trying their best to deal with the second wave. The ICUs are filled in no time as more patients now require these.”Oxygen for pvt hospitalsDr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “Today, we have provided liquid oxygen to a supplier, AGPL, so that cylinders of all private hospitals can be filled. AGPL is the main supplier of cylinders to the GMCH, Sector 32, and most private hospitals. We have asked it to charge private hospitals at the rates fixed for the GMCH.”Adviser’s appealManoj Parida, UT Adviser, appealed to residents: “To reduce the pressure on government infrastructure, groups like those of advocates, architects, CAs, traders and PSUs should set up small Covid care centres with 10 or more beds for their members under the supervision of available health workers from private or government sources. Our community centres are available. Philanthropists can fund a few of these for the poor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/we-are-overstretched-say-hospitals-as-cases-mount-244653
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Long wait for sample collection from home||Several RT-PCR test results are getting delayed in the tricity due to a long waiting list for home collection of samples. “Some private lab chains are dependent on their NCR setup for Covid testing and hence, people are made to wait for six to seven days for the test results,” said Siddharth, a resident.Parul, a city resident, said: “I just booked my slot with Dr Lal Pathlabs today. No slots are available till Thursday for sample collection from home. Such delays will further lead to the spread of the disease.”No need to come to GMCH, download reportsThose who got themselves tested (RT-PCR) for Covid at the GMCH-32 or by its mobile testing units need not come all the way to collect their reports. The GMCH has started a facility on its website — www.gmch.gov.in — where people can download their test reports.“My neighbour got tested on April 23 and didn’t get the result even today. The sample has been sent to a private lab by the GMCH-32,” said Atul, a resident.Kriti, a resident of Sector 20, Panchkula, said: “To be sure, I went for an RT-PCR test instead of Rapid Antigen. Unlike government facilities, I received the report the next day, but I was charged Rs1,200 for it by a private laboratory.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/long-wait-for-sample-collection-from-home-244655
27-04-2021||Mohali||17 found infected at residential school in Tangori||After receiving a complaint about students of a residential school suffering from moderate to high grade fever, the district administration dispatched a team to conduct their Covid test.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the report of the samples collected from Career Point Gurukul near Tangori village on Banur Road, Mohali, revealed that 17, including students and staff members, tested positive of the 100 tested. More results were expected on Tuesday, he said. Dayalan said those infected had been isolated at a Covid care centre, Gharuan. The DC termed it “callousness” on the part of the school authorities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-found-infected-at-residential-school-in-tangori-244656
27-04-2021||Panchkula||Chaos at only jab site in urban Panchkula||Chaotic scenes were witnessed at the Sector 12-A community centre, the only site in urban Panchkula where vaccination was conducted today. No social distancing was practised at the centre, spreading fears of Covid transmission.Many people, including senior citizens, were turned away due to a limited supply of the vaccine.Preference being given to those taking second doseThere is limited stock of the vaccine in the district and preference is being given to those who are to take the second dose. An elderly beneficiary, who did not wish to be named, said the health authorities should think of alternative measures to address the shortage.He said, “The vaccination centres may become superspreader venues where one infected person can transmit the virus to several other people.” It has been decided not to conduct a vaccination session at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 due to a surge in the Covid cases.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said, “As many as 1,097 people were vaccinated today. In urban Panchkula, vaccination will only take place at the community centre in Sector 12-A until further decision.”So far, 1.35 lakh doses of the vaccine have been administered in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chaos-at-only-jab-site-in-urban-panchkula-244657
27-04-2021||Mohali||Now, Mohali Civil Hospital a dedicated facility for Covid patients||In view of a surge in the number of Covid patients requiring medical oxygen, the district health authorities have shifted the OPD and emergency services from the Phase 6 Civil Hospital to ESI Hospital in Mohali.The Civil Hospital will now be dedicated to Covid patients and the L2 bed capacity will be increased from 60 to 100.Dr Manjit Kaur, SMO, ESI Hospital, Industrial Area, Phase 7, said they had received orders from the higher authorities in this regard on Sunday evening. She said they had sought services of four specialists — an ENT doctor, a psychiatrist, a skin specialist and a physician. She said the specialist doctors joined their duty today.Dr HS Cheema, SMO, Civil Hospital, said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had ordered shifting of the OPD and emergency services in the hospital to ESI Hospital through video-conferencing last evening. He said the step had been taken to save thousands of patients visiting the hospital daily for getting treatment for various ailments from getting infected with the virus.Dr Cheema said now, the hospital would cater to Covid patients requiring medical oxygen and added that L2 beds would be provided to patients. He said those requiring L3 care would be shifted to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. He said there was a provision for eight ventilators, but they needed staff and other infrastructure for putting them to use.The SMO said emergency services would be provided to those who visit the hospital and the system would be streamlined in a day or two. He said 100 L2 beds were also being set up at Gharuan to supply medical oxygen to Covid patients and a meeting in this regard was held with Deputy Commission Girish Dayalan recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-mohali-civil-hospital-a-dedicated-facility-for-covid-patients-244659
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||New landfill site by Feb 2022||While the area residents are hoping that a mountain of garbage at the Dadu Majra dumping ground will be cleared one day, a new sanitary landfill site for dumping of non-recyclable solid waste is set to come up by February next year.Gujarat-based firm Varun Procon Pvt Ltd, which is working on the Rs 12.40 crore project, has 12 months to complete the work. It is a Chandigarh Smart City Limited project.The local Municipal Corporation will have to spend Rs 3.73 crore annually on the operation and management of the site.Agenda regarding the MC’s expenditure will be tabled in the House meeting on April 28 for approval.The project site, which is spread over 7.41 acre, is situated next to the Dadu Majra dumping ground.As per officials, the landfill site will be used for dumping non-recyclable dry waste, which can neither be reused nor processed at the waste processing plant situated across the road in Sector 25.Officials claimed the landfill site would be totally scientific and would ensure no damage to the environment. It will also ensure that the people living near the site are not inconvenienced.The waste at the site will remain covered and it will be surrounded by a 4.5m-high boundary wall.A leachate collection system will be developed to ensure seepage of water into the dumped waste or the ground beneath is not there, which will prevent foul smell, said the officials.The area residents, who were hoping that the existing mountain of garbage will be cleared, are not happy with the new landfill site.“Our life is already hell due to this huge load of garbage. Rather than clearing it, the authorities are going to trouble us more with the new landfill site. We do not believe their claims that it will not cause any foul smell,” said Dyal Krishan, president of the Dadu Majra Dumping Ground Action Committee – an association of local residents.The city presently produces 450 metric tonne of municipal solid waste per day. Roughly, 100 metric tonne is said to be processed at the processing plant while the remaining is shifted to the dumping ground.The officials said the per day garbage generation of the city was expected to increase to 788 metric tonne by 2036.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-landfill-site-by-feb-2022-244661
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Aruna to compete in Paralympics qualifiers||Taekwondo player Aruna Tanwar, a student of Chandigarh University and five times national gold medallist, will represent India at the Asian Paralympics qualification round to be held in Jordan from May 14.Aruna, who hails from Bhiwani, is a BPEd student. She is the first and youngest woman Paralympic player from India to reach the Asian qualifiers. She has won five national medals in the U-49kg weight category."I have a dream to represent India at the 2021 Paralympics and I am working hard to achieve it. I practice 7 to 8 hours a day," said Aruna.Chandigarh University is offering 100 per cent academic scholarship to Aruna under Dhyan Chand Sports Scholarship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aruna-to-compete-in-paralympics-qualifiers-244662
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Corporation’s water wastage inspection  drive runs out of fuel||With the allocated fuel being already consumed, the water wastage inspection drive of the local Municipal Corporation has got disrupted.Field officials get a total of 160 litre fuel per month for their vehicles. However, due to morning inspections from 6 am to 9 am, which is in addition to their regular duty, the officials claim to have already reached the sanctioned limit. The morning drive is carried from April 1 to June 30 to check the wastage of water.“My driver has not come for work with my official vehicle after Wednesday. When I called him, he reasoned there is no fuel left in the vehicle so he cannot come for work. Thus, I could not go for the inspection,” said an official requesting anonymity.“For the last few days, drivers, who are outsourced, are getting salaries for sitting at home. Not only the morning drive even our routine work has also got affected in the absence of vehicles,” said the official.When contacted, a senior official of the MC’s transport wing claimed, “Water wastage inspection has not stopped. There was an issue related to fuel a few days ago following which, the limit was enhanced to 200 litre from the existing 160 litre per vehicle.”Sources though claimed that the order regarding the enhancement of fuel limit came late affecting the routine work.MC vehicles fill fuel at the corporation-run Sector 51 and Industrial Area filling stations. The petrol is filled through a chip, which does not work after a specified fuel capacity. Different officials have different limits.“Earlier, there used to be 200 litre per month fuel limit for officials doing office work, while those in field used to get 250 litres. But the limit was reduced,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/corporations-water-wastage-inspection-drive-runs-out-of-fuel-244663
27-04-2021||Vinod Joshi has been appointed as the chairman of the Building Bylaws Committee of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal. He has appointed Anil Vohra||Joshi to head Beopar Mandal’s bylaws panel||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/joshi-to-head-beopar-mandals-bylaws-panel-244664
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid hits Sports Department’s plans||The sudden rise in Covid-19 cases has once again affected the UT Sports Department’s plans of restarting annual championships and opening of the state-run academies.Last month, after a gap of almost one-year, the department had planned to reopen the state-run football, hockey and cricket academies. It had also decided to announce the annual sports calendar. All the necessary permissions were taken and a formal announcement was to be made before starting the age-group championships. However, the second wave of Covid-19 has forced the department to shelve all their plans.“We had planned the annual sports calendar for the current session. All necessary permissions had been taken and we were planning to conduct championships. However, considering the current situation, we have to postpone all our plans. We have to wait and remain extra cautious,” said Sports Director Tejdeep Singh Saini.“Same is the situation with the state-run academies. They can’t be thrown open for trainees amid the ongoing crisis,” said Saini.The department is one of the first in the region to open sports complexes for the benefit of players. Trainees regularly practice at different complexes — a step which is being appreciated by other states also.“The trainees have to prepare for their competitions scheduled at national and international level. The registered players are being trained by our coaches following all protocols. As of now, there are no plans to shut these complexes as we have only limited number of trainees. We have opened complexes just for professional and competitive sportspersons,” Saini informed.Besides conducting annual age-group and other sports championships, the UT Sports Department had recently came up with cash-prize competitions.In the last session, the Sports Department did not organise summer camps for local trainees and this happened for the first time in the past two decades.Every year, the department runs a minimum 15-day programme — sports-wing — wherein selected players get diet and training under professional coaches.High-altitude training camps for the state-run academies, which usually take place at the Sports Authority of India’s centre in Shillaroo, Himachal Pradesh, were also cancelled and the summer tournaments were put on hold.“The department is looking after its players under a well-planned structure. Hope this crisis will get over soon and players get a chance to perform,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-hits-sports-departments-plans-244665
27-04-2021||Mohali||SAD’s Balwinder is Nayagaon MC chief||Balwinder Kaur of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was elected as the president of the Nayagaon Municipal Council on Monday. She was elected to the post for a period of 20 months.Representing Ward No. 5, she was elected during the first meeting of the newly elected members of the House with the support of one BJP councillor Mamta Koshish from Ward No. 11 as the SAD needed support of 11 councillors.Of the total 21 seats, the SAD had won 10 seats, while the Congress managed to get six seats. Three seats went to the BJP, while two seats were won by Independent candidates. No election was held for the post of vice-president.Though Congress councillors raised the demand for postponing the elections and even raised slogans, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Himanshu Jain, who was presiding over the meeting, conducted the elections. The Congress did not field its candidate.Ranjit Singh Gill, SAD in-charge of the Kharar constituency, said they were thankful to the people of Nayagaon for electing the SAD councillors. He said development of all wards in Nayagaon would be done uniformly. He said they had elected the president for a period of 20 months and would give chance to other councillors in the five-year term of the present MC.Kanwar Sandhu, AAP MLA from Kharar, and senior leaders of the Congress were also present in the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sads-balwinder-is-nayagaon-mc-chief-244667
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Blood donation camps at 13 locations today||The Competent Foundation led by social activist and politician Sanjay Tandon will organise blood donation camps at 13 different locations across Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on the auspicious occasion of Hanuman Jayanti on April 27.The blood donation camps will be inaugurated by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in presence of Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance and Commerce, through a video-conference.BJP’s Chandigarh unit president Arun Sood will preside over the programme.Tandon said this year, the foundation decided to organise blood donation camps even outside the tricity to fulfil the blood requisition in view of the Covid pandemic.With the help of various associations, NGOs and blood banks, this noble cause is being carried out in 13 different locations across the region, said Tandon.Chandigarh Government Transport Workers Union will organise a camp at Bus Stand, Sector 17, while Industrial Shed Welfare Association will hold the camp at Shiv Manas Mandir, Industrial Area, Phase 2.Camps will also be held at Sector 67 (Mohali), Mauli Jagran, PGI, Mani Majra, Sector 19 (Chandigarh), Sector 37, Sector 17 plaza, at Ridge in Shimla, Babu Anand Sarup Jindal Charitable Foundation at Sunam, and Mera Aasman NGO at Ambala Club, Ambala City.Tandon said the foundation was engaged in various philanthropist and social activities over the last 14 years, primarily blood donation camps. He said in the middle of the corona pandemic, blood donation had become more important as the supply of blood had become extremely difficult.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/blood-donation-camps-at-13-locations-today-244668
27-04-2021||Officiating Registrar||Panjab University Registrar bereaved||Webinar on rights of womenA webinar on ‘Indian Legal Perspective on Rights of Women Against Sexual Harassment at Workplace’ was organised at Desh Bhagat University (DBU). The webinar was aimed at spreading awareness among students about sexual harassment and legal rights of women. The webinar was conducted by the Moot Court and Legal Aid Club of the Faculty of Legal Studies, DBU, in collaboration with the Gender Champions Club and Women Grievance Cell of the DBU. The keynote speakers shared their views on various rights available to women in the Indian legal system in general. They specifically dealt with the historical evolution of the PoSH Act, 2013. TNSSession on mental healthAn online mentoring session on ‘How to Manage Emotions During Pandemic’ was organised for the students of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Santan Dharma (GGDSD) College, Sector 32, to boost the mental health and well-being of students and staff. The session opened with Principal Balraj Thapar’s address. He told the participants to stay safe and appealed them to take all necessary precautions against Covid-19. He also urged them to get vaccinated. The session was delivered by Santosh Joshi, founder of Mumbai-based Sky Healing. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-registrar-bereaved-244669
27-04-2021||Mohali||Mohali forms 15 oxygen audit teams||In order to keep tabs on the use of medical oxygen in all hospitals in Mohali, the district administration has constituted 15 audit teams in the wake of an unprecedented demand.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in the wake of an unprecedented demand for oxygen, it was necessary that its stock and consumption were closely managed and rationalised. He said an oxygen monitoring committee was already operational in the district, while the newly constituted oxygen audit teams would constantly update the status to the monitoring committee.Get tested even if you have normal symptomsCivil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said a Covid sampling centre was already functional at the District Hospital, Phase 6, where two sampling teams were engaged in the work. Another sampling centre would be set up in a day or two near the Civil Surgeon’s office in Phase 6. She appealed to people to get tested for Covid-19 even if they show normal symptoms such as cough, fever and cold.Pertinently, with the rising Covid-19 cases, an eight-member monitoring committee under the Chairmanship of Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Aashika Jain is constantly supervising the medical oxygen demand and supply logistics in the district.Teams to work 24X7Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the newly constituted oxygen audit teams comprise of three members each - RMO, CRO and SHO. These teams would work 24X7 to ensure daily audit of all Covid hospitals in the district. These teams would liaison with hospitals and ensure that they maintain two-hourly oxygen saturation chart of every patient so that the requirement per patient be assessed and the monitoring committee could keep a tab on medical oxygen consumption of each hospital.Dayalan said the newly constituted oxygen audit teams comprise of three members each - RMO, CRO and SHO. These teams would work 24X7 to ensure daily audit of all Covid hospitals in the district. These teams would liaison with hospitals and ensure that they maintain two-hourly oxygen saturation chart of every patient so that the requirement per patient be assessed and the monitoring committee could keep a tab on medical oxygen consumption of each hospital.Dayalan said the teams would ensure timely shifting of recovered patients from L3 to L2 or L1 facilities so that more L3 beds were available to critical patients in the district.In order to scale up Covid sampling in the district and to reduce the rush of patients at the Civil Hospital, the District Health Department has started collecting samples at Primary Health Centre in Phase 3B1 here.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said their focus was on maximum testing. Therefore, Covid sampling centre had also been started at the Phase 3B1 health facility to reduce the congestion at the district hospital. This would divide the crowd as well as increase the number of tests.She said a Covid sampling centre was already functional at the District Hospital, Phase 6, where two sampling teams were engaged in the work. Another sampling centre would be set up in a day or two near the Civil Surgeon’s office in Phase 6. She appealed to peopleto get tested for Covid-19 even if they show normal symptoms such as cough, fever and cold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-forms-15-oxygen-audit-teams-244670
27-04-2021||Panchkula||Nodal officer appointed for bed, oxygen supply mgmt in Panchkula||In view of a spike in Covid-19 cases, Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar has designated Mamta Sharma, Estate Officer, Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Panchkula, as the nodal officer for bed management and oxygen supply management in the district. NK Payal, Executive Engineer, HSVP, Division-I, will assist her.Meeting on addition of beds todayOn addition of beds, nodal officer Mamta Sharma said: “It will be decided in a meeting on Tuesday.”On Sunday evening, there was 100 per cent occupancy of oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds in all four Covid-dedicated hospitals – Civil Hospital, Paras Hospital, Ojas Hospital and Alchemist Hospital.District Magistrate Mukul Kumar on Sunday directed all public and private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of general category and 70 per cent of ICU/ventilator beds for Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nodal-officer-appointed-for-bed-oxygen-supply-mgmt-in-panchkula-244672
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||5 fined for flouting Covid norms at city railway station||In a span of 10 days, since the Ambala Division of the Northern Railway announced a fine of Rs500 on persons flouting Covid guidelines, five persons have been penalised at the city Railway Station, said Station Superintendent JP Singh.“The defaulters were spotted roaming around the station without a face mask by the chief ticket inspector and his staff,” he said. “It was being observed that people pull their mask down, resting them under their chin. Those who don’t wear their masks properly will also not be spared,” he said.On April 17, the division issued a statement that to prevent spitting and act of similar nature and thus, to ensure wearing of face masks or face cover by all persons on the railway premises, including trains, fine up to Rs500 under the Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises) Rules, 2012, will be imposed by railway officials authorised for this purpose.“Under the same act, we also imposed a fine of Rs200 on two persons from April 13 till date for littering the station premises,” said JP Singh. He said: “The station is taking a strict call on adherence of guidelines for prevention of Covid.”On April 9, all ticket reservation counters at the city railway station were shut as eight of its 13 staff members tested positive for Covid-19. The counters resumed operations on April 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-fined-for-flouting-covid-norms-at-city-railway-station-244673
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Check firefighting system at GMCH-32, UT Engg Dept told||Over surge in virus caseload, Chandigarh Housing Board CEO Yashpal Garg, who has been assigned the overall responsibility of Covid management at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, today reviewed the arrangements and gave directions to ensure better treatment of corona patients.Considering fire incidents in some hospitals in other parts of the country and especially due to sudden increase in consumption of oxygen, Garg directed the UT Engineering Department to immediately check the functionality of firefighting and fire-alarm systems at the GMCH-32 and the Sector 48 hospital.Presiding over a meeting, Garg directed that fire escape maps need to be provided at the designated places in both hospitals. He directed to get all fire extinguishers checked for their validity and arrange a brief training for the staff about handling fire extinguishers.“A mock drill to be arranged in such a way that there is no panic and routine activities are not affected,” he said.He stated that all fire exists should remain clear all time and should not be blocked by idle stretchers/trolleys and all oxygen points to be get checked from some technician to ensure there was no leakage and were properly closed after use.During the meeting, the Medical Superintendent (MS) informed that remdesivir was being arranged from the local market and there was a huge fluctuation in procurement prices. He stated that they had no alternative but to procure at the fluctuating rates till sufficient quantity was purchased for which e-tender had already been floated for 3,000 vials.Garg said the government had fixed a quota of 5,000 remdesivir and immediate necessary action was to be taken for its procurement after getting it allocated from the Director Health Services to different hospitals.He also directed to hire eight anaesthesia technicians on a contractual basis for Covid- ICUs.On security preparedness, the MS stated that last year, arrangements of ‘Covid police’ were quite effective. To deal with agitated patients and their relatives, arrangement on similar lines were immediately needed for the GMCH-32 and the Sector 48 hospital.Garg said the SSP might be asked to re-activate the system of ‘Covid police’ for the GMCH-32 and the Sector 48 hospital. For Sood Dharamshala, appropriate arrangements might be made after an assessment by the local police.On minimum wastage of vaccine and oxygen, he said attempt should be made to bring the wastage down to the lowest possible, which is about 0.8 per cent and within the permissible limit of 1 per cent at the GMCH. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/check-firefighting-system-at-gmch-32-ut-engg-dept-told-244676
27-04-2021||Zirakpur||Work on installing LED street lights from tomorrow: Zirakpur MC chief||Zirakpur Municipal Council president Udayvir Singh Dhillon directed the department concerned to prepare an estimate of bringing supply from Kajauli Waterworks to the city during the first House meeting of the civic body held today. He informed the House that work on installing LED street lights in the city will begin from April 28.The House also discussed other issues such as cleaning of sewer lines, fogging, perennial issue of waterlogging and purchasing of public utility vehicles.Other issuesThe House also discussed other issues such as cleaning of sewer lines, fogging, perennial issue of waterlogging and purchasing of public utility vehicles.Udayvir, councillor from Ward No. 12, said: “Developmental works in the city will be done without any discrimination.”Reacting to the criticism of not giving complete information on the proposals and their expenditure, Dhillon said: “The details of proposals and the expenditure will be presented in the next meetings.”A cheque for Rs21 crore on account of EDC submitted by colonisers to the state government was handed over to the council. Congress councillors passed all proposals and its estimated expenditure for the development work put up in the House meeting.Eight SAD councillors focused their attention on the earlier proposals and sought an update on the pending civic works.SAD councillors Yadwinder Sharma, Dharminder Sharma and Teji Sidhu highlighted the rampant illegal construction going on in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-on-installing-led-street-lights-from-tomorrow-zirakpur-mc-chief-244678
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Buyer entitled to refund if possession of flat delayed||Non-delivery of possession of plots/units in a housing project in the promised date is a material violation on part of a builder. In these circumstances, the allottee is well within his/her right to seek refund of the amount paid.Stating this, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a builder to refund Rs33,56,900 to a consumer. The Commission has also directed the realtor to pay Rs50,000 as compensation to the complainant on account of mental agony, physical harassment and litigation.Seema Arora, a resident of Karnal, approached the commission through advocate NS Jagdeva after the builder failed to deliver the possession of flats within the stipulated period as envisaged in the Flat Buyers’ Agreement and also refused to refund the amount. Seema said she booked the flat in year 2011 in a project named ‘Court Yard” TDI City, Sector 110, Mohali, SAS Nagar, Punjab. The flat was proposed to be delivered by the opposite party (builder) within 24 months as envisaged in condition number 9 of the agreement dated January 1, 2012, for want of construction and development activities.The complainant said she paid Rs33,56,900 to the builder for the period from May 8, 2011 to February 2, 2015, towards purchase of flat against total sale consideration of Rs36,76,300. The possession of the unit in question was not offered and delivered by January 22, 2014 i.e. within a total period of 24 months.She alleged that despite this, the opposite parties (builder) kept on sending letters to pay the remaining amount, under the threat of cancellation of allotment of the flat. She stated that despite the fact that delay was on part of the opposite parties, they demanded illegal charges such as escalation cost and delayed interest.The builder denied all allegations and claims of the consumer. After hearing the arguments, the Commission held the builder guilty of deficiency in service for delay in handing over the possession of the flat. The Commission directed the builder to refund Rs33,56,900 to the complainant, along with interest @12 per cent per annum from the respective dates of deposit onwards, without deducting any TDS, within a period of 30 days. The Commission also directed the realtor to pay Rs50,000 towards compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/buyer-entitled-to-refund-if-possession-of-flat-delayed-244681
27-04-2021||Mohali||Two parole jumpers nabbed||Man booked in dowry caseMohali: The police booked a Sector 55 resident, Jasjot, in a dowry case after his wife, now residing in Sector 78, alleged that her husband indulged in domestic violence and started demanding dowry after their marriage on February 24, 2019. The victim registered a complaint with the Mohali women cell on August 28, 2020. A case was registered at the Phase 8 police station after getting the DA’s legal opinion. tnsFree Covid test at Sector 47Chandigarh: In a major relief to residents, free Covid testing started on Monday at the Sector 47 dispensary. According to area councillor Davesh Moudgil, 31 persons got tested on the first day. Both Rapid Antigen and RT-PCR tests are being conducted here. Vaccination is already underway here. As many as 80 persons were vaccinated on Monday. He said public awareness programmes were being organised in the ward to generate awareness regarding vaccination and testing. TNSCGA executive body appointedChandigarh: The newly elected president of the Chandigarh Golf Association (CGA), PS Pruthi, on Monday appointed the executive committee members of the body. Sanjiv DP Azad is the new general secretary while Vivek Vahi and Yashvir Mahajan have been appointed senior vice-presidents. Bachitter Singh and JS Sukhija were made vice-presidents. Ashwani Sharma will be the treasurer and Pratap Hoon the secretary. Monish DP Azad has been given the responsibility of joint secretary. Harinder Pal Singh Bedi, Lt Col BS Chahal (retd), Rupinder Singh, Dr BM Mahajan and Harpunpreet Singh Sandhu have been appointed as members. TNSShort movies to help studentsMohali: Gurpreet Singh has been making “short movies” to help youth overcome depression amid Covid-19 pandemic. The 21-year-old student of Gian Jyoti College, Gurpreet spends most of his time during the pandemic in bringing forth the ways to keep students motivated and in good spirits. "Over the past year, especially in the lockdown, we witnessed a number of suicides by students and youth. As a student and artist, I believe that short movies can be a very useful mean of motivating youth and help them avoid taking any extreme step," said Gurpreet. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-parole-jumpers-nabbed-244682
