05 August 2020||AYODHYA,||Ayodhya awaits Modi’s launch of Ram temple construction||Twenty-eight years after Babri Masjid was demolished by kar sevaks , Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday formally launch the construction of a temple at the spot, where Hindus believe Lord Ram was born. The Supreme Court in last November permitted the construction of a Ram temple at the site where the Babri Masjid stood till December 6, 1992. At the market, Setu Lal Agrahari didn’t need to think when asked who should get the credit for the construction of the temple. “ Yeh toh Modi ki wajah se bana hai. Jab Modi aye bhaiya, tabhi toh bana (The temple is being constructed due to Modi. Only after [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi came this became possible),” said Mr. Agrahari, as he fried potato cubes in a large pan. Mr. Agrahari, who sells tikki-chaat  in Rikabganj, sees the temple construction as a fulfillment of the BJP and Mr. Modi’s poll promise and also praises the efforts of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which spearheaded the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. The SC verdict features only as a footnote for him. Mr. Modi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will be among the five persons on stage at the bhoomi pujan ceremony for which 175 guests, including 135 seers, were invited by the Trust entrusted with the construction of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ayodhya-awaits-modis-launch-of-ram-temple-construction/article32272687.ece
05 August 2020||Washington,||Trump bars H-1B visa holders from federal jobs||President Donald Trump has signed an executive order preventing federal agencies from contracting or subcontracting foreign workers — mainly those on H-1B visas. The move comes over a month after theTrump administration on June 23 suspended the H-1B visas,along with other types of foreign work visas, until the end of 2020 to protect American workers in a crucial election year. The new restrictions took effect from June 24. Mr. Trump’s order follows an announcement by the federally-owned Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) that it would outsource 20% of its technology jobs to companies based in foreign countries. Speaking to reporters after signing the order on Monday, Mr. Trump said TVA’s action could cause more than 200 highly-skilled American tech workers in Tennessee to lose their jobs to low-wage, foreign workers hired on temporary work visas. He said his administration will not tolerate firing of hardworking Americans in pursuit of cheap foreign labour. Outsourcing hundreds of workers is especially detrimental in the middle of a pandemic, which has already cost millions of Americans their jobs, the White House said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trump-bars-h-1b-visa-holders-from-federal-jobs/article32272689.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 Indians freed by Taliban return home||Two Indians abducted by the Taliban returned to Delhi on Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. Negotiations were on for one more person, the last of a group kidnapped in 2018, sources told The Hindu . “We thank the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for their constant and unwavering support in securing the release of the Indians,” said the MEA spokesperson, announcing the return of the two men, whom it didn’t name and who had been released from captivity on July 31. Id ceasefire According to the sources, their release was helped by the Id ceasefire between the Afghan forces and the Taliban, which included prisoner exchanges. A meeting of “elders” or a “Loya Jirga” called by President Ashraf Ghani on August 7 to advise him on the fate of about 400 Taliban convicted of “heinous crimes” could also prove crucial in securing the release of the last hostage. The hostages, Prasadi Mahto and Hulas Mahto from Jharkhand and Mantu Singh from Bihar, were part of a group of seven employees of Indian engineering company KEC International (owned by the RP Goenka group) that was developing a power project in Afghanistan’s northern Baglan province.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-indians-freed-by-taliban-return-home/article32272692.ece
05 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal cross 80,000; death toll is 1,785||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 2,752 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 80,984. The State also recorded another high spike in the number of mortalities due to the viral infection, with 54 deaths in the past 24 hours. This brings the death toll to 1,785. The active cases in the State have climbed to 22,315 even as the recovery rate in the State remains at 70.24%. Of the 54 deaths, 15 people died in Kolkata and 14 in North 24 Parganas. Six people each succumbed to the infection in Howrah and South 24 Parganas district. Kolkata recorded 719 new cases of the COVID-19 infection, while North 24 Parganas reported 596 new cases. A total of 22,321 samples were tested for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. ICMR guidelines Meanwhile, the West Bengal Health Department has written to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) requesting change of guidelines for immediate retest of a person testing negative in antigen test. The State government has suggested that the person should be sent for RT-PCR tests after three days but not immediately. The request comes after several patients who took the RT-PCR test at different fever clinics were found to be suffering from flu. The officials of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation have stated that 70% of COVID-19 patients in the city are asymptomatic. Officials said that an antigen test of 100 people in Ward number 82 of the civic body revealed that 19 people are COVID-19 positive. “Sixteen of them were found to be asymptomatic,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-cross-80000-death-toll-is-1785/article32273041.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||Have nothing to do with Sushant’s death: Aaditya||Breaking his silence on actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June, Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra’s Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray said on Tuesday that “dirty politics” is being played over the matter, with his and his family’s name being dragged in for no reason. In a statement issued on Twitter, Mr. Thackeray said, “Maharashtra is battling hard against COVID-19. It seems those who cannot see the success of the MVA government and its popularity, have begun to play dirty politics in the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.” “Personally, me and my family are being targeted in the suicide case of Sushant Singh Rajput. This is nothing but a result of political failure. Using the death of a person for some gains is nothing but a blot on humanity. I am nowhere related to this episode,” the Minister said. Matter of prestige Being the grandson of “Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray”, he said he could never imagine doing something which could damage the prestige of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena and the Thackeray family. “Those who are making baseless allegations should understand this. If anyone has any special information then he must approach the police which will ensure investigation in that direction,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said even now he was being patient in the entire episode. “No one should even think that they can get away by making slanderous allegations against the government and the Thackeray family,” he said, adding that Bollywood is a part of Mumbai and many from the industry share cordial relations with him. This is no crime,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/have-nothing-to-do-with-sushants-death-aaditya/article32273090.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 1,083 new cases||Kerala reported 1,083 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,021 recoveries on Tuesday. While the cumulative case burden of the State rose to 27,956 cases, the number of people with COVID 19 currently undergoing treatment in hospitals across the State is 11,540. The number of recoveries till date is 16,299. Three deaths, one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode and Ernakulam, were officially acknowledged as due to COVID-19 by the Health Separtment, which has now put the State’s toll at 87. Of the 1,083 new cases reported today, 968 are locally acquired infections, including 16 health-care workers. The authorities have not been able to ascertain the source of infection in 71 cases. Thiruvananthapuram, which has been remaining at the top since the past few weeks as the district reporting the maximum number of new cases daily, continued the trend on Tuesday also, with all 242 cases reported on Tuesday being locally acquired infections. Ernakulam reported 135 cases, Malappuram 131, Alappuzha 126, Kozhikode 97, Kasaragod 91, Thrissur 72, Palakkad 50, Kannur 37, Pathanamthitta 32, Kollam 30, Kottayam 23, and Wayanad 17. The number of people quarantined in the State is over 1.45 lakh. The State has tested a total of 20,087 samples ion the last 24 hours. The number of hotspots in the State now is 509.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-1083-new-cases/article32272977.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC stays operation of three-capital Act||A three-judge Bench of the High Court comprising Rakesh Kumar, A.V. Sesha Sai and M. Satyanarayana Murthy adjourned the hearing on the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, 2020, to August 14 and ordered that status quo be maintained till then. The court directed the government to file a counter-affidavit in the given time and granted status quo in spite of the submission by senior counsel Rakesh Dwivedi that there would be no irreparable or irreversible actions before the next hearing. It said the matter required status quo as the petitioners feared that the government might start shifting offices to Visakhapatnam and Kurnool by taking advantage of the Bill becoming an Act upon its clearance by the Governor. Senior advocate S. Niranjan Reddy appeared for the AP Capital Region Development Authority (AP-CRDA) which ceased to be in existence consequent on the Governor’s nod for the AP-CRDA Repeal Bill. The petition was filed by advocate Unnam Sravan Kumar. The court was hearing a writ petition against the decentralisation Act filed by farmers who parted with their land for the development of Amaravati capital city under the AP Capital City Land Pooling Scheme (Formulation and Implementation) Rules, 2015. ‘Threat to livelihood’ Their argument is that the decentralisation Act ignored the existing projects and those under construction across nine ‘theme cities’ in Amaravati on which a massive amount had been spent from the exchequer. The said Act posed a threat to the farmers’ livelihood and it would affect the economy of the entire State. The petitioners further contended that the Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the impugned legislation neither conveyed any public interest nor justified the abandoning of existing capital city. Citing some Supreme Court judgments, the petitioners asserted that there cannot be a change of policy whenever there is a change in the government or a new executive assumes office. They prayed for recognising Amaravati as the Capital City in accordance with Sections. 5, 6 and 94 of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 and consequentially declaring the Act repugnant and void under Article 254 and violative of Articles 256 and 257 of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-operation-of-three-capital-act/article32272608.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,||Four test positive in mass antibody examination for cops||Four personnel attached to the City police have been quarantined after they were found positive in the antibody test held exclusively for uniformed men and women. They have been sent into institutional quarantine after their swab samples were sent for RT-PCR tests, the results of which are expected in the next couple of days. This was done since the antibody test result per se is no confirmation that the person tested has been infected. Massive antibody testing for cops organised by the Kerala Police Housing Cooperative Society and State Welfare Bureau got under way in the city on Monday. The four who tested positive were among the 306 officers tested at the former Range DIG Office near Marine Drive in the city. Another 185 personnel were tested on Tuesday, though none among them returned positive results. “The tests will continue for the next six months and were launched in keeping with a circular issued by the State Police Chief. The test being conducted by a Central government-accredited agency will move to other sub-divisions as well in the coming days,” said P.D. Baiju, president, Kerala Police Association, Kochi City. The tests got under way within the Ernakulam rural limits as well on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-test-positive-in-mass-antibody-examination-for-cops/article32272972.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,||PCB assesses environmental compensation of Rs. 13.31 crore on Kochi Corporation||The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has assessed a total environmental compensation of Rs. 25.4 crore on the Kochi Corporation and the five municipalities of Kalamassery, Aluva, Angamaly, Thrikkakara, and Thripunithura for their failure to comply with the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The compensation assessed for the Kochi Corporation is Rs. 13.31 crore, while the figures for the five municipalities are Rs. 2.77 crore for Kalamassery, Rs. 1.72 crore for Aluva, Rs. 1.96 crore for Angamaly, Rs. 2.92 crore for Thrikkakara, and Rs. 2.72 crore for Thripunithura as on July 31, 2020, according to a copy of the report seen by The Hindu . The report was filed by the PCB before the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in its reply to the tribunal’s order dated July 3 on non-compliance with Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 at the Brahmapuram solid waste processing plant, resulting in environmental pollution and threat to public health. The case, which was listed for Tuesday, is now slated to be heard by the third week of September. The Bench led by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel (Chairperson) had pointed out that it was the responsibility of the PCB to initiate prosecution and recover compensation for such failures, failing which the Chairman and the Member Secretary of the board may be liablefor their failure. Prosecution measures The PCB Chairman has now authorised the Chief Environmental Engineer, Ernakulam, to initiate prosecution proceedings against the Kochi Corporation based on the tribunal’s directive on the Brahmapuram case under Section 19 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986 and Section 49 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 for unscientific handling of waste at Brahmapuram. A complaint will be filed in the respective magistrate court against the civic body for violation of the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and Section 24 of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. The order issued on July 31 said the corporation was simply practising land disposal of both biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. Nothing was seen in recent visits to manage fresh waste, and it was disposed of over old waste. Non-biodegradable waste was found being disposed of at another place, where fire accidents had occurred twice earlier, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pcb-assesses-environmental-compensation-of-rs-1331-crore-on-kochi-corporation/article32272980.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||IRS officer Pradeep Singh tops UPSC exam||Pradeep Singh, a 29-year old Indian Revenue Service officer from Haryana, topped the civil services examination 2019, in his fourth attempt. He was followed by Jatin Kishore and Pratibha Verma, according to results declared by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Tuesday. This year, 829 candidates have been selected for various services, including 66 who have been provisionally recommended. The results of 11 candidates have been withheld. The results are on the basis of the written examination held in September 2019 and the interviews for a personality test held between February and August 2020. “It was unexpected,” said Mr. Singh, adding that while he hoped to crack the examination, he never expected to top it. A B.Tech graduate from Sonipat’s Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology, he worked as an Inspector in the Income Tax Department briefly while taking the UPSC exams. His rank in the previous attempt was 260. He had got the 260th rank Having been placed at the 260th rank in his previous attempt, he then took leave to prepare for the examination last year. A farmer’s son His father Sukhbir Singh, a farmer and former sarpanch of Tewari village, is his “pillar of strength” and biggest motivation, said the topper. During the times he felt like quitting as it was difficult to prepare for the examinations while working, it was his father who encouraged him not to give up. He initially took coaching, but due to job constraints he had now been preparing on his own with help from friends. Looking ahead, Mr. Singh said he hoped to “work for the poor” and contribute towards the “development of the nation”. The 10% quota for the Economically Weaker Sections was implemented for the first time this year, with 78 candidates selected under that category. Apart from 304 successful candidates in the general category, there were 251 from Other Backward Classes, 129 from Scheduled Castes and 67 from Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/irs-officer-pradeep-singh-tops-upsc-exam/article32272691.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,||Order to take over Mulanthuruthy church||The Kerala High Court has directed the Ernakulam District Collector to take over the possession of the Mulanthuruthy church. Justice A. Muhammed Musthaque, while issuing an order on a contempt of court petition filed by the Orthodox vicar, ordered that if the Collector was of the view that if on account of the deployment of the police for COVID-19 duties sufficient police could not be deployed, he shall wait till such period to hand over the church to the petitioners. The court, however, made it clear that at any any rate, the affairs of the church shall not be in the hands of the Jacobite faction vicar. If the District Collector in consultation with the District Police Chief is of the view that necessary police protection can be given to the petitioners for administration of the church, he shall hand over the church to the petitioners, the court ordered. The order came on a petition filed by Fr. Geo George, Orthodox faction vicar, and others seeking to initiate contempt of court proceedings against the Collector and others for not implementing the court’s earlier directive to hand over the administration of the church to the Orthodox faction. The court pointed out that despite the Supreme Court judgement and directives by the High Court, the petitioners were not in position to function and discharge their duties. The court could not shut its eyes to such blatant violation of the rule of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-to-take-over-mulanthuruthy-church/article32272978.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,||China: don’t politicise normal cooperation||China on Tuesday called on India to “avoid politicising normal cooperation” following moves to review ongoing cooperation for language training between Indian universities and Chinese government-run programmes. Following the decision to drop Mandarin from its list of suggested languages under the National Education Policy, the Ministry of Education has put several higher education institutes that offer Chinese language training under the scanner. The Ministry is looking closely at universities that have in the past had links with the official Chinese language training department “Hanban” that runs hundreds of Confucius Institutes overseas. On Tuesday, the Chinese Embassy, responding to reports that the “Ministry of Education of India has decided to review Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms jointly established by China’s Confucius Institute and 7 Indian universities and colleges, as well as 54 Memoranda of Understanding on inter-school cooperation signed between Indian and Chinese higher education institutions,” said such cooperation had gone on “for more than 10 years”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-dont-politicise-normal-cooperation/article32272693.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Drunk’ man hits 4 vehicles, one killed||A two-wheeler rider, returning from his sister’s house on Rakshabandhan, was killed in Rajendranagar on Monday night after a car driven by an allegedly drunk driver hit him. The accused Boda Keshava (45), a resident of Bapughat near Langar Houz is in catering business and was allegedly driving his brother’s four wheeler, the police said. Police identified the victim as Srinivas, a resident of Kismatpur. Mr Srinivas was hit near pillar number 203 of the PV Narasimha Rao Expressway. He succumbed to the injuries before reaching the hospital. But, Srinivas was not the only victim. According to police, the accused was involved in four road accidents that night. Around 5.45 pm on Monday, after allegedly consuming alcohol, the accused went to Kismatpur village and near the SBI ATM, hit a car and fled the spot. He then allegedly moved towards the Budvel Extension where he hit an autorickshaw. Later, he hit Srinivas after which he moved towards Aramghar. As he approached Mailardevpally, he allegedly crashed into another two-wheeler. Its rider, identified as Gandhari Shiva, was injured. Police said that passersby followed the accused and informed the RGIA police. The accused was then forced to stop the vehicle. Police said that the blood alcohol concentration of the accused was was 550 mg/100 ml. Four cases were registered corresponding to the number of traffic accidents the accused allegedly caused. Sections including culpable homicide were invoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drunk-man-hits-4-vehicles-one-killed/article32272930.ece
05 August 2020||COIMBATORE,||CB-CID yet to confirm Lankan gangster’s identity||The CB-CID’s investigation into the death of a man in Coimbatore, suspected to be Sri Lankan underworld operative Angoda Lokka, will prove a challenge as investigators need to confirm the identity of the foreign national. A mere confession by the accused arrested in the case that the deceased was indeed Lokka may not stand up to judicial scrutiny. “The deceased was Lokka, according to them [the accused]. We need to check and verify his credentials, background and various [pieces of] information about him available in the public domain,” said K. Shankar, Inspector-General of Police, CB-CID. He held a meeting on Tuesday with the seven special teams that have been formed for the investigation. Body cremated Though the body of the deceased was cremated in Madurai on July 5, nearly two days after his death, the viscera samples collected by forensic surgeons during the post-mortem examination remain a source of biological samples for investigation tools such as the DNA profile match. A police officer who had interrogated the accused said the blood relatives of Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka, including his brother and a son born to his first wife, are alive in Sri Lanka. They could be a potential source of samples for DNA profile-matching, the official added. A forensic surgeon with whom The Hindu spoke said the biological samples of parents could be ideal for DNA profile matching, though the samples of sons and brothers could also be used. The police were not sure about the whereabouts of Lokka’s parents. Reaching out to the Sri Lankan government on such matters is expected during the later stages of the investigation as the CB-CID teams are currently focusing on gathering basic details of the deceased and the accused. The CB-CID has registered two separate cases – one related to the death of the man suspected to be Lokka, and the other against three persons for allegedly helping him fabricate documents to obtain identity proof like Aadhaar card and stay in the country illegally. Mr. Shankar said the CB-CID will seek the custody of the three persons as part of the investigation being headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Raju. On Tuesday, CB-CID personnel searched a house at Cheran Ma Nagar where Lokka lived. He had also lived in an apartment at Saravanampatti in Coimbatore, according to the police. Before the CB-CID took over the case, three persons were arrested by the Coimbatore city police — a Sri Lankan woman named Amani Thanji, an advocate named D. Sivakamasundari from Madurai, and her friend S. Dyaneswaran from Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cb-cid-yet-to-confirm-lankan-gangsters-identity/article32272765.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Man gets death for rape, murder of minor||The Special POCSO Act Court on Tuesday awarded the death penalty to Barlapudi Pentaiah, 37, alias Aaya, who raped and murdered a seven-year-old girl in Bhavanipuram area. Pentaiah, a daily wage labourer, committed the crime when the girl, who was his neighbour, came to his house to watch television. She was studying in second standard in a private school. According to Bhavanipuram CI D.K.N. Mohan Reddy, Pentaiah committed the crime when he was alone at home on November 10, 2019. The accused, after committing the offence, smothered the girl to death when she cried in pain. Later, he packed the body in a polythene bag and concealed it in his house. Meanwhile, the girl’s family members lodged a ‘missing’ complaint with the police. The dog squad and clues team which were pressed into service zeroed in on the accused and the police arrested him later. Pentaiah’s wife, who was present at the hearing, urged the judge not to let her husband free and award maximum punishment, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-gets-death-for-rape-murder-of-minor/article32272596.ece
05 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/VIJAYAWADA,||Balladeer Vangapandu passes away||Revolutionary writer and singer Vangapandu Prasada Rao died of ill-health at Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram district on Tuesday. He was 77 and is survived by wife, two sons and one daughter. He hails from Pedabondapalli village of Vizianagaram district. Prasada Rao, who had been associated with the Jana Natya Mandali since 1972, enthralled the masses with his thought- provoking songs and speeches. His famous song ‘Emi pillado Eldamostava’ earned bouquets and brickbats during the release of Ramcharan’s ‘Magadheera’ movie when the writer registered his protest at film actor Chiranjeevi’s residence in 2005-2006. He penned songs for nearly 30 movies, including ‘Ardharatri Swatatantram’ and received many awards including, Kala Ratna, from the State government in the year 2017. A State funeral was accorded to Prasasda Rao at Parvathipuram on the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Parvathipuram Sub-Collector S. Venkateswarulu attended it and ensured protocol was followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/balladeer-vangapandu-passes-away/article32272679.ece
05 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Minor fire at pharma unit in Visakhapatnam||A minor fire broke out at Vijayasri Pharma company at Special Economic Zone (SEZ), Atchutapuram, under Rambili police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. However, no casualties or injuries were reported. Two vehicles parked near the site were partially damaged. Thick smoke engulfed the area after the fire. According to the Rambili police, while filling solvents in tankers, generally there would be some spillage and it somehow reached the drains, located within the boundary wall of the company. Somebody could have thrown a cigarette butt in the drain, which might have led to the fire, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-fire-at-pharma-unit-in-visakhapatnam/article32272684.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala doctor under scanner||A doctor from Kerala may have been among the Islamic State terrorists who stormed a prison in eastern Afghanistan’s Jalalabad on Sunday. The suspect was identified as Ijas Kallukettiya Purayil, 37, a physician from Kasaragod. An NIA official said the agency had no confirmation so far about his involvement, but it was pursuing the leads with other agencies.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-doctor-under-scanner/article32272678.ece
05 August 2020||Raiganj,||BSF jawan shoots dead two colleagues||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan allegedly shot dead two of his colleagues in West Bengal’s North Dinajpur district on Tuesday morning, officials said. BSF Constable Uttam Sutradhar shot dead Inspector Mahendra Singh Bhatti and Constable Anuj Kumar following a scuffle, police said. The incident took place in Bhatun village near the India-Bangladesh border in Raiganj police station area, they said. The two personnel were declared brought dead at a local hospital After shooting his colleagues, Mr. Sutradhar surrendered before his senior. He is now in police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsf-jawan-shoots-dead-two-colleagues/article32273042.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,286 COVID cases detected in Telangana||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana shot up with increase in tests. While 9,443 tests to detect coronavirus were conducted on Sunday and 983 tested positive with 1,414 reports pending, on Monday 13,787 tests were done and 1,286 cases were detected. Results of 919 samples are awaited. The toll reached 563 as 12 more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases include 391 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 121 from Rangareddy, 101 from Karimnagar district. A total of 68,946 cases were detected from March 2 to August 3, inching close to 70,000 cases. Of them, 18,708 are active cases, 49,675 have recovered, and 563 have died. The cumulative tests crossed 5 lakhs on August 3. A total of 5,01,025 tests were conducted. A little over 1.03 lakh tests were conducted in last six days (July 29 - August 3). Regarding beds availability, 3,225 oxygen beds, 880 ICU beds were available in the 56 State government hospitals. And 801 oxygen beds, 489 ICU beds, were available in 88 private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1286-covid-cases-detected-in-telangana/article32272926.ece
05 August 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmir under curfew ahead of anniversary||The Valley wore a deserted look ahead of the first anniversary of withdrawal of J&K’s special status, with a strict curfew imposed in Srinagar and other towns in north and south Kashmir. Additional deployments were made in all pockets where protests are likely. Yellow plastic barricades and coils of concertina wires were spread on all major roads in the city. Security forces used mobile bunkers to block streets in volatile localities. Nazir Ahmad, a milkman from Pulwama, said he could not drive to the old city in Srinagar to deliver milk due to the barricades. “It was a nightmare to leave home. I had to return halfway,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kashmir-under-curfew-ahead-of-anniversary/article32272878.ece
05 August 2020||Kolkata,||State launches tele-education initiative||The West Bengal government on Tuesday launched a tele-education initiative, under which high school students from across the State can dial a toll-free number and ask questions on any subject to teachers concerned, officials said. Aveek Majumder, chairman of an expert committee on curriculum, syllabus and textbooks, said the government aims to make school education ‘inclusive with this programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-launches-tele-education-initiative/article32273044.ece
05 August 2020||Pune,||State reports highest single-day recoveries||Maharashtra reported its highest single-day recoveries on Tuesday, with 12,326 patients being discharged to take the total recoveries till date to 2,99,356. As many as 7,760 new COVID-19 cases were reported across the State on Tuesday, taking the total to 4,57,956 as the number of recoveries outweighed the surge in cases for the third consecutive day. With 300 more deaths, the fatality toll has reached 16,142. The number of active cases has come down to 1,42,151 with the recovery rate rising to 65.37%, State Health Department officials said. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s case fatality rate stands at 3.52%. Mumbai city reported its lowest surge in days with just 709 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-highest-single-day-recoveries/article32273091.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||Heavy rain in Mumbai: govt. offices closed||Heavy showers in Mumbai and neighbouring areas crippled normal life and disrupted rail and road traffic on Tuesday, with essential services workers, like nurses and other medical staff treating COVID-19 patients, finding it difficult to reach hospitals. Several areas in the city and suburbs have received more than 200 mm rainfall since Monday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-in-mumbai-govt-offices-closed/article32273092.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||Hany Babu’s custody extended till August 7||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Tuesday extended the NIA custody for Professor Hany Babu till August 7 as an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence. Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Prakash Shetty representing the NIA said, “During the investigation of the case, it is revealed that Mr. Babu has links with the banned outfit Communist Party of India (Maoist). He was the associate of arrested accused persons in the case.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hany-babus-custody-extended-till-august-7/article32273093.ece
05 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Action plan to clear files||An action plan will be chalked out by the Chief Secretary to clear the backlog of files in the Secretariat as demanded by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department will come up with the guidelines and each department will have to take appropriate steps to clear the pending files, the Chief Minister told department secretaries at a meeting on Tuesday. The Chief Minister asked the secretaries to strengthen the ‘work from home’ concept in the wake of the pandemic and ensure smooth functioning of offices with minimum staff. Priority should be given to clearing the files by those working from home. He said the secretaries should review the pending files every two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/action-plan-to-clear-files/article32273019.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Congress leaders back temple work||Various Congress leaders on Tuesday came out in support of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the ground-breaking ceremony on Wednesday should symbolise “national unity, fraternity and cultural harmony”. Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath, who held a “Hanuman Chalisa” recital at his residence, said the party’s State unit would send 11 silver bricks for the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-leaders-back-temple-work/article32272694.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Order based on misperceptions’||The decision by U.S. President Donald Trump to bar federal agencies from hiring foreign workers appears to be based on “misperceptions and misinformation”, the National Association of Software and Service Companies said.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-based-on-misperceptions/article32272677.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,||State records a new high with 6,259 cases||After seeing a dip in numbers on Monday when it recorded 4,752 cases, Karnataka on Tuesday reported 6,259 new cases, the highest on a single day so far. Previously, the State had recorded almost a similar number on July 30 when 6,128 people had tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-a-new-high-with-6259-cases/article32272724.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Stage carriage fare increased by 15%||The State government has increased the fixed maximum rates for stage carriage by 15%. The decision has not gone down well with people who rely on buses to travel. “It comes at a time when we are facing job loss and salary cuts. The government should have been more sympathetic to our situation and delayed increasing rates,” said a regular commuter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stage-carriage-fare-increased-by-15/article32272725.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU professor quizzed on Delhi riots, phone seized||The police questioned Delhi University professor Apoorvanand on Monday in connection with the communal riots that broke out in the Capital in February. His cell phone was also seized. A senior police officer confirmed the development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/du-professor-quizzed-on-delhi-riots-phone-seized/article32272880.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Daily COVID-19 tests fall by 50% in Delhi||With the number of daily COVID-19 tests falling by 50%, the new cases stayed below the 1,000 mark in Delhi for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. As many as 674 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total of 1,39,156, said a Delhi government health bulletin. Of the total cases, 1,25,226 people have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-covid-19-tests-fall-by-50-in-delhi/article32272881.ece
05 August 2020||Kolkata,||Many gyms in city will open on Aug 6||Many gyms in the city are conducting online demo sessions to tell their patrons about the safety measures in place before opening on August 6. The Centre has declared gyms, which are closed since March end, can open during unlock 3.0 phase from August 5, but the biweekly lockdown falling on that date in West Bengal, many gyms have decided to function from August 6 while others have preferred to wait a little more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-gyms-in-city-will-open-on-aug-6/article32273043.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,||5,063 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded in T.N.||There was a marginal dip in new COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu as 5,063 persons tested positive on Tuesday. However, for the second consecutive day, more than 100 deaths were recorded. Chennai accounted for 1,023 of the fresh cases, taking its tally to 1,04,027.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5063-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-tn/article32272764.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Case doubling time is 65 days in Chennai||The doubling time of COVID-19 cases is 65 days in Chennai and 100 days in a few zones of the city, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Tuesday. “The curve is flattening. Aggressive testing, early diagnosis and integrated treatment has helped. We are continuing to take steps to prevent trans- mission from a person, who has tested positive,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/case-doubling-time-is-65-days-in-chennai/article32273135.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Not joining BJP, says DMK MLA Selvam||Ku. Ka. Selvam, DMK MLA from Thousand Lights, who met BJP president J.P. Nadda in New Delhi on Tuesday, said he was prepared to face any action by his party leadership. Mr. Selvam, who claimed that he was not joining the BJP, when asked by The Hindu what would be his stand if the DMK leadership took action against him, retorted, “I am not bothered about it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-joining-bjp-says-dmk-mla-selvam/article32272763.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Karnataka’s daily cases touch new high of 6,259||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 6,259 new COVID-19 cases, the highest on a single day. Previously, the State recorded a similar number on July 30 when 6,128 people tested positive. The case total now touched 1,45,830 and with 110 new deaths, the toll stood at 2,704. Telangana’s COVID-19 cases rose, as more tests were conducted. While 9,443 tests were done on Sunday and 983 tested positive, on Monday 13,787 tests were offered and 1,286 cases detected. Results of 919 samples were awaited. The death toll touched 563 as 12 more patients passed away. The new cases included 391 from Greater Hyderabad, 121 from Rangareddy and 101 from Karimnagar district. A total of 68,946 cases were detected from March 2 to August 3. Of these, 18,708 were active cases, 49,675 recovered, and 563 died. In all, 5,01,025 tests were conducted, a little over 1.03 lakh tests over July 29 - August 3. The daily tests dropped over the past two days. due to “a series of holidays,” officials said. Andhra Pradesh, which witnessed a slight dip in new cases over the past three days again reported close to 10,000 cases and 67 new deaths on Tuesday. The death toll rose to 1,604 and with 9,747 fresh cases, the tally increased to 1,76,333. Three districts reported more than 1,000 cases each and Guntur reported 12 deaths in a day. New cases and deaths: East Godavari (1371 cases, 7 deaths), Anantapur (1325, 6), Kurnool (1016, 8), Guntur (940,12), Visakhapatnam (863, 2), Kadapa(765, 0), West Godavari (612, 1), Vizianagaram (591, 1), Nellore (557, 7), Srikakulam (537,6), Chittoor (526,7), Krishna (420,9), Prakasam (224, 1). Samples tested went up to 21,75,070 with 64,147 tests on Monday. Kerala reported 1,083 new cases and 1,021 recoveries on Tuesday. The cumulative cases rose to 27,956 and 11, 540 people were under treatment in hospitals. Three deaths at Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode and Ernakulam were officially added to the toll, which rose to 87. Of 1,083 new cases, 968 were locally acquired infections, including 16 health workers.   In Karnataka, Bengaluru Urban reported 2,035 cases and 30 deaths. The city now touched 63,033 cases. Of 73,846 active cases, 634 were in ICUs. Also, 42,458 tests including 29,488 Rapid Antigen Tests were done in the last 24 hours.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnatakas-daily-cases-touch-new-high-of-6259/article32272617.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi/Bhopal,||Nath leads prayers, Baghel hails event||On the eve of the Ram temple ceremony in Ayodhya, Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on Tuesday said the character of Lord Ram was the thread that connected everyone in the subcontinent, from north to south, east to west. In a statement in Hindi on Twitter, Ms. Vadra said, “Simplicity, courage, restraint, sacrifice, commitment are the essence of Deenbandhu Rama. Ram is present in everyone, Ram is with everyone. With the message and blessings of Lord Ram and Mother Sita, the bhoomi pujan of Ramlala’s temple should become an occasion for national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony.” Senior Congress leaders, from former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath to Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari, articulated their support for the temple to counter the narrative that the “Congress is caught in a dilemma”. Mr. Nath credited former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi for opening the lock of the earlier temple at the disputed site in 1985. Earlier, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) had welcomed the Supreme Court order that paved the way for the temple at Ayodhya. Visible embrace The Congress party’s visible embrace of the Ram Mandir ceremony, however, is also an attempt to politically counter the ruling BJP that stands to gain in the Hindi-belt States, such as Uttar Pradesh, M.P., Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Bihar. Taking a cue from Mr. Nath, Congress workers organised Human Chalisa programmes across Madhya Pradesh. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel announced plans to develop religious sites such as Chandkhuri, believed to be the maternal home of Lord Ram, Kaushalya Mata temple complex and Turturiya’s Valmiki Ashram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nath-leads-prayers-baghel-hails-event/article32272633.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown helped save lives: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry informed the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health on Tuesday that the nationwide lockdown from March 25 to May 31 helped save between 37,000 and 78,000 lives. This was the first meeting of the standing committee on health, chaired by Samajwadi Party MP Ramgopal Yadav, since Parliament abruptly shut on March 23. The claim came as India on Sunday for the first time added the highest number of fresh cases globally. India’s count of 53,641 cases was higher than the infections detected in the U.S. at 49,038 and Brazil, 24,801. A graded response employed by the government of India has paid off dividends, the Ministry said. Quoting projections from Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Indian Statistical Institute, Public Health Foundation of India and Boston Consulting Group, the Ministry has claimed that 14-29 lakh cases could be averted and 37,000 to 78,000 deaths could be averted. A similar assertion was made in May by V.K. Paul, the head of India’s COVID-19 task force. In April, Mr. Paul had also shown a statistical estimate that the fresh cases would dip to zero by May 16. The Ministry said India has been ahead of the world in taking steps to arrest the spread of the infection. The Health Ministry in its presentation to the standing committee said that 12 days before the first case was detected in India (on January 30), the first travel advisory warning against travel to China was issued on January 12. “Partial lockdown was imposed after 52 days at stage II with 360 active cases and complete lockdown on the 55th day. Globally, most countries went for a complete lockdown only on stage III with cases ranging from 4,000 to 12,000,” the Ministry claimed. The Health Ministry said there has been a continuous decline in the growth rate of cases. At the time of Unlock 1.0, the cases were rising at the rate of 35% and by Unlock 2.0 on July 31, the rate was down to 5%. The government also sought to compare the available health infrastructure with that of the U.S., Brazil, Russia and U.K. India spends the lowest percentage of its GDP on health infrastructure compared to these four countries and it has the lowest hospital beds per 10,000 persons ratio. COVID-19 deaths per million India is at the very bottom of the tally. In the U.S., this rate is 478, Brazil 443, Russia 97 and U.K. 680.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-helped-save-lives-health-ministry/article32272647.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Kerala doctor suspected to be among Afghan jail attackers||A doctor from Kerala may have been among the Islamic State (IS) terrorists who stormed a prison in eastern Afghanistan’s Jalalabad on Sunday. The suspect was identified as Ijas Kallukettiya Purayil (37), a physician from Kasargod in Kerala. A National Investigation Agency (NIA) official said on Tuesday that the agency had no confirmation so far about his involvement in the prison attack, but it was pursuing the leads with other security agencies. Ijas’s photograph, along with those of ten others, was released by the propaganda wing of the ISKP on various social media accounts on Tuesday. At least two more Indians are said to have been part of the group that detonated car bombs at the entrance of the prison gate in Jalalabad on Sunday. In the photo, Ijas is holding a sophisticated weapon with the typical black IS flag forming the background. Around 30 persons were killed in the attack. All the eleven attackers are said to have been killed by the Afghanistan security forces. Ijas left India with his wife Raffeala (29) and son in 2016 to join the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP). He is wanted by the NIA that has also issued a red notice against him and Raffeala. Raffeala is presently lodged in a prison in Afghanistan. She and other Indian women who had joined the ISKP were among thousands of IS fighters and affiliates, including children, who surrendered before the Afghanistan authorities in November-December last year. Raffeala was interrogated by Indian agencies in Kabul last year. She had then claimed that she was paid Rs. 5,000 by a Pakistani woman while leaving the IS controlled territory in Nangarhar. Gurdwara attack This is the second instance of an Indian being involved in a terror attack in Afghanistan in less than six months. The March 25 Gurdwara attack in Kabul when an Indian was killed was executed by Muhammed Muhsin, a 29-year-old man from Kerala’s Kasargod, who was also killed in the attack. This incident was also claimed by the ISKP. Both Ijas and Muhsin were part of a group of 21 men and women who left India in 2016 to join the ISKP. According to an NIA chargesheet filed in 2017, the main suspect, Abdul Rashid, used to conduct “pro-ISIS classes” at the residence of Dr. Ijas in Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-doctor-suspected-to-be-among-afghan-jail-attackers/article32272669.ece
05 August 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmir under curfew ahead of anniversary||The Kashmir Valley wore a deserted look ahead of the first anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s (J&K) special status, with a strict curfew imposed in Srinagar and other towns in north and south Kashmir. Additional deployments were made in all pockets where protests are likely. Yellow plastic barricades and coils of concertina wires were spread on all major streets and roads in the city. Security forces used mobile bunkers to block streets in volatile localities. Nazir Ahmad, a milkman from Pulwama, said he could not drive to the old city in Srinagar to deliver milk due to the permanent barricades erected by the security forces at multiple places. “It was a nightmare to leave home. I had to return halfway,” he said. Even ambulances had to wait at the checkpoints before the security forces removed the concertina wires. Highways closed down Highways and main markets were closed in the towns of Anantnag, Baramulla, Kulgam, Pulwama and Shopian. A clampdown was also launched against the PDP leaders, who recently called for observing August 5 as a “black day”. A PDP spokesman said Rouf Bhat, a PDP leader, was detained ahead of the anniversary. “Bhat has been detained by the police since the party decided to organise peaceful protests on August 5 and observe it as black day. This is ‘Naya Kashmir’,” tweeted Iltija Mufti, daughter of incarcerated PDP president Mehbooba Mufti. The J&K administration on Monday said there were inputs about possible protests and violence by Pakistan-sponsored groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmir-under-curfew-ahead-of-anniversary/article32272631.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC reserves orders in lawyer case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved for orders a decade-old contempt case against noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan, whose office said he refused to apologise but has agreed to issue a statement that his remarks about judicial “corruption” in an interview to Tehelka magazine in 2009, was not meant to hurt judges’ families or tarnish the judiciary. A two-page judicial order published later in the day said the court was yet to receive the “explanation/apology” “submitted” by Mr. Bhushan and Tarun Tejpal, the then editor-in-chief of Tehelka . Post explanation The three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra said it would hear the contempt case if “we do not accept the explanation/apology”. The flow of events on Tuesday started with a surprise when Justice Mishra asked senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Mr. Bhushan, to suggest a “solution” in the case. “You [Mr. Bhushan] may have crossed the thin line between freedom of speech and contempt. But this system belongs to you... Can you [to Mr. Dhavan] suggest some solution to avoid this rigmarole? You can solve it. You have to save the grace of this system because it belongs to you all... You suggest to us a solution,” Justice Mishra asked. The interaction between Justice Mishra and Mr. Dhavan happened in the brief moments when the virtual court proceedings was available on the TV screen in the media room situated inside the Supreme Court annexe building. Presspersons saw Mr. Dhavan being connected on his mobile phone before the screen went blank. The rest of the hearing was done away from the public eye. A communication released by Mr. Bhushan’s office later in the day filled in that the judges heard Mr. Dhavan and senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Mr. Tejpal, on a WhatsApp call. During this interaction, Mr. Bhushan refused to apologise, and said the word “corruption” was used in the interview in a wide sense to mean “lack of propriety”. He did not intend to mean the judiciary was financially corrupt. “If what I have said caused hurt to any of them or to their families in any way, I regret the same,” Mr. Bhushan’s office communication quoted from a statement he has agreed to issue. Plea for full hearing The communication went on to say that the judges again assembled in the afternoon and “Justice Mishra indicated that he may pass an order holding that any statement of corruption in the judiciary would amount to per se contempt”. Mr. Dhavan responded that the court should first hear the parties fully on facts and law. It was after this that the court reserved the case for orders. Another case A suo motu contempt case instituted against Mr. Bhushan this year is listed before the same Bench on August 5. On June 22, the Bench had initiated suo motu contempt proceedings against Mr. Bhushan for his tweets on the “role” of the apex court in the “last six years” and about a photograph of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on a motorbike. The court had observed in the order that the tweets undermined the dignity of the Supreme Court and the office of the Chief Justice in the public eye. Mr. Bhushan has replied that an expression of an opinion or bonafide anguish, however unpalatable or outspoken, does not amount to contempt by scandalising the court. Veteran journalists N. Ram and Arun Shourie, along with Mr. Bhushan, have filed a separate writ petition challenging “scandalising the court” as an “incurable vague” ground to initiate contempt in a democracy. They have said it may affect the rights to dissent and free speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-reserves-orders-in-lawyer-case/article32272644.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Lessons from the DU experience||Six years after Delhi University’s (DU) four-year degree experiment ended in ignominy, with the University Grants Commission (UGC) shutting down the programme after vociferous protests from a section of students and faculty, the National Education Policy (NEP) has brought the concept back into the spotlight and recommends its implementation across the country. For the then DU vice chancellor Dinesh Singh, who had to resign when his brainchild programme was struck down, the NEP is something of a vindication. “The NEP proposal mirrors many aspects of our programme at DU. We had also proposed a holistic, flexible educational experience,” he says, noting that he was aiming at wider change than the simple addition of an extra year. He relates the experience of discovering that top multinational finance companies which interviewed 1,200 students at DU had found only three worth hiring, because students simply did not have basic holistic knowledge to succeed in the real world. “In that one year that we implemented the four-year degree, DU shot up to around 200 in the global rankings, higher than most IITs. Today, it is around the 800 rank mark,” he says. Emerging job market The head of the NEP’s drafting committee K. Kasturirangan agrees that Prof. Singh’s initiative was a “visionary step” at that time. “We must recognise that a student’s knowledge base must be sufficiently flexible to cope with a 21st century job scenario,” he says. “At that time in DU, there was concern among students about whether they would gain anything from an extra year, as well as among teachers objecting to the additional work that would have to be put in to teach a four-year degree.” He hopes that the clear options to exit the programme at all levels with a specific set of knowledge and skills will assuage student concerns. With regard to teachers, he notes that extra work will come not so much in the form of additional teaching hours, but in terms of a changed pedagogy. “Professors need to be able to make connections between multiple disciplines,” he says. Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare agrees that the change needs to go beyond simply tacking an extra year on to the existing system. “Modular courses are being prepared between now and May 2021, which will add value. Right from first to fourth year, there will be a research component. It’s not just adding a year, but restructuring from the first to the fourth year,” he says. However, he feels that the biggest change from the stymied DU experiment will be the strength of numbers. “Dinesh Singh was alone in that ecosystem. This time, we are saying that all the Institutes of Eminence (IoE) together will change. So you have a group of 20 universities who are changing, not just one in the entire country,” he said. National framework Even the players that brought about the downfall of the DU initiative six years ago are more enthused because of the countrywide implementation being planned now. “When there was no national framework, we worried that our students would suffer by being the only ones who have to do an extra year. If it’s part of a national policy, the issues can be tackled nationally,” says Rajib Ray, president of the DU Teachers’ Associations. Dr. Ray added that it is yet to be seen if the NEP’s implementers are willing to put in the necessary homework, and hold consultations with teachers and other stakeholders before the next academic year. Prof. Singh agrees that extensive preparation is needed, noting that he took two years to train those teaching first year students alone before introducing the 4-year degree earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lessons-from-the-du-experience/article32272667.ece
05 August 2020||Kozhikode/Malappuram,||An unhappy IUML leaves Congress in a spot||The Congress Kerala leadership has been caught in a Catch-22 situation after senior leaders, including All India Congress Committee general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, publicly supported the Ayodhya Ram Mandir Bhoomi Pujan on Wednesday. A miffed Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on Tuesday decided to convene a meeting of its national executive committee to be anchored from Panakkad, near here, on Wednesday. The meeting will decide how to respond to Ms. Gandhi’s statements on the Ram temple. Congress leaders in Kerala have been maintaining a muted response even after the IUML-backed Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama criticised the party for a section of national leadership’s dramatic shift in the Ayodhya stance. Disappointment is palpable in the IUML. “We do not agree with the statements of Ms. Gandhi and Kamal Nath. We do not know what made them issue such statements. We will respond suitably after our national leadership meeting at 11 a.m. on Wednesday,” said IUML organising secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP. What has infuriated the Samastha is the statements of former Madhya Pradesh Chief Ministers Digvijay Singh and Mr. Nath. It lashed out at the party for sacrificing its secular credentials for political gains. Incidentally, Mr. Nath, who is also the Madhya Pradesh Congress president, hosted a ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ recital at his residence besides sending 11 silver bricks for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Congress hopeful However, Congress leaders are hopeful that the dust would naturally settle. The Samastha leaders deplored the statements of Mr. Nath that the foundation of the upcoming Ram temple had been led by former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi who had opened the Ram Janmabhoomi temple in 1985. The soft-Hindutva approach being adopted by the Congress would only sound the death knell for the party. It would be suicidal for the Congress if the party towed the political line of the BJP instead of exposing its Hindutva agenda, they added. The Jamaat-e-Islami would observe August 5 as black day in protest against the ceremony at Ayodhya, M.I. Abdul Aziz , its Kerala Amir, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/an-unhappy-iuml-leaves-congress-in-a-spot/article32272981.ece
05 August 2020||Hyderabad,||‘32 from Telangana, A.P. make it to Civils’||Aspirants from two Telugu states reaped a good harvest in the Civil Services examination this year with the topper being Pedditi Dhatri Reddy, who secured 46th rank at the all-India level. The list of final selections was released on Tuesday. Ms. Dhatri Reddy cracked the services last year and is undergoing training at the National Police Academy. She has secured IAS in her third attempt while last year’s success was her second attempt. She is a graduate of IIT Kharagpur and worked in a multi-national bank before she took to Civil Services. She hails from Gundlabavi village near Choutuppal in Yadadri district. The second highest ranker in the State is likely to be Katta Ravi Teja of Hyderabad, who is already into Indian Postal Services. This graduate from IIT Delhi has secured 77th rank while he got 349th rank last year. Gopala Krishna, Director, Brain Tree Hyderabad, said that 32 aspirants from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were certified for appointment this year, including 12 who had been trained from his institute at various levels. He said the result was on expected lines and this was the first year the EWS reservation was implemented and many more could qualify for various services once the final list was released. Analog IAS Academy claimed that its candidates from across India secured good ranks in the results. In a statement here, Srikanth V of the Academy said 61 candidates who were trained in their academies in Hyderabad, Bangalore and Delhi branches emerged successful. R. C. Reddy Study Circle in a statement here said 14 candidates from their institute secured ranks this year including Mallavarapu Surya Teja, 76th ranker. Other rankers from the State include Manda Makarand from Siddipet (110), B. Prakash Goud from Choutuppal (218), Sirisetty Sankeerth from Bellampally (330), Banoth Mrugenderlal from Raghunathpalem (505) and D. Vinaykanth from Siddipet (516). Rambabu Paladugu of La Excellence in a statement here said that 50% of selections this year were from previously selected students and majority of them were from the IITs. Out of the 32 students who had been declared selected, 24 appeared from the Hyderabad centre. Overall, this year selections are 829 while it was 759 last year. Four from Nalgonda Four aspirants from undivided Nalgonda made it to the final list. Pedditi Dhatri Reddy secured 46th rank. Badeti Sathya Prakash, also from Choutuppal, bagged the 218th rank. Huzurnagar’s Pinnani Sandeep Kumar stood at 244. A probationary officer with a bank in Adilabad, Renukuntla Sheetal Kumar of Nalgonda town, secured 417th rank. Minister T. Harish Rao congratulated the two that were selected from Siddipet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/32-from-ts-ap-make-it-to-civils/article32272944.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC directs States to provide support to senior citizens||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the States to provide care, support and priority medical treatment for senior citizens, especially those living alone or quarantined, amid the pandemic. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan ordered that the governments had to respond promptly to the needs of senior citizens and ensure that they did not suffer financially during COVID-19. The elderly should get their pension on time, it said. “All old-age people who are eligible for pension should be regularly paid pension and those identified older people, should be provided necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods by respective States,” the court ordered. Senior advocate Ashwani Kumar, who moved the court, said many elderly persons were battling loneliness and depression. The lockdown and social isolation imposed had left many of them in the grip of anxiety, Mr. Kumar, a former Union Law Minister, said. The court said senior citizens should be given priority in government hospital admissions during the pandemic. The Bench directed that caregivers in old-age homes should wear personal protection equipment (PPE) and follow proper sanitation procedures. The court agreed to take up the case after four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-directs-states-to-provide-support-to-senior-citizens/article32272625.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘50 districts account for 66% case load’||There is currently no specific drug or vaccine for COVID-19 and while the pandemic is progressing rapidly, vaccine development is taking time, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava said at a press conference on Tuesday. He emphasised that social distancing and hygiene continue to be the best protection against the virus. The Union Health Ministry said the country had now registered its lowest COVID-19 case fatality rate at 2.1%, with 50% deaths registered in the age group of 60 or above and 37% in the 45-60 age group. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “While COVID-19 has spread to newer areas, India’s current case load of 66% is from 50 districts and 82% cases are limited to 10 States. In the last 24 hours, 0.27% of the total active cases are on ventilators across the country and at no point did we reach the 1% mark of patients using ventilators. Currently, we are not concerned about under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths as the Ministry had issued written guidelines about deaths that should be categorised as COVID deaths. India now has 5,86,298 active COVID-19 cases with over 12 lakh recoveries”. India had done over 2 crore tests, which included both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests. Cumulative positivity The cumulative positivity of the country was now 8.89% and the States with positivity less than 10% were Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Assam, West Bengal and Karnataka. “Last week’s positivity in India was 11%, which means a few States are showing a rise in COVID-19 cases,” he observed. Speaking about the progress India had made in terms of making ventilators, he said that in 2019, the Indian ventilator market was roughly estimated as 8,510 units, valued at Rs. 444.74 crore. “Today, we find ourselves in a comfortable position on ventilators and currently 96% ventilators being procured are indigenous. Also, of the 60,000 ventilators procured, 50,000 were funded by the PM-Cares Fund, which comes to about 2000 crore,” he said. Dr. Bhargava said States have been asked to enhance their number of tests, analyse their data and mount a response that was appropriate. Many States have increased their testing capacity, both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests, with several performing more than 140 tests a day per million population. “Goa, Delhi, Tripura and Tamil Nadu have increased their testing capacity,” he noted. Giving details of vaccine development, Dr. Bhargava said 141 vaccine candidates were under consideration, with 26 of these under clinical trials. “At the present moment, in India, we have three vaccines that are in different phases of clinical testing. Two indigenous ones — the Bharat Biotech vaccine and the DNA vaccine of Zydus Cadila have completed phase 1 and will begin phase 2, while the Oxford vaccine is in phase 2 and 3 currently,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/50-districts-account-for-66-case-load/article32272653.ece
05 August 2020||Patna,||Bihar recommends CBI probe into actor’s death||The Bihar government on Tuesday recommended a CBI investigation into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. On Monday, MLAs cutting across party lines in the Assembly demanded a CBI investigation. “The State government has recommended the case lodged by K.K. Singh (father of late Sushant Singh Rajput) in death case of late Sushant Singh Rajput, for probe to CBI,” Chief Minister Nitish Kumar tweeted on Tuesday. Earlier, he told presspersons that since the family members of Sushant Singh Rajput wanted a CBI probe, his government had recommended the case to the agency. Speaking to media, Mr. Kumar also expressed surprise over the Mumbai police “not cooperating” with Bihar police officials who had gone there for investigation into the case. “It is surprising that none in Mumbai police is even picking up phone calls of the Bihar DGP,” he said. On Monday, he said that “whatever Mumbai police is doing with a Bihar police official is not proper.” Young IPS officer Vinay Tiwari, who was sent to Mumbai to lead a four-member Bihar police team for investigation into the case, was said to be “forcibly quarantined” in Mumbai. BJP MLA and cousin of the deceased actor Neeraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’ told The Hindu, “Now as the State government had recommended a CBI inquiry into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, we believe the truth will come out…we’re thankful to the leaders of all political parties and the Chief Minister as well for recommending the inquiry to CBI.” Ruling JD(U) leader and party spokesperson Sanjay Singh said, “now those related to the case will come out in the open, though Bihar police too were capable but as it was everyone’s demand the government recommend a CBI inquiry into the case”. The Opposition RJD and Congress leaders too welcomed the move. On Monday, Bihar legislators had raised an unanimous demand for a CBI investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-recommends-cbi-probe-into-actors-death/article32272671.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ahead of FATF meet, India to highlight Pakistan’s inaction||Ahead of the crucial Financial Action Task Force (FATF) meetings in October, when Pakistan’s performance in acting against terror-financing infrastructure will be assessed, Indian agencies plan to highlight its inaction in the Pulwama, 26/11 Mumbai attack and Daniel Pearl murder cases. “The Pakistani establishment has to prove that it is serious about dismantling the terror-funding infrastructure, which is possible only by ensuring that cases against the key figures and organisations involved in raising funds and masterminding terror attacks attain finality and such elements are punished. Given that no such concrete steps are being taken, we need to flag the issue,” said a government official. Indian agencies are sharing details with key FATF members of the Pulwama attack in February 2019, in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel lost their lives and many were injured. About a month ago, the National Investigation Agency arrested an alleged Jaish-e-Mohammad conduit for providing shelter and logistical support to those involved in the attack. The agency has so far arrested seven persons in the case. Mumbai attacks Another case pertains to the 26/11 Mumbai attacks carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in 2008, in which six U.S. citizens were killed. “The United States has also repeatedly asked Pakistan to bring four accused persons, Mazhar Iqbal, Sajid Mir, Abu Qahafa and Abdur Rehman Hashim Syed, to justice,” said the official. A case against seven accused, including Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, has been pending before a Pakistan anti-terror court since 2009. Top LeT figures like Hafiz Saeed were never arraigned. The Daniel Pearl abduction and murder case has also not attained finality in terms of action against those involved. “About 18 years ago, Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh and three others were convicted. However, on April 2, the Sindh High Court overturned it and reduced the death sentence to seven years in jail, effectively setting him free. His accomplices, who were sentenced to life, were also acquitted,” the official said. Hearing deferred The Sindh government appealed in the Supreme Court, which in July refused to suspend the High Court’s judgment and deferred the hearing to September 22. “The likelihood of bringing in fresh and compelling evidence or highlighting serious flaws in the High Court ruling now appears to be remote,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ahead-of-fatf-meet-india-to-highlight-pakistans-inaction/article32272663.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||24 million may drop out of school due to pandemic: UN||Almost 24 million children are at risk of not returning to school next year due to the economic fallout of COVID-19, according to the United Nation’s policy brief on the pandemic’s impact on education, released on Tuesday. The educational financing gap is also likely to increase by one third, it said. More than 1.6 billion learners across the world have been affected by the disruption of the education system, but the pandemic has also served to exacerbate existing disparities, with vulnerable populations in low-income countries taking a harder and longer hit. For example, during the second quarter of 2020, 86% of children at the primary level have been effectively out of school in poor countries, compared to just 20% in highly developed countries. “UNESCO estimates that 23.8 million additional children and youth [from pre-primary to tertiary] may drop out or not have access to school next year due to the pandemic’s economic impact alone. The number of children not returning to their education after the school closures is likely to be even greater,” says the policy brief, adding that girls and young women are likely to be disproportionately affected as school closures make them more vulnerable to child marriage, early pregnancy and gender-based violence. Even for those who do not drop out of school, learning losses could be severe, especially in the foundational years. “Simulations on developing countries participating in the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) suggest that without remediation, a loss of learning by one-third [equivalent to a three-month school closure] during Grade 3 might result in 72% of students falling so far behind that by Grade 10 they will have dropped out or will not be able to learn anything in school,” says the brief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/24-million-may-drop-out-of-school-due-to-pandemic-un/article32272665.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,||HC directs govt. to lay down standard protocol for panel to monitor hospitals||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to lay down a standard protocol for the systematic functioning of the State-Level Committee (SLC), set up as per the apex court’s directions to inspect, monitor and supervise COVID-19 hospitals and COVID Care Centres (CCCs). The SLC and similar committees set up for Bengaluru city and other districts also must have a uniform protocol to ensure that they evaluate facilities such as ambulances, hygiene, and the quality of food served to patients at hospitals and CCCs. As the SLC has already begun its works, the court directed the member-secretary to submit the protocol already followed by the committee. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the directions while hearing PIL petitions on issues related to COVID-19 health management. Medical certificate The Bench also directed the government to ensure that medical certificates issued in cases should be strictly as per the forms prescribed under Karnataka Registration of Births and Deaths Rules, 1999, and COVID-19 should not be unnecessarily mentioned in the certificate issued either by hospitals or individual medical practitioners when the cause for death is not related to the disease. The Bench asked the government to consider enhancing the accident insurance scheme to Rs. 50 lakh from the present Rs. 30 lakh for the police, fire force, and Home Guard personnel, anganwadi workers, pourakarmikas, sanitation workers, and sanitation-related vehicle drivers and loaders, in case of death due to COVID-19 duty. It should be on a par with the Union government’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package. Though the government said it had received complaints on the death of Manjunath S.T., who was a doctor serving at a government primary health centre at Kanakapura in Ramanagaram district after he was allegedly denied admission by three private hospitals in the city in the absence of a COVID-19 test report, the Bench directed the authorities to conduct an inquiry and submit a report. Hearing on purchases The Bench also said it would on August 6 hear the plea complaining about alleged illegalities in purchase of equipment at exorbitant rates for handling the pandemic by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-directs-govt-to-lay-down-standard-protocol-for-panel-to-monitor-hospitals/article32272727.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala police enforce epidemic control restrictions||The police on Tuesday fanned out across population centres to enforce the COVID-19 pandemic control regulations even as growing rumblings of political discontent with the government’s decision to grant wide-ranging powers to the law enforcement appeared to get louder by the day. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala told Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in an open letter that “this is a health crisis and not a law and order crisis”. Mr Vijayan had imposed a police raj on the people to cover up the shortcomings of his government. The pandemic-hit population deserved care, understanding, and empathy. However, the government imposed hefty fines on the people and arrested and humiliated them for minor infractions. It had created an atmosphere of terror. Kerala was in the grip of an unforgiving and cruel police state, he said. The protracted lockdown and heavy police presence on the street appeared to have triggered public resentment in some measure in several places. This also seemed to be laying the ground incrementally for political protests in the coming days. Traders’ protest For one, traders in Chalai in the capital gathered at the market. They threatened to open shops on August 9 in defiance of the lockdown. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has thrown in its lot with the traders. BJP MLA O. Rajagopal inaugurated a protest at Attingal. The police slapped a case on him. In a directive late Monday, State Police Chief Loknath Behera ordered strict enforcement of curfew and lockdown norms in containment zones. However, officers should make allowance for home delivery of essential items. Motorcycle patrols scoured containment zones and the police also carried out aerial surveillance with the help of drones. Officers verified the location of persons in quarantine by checking their mobile phone location. The police also set up checkpoints on important roads across the State to prevent overloading of passengers in vehicles and ensure compliance with the pandemic protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-police-enforce-epidemic-control-restrictions/article32272606.ece
05 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Leave Haryana for talks, Cong. tells rebels||The Congress on Tuesday offered to hold discussions with dissident MLAs, led by the ousted Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, if they gave up the hospitality of the BJP government in Haryana and the security of Haryana police. The legislators of the Pilot camp have been staying in hotels near Gurugram since the political turmoil in the State started last month. Congress’ national spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala, told reporters outside a resort in Jaisalmer, where the MLAs supporting Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot are staying, that the only condition for talks with the rebel MLAs was that they should leave the Manohar Lal Khattar government’s ‘ suraksha chakra’ (protection ring). “More than 1,000 policemen are deployed for the security of 19 MLAs, when gangrapes are happening in Haryana and people are being beaten up in Gurugram,” Mr. Surjewala said. The legislators should first give up the Haryana police’s security and “friendship and hospitality” of the BJP and return home for any dialogue to take place, he added. The Congress has repeatedly accused the BJP of attempting to topple the Ashok Gehlot government, while Mr. Gehlot has charged his former deputy with being involved in the conspiracy with the BJP. ‘Fight for self-respect’ Hours after Mr. Surjewala made the remarks, three MLAs supporting Mr. Pilot issued a statement affirming that their fight was about “self-respect” and against the working style of Mr. Gehlot. The legislators — Hemaram Chaudhary, Ved Prakash Solanki and Indraj Singh — said Mr. Pilot was “humiliated and systematically marginalised” within the State government and deprived of authority despite holding the post of Deputy CM. In an attempt to keep his flock of MLAs together, Mr. Gehlot has taken several decisions in the last week to address the grievances of elected representatives as well the people of their constituencies. In addition to the declaration of public holiday on the World Indigenous People's Day, the Chief Minister has announced 5% reservation for Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in the judicial service. The public holiday will make an impact in the tribal-dominated areas in southern Rajasthan, where the Bharatiya Tribal Party emerged strong in the 2018 Assembly election and won two seats. The support of the two BTP MLAs is going to be crucial for the Congress in the Assembly session. The decision to extend job quota to MBCs, which include Gujjars, was apparently aimed at sending a message to all communities that Mr. Pilot’s rebellion would not affect the Congress government’s welfare measures. Mr. Gehlot has also announced opening of government colleges in several districts, including in constituencies represented by the dissident MLAs. Besides, a large number of officers have been transferred on the requests of MLAs and an assurance was held out at a Congress Legislature Party meeting that the MLAs’ local area development fund would shortly be increased. Meanwhile, the Special Operations Group of Rajasthan police on Tuesday requested the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate's court here to transfer the investigation in three cases in connection with alleged attempts to topple the State government to the Anti-Corruption Bureau after removing Section 124-A (sedition) of IPC from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leave-haryana-for-talks-cong-tells-rebels/article32272628.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Historic, emotional day: Advani||On the eve of the bhoomi pujan (ground breaking) ceremony for a Ram temple in Ayodhya, former Deputy Prime minister L.K. Advani, considered one of the protagonists of the Ram temple movement and whose invitation to the ceremony is still shrouded in confusion, released a statement terming the proposed temple as one that would usher in Ram Rajya in India and as a representation of a “strong, prosperous, peaceful and harmonious nation” with “justice for all and exclusion of none”. Mr. Advani, who led a Rath Yatra drumming up mass support for the movement in the early 1990s and was arrested in Bihar subsequently, is considered one of the main architects of the movement, but will not be attending the ceremony in person on Wednesday. Aides were unclear whether he would be attending it via video conference. In his statement, Mr. Advani said the construction of the temple was like a dream come true for him. “Sometimes, significant dreams in one’s life take a long time to fruition, but when they are finally realised, the wait becomes very worthwhile. One such dream close to my heart is getting fulfilled,” he said. “Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is laying the foundation for the construction of the Shri Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, the birthplace of Shri Ram. It is indeed a historical and emotional day, not only for me, but for all Indians,” he said. He said that the construction of the temple was both a “desire and a mission” for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and that he feels humbled that “destiny made me perform a pivotal duty in the form of the Ram Rath Yatra from Somnath to Ayodhya in 1990 which helped galvanise the aspirations, energies and passions of countless participants.” Acknowledging the role of Hindu holy men and leaders, he stated that a “decisive” Supreme Court verdict had led to the beginning of the construction in an “environment of tranquillity”. “Shri Ram occupies an esteemed place in India’s cultural and civilisational heritage and is the embodiment of grace, dignity and decorum,” he said. “It is also my belief that Shri Ram Mandir will represent India as a strong, peaceful and harmonious nation with justice for all and exclusion of none.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/historic-emotional-day-advani/article32272635.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Numbers of rapid antigen tests go up||Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) now made up 25%-30% of the tests that were being conducted in India, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava said at a press conference on Tuesday. According to the latest testing figures, the ICMR said that it had tested nearly 6.6 lakh samples in a single day and, overall, India had tested over 20 million samples. The agency, however, has not provided a break up of how many of these tests were RAT, and Dr. Bhargava’s statement is the first indication by the agency of the growing importance of this test. Rapid Antigen Tests are quick and are said to be very reliable in confirming if someone has tested positive for the virus. However, it has a low sensitivity or that it can also miss — sometimes as many as 50% — of those who may be carrying the infection. Therefore, the ICMR advisory has been to retest all those who test negative for the test and those who manifest symptoms. Critics have pointed out that not retesting enough negatives, as per the ICMR guidelines, will lead to several asymptomatic infections being undetected, and whet the spread of the infection. “When we started antigen tests, they were about 5%-6% of the total tests and they are constantly rising to about 25%-30%,” Dr. Bhargava said. “It takes about five days for fever-like symptoms to manifest and there’s a big chance that in that period, both RT-PCR and antigen tests may miss detecting the virus. The same goes for asymptomatics. In that sense, both are similar for finding a positive case. States have been told to use an intelligent and calibrated testing policy depending on which area needs more testing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/numbers-of-rapid-antigen-tests-go-up/article32272642.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army to convene selection board for women personnel||After receiving the formal Government Sanction Letter (GSL) for grant of Permanent Commission (PC) to women officers, the Army headquarters is in the process of convening a special selection board for screening women officers for grant of PC. “Towards this end, detailed administrative instructions have been issued to all affected women officers, giving out guidelines for submission of applications for consideration by the board,” the Army said in a statement on Tuesday. Women officers who joined the Army through the Women Special Entry Scheme (WSES) and Short Service Commission Women (SSCW), are being considered. Submission of papers They have all been instructed to submit their application forms, option certificate and other related documents to the Army headquarters not later than August 31, it stated. “Specimen formats and detailed checklists have been included in the administrative instructions to facilitate correct documentation,” the Army said, adding the selection board will be scheduled immediately after receipt and verification of applications. On July 23, the Defence Ministry issued the GSL specifying grant of PC to women officers in all streams in which they presently serve — Army Air Defence, Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, Army Service Corps, Army Ordnance Corps and Intelligence Corps in addition to the existing streams of Judge and Advocate General and Army Educational Corps. The orders follow the Supreme Court verdict in February, in which it directed the government that women officers in the Army be granted PC and command postings in all services other than combat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-to-convene-selection-board-for-women-personnel/article32272661.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Siddaramaiah too tests positive, hospitalised||A day after Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa contracted COVID-19, Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, 73, also tested positive for the infection. He was admitted to Manipal Hospital, where Mr. Yediyurappa too is undergoing treatment, late on Monday, with symptoms. Mr. Siddaramaiah’s 57-year-old wife, Parvathi Siddaramaiah, and son, Yathindra Siddaramaiah, who is also Varuna MLA, have tested negative. Five other persons who work in his house also tested negative. Stating that his 73-year-old father could have contracted the infection possibly during his press conferences in Mandya and Mysuru in the last few days, Dr. Yathindra appealed to all those who had come in contact with him recently to isolate themselves and get tested. “I am staying in the hospital to be along with my father. Although I am in a different room, I am checking on him occasionally with a PPE,” said Dr. Yathindra, a doctor himself. Hospital chairman Sudarshan Ballal said Mr. Siddaramaiah, who has a history of diabetes, is doing well and is stable.  Mr. Yediyurappa, who was admitted to the hospital on Sunday night, continued to remain stable. Dr. Ballal said the Chief Minister was responding to treatment. “He is cheerful and attending to his activities,” the doctor said. After learning that Mr. Siddaramaiah had also been admitted for COVID-19, the Chief Minister wished him a speedy recovery. Stating that his 73-year-old father could have contracted the infection possibly during his press conferences in Mandya and Mysuru in the last few days, Dr. Yathindra appealed to all those who have come in contact recently to isolate themselves and get tested. “I am staying in the hospital to be along with my father. Although I am in a different room, I am checking on him occasionally with a PPE,” said Dr. Yathindra, a doctor himself. Hospital chairman Sudarshan Ballal said Mr. Siddaramaiah, who has a history of diabetes, is doing well and is stable. “He is undergoing appropriate evaluation and management by a multidisciplinary team of doctors,” Dr. Ballal said. Mr. Yediyurappa, who was admitted to the hospital on Sunday night, continued to remain stable. Dr. Ballal said the Chief Minister was responding to treatment. “He is cheerful and attending to his activities,” the doctor said. After learning that Mr. Siddaramaiah has also been admitted for COVID-19, the Chief Minister wished him a speedy recovery. In a tweet, Mr. Yediyurappa said, “I wish that he gets back to his routine activities soon, with good health.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/siddaramaiah-too-tests-positive-hospitalised/article32272601.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,||‘Hawala route used in gold smuggling case’||The initial funds for obtaining gold in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case were raised by persons with dubious antecedents and sent abroad through the hawala channel, according to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The agency, opposing the bail application of the accused in the case, submitted before the NIA Special Court, Kochi, on Tuesday that it was also investigating the source of gold smuggled in from the UAE. The NIA invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the case on the apprehension that the proceeds could have been used or financing terrorism in India. There was prima facie evidence that the accused smuggled in gold intentionally, it said. During the course of the arguments, the Special Judge asked the NIA about the evidence available with it to show the intentions of the accused. The court wanted Assistant Solicitor General Vijayakumar, who appeared for the agency, to convince it how the present case attracted the provisions of the Act. The NIA contended that it was revealed during the investigation that the accused had the knowledge that their act would threaten the security of the country besides affecting its monetary stability. For invoking the Act, the knowledge that the act of the accused was likely to threaten the security, monetary and stability and economic security was enough. Terrorist organisations were using gold and drugs as parallel currency in different parts of the world as trading with counterfeit currencies had become difficult. When the court asked about the material evidence on record to prove that it was not just another economic offence, the NIA submitted that the accused had smuggled around 200 kg of gold on around 20 occasions and with the knowledge that the smuggling would hit the economic stability of the country. Counsel for the accused submitted that the agency did not posses any evidence to invoke the UAPA other than what was recorded in the First Information Report and the remand statements. The court posted the case for August 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hawala-route-used-in-gold-smuggling-case/article32272611.ece
05 August 2020||Kochi,||Hard work pays off, say civil services winners||Many a civil services aspirant will agree with Matthews Mathew that grit and determination in the face of failure will ultimately open the doors to success. Winner of rank 223 in the civil services exam, it took six years of relentless pursuit and hard work for Matthews, a B.Tech holder, to turn his dream into reality. “It is a trial and error process. You may fail at times but should never give up the fight,” he said on Tuesday. “Keep your expectation levels low and attempt maximum tests and mock interviews. Make newspaper reading a regular habit,” said Matthews, who is elated about having a 10-year subscription of The Hindu . Vishnu Das of Ooramana in Muvattupuzha, who bagged the 304th rank, said there was no short cut to success. “The learning process should be consistent. One should attempt previous question papers and be thorough with the syllabus,” he said. Vishnu, who took Maths as the optional subject, advised aspirants not to choose subjects that they were not keen to pursue. Shiyaz K.M. of Aluva, who won rank 422, made it to the top league in his sixth attempt. “I have been teaching psychology and also working as a trainer for IAS aspirants, and that would have boosted my chances of making it through this time,” said Shiyaz, who now works as a High Court Assistant. Ashik Ali of South Vellarappilly near Aluva, who bagged rank 367, said the civil services exam was not a test of intelligence but one of perseverance. For Shahul Hameed of Muvattupuzha, who won rank 388, the love for Malayalam classics by renowned writers like O.V. Vijayan and M.T. Vasudevan Nair inspired him to choose Malayalam as the optional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hard-work-pays-off-say-civil-services-winners/article32272993.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||People in Valley want Article 370 back: PDP||A year after he was thrown out of the Rajya Sabha for tearing a copy of the Constitution, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) MP Nazir Ahmad Laway says people in his constituency are still deprived of development, employment and other benefits promised by the Centre. Mr. Laway said there was no political activity in the Valley and people tuned up at his house to air their grievances. “Every day, I meet 400 to 500 people in my constituency … none of the representatives of any other political party venture out,” he said. “Wherever I go, people demand that Article 370 and J&K statehood be restored …. they say they should see development as promised,” he said. He said he was seeking a solution within the framework of democracy. “We have to bring change by being a part of the system,” he said. He said he lived in government accommodation after his house in Kulgam in south Kashmir was burnt down in 2016.  Mr. Laway and Mir Momammad Fayaz, the two MPs from Kashmir Valley representing the PDP in the Rajya Sabha, were marshalled out of the House on August 5, 2019 when Home Minister Amit Shah moved two Bills to revoke the special status of J&K and downsize the State into two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. The two MPs had stormed into the Well of the House in protest against the move. They were heckled by the BJP MPs who also rushed to the Well after the copy of the Constitution was torn and flung in the air.  Mr. Laway said since his party leader and former J&K Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti was still under detention, he and Mr. Fayaz were not sure about their future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-in-valley-want-article-370-back-pdp/article32272623.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pak. map an absurd exercise, says India||Pakistan’s new political map is an exercise in political absurdity, the External Ministry Ministry said after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan launched it on Tuesday which included the entire Indian territory of Jammu and Kashmir and parts of Gujarat, including Junagad. “This is an exercise in political absurdity, laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian State of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and of Ladakh. These ridiculous assertions have neither legal validity nor international credibility,” a press statement of the Ministry said. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said the document firms up its claims on Sir Creek and the Siachen glacier. “Our aim is Srinagar,” Mr. Qureshi said. The new political map has also removed the reference of Federally Administered Tribal Area and has depicted that area as part of the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. It leaves an undefined section towards Ladakh which according to Mr. Qureshi will be resolved in future. The MEA referred to the map as an expression of Pakistan’s ‘obsession’. “These ridiculous assertions have neither legal validity nor international credibility. This new effort confirms reality of Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-map-an-absurd-exercise-says-india/article32272674.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID vaccine likely by mid-2021: WHO scientist||The whole world is waiting with bated breath for the emergence of a magical vaccine to save humanity from COVID pandemic. Various estimates about the probable date to receive the vaccines are given by experts. Stating that a realistic timeline to start receiving first million doses of COVID vaccine is mid-2021, World Health Organization’s Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan cautioned that it might take longer “as we did not understand the virus completely”. Two billion doses Speaking at a panel discussion on ‘The Vaccine Race : Balancing Science and Urgency’ moderated by Telangana’s IT and Industries Minister KT Rama Rao held at Genome Valley, Hyderabad, on Tuesday, Dr Swaminathan who participated through online platform said that COVAX initiative aims at having two billion doses of the vaccine by the end of 2021. COVAX Facility is a mechanism to ensure free, rapid and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines across the world. The situation where a few rich countries bought and stocked vaccines during the H1N1 pandemic in 2009 was recalled during the course of the discussion. She said that if the situation repeats, all of us would fail. “What we hope to do, as vaccines become available for distribution across the world, is to protect those who are the most vulnerable: the frontline workers, the health workers, the others who are at the highest risk of getting infected, then the vulnerable group within the community and then the rest of the population as the stocks become more and more available,” Dr Swaminathan said. Around 27 vaccines are in clinical trials, and another 150 odd are in pre-clinical testing. During the course of discussion, KTR sought reasons behind WHO’s Director General (DG) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus’s statement on Monday that there is no silver bullet against coronavirus and there might never be. Responding, Dr Swaminathan said that success is not assured in vaccine development and that we have not understood the virus completely. “So there is always a possibility that we don't get it right. Or that it takes longer. We may not get it right the first time,” she said. “And that is why I think the DG is warning people to not believe that the problem is going to be solved in six months or 12 months. We don't know that for sure,” she added. Safety and efficacy of vaccines was emphasised as huge number of people across the world would be administered the vaccine Hoping that science involved in vaccine development is not being compromised, Mr Rao asked Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech International Ltd, how is the science to ensure efficacy is followed. Dr Ella said that that they are following rigorous procedures.“I think ,we are putting a lot of 360 degrees intensive research . And that is where the partnership is helping us with the USA, or the WHO. Everybody has been helping us to look at the critique of the scientific aspect. I can tell you our science is critiqued by the global community,” Dr Ella said. Ms Mahima Datla, Managing Director and CEO, Vaccines and Branded formulations, Biological E Ltd and Dr K Anand Kumar, managing director, Indian Immunologicals Ltd, also participated in the discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-vaccine-likely-by-mid-2021-who-scientist/article32272595.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Stop A.P.’s Krishna diversion plans: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka has asked the State government to halt the process of tenders taken up by the Andhra Pradesh government to execute Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) and expansion of Pothireddypadu head regulator to prevent 25 lakh acres “turning into a desert”. There had been no response from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the issuance of GO for diversion of 11 tmc ft of Krishna water from Srisailam reservoir every day. “It’s absolutely meaningless to ask the Centre to postpone the Apex Council meeting fixed for August 5 to any date after August 20 since the process of tenders for the water diversion plans of AP would be completed by August 19,” Mr. Vikramarka said here on Tuesday. Taking the government to task on handling the coronavirus pandemic, Mr. Vikramarka said the guidelines issued by the Centre to control the COVID-19 spread were being used to control the Congress leaders in Telangana. The CLP leader demanded that the government set up quarantine/isolation centres in villages, mandal centres and constituency headquarters as the virus was spreading to villages from urban areas now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-aps-krishna-diversion-plans-bhatti/article32272951.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||China: don’t politicise normal cooperation||On Tuesday, the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi, in a statement responding to reports that the “Ministry of Education of India has decided to review Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms jointly established by China’s Confucius Institute and 7 Indian universities and colleges, as well as 54 Memoranda of Understanding on inter-school cooperation signed between Indian and Chinese higher education institutions,” said such cooperation had gone on “for more than 10 years”. “All Confucius Institutes were established by the Chinese and Indian universities after signing legally binding cooperation agreement in accordance with the principles of mutual respect, friendly consultation, equality and mutual benefit, and on the premise that the Indian side applied voluntarily and met the conditions for running the Institute,” said spokesperson Ji Rong. “The school-running mode of Confucius Institutes has always been ‘foreign side mainly managing, Chinese side assisting and both sides raising funds jointly’. Over the years, Confucius Institutes have played an important role in promoting Chinese language teaching in India and China-India people-to-people and cultural exchanges. This has been generally recognised by the Indian education community.” “We hope Indian relevant parties can treat Confucius Institutes and China-India higher education cooperation in an objective and fair manner, avoid politicising normal cooperation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-dont-politicise-normal-cooperation/article32272612.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Two Indians freed by Taliban return home||According to the sources, their release was helped by the Id ceasefire between the Afghan forces and the Taliban, which included prisoner exchanges. A meeting of “elders” or a “Loya Jirga” called by President Ashraf Ghani on August 7 to advise him on the fate of about 400 Taliban convicted of “heinous crimes” could also prove crucial in securing the release of the last hostage. The hostages, Prasadi Mahto and Hulas Mahto from Jharkhand and Mantu Singh from Bihar, were part of a group of seven employees of Indian engineering company KEC International (owned by the RP Goenka group) that was developing a power project in Afghanistan’s northern Baglan province. The seven men and their Afghan driver were abducted by a Taliban group in May 2018. It demanded ransom in payment as well as the release of senior Taliban militants. After negotiations, one of the hostages was released in March 2019, while three others were released in a swap for 11 Taliban militants held by the U.S. forces at the Bagram prison in October 2019. Officials would not confirm the number of prisoners now being discussed for release in exchange of the remaining hostages, but it is understood that nine Taliban prisoners, including some releases facilitated by the U.S., have been freed, while two others, accused of more serious crimes, awaited being freed by the government. The family members of the three hostages told The Hindu that they have not heard of any movement on the release of their loved ones, but are in touch with their State governments as well as KEC officials for updates. Prasadi Mahto and Hulas Mahto belong to two villages in the Bagodar block of Giridih district. Both are sole breadwinners for their families and have three children each. The family members of all four labourers from Jharkhand had also got Rs. 1 lakh as compensation from the previous government led by Chief Minister Raghuvar Das in 2019. Mantu Singh, belonging to Bihar’s Madhepura district, has two children and his wife said she continues to receive his salary from his employers. Of the four hostages who were released last year, two belonged to Jharkhand and two to Kerala.  The talks for the last Indian hostage reportedly hit a roadblock last week after President Ghani halted the release of the last 400 Taliban prisoners, all of whom are accused of serious crimes, saying the Afghan Constitution would not permit it. Thus far, under the U.S.-Taliban agreement and the U.S.-Afghanistan government agreement signed in February 2020, Kabul has released 4,914 prisoners while the Taliban has released nearly 1,000 hostages in its custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-indians-freed-by-taliban-return-home/article32272614.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Cong. leader participated in meetings, protest||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who has tested positive for COVID-19, was primary contact to hundreds of people, including Congress office-bearers, legislators, party workers, lawyers, and journalists, over the past few days. On July 27, he participated in two meetings and a protest in Bengaluru launched by the party against ‘Operation Lotus’. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar, working presidentsEshwar Khandre and Saleem Ahmed, MLAs and MLCs, and scores of party workers participated in the protest. In the morning of the same day, the former Chief Minister held a meeting with party leaders, and later in the evening, with legal experts. He discussed the shortcomings of the amendments made to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961 by the BJP government. Mysuru visit On July 30, he visited his home town Mysuru and participated in an interaction programme with journalists, organised by Mysuru District Journalists’ Association. At that meeting, he said the Congress was considering a proposal to move the courts against the “anti-farmer” amendments to the land reforms Act. Besides a large number of journalists, former Minister and MLA Tanveer Sait, Congress MLC Dharmasena, former MLA M.K. Somashekar, and former Mysuru Paints and Varnishes chairman H.A. Venkatesh were also present in the hall where the programme was held. On July 31, he addressed a press conference in Mandya. Besides the former legislators of Mandya district, party spokesman Brijesh Kalappa was present there. But Mr. Siddaramaiah did not participate in any meetings or functions in the last three days, according to sources in the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-leader-participated-in-meetings-protest/article32272598.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Ayodhya awaits launch of Ram temple construction||The bhoomipujan  event is scheduled to start at 12:45 p.m. Two prominent Muslim names, Iqbal Ansari, the former litigant in the Babri Masjid case, and Mohammad Shareef, who was awarded the Padma Shri for years of performing last rites of unclaimed bodies, have also been invited. On the eve of the event, Faizabad city was busy with life as usual. But as one moved northeast towards Ayodhya, less than 8 kms away, the place was quieter, perhaps due to the strict traffic restrictions, COVID-19 fears and the heat; yet a sense of anticipation amid administrative activism pervaded the atmosphere. In the same market, a much younger Abhishek Kumar, 24, is waiting for customers at his departmental store. Like many locals, Mr. Kumar believes the construction of the temple would boost tourism and business, ending periods of turmoil and uncertainty. Though he has faint memory of the political movement surrounding the temple, Mr. Kumar too credits the Modi government. Prior to 2014, he says, the temple issue was raised only during elections but the present government “continued working” even after polls and gave it full attention. Loudspeakers mounted by the administration on main roads played hymns about Lord Ram. The facades of buildings on the main roads were painted a bright yellow, while triangular saffron flags bearing the image of Lord Ram and the proposed temple adorned tops of temples, shops, homes and even vehicles. The Ram Ki Paidi, which is used to depict Ayodhya in popular imagery, was decorated with an array of lights and earthen pots placed on the ghat. Relaxing under a tree, Om Prakash Prajapati, 26, was however, not much enthused. He feels the temple would boost the economy but “only the babas and priests” and the rich would benefit. Mr. Prajapati who drives tourists and pilgrims to the Hanumangarhi temple and makeshift Ram Janmabhoomi temple, says many poor families living in the vicinity of the Ram Ki Paidi were relocated to a colony 1.5 km away by the administration as part of the beautification programme. The sanitation there is poor, he says. “We are unable to eat due to the stench.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ayodhya-awaits-launch-of-ram-temple-construction/article32272613.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Many mental modes||Spiritual texts emphasise the importance of being sensitive to the workings of the mind. The human mind is powerful and gets easily sullied owing to the many mental modes that keep acting on it at all times. In a discourse, Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma drew attention to the text Laghu Vasudeva Mananam, where the author distinguishes between the harmful and beneficial mental modes, by knowing which beings can avoid the former and cultivate the latter. Raga, dvesha, kama, krodha, lobha, moha, mada, matsarya, asooya, darpa, ahamkara, ichcha, etc are the ones that have to be avoided while bhakti and sraddha are to be cultivated to gain chitta suddhi. Raga, dvesha, etc stir up the desires that are for the sake of the sarira. Association with the sarira is the cause of all misery and fear. Sorrow and fear affect all living beings, regardless of one's status, education, birth, etc. What about a king, one may ask? He too faces fear in the form of enemies; he feels sorrow when near and dear die. He too is not exempt from old age, disease and death. When he bears the burden of kingship he has to face many challenges. Even celestial beings such as Brahma, Indra and others are aware of their temporary state and status. Sarira association also gives rise to the sense of I and Mine when one begins to think that 'I am the doer, or I am the enjoyer' in all spheres of life. To overcome this, the thought that one has no ownership to one's sarira has to be repeatedly imprinted in the consciousness. This is 'abhimana' and is a powerful obstacle in the process of self realisation. So, when one knows that first of all this sarira itself is not one's own, then where is the claim for possession over others when one tends to identify them as 'my son, or my father' etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-mental-modes/article32272636.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||Hany Babu’s custody extended||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Tuesday extended the NIA custody for Professor Hany Babu till August 7 as an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence. Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Prakash Shetty representing the NIA said, “During the investigation of the case, it is revealed that Mr. Babu has links with the banned outfit Communist Party of India (Maoist). He was the associate of arrested accused persons in the case and was a supporter of Naxal activities and Naxalite movements.” Mr. Babu was arrested on July 28 and a search was conducted at his residence in Uttar Pradesh. Various electronics articles and documents were seized, and for the analysis of those articles, the NIA sought Mr. Babu’s custody for another seven days. “Mr. Babu was using various social media accounts for communication with other co-accused persons, suspects as well as other members/sympathisers of CPI (Maoist),” said the NIA lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hany-babus-custody-extended/article32273050.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||New ICRISAT groundnut varieties from yasangi||Two new groundnut varieties with high oleic acid content developed by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in association with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) would be made available to the farming community in Telangana from the next yasangi season. This was stated by Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy here on Tuesday after a meeting with a team of scientists from ICRISAT. The Minister stated that the new varieties known as Girnar 4 (ICGV-15083) and Girnar 5 (ICGV-15090) would be most suitable for cultivation in the erstwhile Mahabubnagar, Rangareddy and Nalgonda districts. Mr. Niranjan Reddy said the new varieties with international standards could withstand moisture stress during the harvesting period and prevent development of aflatoxin within the kernel and seed for production of quality groundnut that could compete with the aflatoxin-free varieties produced in the USA, China, Australia, Argentina and a few other countries. Stating that the two varieties had proven to be having high content of oleic acid, about 80% against the 40% to 50% in regular varieties, the Minister noted that they would also give 30% higher yield compared to the existing varieties and the crop period would be less than four months — 115 days. The new varieties would also ensure better price to the farmer. The quality of oil from the two varieties of groundnut would be like that of olive oil as they reduce the bad cholesterol and would maintain good cholesterol reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases among those who consume the oil. The ICRISAT scientists sought the cooperation of the State government for seed production on a large scale and accordingly, breeder seed would be given to farmers for production of certified seed with the help of Telangana State Seed Development Corporation (TSSDC). The Minister stated that steps would be taken for entering into agreements for buy-back of the quality groundnut produce by well known food products companies such as Mars and Mondelez. Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, Managing Director of TSSDC K. Keshavulu, Asia Research Program Director Pooran M. Gaur, Principal Scientist-Groundnut Breeder Janila Pasupuleti (both from ICRISAT) and Director (Seeds) from Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University T. Pradeep participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-icrisat-groundnut-varieties-from-yasangi/article32272950.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,||75-year-old ‘raped,’ 4 taken into custody||The Kochi police have arrested three persons and taken into custody another in connection with the alleged rape of a 75-year-old woman on Sunday. Those in police net include two women. The condition of the victim, who is mentally unwell according to the police, remains critical at the Kolancherry Medical College Hospital where she was admitted on Sunday night. She was subjected to hours-long surgery on Monday and moved to the surgical ICU immediately thereafter. “A team of doctors comprising a general surgeon, a gynaecologist and a urologist performed the surgery to remove the blood clots in her stomach and address the contusions in her intestine. She also had injuries in her private parts. A call on her condition can be made only after the next 48 to 72 hours,” hospital sources said. Among the suspects are two women, who are sisters, and a son of one of them. According to the police, the main accused raped the victim at the house of the co-accused. Injuries The woman was in the habit of wandering and the accused took advantage of that and her mental state. She returned home with injuries, and her daughter filed a police complaint. Initially, the police registered a case invoking Indian Penal Code sections such as 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons and means) 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intention to outrage her modesty). However, when she was admitted to the hospital, doctors told the police that there were tell-tale signs of a rape. “Following this, we invoked rape charge (IPC 376). Since she belongs to a Scheduled Castes provisions of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act will also be invoked,” police sources said. The police would have to wait for her to come out of the shock and medicine-induced post-surgery sedation to record her statement. Meanwhile, State Women’s Commission chairperson M.C. Josephine visited the hospital on Tuesday and discussed the condition of the victim with the team of doctors treating her. She, however, could not meet the victim. State to take over care Social Justice and Women and Child Development Minister K.K. Shylaja said that the State would take over the protection and cover the treatment expenses of the woman. Terming the crime shocking and extremely painful, she said stringent action would be taken against the culprits. Services of experts in gynaecology, urology and surgery had been made available to the woman, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/75-year-old-raped-4-taken-into-custody/article32272602.ece
05 August 2020||Srinagar,||4% reservation for Ladakhi students||Jammu & Kashmir Chief Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam on Tuesday announced reservation of 4% seats in both engineering and medical colleges here for the students from the Union Territory of Ladakh. “24 seats from engineering colleges and 35 seats from medical colleges will be deducted from total number of available seats...” the Chief Secretary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-reservation-for-ladakhi-students/article32272629.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC Registry rejects plea for impleadment||An application filed by 16 prominent personalities, including activist Aruna Roy, musician T.M. Krishna and former Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah, to be impleaded in a suo motu contempt case against noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan was rejected by the Supreme Court Registry on Tuesday. The order of the Registrar refers to a Constitution Bench judgment of 2017 in the suo motu contempt case against former Madras HC judge, Justice C.S. Karnan, which said “since contempt proceedings are a matter strictly between the court and the alleged contemnor, anyone who enters and disrupts the proceedings of this case in future should understand that he or she can be proceeded against in consonance with law”. The Registry reproduced the part of the Constitution Bench judgment which ends by noting that no one should intervene without consent and authorisation. The impleadment application, filed through advocate Prasanna S., contended that the contempt notice issued against Mr. Bhushan was manifestly unjust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-registry-rejects-plea-for-impleadment/article32272655.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stops discharge of Navy officers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday restrained the government from discharging Short Service Commission (SSC) women officers in the Navy from service pending consideration of their claims for grant of Permanent Commission (PC). The court on March 17 had upheld the women officers’ right for a level playing field to overcome “histories of discrimination”. The court had said women officers in the Short Service Commission, serving in the field of education, law and logistics cadres of the Navy, should be considered for the grant of permanent commissions. It had given three months’ time to Centre. On Tuesday, a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and K.M. Joseph found, through a petition filed by petitioner Rupali Rohatgi, that the Centre was yet to fully comply with the verdict. Advocate Santosh Krishnan, appearing for Ms. Rohatgi, said this exercise had not been initiated beyond inviting applications and completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-stops-discharge-of-navy-officers/article32272675.ece
05 August 2020||MUMBAI,||PIL plea for SIT or CBI probe||The Bombay High Court will, on Wednesday, hear a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking a probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Sameet Thakkar, 32, a businessman from Nagpur, has sought a direction for a free, fair and impartial investigation by a special investigation team (SIT) or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The PIL petition claims the case involved high-profile people with political and underworld connections. Crucial and material evidence was being compromised with each passing day. “The Maharashtra government and Mumbai police are occupied with handling issues relating to the global pandemic. Hence it would be appropriate to transfer the investigation to some other agency in the interest of all.” The PIL says there is a deliberate attempt to delay the investigation. “It has been more than 40 days, but not a single crucial witness has been summoned by the police.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pil-plea-for-sit-or-cbi-probe/article32272676.ece
05 August 2020||KANNUR,||7 from Kannur, Kasaragod crack exam||A total of seven candidates in Kannur and Kasaragod district cracked the civil service examination when the results were announced by the Union Public Service Commission on Tuesday. It was a huge achievement for K.V. Vivek, who hails from the Scheduled Caste Vannan community, to crack the Civil Services examination. A native of Thalassery, it was his fourth attempt. Speaking to The Hindu , he said, “From my young age, I have seen people, including my father, getting addicted to alcohol in my community”. For Arun K. Pavithran and Smilna Sudhakar, both natives of Kannur, P.P. Archana, who hails from Payyanur, and C.Shaheen from Nileswaram in Kasaragod, the achievement was all the more sweeter as the four had together prepared for the examination at a coaching centre in Thiruvananthapuram. Mr.C. Shaheen was inspired by his father, an ex-serviceman, to attempt the Civil service examination. Ajmal Shahzad Aliyer Rawther, also from Kannur, who ranked 254, left his job in the postal department to prepare for the examination. cP. Nidhin Raj of Ravaneshwar in Kasaragod, who ranked 319, but joined the Indian Police Service last year, has decided to continue in his service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-from-kannur-kasaragod-crack-exam/article32272987.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Flood alert following heavy rain in catchment area of Kabini||The Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd. (CNNL) has issued a flood alert and warned people living in the downstream of the Kabini reservoir at H.D Kote (Mysuru district) to move to safer locations. The alert, issued on Tuesday, said the outflow from the reservoir would be stepped up to nearly 20,000 cusecs by evening as they anticipate an increase in inflow during the next 24 hours. This is owing to heavy rain in the upstream of the dam, and the catchment area of the Kabini mainly in the Wayanad region of Kerala. Heavy to very heavy rain continued to pound Kodagu for the third consecutive day throwing normal life out of gear. The district received 106.12 mm rainfall for the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, and the district administration has cautioned people in the low-lying areas to be careful of rise in water levels. Of the 104 gram panchayats (GP) in the district, 15 have received rain in excess of 100 mm during the last 24 hours. Balamatta GP received 172 mm of rain, the highest among the gram panchayats, and Bhagamandala GP and surrounding areas, which is the catchment area of the Cauvery, received 170.5 mm, the highest so far this monsoon. Safety measure While the reservoir is yet to attain its full level this year and the water level on Tuesday at 8.30 a.m. was at 2,279.54 ft as against the full reservoir level of 2,284 ft, it is customary to maintain a buffer of 2 ft as a safety measure during the rainy season and open the crest gates before the dam attains full reservoir level. But the CNNL has decided not to wait till then and to open the crest gates as there could be a surge in the inflow given the heavy rain in the catchment area. Last year, the authorities were forced to open all the crest gates due to a sudden surge in the inflow and the discharge peaked to reach 1,20,000 cusecs (on August 10, 2019), which was the highest in the history of the dam constructed in the early 1970s. This resulted in flash floods in the downstream area. The India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy to very heavy rain across the district till August 7 and issued an orange alert consequent to which the district administration has raised vigil. The incessant rain in Kodagu follows a long period of lull in July as a result of which the rainfall deficit stands at 36% below normal for the monsoon period June 1 to August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flood-alert-following-heavy-rain-in-catchment-area-of-kabini/article32272597.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Special team to track treasury official||The State police on Tuesday constituted a special team to track down the government official suspected of having siphoned off lakhs of rupees from the State Treasury. In a court filing, the police named M.R. Bijulal, senior accountant, Sub-Treasury, Vanchiyoor, as the main accused. They named his wife, Simi D. Ambi, a government schoolteacher, as an accomplice to the crime. Modus operandi The police told the court that Bijulal had logged into the treasury online banking network using his user name and password. He had electronically moved Rs. 2 crore from the Tribal Welfare Fund account operated by the District Collector to the treasury account he held in his name. He later used the user name and password of a retired official to authenticate the transaction. The accused also tweaked the software to camouflage the transaction. Bijulal created an “electronic impression” that the cash remained intact in the District Collector’s account. The police said that over several months, Bijulal moved the money from his account to a treasury account held by his wife and from thence to deposit accounts operated by the couple in private banks. The police were verifying how Bijulal came across the password in the first place. “One possibility is that it had remained saved in the system or the accused had retrieved it through some means, possibly even deploying a key logger programme. The work disruption caused by the lockdown appeared to have helped,” an investigator said. The police have sought the help of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to understand the vulnerabilities of the system. The police have named Bijulal a fugitive from the law. His wife Simi has denied any knowledge of the crime or wrongdoing. She said her husband had left his mobile phone at home and disappeared. Investigators said Bijulal’s online activities had revealed the portrait of a compulsive gamer and online gambler. They said it was possible that he had incurred substantial debt and had slipped into crime to honour his financial obligations. Assistant Commissioner M.K. Zulfikar is heading the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-team-to-track-treasury-official/article32272604.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘COVID-19 will disappear with Lord Ram’s blessings’||The COVID-19 crisis in the country will disappear with the blessings of Lord Ram, the Shiv Sena said on Tuesday. An editorial in the party mouthpiece, Saamna , took a dig at the August 5 ceremony being held amid rising COVID-19 cases. “There is no other golden moment like the one when Prime Minister Modi performs thebhoomi pujanat Ayodhya,” the party said, adding, “Coronavirus is there, but will disappear with Lord Ram’s blessings.”pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-will-disappear-with-lord-rams-blessings/article32272624.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Coronavirus | Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan tests positive, admitted to Medanta||Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the Medanta Hospital in Delhi. Mr. Pradhan, 51, had developed COVID-like symptoms on Monday and was tested on Tuesday. “After seeing symptoms of COVID-19, I got tested. The report has come positive,” the Union Minister tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coronavirus-union-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-tests-positive-admitted-to-medanta/article32272637.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Auro Gold Jewellery, directors in Rs. 229-cr. bank fraud case||The CBI has booked Auro Gold Jewellery Private Limited, its directors and guarantors in connection with a Rs. 229-crore bank loan fraud case. Among those named are the company’s managing director Amritlal Jain, Ritesh Jain, Kritika Dahal, Patsy Hyginus Kinny and GIA Exports. According to the FIR, the current outstanding on account of loans extended by the State Bank of India (SBI), Andhra Bank and IDBI Bank stands at Rs. 290.43 crore. The SBI alleged that it had sanctioned credit facilities of over Rs. 229 crore to the company. However, the funds were used for trading with other firms which were not in the same line of business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-auro-gold-jewellery-directors-in-rs-229-cr-bank-fraud-case/article32272648.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Patnitop land grab case: CBI conducts searches at 11 places||The CBI on Tuesday conducted searches at 11 places in Jammu, Udhampur and Kathua of Jammu and Kashmir in connection with allegations of large-scale illegal construction and land encroachment in Patnitop. The searches were carried out in the office and residential premises of several public servants, including the then Chief Executive Officers of the Patnitop Development Authority, Transport Department, Sales Tax Department and other agencies. The accused were involved in allowing land encroachments at tourist locations in the Patnitop area of Udhampur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patnitop-land-grab-case-cbi-conducts-searches-at-11-places/article32272649.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||32,000 flats in Delhi to be offered as affordable rental housing||Around 32,000 vacant flats built under various government schemes in Delhi and about 1,000 units in Faridabad will be included in the newly-announced Affordable Rental Housing Complex (ARHC) scheme, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said on Tuesday. Mr. Mishra said the government would be signing a memorandum of agreement with States in a month. Under the scheme, around 2.95 lakh dwelling units in the country would be offered as ARHCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/32000-flats-in-delhi-to-be-offered-as-affordable-rental-housing/article32272654.ece
05 August 2020||Pune,||Pune Collector transferred to PMO||Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram has been appointed Deputy Secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office, as per an order issued by the Department of Personnel and Training on Tuesday. Mr. Ram, a 2008-batch IAS officer, who has been guiding the Pune administration through the COVID-19 crisis, has been selected for his new appointment under the Central Staffing Scheme for a period of four years from the date of taking charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pune-collector-transferred-to-pmo/article32272659.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sushant case: ED quizzes Rhea’s chartered accountant||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday recorded the statement of a chartered accountant of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. On Monday, the ED examined Sushant’s chartered accountant, Sandeep Sridhar, to get details of the financial transactions related to him and the companies he had set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushant-case-ed-quizzes-rheas-chartered-accountant/article32272672.ece
05 August 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Boy held for murder||A 14-year-old boy was arrested on Monday on charge of murdering an 80-year-old woman at Koovagam Colony. The accused had strangulated L. Sivakami to death and looted 4 gram of gold jewellery. After being produced in a court, the boy was taken to Tiruchi and housed in the Govt. Observation Home .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-held-for-murder/article32273132.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNA,TAMIL NADU||Dumping of garbage in drain irks residents||The residents of Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar, known to attract huge crowds any day, suffer hardship these days as rainwater has stagnated in the incomplete storm drain. Also, garbage from the shops is dumped into the incomplete drain, say office-beaters of the T. Nagar Residents Welfare Association. The narrow and crowded street used to get frequently flooded, and the Greater Chennai Corporation decided to construct a new and bigger storm drain.  Work abandoned However, after a lockdown announced since March 24 for COVID-19 prevention measures, the contractor has left the work incomplete. Although the State government relaxed the lockdown norms for government projects, a shortage of labour resulted in the work remaining incomplete, officials said. A senior official of the Kodambakkam zone of the Corporation, which is executing the project, said the frequent damage to the drain, resulting in stagnation of rainwater on Ranganathan Street, was posing hardship to the public. “So it was planned to fully demolish the drain and build a bigger one. The work has resumed from Monday and would be completed soon,” he said. The drain would be linked to the ones on Usman Road, from where the rainwater would flow to T. Nagar canal, he said.  Shortage of labour has resulted in the work remaining incomplete Greater Chennai Corporation official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dumping-of-garbage-in-drain-irks-residents/article32272775.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State sees marginal dip in cases as 5,063 persons test positive||There was a marginal dip in fresh cases of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu as 5,063 persons tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. However, for the second consecutive day, more than 100 deaths were recorded. As many as 6,501 persons were discharged from hospitals. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 2,68,285, of which 55,152 persons are undergoing treatment and 2,08,784 have been discharged so far. With 108 more fatalities recorded on Tuesday, a total of 4,349 persons have died of the disease in the State so far. Chennai accounted for 1,023 of the fresh cases, taking its tally to 1,04,027. Currently, 11,856 persons are undergoing treatment in the city. Twenty-three of the 108 deaths were recorded in the city. Cases dipped in Madurai as only 40 persons tested positive, weeks after they started soaring. However, in Virudhunagar, 424 persons tested positive, followed by Theni with 292 cases. The other southern districts that had 100-plus cases were Kanniyakumari-122, Sivaganga-141, Thoothukudi-189 and Tirunelveli-155. However, the number of cases stayed high in many of the northern districts, with 358 persons testing positive in Tiruvallur, 261 in Cuddalore, 245 in Chengalpattu and 220 in Kancheepuram. Tiruvannamalai and Vellore had 132 and 159 cases respectively. Kallakurichi reported 149 cases. Coimbatore recorded 228 cases. A total of 28 returnees tested positive in the State. Among the districts, Kanniyakumari accounted for nine deaths, while eight persons died in Chengalpattu, seven in Coimbatore and six each in Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Tirunelveli. Among the deceased was a 32-year-old man from Tiruvallur who was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of difficulty in breathing for six days on July 30. He had diabetes, and died on August 3 owing to multiple organ dysfunction and COVID-19. A 38-year-old man with no co-morbidities died at the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital on August 2 owing to acute respiratory distress, acute respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. Of the 6,501 persons discharged, 1,143 were from hospitals in Chennai, followed by 559 in Kancheepuram. Samples tested The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours dipped further. A total of 55,122 samples were tested, taking the total number to 28,92,395. Three more testing facilities were added — a government lab at the Government Hospital at Aranthangi in Pudukottai, and two private facilities at Assured Best Care Hospital (P) Ltd, Tiruchi, and Microbe World, Newfairlands, Salem. With these, the State has 125 testing facilities.  The number of cases stayed high in many of the northern districts, with 358 persons testing positive in Tiruvallur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-marginal-dip-in-cases-as-5063-persons-test-positive/article32272790.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable, fruit traders plan stir||Vegetables, fruits and flower merchants will go on strike on August 10 demanding reopening of markets across Tamil Nadu, including the Koyambedu wholesale market complex. This was decided at a meeting organised by the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu in the city on Tuesday. As traditional markets remain closed in the State, the livelihood of several traders has been affected. There are nearly 1.5 lakh wholesale and retail vegetables, fruits and flower shops across the State, the traders said. Indefinite stir According to traders’ federation president A.M. Vikramaraja, if the government does not announce the date of reopening of markets, there were plans to go on an indefinite strike and more traders may join the protest. He said the representatives of the traders’ federation met Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam twice requesting the government to reopen the market and ensure physical distancing norms. Although the State government planned to reopen the markets, it was yet to be implemented. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders Associations of the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, said about 20,000 wholesale and retail shops in Chennai were expected to down their shutters on August 10. Lack of infrastructure As the Koyambedu market, including the food grains section, remains closed since May, several merchants were unable to carry on their trade. Those who have shifted to temporary markets in Madhavaram and Thirumazhisai too are managing amidst various difficulties. Several tonnes of vegetables go waste daily due to lack of infrastructure there. Nearly 50,000 families are dependent on the Koyambedu market. The State government must reopen the market and ensure safety norms, Mr. Rajasekaran said. MNM backs traders Makkal Needhi Maiam labour wing secretary Ponnusamy wanted to know why the Koyambedu market, which was shifted to Thirumazhisai after a spurt in COVID-19 cases, continues to be shut for months. In a statement, Mr. Ponnusamy asked why efforts were not made to reopen it despite the State government spending huge amount of money to set up temporary markets elsewhere. “It is unacceptable to keep a huge market shut, affecting the livelihood of traders and labourers for such a long time.” Instead of spending crores of rupees to set up temporary markets in Madhavaram, Mogappair and Thirumazhisai, the government should create a safe environment in Koyembedu itself, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-fruit-traders-plan-stir/article32272772.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai airport rapid exit taxiway ready||In a step to decrease air traffic congestion, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has finished construction of a rapid exit taxiway at Chennai airport. This exit links the main runway to a taxiway and helps aircraft leave quickly. AAI officials said the construction work was completed in the last week of July and authorities from the Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had inspected the site. “They raised a few queries and we responded to them. This is an inspection relating to check safety and other parameters. As soon as the approval comes from DGCA, this can be put to use. If an aircraft lands, using this rapid exit taxiway, it can seamlessly leave the main runway,” an official said. Less occupancy The AAI has been building a few such rapid exit taxiways in the airport as part of the phase II modernisation project. These are meant to reduce the runway occupancy time of flights and the number of flights that the main runway can handle is likely to go up, when the entire work is completed. “Right now, we can handle up to 36 flights an hour and this will significantly go up and the main runway can take 50 flights when work is over. Our aim is to bring down the runway occupancy time of aircraft to 60 seconds,” the official said. Meanwhile, work on the integrated terminal as part of the second phase of the project is on. It had been delayed for want of manpower, officials said. Although there were some workers now, their number was less than half of the required workforce for construction, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-airport-rapid-exit-taxiway-ready/article32272781.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case doubling time is 65 days in Chennai: Minister||The doubling time of COVID-19 cases is 65 days in Chennai and 100 days in a few zones of the city, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Tuesday. “The curve is flattening. Aggressive testing, early diagnosis and integrated treatment has helped. We are continuing to take steps to prevent disease transmission from a person, who has tested positive, to his/her family members and to others,” he told journalists here. The Minister pointed out that the government had created one testing facility in every district and put 28,92,395 samples through the RT-PCR confirmatory test. There are 125 testing centres. “Recently, the State was appreciated for the lowest turn-around time in testing. We have created [the required] infrastructure to declare the test results in 24 hours,” he said. Mr. Vijayabaskar said 2,08,784 persons had so far been discharged from hospitals. “Multi-disciplinary efforts have helped in achieving a recovery rate of 77.8% in the State.” He noted that 57 patients were successfully treated with the convalescent plasma therapy. He said there were 1.18 lakh beds across the State, and the majority of them were converted into oxygen-supported beds at a cost of Rs. 76 crore. “COVID-19 treatment facility is not only available at the district headquarters hospitals and government medical college hospitals but also at the village level, at the taluk and non-taluk hospitals,” he said. “We have been insisting that spreading of rumours on social media during the pandemic is an offence. Unauthentic information that 43 doctors have died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu is being spread, and this is false information,” he said. Flays Udhayanidhi He condemned DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin for tweeting this information. “The Indian Medical Association, Tamil Nadu, has clarified that this was not authentic information and it has not released any such figures,” he said. The Health Minister warned that legal action would be taken against those spreading false information. He stressed the need for people to adhere to physical distancing and wear masks and seek medical help immediately after symptoms emerged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-doubling-time-is-65-days-in-chennai-minister/article32272797.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flower traders operate from makeshift market||With the Koyambedu wholesale market closed for three months now, flower sellers are functioning out of makeshift shops in different parts of the city. Several traders are functioning in groups in areas around the market such as Maduravoyal, Koyambedu, Madhavaram and Vadapalani as they have not been provided alternative space. For the past week, 20 flower sellers have set up shop in the parking space of a theatre complex in Koyambedu, which has not been functioning during the lockdown. Traders plan to set up 20 more shops depending on the patronage and police permission. Members of the Chennai Koyambedu Wholesale Flower Merchants’ Association said at least 250 shops were operating in various parts of the city. The shortage of flowers and wastage had come down in the past few weeks. Chennai now receives about 90 tonnes of flowers, largely rose and marigold, daily from various places, including Krishnagiri and Hosur. While roses are sold for a minimum of Rs. 60 a kg, 1 kg of jasmine is priced Rs. 500 due to demand and the upcoming festive season. Association president A. Manoharan said sale of flowers was expected to go up in the coming weeks. The State government must identify vacant space and consider allocating space for vegetables, fruits and flower shops in each Corporation zone to decongest market areas and ensure availability of produce in all localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-traders-operate-from-makeshift-market/article32272768.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC advances hearing of case filed by Deputy Speaker against Stalin, others||The Madras High Court on Tuesday advanced the hearing on an application preferred by Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman to restrain DMK president M.K. Stalin, the latter’s son-in-law V. Sabareesan, Kalaignar TV as well as editors of Tamil journals Nakheeran and Junior Vikatan from making or publishing false or defamatory statements against him. Justice P.T. Asha advanced the date from August 18 to 13, after Mr. Jayaraman filed yet another application seeking an interim injunction urgently on the ground that Nakheeran reportedly continued to publish defamatory articles against him despite its counsel having accepted notice on the previous injunction application on July 20 and taken time till August 18 for filing a detailed counter affidavit. When the second injunction application was listed for deciding its maintainability, the judge ordered that it would instead be treated as an application for early hearing of the previous plea. She also expressed her displeasure over the alleged articles published after issuance of notices. “How can you take time for counter and continue the defamatory publication? Some discipline must be followed,” the judge said. The Deputy Speaker had filed the applications as part of a civil suit preferred by him seeking damages of Rs. 1 crore from Mr. Stalin and others for having reportedly linked his name with the Pollachi serial sexual assault and blackmailing issue. He claimed that speeches delivered by the leader of the Opposition were telecast on the television channel and that the two journals had also carried “false and defamatory” articles against him. While the plaintiff was represented by his counsel B. Arvind Srevatsa, advocates Manuraj Shunmugasundaram, P.T. Perumal and N. Ramesh — representing Mr. Stalin, R. Nakheeran Gopal and the Editor of Junior Vikatan respectively — agreed to get along with the case as ordered by the court and make their submissions on the injunction application on August 13. They also assured the court that the pleadings would be completed before the hearing. In his plaint, Mr. Jayaraman, 67, said, he was a member of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) for long and that he had been elected to the Legislative Assembly from Pollachi constituency for four consecutive terms, since 2001. He was also a former Minister for Industries, Environment, Pollution Control, Food, Civil Supplies and Cooperatives. He had assumed charge as Deputy Speaker in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-advances-hearing-of-case-filed-by-deputy-speaker-against-stalin-others/article32272812.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM wishes Modi ahead of Ram temple ceremony||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday extended his wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Centre ahead of the foundation laying ceremony for building the Ram temple, scheduled in Ayodhya for Wednesday. “I extend my wishes to the Prime Minister, who is scheduled take part in the bhoomi pujan and lay the foundation for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, which is the dream of Hindus,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement, adding that he also conveyed wishes on behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu. He congratulated the Centre which, he said, took necessary steps for the construction of the Ram temple as a “conducive atmosphere” emerged since the Supreme Court’s judgment. Recalling the statement of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at a National Integration Council meeting on November 23, 1992, favouring the construction of the temple, he said, “At the same time, she wished a mosque too should be in Ayodhya.” Her statements indicated that she wished for harmony between Hindus and Muslims to foster national unity for the country’s benefit, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-wishes-modi-ahead-of-ram-temple-ceremony/article32272825.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishers demand action against senior official||Fishers belonging to at least 15 organisations staged protests in the city and elsewhere pressing for various demands, including inclusion of new members in the fishermen welfare board and fishermen cooperative societies. The fishers, under the umbrella of the Tamil Nadu Meenavargalin Iyakangalin Oringinaippu Kuzhu, said that unless fishers were included as new members, they would not get welfare benefits, including the government dole for the ban period, the fishing lean period and the diesel subsidy. “The Fisheries Director is not allowing new members to join these organisations. This only shows he is not functioning for the welfare of the fishers. We demand his removal,” said K. Bharathi, a fishermen leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishers-demand-action-against-senior-official/article32272778.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tributes to be paid to Mrs. YGP||Celebrities and alumni of Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan (PSBB) group of schools will pay tributes to the life and accomplishments of educationist Rajalakshmi Parthasarathy, popularly known as Mrs. YGP from 5.30 p.m. on August 6. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu is expected to inaugurate the series of events and deliver the first ‘Smt. Rajalakshmi Parthasarathy Memorial Lecture’ online on Thursday evening. This will be streamed live on the school’s YouTube channel PSBB Vidyashakthi. Mrs. YGP, who was among the first women in the field of journalism in the State, died last year at the age of 93. She had worked in The Hindu and had written regularly for its Sport & Pastime magazine. She had a B.Ed, M.Ed and M.A. (History) to her credit and started the first PSBB school in 1958. Series of programmes As a tribute to the late educationist, PSBB has planned a three-fold programme, including the Mrs. YGP Memorial Lecture Series — an annual event, a national quiz for middle school children on India and Indianness, spanning an entire month culminating this year on Teacher’s Day. This quiz will be conducted by quizmaster Giri ‘Pickbrain’ Balasubramanium with digital support from Tata Consultancy Services. A coffee table book The Woman of Our Lives will be released as part of the events. The tributes from students and alumni of PSBB schools and exponents from different fields of education and performing arts will be on for a month. A homage will be presented by I for India and Bharat Kalachar on August 8. Celebrities, including Carnatic vocalist P. Unnikrishnan, dancer Shobana, vocalist Abhishek Raghuraman, ophthalmologist Dr. Mohan Rajan, actor and director Mouli, actor A.R. Srinivasan (ARS), dancer and guru Padma Subrahmanyam will pay tributes online in the programme that will be compered by actors Y. Gee. Mahendra and Madhuvanthii. It can be viewed live onwww.iforindia.uk,www.facebook.com/ iforindia.uk, and YouTube channels of Ygm Galatta and Tom Mediaas, said a press release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-to-be-paid-to-mrs-ygp/article32272783.ece
05 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Don’t fall prey to false propaganda on NEP, says Balagurusamy||Former Anna University Vice-Chancellor E.Balagurusamy on Tuesday appealed to parents, students and the public in general not to fall prey to “false propaganda by certain sections of the society” against the National Education Policy. He felt such propaganda was either politically motivated or was being carried out by those who lacked insight into the quality of education and its imperativeness for India in the contemporary academic scenario. In an ‘open letter’, he said the NEP had numerous exceptional recommendations. “The policy intends to integrate the Indian education system with the global patterns, do-away with rote learning and instill confidence and nationalistic pride among students,” he contended. According to him, the NEP 2020 is one of the most comprehensive and insightful documents ever written on the future of Indian education. It seeks to address the fundamental challenges of access, equity, quality, affordability and accountability. “The policy provides for far-reaching reforms at all levels of education from pre-school to higher education to address these critical issues,” he said, citing its various recommendations from Early Child Care Education to the reforms in the higher education sector. He hailed the recommendations to establish new institutions, restructuring of universities and colleges, granting of autonomy to colleges, introduction of liberal education, emphasis on skill development, multi-exit and multi-entry degree programmes, among others. “The best part of the policy is that the states have flexibility and freedom to customise it to suit their needs and constraints. Finally, we have an education policy that provides us change, choice and confidence,” Prof. Balagurusamy said, adding that the NEP required the support of everyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-fall-prey-to-false-propaganda-on-nep-says-balagurusamy/article32272787.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retailers in malls want businesses to re-open||International brands and retailers housed in malls across Tamil Nadu are sitting on a huge pile of unsold inventory and facing mounting losses owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. They have requested Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to permit a phased re-opening of shops. “I have consignments worth several crore in my shop at a mall. Though the mall owner has given us several concessions during the last three months, our business is not going to revive any time soon,” says the proprietor of a clothing brand that specialises in weddings. The Chief Marketing Officer of another national clothing brand says, “We have moved some of our consignments to our shops which are on local high streets. But our employees (over 50 of them) are waiting for the malls to re-open. With no businesses, they had to take a salary cut of 8-15%.” Over 13 different retailers whom The Hindu spoke to said that with no work, their employees were getting worried and restless day by day. There are over 25 malls in Tamil Nadu employing over 45,000 people directly and indirectly. According to the data given by the Shopping Centres Association of India, shopping centres across Tamil Nadu generate an annual consumption turnover of Rs. 15,000 crore. They contribute over Rs. 1,300 crore to the State exchequer through the GST and other levies. The proprietor of a leather brand says the government should at least allow alternate shops within the malls to operate on each day. “A total closure of over four months is a huge blow to businessmen as well as their employees,” he argues. A retailer says: “If we are not given permission to resume business, my anchor client wants to move out of the mall. If he winds up, I will also have to wind up.” A few retailers who are in the hypermarket space and clothing space have cashed in on the online trend. They have sold online and delivered the consignments through delivery apps. Those running the mall businesses are making all efforts to reach out to the government with a plea to allow them to re-open. While some have given rental waivers and concessions for their tenants, the others have asked for time to see how the economy revives. “Malls have opened in other States, so we request the government to study the trends and patterns there and give us permission,” says the marketing head of a city mall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retailers-in-malls-want-businesses-to-re-open/article32272799.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation opts for milling before relaying interior roads||Whenever the Greater Chennai Corporation takes up relaying of interior roads in the southern parts of the city, the main grouse of the residents is the increasing height of the roads. Over the years, the civic body, to prevent stagnation of water on the roads that do not have storm drains, has been raising the height of the road. This was adopted in several low-lying localities, including Adambakkam, Velachery, Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam, Madipakkam, Pallikaranai and Taramani, as they are located close to the Pallikaranai marshland. However, this led to flooding in several houses, particularly during heavy rain. Residents in several localities complained about the absence of milling by the civic body. The affected property owners were forced to spend huge sums of money to “lift” the houses, which was done with the help of jacks. M. Lakshmanan, a resident of Madipakkam, said he had to engage a contractor spending a huge amount to lift his house by a few feet. Of late, the civic body has changed its strategy by going in for milling, after which the roads are repaved. A senior official of Adyar zone of the Corporation said with several localities in southern parts of the city having been provided with storm drains any relaying of interior roads was executed only after a portion of the road was “shaved off” using a milling machine. He said more than 70 roads in Adyar zone were proposed to be re-laid after a layer was taken off. The system of using milling machine would be followed in other localities, including Madipakkam, Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam and Pallikaranai while relaying roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-opts-for-milling-before-relaying-interior-roads/article32272770.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No clarity yet on holding Class X examinations for private candidates||For private candidates who were supposed to take the Class X public exams in March, the wait continues for clarity on when they will be held. For persons with disabilities who have registered to write the exams as private candidates, there are a host of added concerns as well. Following the national lockdown due to COVID-19, the exams were rescheduled and then cancelled. While the State government had announced that students would be assessed based on their half-yearly and quarterly marks, private candidates are still awaiting an announcement about the exams. “My son took the science practical exams in March before the lockdown. Ever since the exams have been cancelled, we have been waiting for an announcement about what is going to happen. While other students have been declared as ‘all pass’, several private candidates with disabilities continue to wait,” said B. Malathy, whose 24-year-old son has cerebral palsy. Ms. Malathy said she and many other parents whose children were to take up the exams as private candidates were worried. “If the exams are held for these candidates in the near future, there are several safety concerns. Physical distancing norms can’t be followed for candidates who need scribes and for candidates with cerebral palsy, it will be tough to wear a mask for four hours inside the exam hall.” The lack of clarity has left many of these candidates anxious and worried. “We were able to train and keep our children prepared to take the exams till mid-April. While school students will now pass the exams, my son is dejected and wondering when he will have to write the exams. Children with disabilities are more vulnerable to infections and have lower immunity,” another parent said. While there are several students with disabilities who take the Class X exams through schools, candidates registering for the exams privately generally don’t meet the age requirements and can't enrol full-time in schools. S. Iyappan, a visually-impaired candidate from Tiruvarur, who has registered, said that if the exams were to be held soon, the government should make adequate arrangements. Urging the government to provide details about the exams to private candidates at the earliest, S. Namburajan, State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of all Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers, said that the concerns of candidates with disabilities should be duly considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-clarity-yet-on-holding-class-x-examinations-for-private-candidates/article32272785.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s electricity demand fell 16% in April-June period||Tamil Nadu’s electricity demand declined by over 16% in April-June 2020 (the first quarter of 2020-21), compared with last year, amid the COVID-19 lockdown. According to the latest data from the Central Electricity Authority, the State’s demand was 24,862 million units during April-June this year, against 29,828 million units in the same period last year. A full lockdown was imposed in April, while some norms were relaxed in May and June. The lockdown had hurt industrial demand for electricity. Also during May-June, an intense lockdown was imposed in some districts. The electricity demand is one of the indicators of the economic activity. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of factories in the country, and is home to major automotive, auto components and other power-intensive sectors such as textiles and leather. The State is also a major hub for information technology and other service-oriented industries. The information technology industry adopted the work from home strategy, while commercial malls were shut during the lockdown. According to the data, Tamil Nadu’s electricity demand was 8,798 million units in June this year, down nearly 10% from 9,774 million units in June 2019. However, the demand rebounded slightly from May to June this year. In May, it dropped 15% to 8,831 million units from 10,333 million units in May 2019. In April, the demand was down 28.2% from the same period last year. The State’s peak demand declined nearly 7% to 14,630 MW in the first quarter of 2020-21, from 15,680 MW in the same period last year.  Tamil Nadu has the highest number of factories in the country, and is home to major automotive, auto components and other power-intensive sectors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-electricity-demand-fell-16-in-april-june-period/article32272800.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK refutes Udhayanidhi’s claim on doctors’ deaths||DMK youth wing secretary and president M.K. Stalin's son Udhayanidhi Stalin on Tuesday faced criticism from AIADMK’s IT wing which accused him of propagating ‘falsehoods’ on his social media page about the death of doctors in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Udhayanidhi on Monday had posted that around 43 doctors have died in the State, which makes it the highest number of doctors among 18 States. He had posted a table that claimed to be Indian Medical Association's State-wise data of deaths of doctors. He wrote: “A report reveals that TN tops in COVID-19 deaths of doctors. It’s a disgrace caused by the AIADMK government. The slave government, which has under-reported COVID-19 deaths of citizens, should clarify the condition of doctors treating infected patients and give them proper protection.” Debunking the claim on Tuesday, AIADMK’s IT wing responded that the Tamil Nadu branch of Indian Medical Association had denied that it had released information about doctors’ deaths. “The DMK’s youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin is spreading fake news saying 43 doctors have died in Tamil Nadu due to COVID-19. The IMA’s Tamil Nadu branch has denied giving out such information. Is the ignorant dynast not ashamed of this?” the official AIADMK’s IT wing page had asked on Tuesday. The AIADMK’s official Twitter handle also pointed out that the Health Minister C. Vijayabhaskar’s had reiterated that Udhayanidhi Stalin’s tweet was factually wrong and condemnable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-refutes-udhayanidhis-claim-on-doctors-deaths/article32272809.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cong. never imposed Hindi on non-Hindi speaking States: Alagiri||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday claimed that the Congress was never in favour of Hindi imposition. He denied Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s contention that the previous Congress regimes at the Centre had tried to impose Hindi. Widespread criticism Mr. Alagiri said when there was a demand in 1956 and 1959 to make Hindi the official language, there was widespread criticism and fear among States that did not speak Hindi, and they raised protests against the move. Following this in 1959, he said, then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru made it clear on the floor of Parliament that Hindi would not be imposed on any State at any cost. Mr. Nehru assured Parliament that the States that did not speak Hindi could decide for how long English could be the official language and that no one else had the right to decide for them, Mr. Alagiri said. In 1967, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi gave further protection to these assurances by way of amendments to the Official Language Act, 1967. “It is because of the protection given by Nehru by way of legislation in 1959 and 1961 that the BJP government is now not able to impose Hindi on Tamil Nadu. Chief Minister Palaniswami must understand this,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-never-imposed-hindi-on-non-hindi-speaking-states-alagiri/article32272828.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ready to face action, says DMK MLA Selvam||DMK MLA Ku.Ka. Selvam, representing the Thousand Lights Assembly constituency, who met BJP president J.P. Nadda in New Delhi on Tuesday, said he is prepared to face any action by his party leadership. Mr. Selvam, who claimed that he was not joining the BJP, when asked by The Hindu what would be his stand if the DMK leadership took action against him, retorted, “I am not bothered about it.” On Tuesday, a Tamil Nadu BJP spokesperson had sent a communication to the media saying Mr. Selvam would join the national party in Delhi at Mr. Nadda’s residence in the evening. However, after meeting Mr. Nadda, the DMK MLA claimed he had visited Delhi to request Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to sanction lifts at the Nungambakkam Railway Station in Chennai, which falls in his constituency. Observers felt that this was a move to avoid attracting disqualification from the Tamil Nadu Assembly under the anti-defection law. “I am not joining the BJP,” he said, but Mr .Selvam gave adequate hint on where he was heading for. “I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will be participating in the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.” He said Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan was his friend and he used his friendship to meet Mr. Goyal for his constituency needs. In fact, he went one step further and wanted party president M.K. Stalin to condemn those “who denigrated Tamil God Muruga.” “Mr. Stalin should snap all ties with the Congress whose leader Rahul Gandhi is critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is offering good governance,” he said. Mr. Selvam also wanted the BJP government to give importance to Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu on a par with Ayodhya. Despite his strong comments, the DMK high command did not announce any immediate action against Mr. Selvam. “Obviously Mr. Selvam is waiting for the party to expel him so that he will not attract action under the anti-Defection law. But the party is waiting for the time being,” DMK sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ready-to-face-action-says-dmks-selvam/article32272818.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers appeal again for salary||With online classes starting in all arts and science colleges in Tamil Nadu, the guest lecturers of the government arts and science colleges have once again appealed for the payment of their pending salaries. Around 4,000 guest lecturers, employed on a temporary basis in these colleges, have not received their salary of Rs. 15,000 per month since April. The Higher Education Department has so far argued that the contract of guest lecturers is renewed every year and hence, their appointments and their salaries could not be processed owing to the lockdown. “We are generally paid till March every year. The salary of April is paid when the next academic year commences... However, nothing has happened this year despite all of us struggling due to COVID-19,” said V. Thangaraj, State president, Tamil Nadu All Government College UGC Qualified Guest Lecturers’ Association. Many colleges, especially those having Shift 2, relied mainly on guest lecturers. “Now that we have begun working, they should release the salaries,” he said. Sources in the Department said that while the majority of the government arts and science colleges had begun engaging guest lecturers for the online classes, some were yet to do so. A.R. Nagarajan, adviser to Tamil Nadu NET SLET Association, who works in a government college in Theni district, said a large number of guest lecturers were not in a position to afford a smartphone and Internet link owing to their paltry salaries. “The Department has placed on the teachers the onus of having Internet connection and smartphones or laptops to teach online classes. With the salary pending for four months, it is difficult for a lot of us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-appeal-again-for-salary/article32272795.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||V-C search panel narrows it down to 3 candidates||The interview for shortlisted candidates to the post of Vice-Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University was held on Tuesday. It is learnt that the V-C search panel handed over names of three selected candidates to the Governor-Chancellor’s office. A total of 43 aspirants had applied for the post. Quite a few were from other States. Sources said most of the candidates could not make it in person to the interview, which was held in the city. One of the requirements of the University statute is that a person aspiring to be the V-C should have a Ph.D in fisheries science. The list of aspirants on the varsity website has many candidates who have degrees in other sciences. It is learnt that among the 10 short-listed candidates, there were at least two from other States. While the chairman of the search panel interviewed the candidates via video-conferencing, the other panelists were present in person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/v-c-search-panel-narrows-it-down-to-3-candidates/article32272801.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘NEP detrimental to those with disabilities’||The Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) has said that the National Education Policy (NEP), if implemented, will go against the interest of students with disabilities. In a statement, the association said aspects of the policy that speak about student enrolment in the schooling system by the age of 3 as well as exams for Classes 3, 5 and 8 will be detrimental to the growth and learning of students with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-detrimental-to-those-with-disabilities/article32272826.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Order appointing special counsel amended||The State government has amended an order issued by it on July 29 for creation of a temporary post of Special Senior Counsel for Government to deal with “cases of special importance and complicated nature” with immediate effect. In the new Government Order issued on July 31, the Public (Law Officers) Department stated that the expression “to deal with cases of special importance and complicated nature” would be substituted with “to deal with cases allotted by the government.” It was after the creation of the temporary post, the government appointed former Advocate General A.L. Somayaji to it on payment of a monthly retainer fee of Rs. 75,000 apart from a case fee and other remuneration facilities as applicable to the Advocate General.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-appointing-special-counsel-amended/article32272815.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drugs seized from police officer’s tenant||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has seized drugs from a tenant at a CB-CID officer’s house in Kilpauk Garden. Following a tip-off on possession of drugs, a team of NCB officers intercepted Arun, who is a tenant in the house of a CB-CID DSP. The suspect was staying in the rented house for the past few months. On searching Arun, the officers recovered a small quantity of hashish, a narcotic drug from him. While conducting the search, the police officer and another police inspector reportedly attempted to prevent the search, said sources. Arun was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drugs-seized-from-police-officers-tenant/article32272779.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jaya’s niece should move only city civil court: govt.||The State government on Tuesday opposed a writ petition filed by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa, contending that she should approach only the City Civil Court and not the Madras High Court challenging the award passed by the Land Acquisition Officer (LAO) on July 22 for acquiring her aunt’s residence Veda Nilayam. When the petition was listed before Justice N. Anand Venkatesh, Advocate General Vijay Narayan said there was a difference between a writ petition already filed by her brother J. Deepak, who had challenged the entire land acquisition proceedings itself, and the one filed by her now challenging the award passed by the LAO after the conclusion of the proceedings. The A-G stated that the award passed by the Chennai South Revenue Divisional Officer, in his capacity as LAO, could be challenged only before the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authority. As far as Chennai city is concerned, the principal judge of the City Civil Court had been designated as the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayas-niece-should-move-only-city-civil-court-govt/article32272804.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to bear expenses of civic worker’s treatment||The Tamil Nadu government will bear the medical expenses of a cleanliness worker in Tirunelveli Corporation, whose hand was seriously injured on July 28 while operating a machine at work. Bakyalakshmi of Palayamkottai was involved in feeding biodegradable waste to the machine for converting it into vermicompost, when her hand was caught in it and was injured. Special case In a statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said he had instructed the Tirunelveli Collector to ensure the worker gets medical assistance. Considering it a special case, he announced financial aid of Rs. 1 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund and added that the government would bear all expense for her treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-bear-expenses-of-civic-workers-treatment/article32272788.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||Customs officials seized 1.48 kg of gold, estimated at Rs. 82.3 lakh, at Chennai airport and arrested three persons. On Tuesday, Khaleel Ahamed landed from Dubai in Air India Express flight IX-1644 and was held at the exit. Officials searched him and found 280g of gold paste in his underwear. On Monday, Kaja Mohideen and S. Peer Mohideen took to their heels on seeing the officers. They were arrested and five packets of gold, weighing 1.2 kg, were seized. They told the officials that five passengers, who came from Sharjah in an Air India flight, gave them the packets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-airport/article32272771.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA moves HC, seeks standard COVID-19 data||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice, returnable in three weeks, to the State government on a public interest litigation petition filed by DMK MLA Palanivel Thiagarajan seeking a direction to release on a daily basis a standardised pattern of district wise along with reconcilable State level data on COVID-19 cases from March 9. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha directed State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to take notice on behalf of the government after hearing petitioner’s counsel V. Raghavachari. Stating that all television channels keep bombarding the viewers with the statistics all the time, the judges questioned the need for the PIL. Further, during the course of the hearing, the SGP accused the petitioner of having suppressed the fact that he belonged to the opposition party in the State. However, the petitioner’s counsel said that his client had clearly mentioned that he was a sitting MLA representing Madurai Central constituency and hence there was no question of suppression. The SGP also stated that the government had been issuing media bulletin on a daily basis containing elaborate details regarding the district wise as well as State wide figures of COVID-19 positive cases detected, number of patients who die due to the pandemic and the number of persons who get discharged from both government and private hospitals. Not maintainable “There is absolutely no suppression of any data. This PIL petition is not maintainable at all,” the pleader contended. However, the judges asked him to put everything in writing in the form of a counter affidavit and adjourned the hearing by three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-moves-hc-seeks-standard-covid-19-data/article32272813.ece
05 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Insurance for health workers well publicised, govt. tells HC||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday informed the Madras High Court that the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package: Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19, which provides insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh either on account of loss of life due to the pandemic or even accidental death on account of COVID-19 related duty, has been publicised well among its intended beneficiaries. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha were told by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan that the Project Director, Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project, had publicised the scheme through the Collectors and heads of departments. The officer said the insurance scheme had instilled a sense of security, appreciation and inclusion among health workers. The submissions were made in reply to a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam, seeking adequate insurance coverage to all frontline workers. In his status report, the Health Secretary said the Prime Minister’s insurance scheme, implemented by the New India Assurance Company Ltd., came into effect from March 30 initially for 90 days. The judges closed the PIL petition after recording submissions made in the status report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-for-health-workers-well-publicised-govt-tells-hc/article32272776.ece
05 August 2020||Chennai/Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Civil services exam: IFS is State topper’s choice||Ganesh Kumar Baskar, 27, is the State topper in Civil Services Examination (CSE) 2019. He secured the seventh rank in the country. Hailing from Nagamalai Pudukottai in Madurai, Mr. Ganesh, now in Nagercoil, had his schooling in Kendriya Vidyalaya in Gurgaon and then in KV, Madurai. He did his B.Tech from IIT-Kanpur in 2015 and MBA from IIM-Ahmedabad in 2017. “My preparations for the CSE started in 2017 and in the second attempt, I have cracked the exam as I could not clear the preliminary exam in the first attempt. I thought that I would be one among the top 100, but never dreamt of getting All India Ranking 7,” said Mr. Ganesh. His optional subject was Mathematics. His father Baskar is working with a Central agency and now posted in Nagercoil. The young achiever, who wants to join Indian Foreign Service, thanked The Hindu for playing a crucial role in his success. “The editorials and articles on a range of domestic and international issues, its news and analysis on foreign and current affairs were immensely helpful for me in the preparations,” Mr. Ganesh said. Ishwarya Ramanathan, 23, has secured all India rank 47. “I started preparations after my mother emerged successful in the Group II A examination while I was studying Civil Engineering in College of Engineering Guindy. My mother got married in her teenage. She started preparing for competitive examinations only after I joined college. My father, R. Ramanathan, is a cashew farmer in Cuddalore district. My mother, who is now 43, prepared for competitive exam and secured a government job six years ago. During my college days, I got the opportunity to receive free coaching from Manidhaneyam IAS Academy and Aram IAS Academy,” said Ms. Ramanathan. She said IAS officer Gagandeep Singh Bedi was her role model. Her optional subject was Sociology. She dedicated her success to former Chennai Mayor Saidai Duraisamy and author M.Karthikeyan who mentored her. Priyanka, 23, has secured all India rank 68. She did her Bio Medical Engineering in College of Engineering Guindy in 2017. Her optional subject was Political Science. “I missed by 20 marks during my last attempt. But I was determined. My role model is Gagandeep Singh Bedi,” said Ms.Priyanka. Twenty two candidates who underwent coaching at the Tamil Nadu government-run All India Civil Services Coaching Centre and 29 candidates who studied in Manidhanaeyam Free IAS Academy have cleared the exams, the respective institutes said. The number of successful candidates from Tamil Nadu has reduced from more than 100 a few years ago to around 50 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civil-services-exam-ifs-is-state-toppers-choice/article32272803.ece
05 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Manufacturing sector MSMEs step into digital platform||For the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in the manufacturing sector, one of the business compulsions due to spread of COVID-19 that has turned advantageous is stepping on to the digital platform, even if it is only for minor purposes. According to K.V. Karthik, vice president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association, all meetings, including branch and business meetings, are web-based now. “I feel that in future too, travel will be minimum and meetings will continue to be online,” he said. There is also scope for a lot of businesses happening on the digital platform, provided there are right steps taken for it, he said. Webinars R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association, said small and medium-scale manufacturing industries have switched over to webinars and video calls. The penetration of online communication is more than 60 %. Though industries are not operating to full capacity, there is no supply chain disruptions now only because of the online communications and use of video calls. No one visits the industries now. Some industries have employees who focus on this task. If the Government extends support to MSMEs to adopt more digital tools now, it would be an opportunity and encouragement to the units to go in for solutions such as enterprise resource planning. However, micro units have not seen significant transition to online platform. “We have three dimensional pictures of components, etc.. But micro unit owners use a smart phone and there is nothing beyond that. We need to visit larger units to discuss and take up job works,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manufacturing-sector-msmes-step-into-digital-platform/article32272834.ece
05 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain pounds Siruvani catchment||Days after the city’s water managers had expressed concern at the low level of water in the Siruvani Reservoir, they had some good reason to cheer about on Tuesday morning as in the 24 hours that ended 8 a.m., Siruvani catchment had recorded 300mm rainfall. The impact of the South West Monsoon rain pounding the catchment was that in 24 hours the water level in the Reservoir rose from 16.50 feet to 24.11 feet. Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board consultant S. Sampathkumar said this was the first sharpest increase this Monsoon season and perhaps the harbinger for the rest of the season. The rainfall and the resultant increase in water level assumes significance as Siruvani Reservoir is an important water source, catering to around one-fourth of the 100 wards. The day’s reading also saw the Siruvani foothills receive around 178mm. With the rather sharp increase in water level, the Board and Corporation had increased the water supplied to the city to 100 million litres, the Corporation sources said. The impact of the Monsoon rain pounding the area also saw the water flow in to the Pilloor Reservoir touch 12,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs). And, as a result the water level touched the 97 feet mark. The full reservoir level is 100 feet. Considering the dam’s safety, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation that draws hydel power had started releasing 10,000 cusecs water. And, with the release of water in to River Bhavani, the Revenue Department officials in Mettupalayam had sounded flood alert to residents living along the banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-pounds-siruvani-catchment/article32272850.ece
05 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Foam from Noyyal worries residents||Residents on the banks of river Noyyal near Podanur on Tuesday witnessed thick beds of white foam with nauseating odour. “The foam was found in the river from Tuesday morning. It was carried across the area in wind,” said Sreekala Santhosh, secretary of Sai Nagar Residents’ Association. Heavy rain The water level in the river increased due to heavy rain in the catchment areas of its origin here on Monday and night. An official from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board said that the foam gets formed when fresh water with high oxygen level passes through the river which otherwise holds sewage mixed water. The official said that there were no industries on the banks of Noyyal that release effluents to the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foam-from-noyyal-worries-residents/article32272856.ece
05 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Petition against BJP leader for tweet on A. Raja||A group of advocates in Coimbatore on Tuesday accused BJP youth wing national president A.P. Muruganandam of indulging in casteist slur against former Minister and DMK MP A. Raja, who belonged to the Scheduled Caste. In a petition submitted to the City Police Commissioner, the advocate sought registration of case against Mr. Muruganandam under provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for his remarks on Mr. Raja on Twitter on Sunday. The petition said that Mr. Muruganandam’s posted a tweet, which could be roughly translated as “there is nothing sacred in this world - Tihar Raja your birth is that way”. This was an attempt to belittle Mr. Raja on the basis of his caste, the petition alleged. The BJP leader had posted another tweet alluding that DMK cadres “are that way”, the petition added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-against-bjp-leader-for-tweet-on-a-raja/article32272854.ece
05 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pro-Lord Murugan demonstrations held||Several people took part in various demonstrations organised by right-wing organisations in Coimbatore in support of Lord Murugan on Tuesday. Hindu Munnani State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam participated in the demonstration organised at Ramanathapuram. The demonstrations condemned a video released by the YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam which allegedly denigrated the devotional song Kanda Shashti Kavacham sung in praise of Lord Murugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pro-lord-murugan-demonstrations-held/article32272848.ece
05 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of the maintenance works to be undertaken at the Peelamedu, Pappanaikenpalayam, Saravanampatti, Race Course and Madukkarai sub-stations, there will be no power supply on August 6 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the following areas:  Peelamedu: Bharathi Nagar, Elango Nagar, Burani Colony, Shoba Nagar, Ganapathy Industrial Estate, Police Quarters, Krishnarajapuram, Athipalayampirivu, Ramakrishnapuram, Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, V.G. Rao Nagar, P.S.G. Estate, P.S.G. Hospital, Kamathenu Nagar, Nehru Street, Anna Nagar, Arumugam Layout, Indira Nagar, Nava India, Gopal Nagar, Peelamedu Pudhur, Ellaithottam, V.O.C. Colony, P.K.D. Nagar, Agilandeswari Nagar, Puliakulam, Amman Kulam, Bharathipuram, Pankaja Mills, Dhamu Nagar, Balasubramanium Nagar, Balaguru Garden, Sowripalayam, Krishna Colony, Rajaji Nagar, Meena Estate, Udayampalayam, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Parson Apartments, Sreepathy Nagar, Kallimadi, Ramanathapuram, Trichy Road (part), Nanjundapuram Road and Thiruvalluvar Nagar.  Pappanaikenpalayam: Burani Colony, Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, Kamadenu Nagar, Nava India Road, Ganapathy Bus Stand, Siddhapudur, Pazhayur, Pappanaickenpalayam, G.K.N.M. Hospital, Alamu Nagar, Ramakrishna Hospital and Wedding Hall, Crematorium, Pudiyavar Nagar and Trichy Road Left Side (Sungam to Olampus)  Saravanampatti: Saravanampatti, Ammankovil, Chinnavedampatti, Krishnapuram, Sivanandapuram, Vellakinar, Urumandampalayam, Gounder Mills, Subramanipalayam, K.N.G. Pudur, Maniyakarampalayam (part), Lakshmi Nagar, Nachimuthu Nagar, Jayaprakash Nagar, Ganapathypudur, Udayampalayam, Vellakinar Housing Unit and Vinayagapuram North Side.  Race Course: Thomas Park, Kamarajar Road, Race Course, Avinashi Road (from Anna Statue to Collectorate), Trichy Road (from Kannan Departmental Store to Ramanathapuram Signal), Puliakulam Road (from Sungam to Vinayagar Temple), Ramanathapuram 80 Feet Road, Sripathy Nagar, Susila Nagar, Rukmani Nagar, Bharathi Nagar 1 to 6, Pappammal Layout, Park Town, Karunanithi Nagar and Angannan Street.  Madukkarai : KG Chavady, Palathurai, Bypass Road, AG Pathy, Arivolinagar, Sugunapuram, BK PUdur, Madukkarai and part of Kovaipudur.  In view of the underground cabling works to be undertaken in the Thirunagar Colony lines from Erode sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on August 6 at Kamala Nagar, R.K.V. Nagar, Chinnappan Colony, Jeyagopal Street, Kavitha Theatre, rear side of Thiruvalluvar Kudil, J. Marriot Hotel, Bus Stand area, Kamaraj Higher Secondary School, Janaki Ammal Layout, Kandasamy Street, E.V.K. Sampath Road, K.N.K. Road, Moolapattarai, Thirunagar Colony, Rajajipuram, Mill Road, Gandhipuram 1, 2 and 3rd Street, Kannaiyan Street, Subbaiyan Street, Marapalam Road, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Karungalpalayam, Cauvery Road, V.C.T.V. Road (Malligai Arangam), Madavakadu, Kamala Nagar and Rajagopal Thottam areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32272835.ece
05 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Toll in NLCIL boiler blast rises to 15||K. Ravichandran, 56, a permanent employee of NLC India Ltd (NLCIL), who suffered severe burns in a boiler blast at Unit V of the thermal power station-II in Neyveli on July 1, succumbed to injuries at a private hospital in Chennai on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 15. Ravichandran, a junior engineer in TPS-II, along with 22 others, were admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Chennai with severe burns following the accident on July 1. The tragedy occurred when the employees and workers attempted to revive the boiler after it tripped on June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-in-nlcil-boiler-blast-rises-to-15/article32272829.ece
05 August 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Arrests made in ‘honour’ killing case in Palacodde||Six persons, including the father and cousin of a woman, were arrested for the murder of her 24-year-old husband in a case of ‘honour’ killing here in Panjapalli in Palacodde. The victim’s body was thrown, with grievous injuries on the Panjapalli road, to make believe that it was a hit-and-run case, before his father Madhevan lodged a complaint revealing the murder. According to Madhevan’s complaint, his son Vijay (24) and Rajeshwari (22), both from the Kurumbar community were in a relationship, amidst opposition from Rajeshwari’s family. Vijay had completed 12th standard, while Rajeshwari was in III year engineering. She was already promised in marriage to her paternal cousin as a child. Six months ago, the couple eloped and got married in a Murugan temple in Panamarathupatty, Salem district. Two days later, Rajeshwari and Vijay returned and took refuge in Pennagaram All Women’s Police Station. After both families were summoned to the station, Rajeshwari’s father Muniraj gave an undertaking to the police that he would marry the couple formally once his daughter completed her education and that the “family’s honour” was at stake in the village, since she had eloped. Assurances Trusting his assurances, Rajeshwari and Vijay decided to go back to their respective homes. However, arrangements were made to finalise Rajeshwari’s wedding with her aunt’s son. Six months later, this June, Vijay approached Pennagaram All Women’s station once again asking to be reunited with his wife. Muniraj once again sought time for another six months, while Rajeshwari gave an undertaking that she would move out with Vijay if her father’s promise was not kept. Madhevan runs a chips shop in Bengaluru, where Vijay helped him out, while Rajeshwari’s father runs a vegetable mandi and is also into real estate. Vijay had returned to his village during the lockdown and was in touch with Rajeshwari. On the evening of July 31st, Muniraj sent word to Vijay asking to see him, who borrowed his friend’s bike stating that he was going to see the former. The next morning, Vijay was found dead on the Panjapalli road. Nature of injuries The nature of injuries raised suspicions of his death not being a mere hit and run accident. The victim was found with his pants pulled down to his knees and his private parts smashed and bleeding, indicating a targeted attack often witnessed in ‘honour’ killings. His body also bore brutal injuries on the head and face. Madhevan was informed of Vijay’s death by his friend, who narrated the sequence of events. Following the complaint, Palacodde police investigated the case. On Tuesday afternoon, Rajeshwari’s father Muniraj, Muniraj’s nephew Chitturaj, relatives, Mahalingam, Veeramani, Arumugam and Shankar were arrested under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. It was found that Muniraj had called Vijay on the pretext of showing him a plot as a wedding gift. When he reached the place, Vijay was beaten to death and his body was removed in a vegetable tempo owned by one of the co-accused and was thrown on the road, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrests-made-in-honour-killing-case-in-palacode/article32272816.ece
05 August 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Seeing honour killings through the gender lens||Honour killings are usually seen only through the caste lens and not through the gender lens and there in lies the problem, said Kathir, executive director of Evidence, who has worked extensively on killings in the name of honour. If there is anger over a woman choosing her partner without the consent of her family, that anger is only amplified by class, caste, sub-caste and community. But the anger is first triggered by the woman exercising her autonomy rejecting the patriarchy of the family, he said. According to Mr. Kathir, the international definition of a honour killing underlines the patriarchy of the family, caste, class, community or religion as instigating ‘honour’ killing. “Even before caste and class, it is patriarchy that condemns a woman for exercising her bodily autonomy to choose her partner. “There is a college in Dindigul, where a third of first year girls are married and are pregnant, soon after the Plus 2 board exams. I was told by the principal that families marry their daughters before college admissions fearing their girls will fall in love in college, irrespective of who they may or may not fall in love with. Patriarchy informs caste, class and community. A husband killing his wife over suspicion of an extramarital affair is also an ‘honour’ killing,” he explained. “Since ours is a caste-based society, we have familiarised honour killings with caste alone, with little understanding that the family is the fundamental unit and so called perceived honour flows from the family to the caste and then the community,” Mr. Kathir added. According to V. Geetha, social historian, “Honour flows from the heterosexual family that affirms its identity in and through erecting caste and community barriers. These shape family behaviour in turn. But even where caste is absent, there is clan and community over which girls are killed in parts of North Africa and West Asia.”  Even before caste and class, it is patriarchy that condemns a woman for exercising her bodily autonomy to choose her partner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeing-honour-killings-through-the-gender-lens/article32272814.ece
05 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bridge connecting Bhavani with Kumarapalayam closed to traffic||In view of spike in COVID-19 cases in the district, the old bridge across River Cauvery connecting Bhavani with Kumarapalayam was closed to traffic. After the State Government imposed restrictions on inter-district movement of vehicles to control the spread of COVID-19, the bridge connecting Erode district with Namakkal district was closed. Later, vehicles with e-pass were allowed on the bridge. However, workers in unorganised sectors and textile units were unable to get e-pass and faced hardship. Later, they were permitted to enter the districts without e-pass for two hours in the morning and evening. Areas under Bhavani and Kumarapalayam municipalities witnessed a sudden spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the last few days. On Sunday, five cases were reported in Bhavani areas and the bridge was closed to vehicle movement on Monday. A board was placed at the entrance of the bridge and e-pass holders were asked to use the Salem – Kochi National Highway to reach either side. Meanwhile, the Bhavani police station was closed after the inspector tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bridge-connecting-bhavani-with-kumarapalayam-closed-to-traffic/article32272832.ece
05 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||River Moyar flooded||Heavy rain in The Nilgiris led to flooding in River Moyar as the coracle services to Thengumarahada remain suspended here on Tuesday. Rain at Gudalur areas on Monday brought copious water to the river that pass through forest areas before entering Bhavani Sagar Reservoir in the district. Since the river is in spate from Tuesday morning, coracle services were suspended which left the people of Thengumarahada in the Nilgiris district stranded. The hamlet is located in Kotagiri Taluk on the northern slopes of the Nilgiris that can be reached only by taking up the mud-road that passes through the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve from Bhavani Sagar. Forest department officials said that they are monitoring the water flow in the river and warned villagers not to venture near the river. Meanwhile, the inflow into Bhavani Sagar Dam increased from 6,817 cusecs at 6 a.m. to 19,010 cusecs at 2 p.m. here on Tuesday. However, the inflow started to drop and stood at 15,578 cusecs at 3 p.m. while the water level is at 86.76 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. The storage was 19.544 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. Currently, 300 cusecs of water is discharged into the Kalingarayan canal for irrigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/river-moyar-flooded/article32272847.ece
05 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Lorry crew climb tree to escape elephants||A lorry driver and his assistant climbed up a tree after wild elephants started dragging sugarcane from the lorry they were driving on Dindigul – Mysuru National Highways at the Karapallam check post here on Monday. The sugarcane-laden lorry, driven by Mahendran of Yelandur in Chamrajanagar district in Karnataka, along with assistant Vinayak, was on its way to Sathyamangalam. While nearing the check post on the Tamil Nadu side, four elephants were crossing the road and Mahendran stopped the vehicle. However, the elephants came near the vehicle and started dragging the sugarcane from the lorry. Fearing attack, Mahendran and Vinayak climbed a tree. After nearly 30 minutes, the herd went into the forest and the duo returned to the lorry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-crew-climb-tree-to-escape-elephants/article32272853.ece
05 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Status reports submitted||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to file an affidavit regarding the procedures for disposal of used masks and gloves in view of the pandemic. Hearing the suo motu public interest litigation petition initiated to ascertain the COVID-19 situation in Madurai district, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam sought the report on August 27. It directed the Centre to file an affidavit on the mechanism followed to monitor use of funds provided to State governments to tackle the spread of the pandemic. J. Sangumani, Dean, Government Rajaji Hospital, and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan submitted reports on the status of COVID-19 in Madurai district. The Dean said the GRH was the first and only Government Hospital in the State to release test results on the institute websitemdmc.ac.inon a daily basis. It was done without breaching confidentiality of the patient and a hard copy was issued. When the efficacy of the same was tested during the course of the hearing, there was a delay in receiving the information. The court said that the efficiency as claimed by the Dean was not true. Regarding treatment of bodies, the Dean submitted that the body would be kept in a freezer box and wrapped as per the ICMR guidelines and handed over to family members after getting a written declaration. It is mandatory that the body is sent to a crematorium by ambulance and not to the home of the deceased. A separate committee was constituted by the GRH to supervise and coordinate in this regard. No complaint has been received so far on anybody demanding money for wrapping bodies. If any complaint was received, appropriate action would be taken against those individuals, he said. Corporation Commissioner submitted that there were two exclusive gasified crematoriums for cremation of victims at Thathaneri and Moolakarai and were functioning round the clock. The Corporation has prescribed payment for cremation of bodies and displayed the contact number of Vigilance Official and Madurai Corporation complaint cell, if anyone wants to make a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/status-reports-submitted/article32273075.ece
05 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Regulate fees in private hospitals’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the State to file a counter affidavit in a public interest litigation petition that sought a slew of directions particularly for regulation of fees at private hospitals. M. Sakthi Kumar of Madurai said the government had formulated ‘Tamil Nadu COVID-19 Regulations, 2020.’ It notified the maximum rates for test and treatment. A special committee should be formed to ensure that testing fees, treatment charges and reservation of beds are regulated at private hospitals and the G.O. is strictly implemented. Besides, guidelines should be formed for treating non COVID-19 patients without insisting on a COVID-19 test report and treatment of pregnant women who have tested COVID-19 positive. The petitioner sought a direction to the State government to release statistics on availability of hospital beds in government and private hospitals, statistics on deaths due to COVID-19 or other reasons but having tested positive for COVID-19. He said results of those even if they test negative should be furnished. Taking up the petition for hearing, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam sought a response from the Centre and the State. The case was adjourned to August 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regulate-fees-in-private-hospitals/article32273076.ece
05 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC clarifies condition for nomination to Waqf Board||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has clarified that the expression ‘senior Muslim advocate’ is not confined to a designated senior counsel for the purpose of nomination to Tamil Nadu Waqf Board. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the expression ‘any senior Muslim advocate’ occurring in the proviso to Section 14 (1)(b)(iii) of the Waqf Act was not confined to the designated senior counsel. “It also includes those Muslim advocates who are 45 years of age and who are in practice for not less than 10 years preceding the date of consideration for nomination,” he said, and dismissed a petition that sought to quash a government notification. Since the number of elected members to the Waqf Board became less than the nominated members, the government superseded the Board. However, the superseding could last for a period not exceeding six months and could be extended by another six months. But the period of continuous supersession should not exceed a year. As the extended period was about to expire, a notification was issued by the Election Authority to the Government Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department. This notification was challenged by advocate M. Imam Hussain who said instead of choosing senior counsel, the government had chosen to treat former members of the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu as the electoral college. As per the Waqf Act, the composition of the Board included two Muslim members of the Bar Council. If there was no Muslim member of the Bar, the government could nominate any senior Muslim advocate from the State. The proviso contained the expression ‘any senior Muslim advocate’. The word advocate was qualified by the adjective ‘Muslim’ and stood between ‘senior’ and ‘advocate’. The legislature had not used the term ‘Muslim senior advocate’. It could, therefore, only mean the senior among the Muslim advocates and could not be confined to the Muslim advocates designated as senior advocates under the Advocates Act, 1961, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-clarifies-condition-for-nomination-to-waqf-board/article32273083.ece
05 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Visually impaired woman from Madurai cracks test||A narrow lane in Maninagaram, near Simmakkal, leads to a cramped row of houses where M. Puranasunthari resides. Beating all odds, this visually impaired 25-year-old secured the 286th rank in the Civil Services Examination 2019, the results of which were announced on Tuesday. Ms. Puranasunthari completed her B.A. in English literature from Fatima College in 2015. She currently works as a clerk in the Tamil Nadu Grama Bank. She has been continuously appearing for the civil services examination since 2016. In her first attempt, she did not clear the preliminaries, which she subsequently did in her second and third attempts, but failed to crack the interview. “When those results were out, I felt disheartened. But then I would start focusing on my upcoming examinations,” she said. Her parents, K. Murugesan and M. Aavudai Devi, said every morning they would sit down with their daughter and read out important news from different papers. “It would take us an hour every morning,” Mr. Murugesan said. Ms. Puranasuthari, who gave her examinations in Tamil, said accessing quality audio books was challenging while preparing for the exams. “Initially, it was difficult to get NCERT books in audio format. Then, I used a software that converts PDF files into the audio format,” she recalled. She said she used to listen to All India Radio and various news channels to keep herself updated on the latest events. “My friends helped me a lot by recording audio files for me. I used to note down important points. I ensured that I made use of all possible opportunities,” she said. The most difficult part while preparing for the examinations is constantly keeping oneself motivated, she said. “There were times when I used to feel incapable and worthless. But then I would keep motivating myself and focus on the purpose of my journey. Being mentally strong is highly important to crack the exams,” Ms. Puranasuthari. Ms. Aavudai Devi said her daughter worked extremely hard for the past four years. “Her results have proved that sincere efforts definitely reap benefits,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/visually-impaired-woman-from-madurai-cracks-test/article32272806.ece
05 August 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Teenager commits suicide||A 19-year-old boy committed suicide in his residence near Nallipalayam here on Monday night. According to the police, D.Gokula Kannan was found hanging in his house. On information, the Nallipalayam police rushed to the spot and recovered the body. The police said he had discontinued his undergraduate education and was addicted to alcohol.  (Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-commits-suicide/article32272840.ece
05 August 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Perambalur gets a Siddha Care Centre||A Siddha Care Centre for COVID-19 patients was declared open at Kaulpalayam in Perambalur on Tuesday. Collector V. Santha formally commissioned the centre, with 200 beds. The centre is the 19th exclusive Siddha Care Centre in the State. In a release, Ms. Santha said COVID-19 patients without any co-morbid condition, who are currently admitted to the Perambalur GH, would be shifted to the Siddha Care Centre for treatment. All necessary amenities, including drinking water supply, toilets, generators and beds have been provided at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perambalur-gets-a-siddha-care-centre/article32273126.ece
05 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s tally of COVID-19 cases crosses 4,000-mark||The COVID-19 toll in Puducherry went up to 57 with the death of a 55-year-old woman, while 168 new admissions took the cumulative total of cases past the 4,000 mark. Among the new cases, 163 are in Puducherry and five in Karaikal region. The infection rate (168 positives from 812 sample tests in 24 hours) was 20.7%, while the fatality rate stayed at 1.4%. New cases Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said over the past few days, new cases were averaging between 150 and 160. “From the way coronavirus is spreading in the country, Puducherry is at risk of going the way of some other States with high incidence if the public continues to take distancing and personal protection norms lightly,” he said. S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said the woman from Pethuchettipet died of COVID-19 pneumonia and pulmonary embolism at Jipmer. With 96 patients getting discharged in the past 24 hours, the number of active cases in Puducherry dropped below 1,000 to aggregate 989 cases. Yanam had 134 active cases, Karaikal 59 (five new admissions) and Mahe one. Of the 1,552 active cases, 989 are in Puducherry (259 at IGMCRI, 381 at Jipmer, 286 in COVID Care Centres and 63 to be shifted), 59 in Karaikal GH, 134 in Yanam GH and one in Mahe. Besides, 369 are in home isolation — 346 in Puducherry and 23 in Yanam. Till now, 42,322 samples have been tested, of which 37,719 weere negative and the test results of 127 are awaited. The COVID-19 tally is 57 deaths, 1,552 active cases, a cumulative total of 4,146 cases and 2,537 patients discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherrys-tally-of-covid-19-cases-crosses-4000-mark/article32272822.ece
05 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Strike affects COVID-19 related sanitation work in Puducherry town||The strike by 500-odd workforce of Puducherry Municipality has severely hit COVID-19 related sanitation work, especially the spraying of disinfectant and collection of bio-medical waste from patients quarantined at home. The workers, starting from Monday, decided to abstain from all duties to highlight the non-payment of salary for the last two months. Besides 504 protesters, including sanitation workers, engineers, burial/crematorium staff, bill collectors and revenue officers, around 750 retired employees have also not received salary and pension for the months of June and July. The municipality, which provided salary and pension from its own resources, has been finding it difficult to generate revenue, forcing it to cut down on its expenses. The decision by the workers to abstain from duty had forced the civic body to abandon disinfection work, cleaning of drains and collection of bio-medical waste, an official attached to the Local Administration Department told The Hindu . The municipality workers have been demanding allocation of funds from the government’s budget to provide salary and pension of civic body workers.  The local body was unable to raise funds as revenue generation had been severely hit due to restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strike-affects-covid-19-related-sanitation-work-in-puducherry-town/article32272820.ece
05 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister takes potshots at Kiran Bedi||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao on Tuesday again took potshots at Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, saying that she was tasking officers on pandemic duty with presenting reports to Raj Nivas. Mr. Rao told reporters that at a time when both he and the Chief Minister Narayanasamy were holding daily assessments and briefings, the LG was having her own review meetings and asking for reports from officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-takes-potshots-at-kiran-bedi/article32272823.ece
05 August 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Poultry farmer doubles profit during pandemic||Hard work and perseverance seem to have paid off for N. Ramalakshmi, a poultry farmer from Venthoni village in Paramakudi block of Ramanathapuram district. While businesses up and down the country have been reeling from COVID-19-induced losses, she has managed to double her profit in the midst of the pandemic. The 43-year-old, who has studied up to Class X, attributes her success to the sale of Kadaknath chicken, the jet-black bird known for its nutritional value. Fifteen years ago, Ms. Ramalakshmi started rearing cows to financially support her family. “My husband, who was working abroad, did not earn much money. But we wanted to make sure that our three sons got a good education. So, I decided to do my bit to support our family,” she says. Her sons have now become professionals — a software engineer, a physiotherapist and a civil engineer. Ms. Ramalakshmi currently rears cows, goats, country chicken, Kadaknath chicken and pigeons. She also cultivates millets to supply them as fodder for her cattle. She says she has been making a profit of Rs. 60,000 each month for the past four months, which is double the amount of profit she used to make prior to the lockdown. “The COVID-19 pandemic has given my farm a new lease of life,” she adds. N. Ajith Kumar, her youngest son and a civil engineer, has been helping her run the business since the lockdown began. “In fact, poultry farming has fetched a higher income than a job in an organised sector,” he says. Mr. Kumar says the sales of Kadaknath chicken, locally known as karung kozhi in Tamil, and its eggs have contributed significantly to the rise in their income. He says they have sold around 500 Kadaknath chicken during the lockdown period. “We have been selling 150 eggs of Kadaknath chicken every day,” he adds. “Due to the spread of COVID-19, people have become more health-conscious and are opting for Kadaknath chicken for its high nutritional value,” Mr. Kumar says. Ms. Ramalakshmi says many marginal farmers buy these chicken from her to start their own business. She also sells 30 litres of milk per day. “Poultry farming is a highly remunerative business. Consistent efforts will definitely yield benefits,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poultry-farmer-doubles-profit-during-pandemic/article32272792.ece
05 August 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Seven fishermen missing||Seven fishermen from Rameswaram, who ventured into the sea on Monday morning in a mechanised boat failed to return to the shore on Tuesday. Close to 3,000 fishermen had ventured into the sea on Monday in 700 mechanised boats. Except for one boat, Fisheries Department officials said, all others returned. Probe revealed that the missing boat belonged to Packiam and seven fishermen, including Benjamin (38), Muniasami (37), Shahul (50) and Draviam (34), were on board. It is suspected that the boat was pushed towards the Sri Lankan waters in the rough weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-fishermen-missing/article32273085.ece
05 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Critical care facilities for COVID-19 patients improved at Salem GH||Critical care facilities have been ramped up at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here to treat COVID-19 patients. The hospital is the tertiary centre for COVID-19 treatment in the district and with the set up of COVID-19 care centres in the district, admission to the government facility is restricted to serious cases. At present, the hospital has 500 beds in the COVID-19 block and over 400 active cases are under treatment. According to Dean R. Balajinathan, “Beds for patients in critical condition have been increased from 50 to 75. Oxygen lines have been ensured for all the 500 beds in the block. Earlier, only 300 beds had oxygen lines,” he said. Haemodialysis units Two haemodialysis units have been arranged exclusively for COVID-19 patients and a 1000-litre R.O plant has been set up for the purpose. Dr. Balajinathan said that the bodies from the hospital are double packed with polythene and body bags as part of safety measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/critical-care-facilities-for-covid-19-patients-improved-at-salem-gh/article32272838.ece
05 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three workers at Salem GH suspended||Three outsourced workers at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here were placed under suspension after videos of them demanding money from patients and attenders at the gynaecology ward went viral on social media. Dean R. Balajinathan ordered the suspension of the three workers. He said that a three-member committee has been formed in the hospital to prevent such incidents in the future. Contact details of the committee members would be displayed at various places on the hospital premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-workers-at-salem-gh-suspended/article32272839.ece
05 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Stadium open to sportspersons||The district administration has given permission for national and international players in the district to practice at the Mahatma Gandhi stadium here. According to a release, sportspersons interested in utilising the facilities at the stadium must follow COVID-19 safety protocols. They should also fill an application form available with the District Sports Office here. For further details, contact 74017 03488, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stadium-open-to-sportspersons/article32272837.ece
05 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested, idols seized||The police arrested three persons and seized two metal idols on Sunday. A raid at the house of one of the three accused, Piranmalai, at Pukkarambai, led to the seizure of a one-foot tall idol of a Goddess and three-quarter-of-foot idol of Sri Anjaneya. On interrogation, Piranmalai’s associates, Saravanan of the same village and Raja of Kulithalai were arrested on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-idols-seized/article32273121.ece
05 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Former Thanjavur Mayor tests positive||The former Mayor of Thanjavur Corporation, Savithri Gopal has tested positive for COVID-19 and opted for home isolation. According to sources, the family of Ms. Savithri Gopal had undergone COVID-19 test last week after one of her relatives returned from Chennai. Her test result had returned positive. With the District Administration making available the `home isolation’ option for the positive cases, she preferred to remain isolated at her residence. Her family members are also in home quarantine. Similarly, former elected representative of Kumbakonam Municipality, Thamizhagan had also reportedly tested positive and was undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-thanjavur-mayor-tests-positive/article32273120.ece
05 August 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Intense testing helped curb cases, says Health Secretary||Intense testing and fever camps have helped bring the number of COVID-19 cases down in recent days in Tamil Nadu, including in Chennai and Madurai districts, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Tuesday. Addressing the media, he said that with no vaccine ready yet, awareness of the disease and adherence to the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research might help to check the spread of the noval coronavirus. Sustained tracking, tracing and isolation of patients at an early stage helped to cut down on the case load to a great extent, he said. In cities like Chennai and Madurai, the fever camps organised at hotspots and the follow-up of cases in locations where there was a history of fever and influenza-like illness helped in early isolation. Promoting awareness was another important factor. He hoped people in rural areas would make a habit of wearing masks. Answering a question, Mr. Radhakrishnan said it was unfortunate that the body of an aged woman had to be taken for cremation on a pushcart in Theni district recently. The State would get 150 new ambulances soon. Depending on the need, they would be distributed among the districts, he said. Appreciating frontline and paramedical workers and doctors for their sustained efforts, he said the State had 1.18 lakh beds. There was no need for worry about shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intense-testing-helped-curb-cases/article32272794.ece
05 August 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni gets veterinary college||The State government has sanctioned the establishment of a Veterinary College and Research Institute at Veerapandi taluk, said Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam here on Tuesday. He said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced its creation in March and the government had sanctioned Rs. 246 crore for the purpose. It will be the sixth veterinary college and research institute in the State. Cattle growers and livestock traders in nearby districts like Dindigul, Madurai and Virudhunagar also would benefit in a big way. Officials said that 40 students would be admitted this academic year in the college. First, it would function in a makeshift building. Within a year, when the building would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 94 crore in the first phase, students would be moved to its own building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-gets-veterinary-college/article32273073.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Districts with high COVID-19 cases to go in for aggressive testing||Fever clinics and intensive door-to-door campaign, on the lines of those conducted in Chennai, would be replicated in the southern and northern districts,where COVID-19 cases were high, said J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary. “We have observed that the number of COVID-19 cases in the State particularly in Chennai is decreasing due to aggressive testing and concerted and coordinated efforts of the State government. It does not mean that we can relax. We have to be extremely careful in dealing with the pandemic and there should be no room for complacency,” Dr. Radhakrishnan told reporters here after inspecting the infrastructure to treat COVID-19 patients at the K.A.P.Viswanatham Medical College, here along with Collector S. Sivarasu on Tuesday. He said that the active cases in the State was around 50,000. Fresh cases had been gradually coming down in Chennai, although it was still early to come to a conclusion. But, cases had been climbing up in Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur, Chengalpattu and some of the southern districts including Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari, Virudhunagar and Theni. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had asked the Chennai model (of conducting fever camps) to be expanded in the badly affected districts to check the spread of the virus. Fever clinics, aggressive testing, contact tracing of primary and secondary contacts were the keys to control the virus. About 28 lakh swab tests had been carried out so far in the State. “Closed premises and offices continue to pose challenge in the spread of virus. Testing alone is not the solution. Hence, the State government has come out with standard operating procedure for offices. They have to be followed vigorously,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. The government, he said, had fully adhered to the norms of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on testing as well as arriving at the figures of death. Patients, who died of other causes, were also subjected for COVID-19 test. If positive, they were also added to the COVID-19 casualty list. The State had to collect details of fresh and discharged patients as well as casualties from a large number of private hospitals besides the government hospitals. The State was following total transparency in dissemination of information on patients and casualties. “The death rate (due to COVID-19) is still very low. There is no need for panic although we need to be careful,” the Health Secretary said. Mr.Radhakrishnan also asserted that there was no dearth of beds for treating COVID-19 patients in Tiruchi. The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital had 780 beds and private hospitals had 1,327 beds. In addition to them, there were 922 beds at intermediate government and private hospitals in the district. Three COVID care centres were functioning at the Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University, Tamil Nadu Agricultural College campus and Yatri Nivas in Srirangam. About 800 asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients could be treated at the COVID care centres. Dr. Radhakrishnan said that 72,589 persons have been tested for COVID-19 in Tiruchi so far. Besides the laboratory at the Tiruchi GH, six private laboratories have been given permission for testing in the city. Out of 4,517 patients, who had tested positive for the virus, 3,239 patients had fully recovered and discharged from the hospitals so far. There were 1,218 active cases in Tiruchi, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/districts-with-high-covid-19-cases-to-go-in-for-aggressive-testing/article32273117.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Kallikudi market set to open again||The District Market Committee has received 968 applications from traders seeking allotment of shops at the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi on the outskirts of the city. The District Market Committee functioning under the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business had, in June this year, called for fresh applications from traders for allotment of 623 shops at the market. Prior to that, the committee had revoked the allotment of 288 shops to traders at the market as the allotees had failed to function and renew the agreements. The shops were allotted in 2018 for a period of 11 months and the agreements had not been renewed after that. The move came in the wake of continued reluctance of the wholesale traders of Gandhi Market to move to the new market claiming that it was too far away from the city and the shops did not suit their requirements. The market, situated about 12 km away from the city off the Tiruchi-Madurai National Highway, was opened in September 2017 and declared functional on July 1, 2018. However, hardly a handful of traders moved into the market and they too wound up operations after a few days. The market has been lying in disuse ever since leading to the revocation of allotments and the decision to call for fresh applications. According to sources, 1,292 applications were issued and 968 filled-in applications were received. The last date for receipt of filled-in applications expired on July 24. The applications were being scrutinised by a committee headed by the District Collector following which the allotments would be made. According to sources, some traders of the Gandhi Market too had applied for allotment of shops at the market. Shops of different sizes 100 square feet, 150 square feet and 200 square feet were being offered on minimum monthly rentals ranging from Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 4,410. The applicants have to bid for the shops by indicating the rentals they would offer. According to sources, the shops were in good demand and once the pandemic situation ends, the market would become fully functionally. Farmers groups Meanwhile, some of the shops in the ‘Farmers Block’, which were allotted to the Farmers Interest Groups (FIGs), Farmers Producers Groups (FPGs) and Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) in the market, were set to function from Wednesday. The Market Committee had already allotted about 104 shops to 52 FIGs, FPGs and FPOs and farmers’ producers companies as per a government order issued earlier this year. The market, established on 9.79 acres with 830 shops, was conceived when late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa represented the Srirangam Assembly constituency, in the wake of persistent demand for shifting the wholesale section of Gandhi Market in the city to a more spacious location. It was built at a cost of Rs. 77 crore with financial assistance from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kallikudi-market-set-to-open-again/article32273129.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||For the second day, central region sees a dip in cases||The central districts continued to record a dip in number of fresh COVID-19 positive cases for the second day on Tuesday. The central districts recorded 381 fresh cases and five deaths, according to the medical bulletin issued by the Department of Health of the State government. Thanjavur district topped the list with 93 cases, followed by Tiruchi with 83. Fifty-five persons tested positive in Nagapattinam, 31 in Tiruvarur, 49 in Ariyalur, 41 in Pudukottai, 25 in Karur and four in Perambalur district. Of the five deaths recorded in central districts, two were from Tiruchi and one each from Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts. A 55-year-old male from Tiruchi, who was admitted to K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital with breathing difficulties, died within a few hours of admission. He had no co-morbid condition. The second patient from Tiruchi to die of COVID-19 on Sunday was a 68-years-old with pre-existing diseases. He was said to have been under treatment for various diseases for a long time. The patient, who was admitted to the Tiruchi GH on July 24, died on Sunday due to respiratory failure and viral pneumonia. A 55-year-old female from Nagapattinam, who was admitted to the Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai on August 1, died of respiratory failure next day. She had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. A 55-year-old man died of COVID pneumonia and acute respiratory failure at the Pudukottai GH. A 52-year-old male from Thanjavur, who was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on August 1, died of respiratory failure on Monday. Most of the 83 fresh cases recorded in Tiruchi were primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. Woraiyur and Puthur in the city accounted for four cases each. Three cases were recorded in Thiruvanaikoil and Manapparai. Fresh cases were recorded in Perumalpatti, Ezhil Nagar and Karumandapam. Nine employees of District Rural Development Agency were among those who tested positive. An anaesthetist, a house surgeon and a staff nurse attached to the Tiruchi GH also tested positive. All of them were under treatment at the Tiruchi GH. Five policemen were among those who tested positive in Nagapattinam. Two of the five policemen had accompanied three prisoners from Sirkali sub jail a few days ago. A staff nurse at the GH in Nagapatinam was also among those who tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-the-second-day-central-region-sees-a-dip-in-cases/article32273122.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway hospital to treat staff testing positive for COVID-19||The Divisional Railway Hospital here has made arrangements to treat railway employees, their dependants and retired railway personnel testing positive for COVID-19. A COVID-19 care centre with 110 beds has been established at the new block of the hospital functioning at Golden Rock in Tiruchi. The move comes after some railway employees working in the Tiruchi railway divisional office, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop and Railway Protection Force tested positive for COVID-19 recently. The hospital would admit asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms of the viral disease. Critical cases would be sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here, an official said. The hospital, which has 15 doctors of various specialities, has been equipped with ventilators and beds with piped oxygen supply. Samples collected from patients would be sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for testing. In addition to the existing doctors, the divisional railway authorities have shortlisted 12 doctors to be hired on contract basis who were selected during an online recruitment exercise conducted in April by the Southern Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-hospital-to-treat-staff-testing-positive-for-covid-19/article32273118.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Federations of defence civilian staff issue indefinite strike notice||As most of the employees in the Defence Ministry’s 41 production units, including the Ordnance Factory and Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project (HAPP) in Tiruchi, have voted against the Centre’s move for corporatisation, the federations of defence civilian employees unanimously issued a notice on Tuesday for commencement of indefinite strike from October 12. The Joint Action Committee of employee unions in HAPP has announced a demonstration in front of the main gate on August 5, followed by wearing of black badges on August 6, lunch boycott on August 7 and observance of Save India Day by distributing hand bills on August 8. The strike notice was jointly issued by All India Defence Employees' Federation (AIDEF), Indian National Defence Workers' Federation (INDWF) and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS), on Tuesday to coincide with the date of opening of tender (Expression of Interest cum Request for Proposal) by the Department of Defence Production for deciding the selection of consultant for processing the corporatisation of ordnance factories. The dates for issue of strike notice and the commencement of indefinite strike was taken after detailed discussions by functionaries of AIDEF, INDWF, BPMS and CDRA (Confederation of Defence Recognised Associations) on July 28. They had conveyed to the Secretary of Defence Production that the indefinite strike notice would be issued if their concerns were not addressed by the Defence Ministry before July 31. Campaign In the run-up to the indefinite strike, the trade unions have planned to step up campaigns against corporatisation in the premises of the factories through section-wise meetings during lunch time, approaching individual employees, and publication of pamphlets and posters. Trade unions of defence employees will also extend solidarity and support to the one-day strike planned by coal workers on August 18 against privatisation of coal mines, General Secretary of AIDEF C. Srikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/federations-of-defence-civilian-staff-issue-indefinite-strike-notice/article32273119.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Protest at railway workshop||Members belonging to the Makkal Paathukappau Sangam staged a protest in front of the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here on Tuesday and later resorted to a road roko demanding to know how several candidates from North India who were selected for the post of Grade-III at the workshop had come for certificate verification amidst COVID-19 lockdown travel restrictions. Sources said around 500 selected candidates had assembled for verification of their certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-at-railway-workshop/article32273131.ece
05 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IUML chief Mohideen hospitalised||The president of the Indian Union Muslim League, K.M. Kader Mohideen, has been admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi. A party press release confirmed his hospitalisation but gave no details of his ailment. Doctors said his health condition was improving, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iuml-chief-mohideen-hospitalised/article32272827.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns in Cauvery, boy missing||Fire fighters on Tuesday morning retrieved the body of a 35-year-old man who drowned in the Cauvery river at Murungapettai when he went to take bath with his elder brother's nine-year-old son on Monday. Search for the boy continued till late Tuesday evening. Police identified the deceased as David. David and his elder brother's son Joel went to take bath in the river on Monday afternoon and did not return. An alert was sounded and fire fighters conducted a search and called off the operation due to poor light. The search resumed on Tuesday and David’s body was found||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drowns-in-cauvery-boy-missing/article32273124.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo to operate Tiruchi - Mumbai flight service for a limited period||IndiGo airline will soon be operating bi-weekly flight services on the Tiruchi - Mumbai sector. The flight services would, however, be operated for a limited period from August 14 to 24 providing direct connectivity to the country's financial capital from here. As per the plan, the airline would operate an Airbus A 320 flight with 186 seats on Mondays and Fridays (August 14,17, 21 and 24) on the Tiruchi- Mumbai sector. The flight would arrive at Tiruchi at 5.45 p.m. and leave for Mumbai at 6.20 p.m., during the four days of its operation, airline sources said. The sources believe that the operation of the service for a limited period could be a trial to ascertain the demand on the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indigo-to-operate-tiruchi-mumbai-flight-service-for-a-limited-period/article32273123.ece
05 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over poor water level in dams||As the southwest monsoon, which plays a vital role in improving water storage level in 11 dams in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, has let down both districts this year, prospects of getting a bumper harvest in the ‘kar’ paddy season are bleak, farmers say. Farmers were let down last year too during the ‘kar’ paddy season. Even as farmers were hopeful of taking up ‘kar’ paddy cultivation on over 15,000 acres in Tirunelveli district between June and September, a poor rainfall in catchment areas of major dams – Papanasam and Manimuthar – has discouraged them from taking up paddy cultivation. While farmers near the Tamirabharani and its major channels have sporadically cultivated paddy as they are not sure of getting water till the end of the season, others do not have the courage to test their fortunes this time. After their venture in the ‘kar’ paddy season ended up on a losing note in 2019, those who are able to pump water from the river and channels have cultivated this water intensive crop while others chose to wait and watch this time. Naturally, the area of cultivation during the ‘kar’ season has come down drastically. South-west monsoon brought bountiful rainfall to the districts in 2018 when water level in Papanasam Dam stood at 113 feet on August 3, 2018 against its maximum storage level of 143 feet. Now, this dam, the second largest reservoir in the district, has water for 67 feet and the Manimuthar Dam, the largest dam here, has water for about 62 feet against the maximum level of 118 feet. On this day in 2018, this dam had water for about 74 feet. In Tenkasi district, storage level in Gadana, Ramanadhi, Karuppanadhi and Adavinainar Dams is a bit satisfactory as these reservoirs, which have not been desilted for the past several years, have water that may be sufficient to feed the crop till the harvest. While Gadana has water for 51 feet against the maximum storage level of 85 feet, Ramanadhi has water for 66 feet against the maximum level of 84 feet. Karuppanadhi dam has water for 40 feet (72 feet) and Adavinainar dam has storage level at 91 feet against the maximum capacity of 132 feet. “Since all these dams have not been desilted for the past several years, actual capacity of these dams have drastically dwindled. So, with the water available now, we cannot take chances. So most of the farmers have not raised paddy this time,” said farmer Thirumurugan of Tenkasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-poor-water-level-in-dams/article32273081.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Idols found damaged in temple at Tiruppur||Several idols were found damaged inside a small temple at Kavilipalayam in Tiruppur City Police limits on Tuesday. Based on preliminary investigations, the police ruled out communal angle.  The Sangili Karupparayan temple is located in an isolated area at Kavilipalayam and does not have power supply. As a Tasmac outlet is located in its vicinity, the police suspect that inebriated miscreants must have vandalised the temple in the early hours of Tuesday. As no items were stolen and locks were not found broken, the police said the miscreants must have climbed the compound wall to enter the temple premises. The Velampalayam police registered a case under sections 449 (House-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death) and 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts were on to nab the accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idols-found-damaged-in-temple-at-tiruppur/article32272836.ece
05 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Motorcyclist dies after mobile tower falls on him||A motorcyclist was killed after a mobile tower collapsed on him on Palladam Road near Veerapandi in Tiruppur on Tuesday. Police identified the deceased as Sengiskhan (53). Despite wearing a helmet, he suffered head injuries and died on the spot. Palladam Road faced traffic snarls for over 30 minutes following the incident. The body was taken to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy. There were no other injuries due to the tower's sudden collapse, according to the sources. The mobile tower was not in use for a few years and collapsed in the strong winds due to lack of maintenance, sources said. The police cleared the fallen tower to ease the traffic. Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the accident spot, according to a press release. Tree branch falls on motorcycle rider A 29-year-old man died after a tree branch fell on him while riding his two-wheeler near Perur late on Monday. Police identified the deceased as K. Satheeshkumar from Sennanur near Perur. The man was rushed to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where he died on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorcyclist-dies-after-mobile-tower-falls-on-him/article32272845.ece
05 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||250 tribal families evacuated following heavy rain in the Nilgiris||More than 250 tribal families have been evacuated from their homes after water levels in a river rose dangerously and threatened to flood surrounding hamlets after intense showers in Gudalur and Pandalur regions on Monday night and Tuesday morning. Revenue department officials said that the Kalampuzha stream had threatened to flood the surrounding tribal hamlets of Puramanavayal, Thenvayal, Iruvayal and Moolampalli. Revenue Divisional Officer, Gudalur, P. Rajkumar, said that the revenue department as well as other rescue teams worked immediately to evacuate the families from the four villages and moved them to higher ground. “More than 250 families are to be housed in a few schools in the surrounding areas, and we will provide them with all necessary food, clothes and nourishment,” said Mr. Rajkumar. The Nilgiris district has recorded an average rainfall of 62.64 mm. till Tuesday morning. Gudalur and Upper Gudalur are among the areas which have seen the highest rainfall, with 201 and 192 mm of rain being recorded. Other areas in the Nilgiris too have witnessed intense showers, including Udhagamandalam town, while Upper Bhavani received a massive 308 mm of rain in a 24-hour-period. The intense rain comes almost exactly a year after intense showers in the district led to landslips, huge damage to public and private property as well as loss of life in the district in August of 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/250-tribal-families-evacuated-following-heavy-rain-in-the-nilgiris/article32272852.ece
05 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||People urged to stay indoors||Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya urged people to stay in their homes till the rain abates in the district. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, the Collector said that the meteorological department had predicted ‘extremely heavy rain,’ in the district till August 8. “As a result, people living in vulnerable areas, prone to flooding and landslips or structures at risk of collapsing are being evacuated to relief camps,” said Ms. Divya. The district administration has already evacuated 530 people from their homes and has moved them to five temporary relief shelters, with more people expected to be moved into such shelters soon. A total of 283 villages which have been deemed to be vulnerable are to be evacuated. “People being accommodated in these shelters are being given masks and hand sanitisers and have been told to maintain personal distancing norms to also guard against the spread of COVID-19,” the Collector added. Ms. Divya appealed to people, who are living in areas where they feel unsafe, to move to the 300 relief shelters which have already been set up. “The hotline number at 1077 can also be contacted in case people require any assistance,” she added. Till Tuesday evening, no major property damage was reported, with only one house being damaged and a couple of wall collapses reported in the district. No one was injured in any of the incidents. Residents have been urged to stay indoors to minimise chances of being injured by flying debris being blown onto the roads by heavy winds or by trees becoming uprooted. National and State Disaster Response Force teams are also being dispatched to the Nilgiris to deal with any emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-urged-to-stay-indoors/article32272849.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 7 deaths, 228 fresh positive cases||Coimbatore district continued to top the western region with seven deaths and 228 positive cases being reported on Tuesday. The district’s tally of positive cases rose to 5,688. The deaths reported on Tuesday had occurred on Sunday and Monday, according to the Health Department. The deceased were aged between 40 and 75. The toll so far in the district is 85. Tiruppur district reported two deaths -- a 52-year-old man and a 45-year-old woman. With 23 new positive cases, the total tally of the district touched the 1,000 mark on Tuesday. New cases included a 45-day-old male baby from Palavanjipalayam in the Corporation limits. Cases were also reported from Udumalpet, Mulanur, Kundadam and Vellakoil Blocks. Health authorities in Coimbatore denied rumours that the district ran short of beds for COVID-19 patients. The Health Department on Tuesday said that 3,183 beds out of the total number of 4,897 in Government and private hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) were vacant as on Tuesday. As many as 1,714 persons were under treatment on Tuesday, of whom 1,021 were in hospital and 653 asymptomatic patients in CCCs, said the Department. Of the total number of 4,897 beds in the district, 2,921 were in ESI Hospital, CMCH, Government Headquarters Hospital at Pollachi, 10 government hospitals and 16 private hospitals. The remaining 1,976 beds for asymptomatic patients were in 16 CCCs in Government facilities and five CCCs in private facilities. Sources said the district administration planned to provide another 100 beds at the CCCs of another hall of Codissia Trade Fair Complex and in the building of an IT firm. Salem district reported 62 fresh cases - 60 indigenous and two with travel history to Perambalur and Pudukottai districts. Namakkal district reported 39 cases. Four persons had travelled to Erode, two to Salem and one had returned from Andhra Pradesh. Twenty new cases in Erode took the district’s tally to 789. Ten persons were discharged on Tuesday and 172 patients are under treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Ten deaths were reported so far in the district. Krishnagiri district recorded 25 new cases, taking the total number of cases so far to 1,196. In Dharmapuri, two persons tested positive. The number of positive cases in the district increased to 791. Fourteen persons tested positive in the Nilgiris district. The district’s tally of positive cases rose to 863.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-7-deaths-228-fresh-positive-cases/article32272843.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases drop in Madurai district||For the first time in 41 days, less than 100 fresh COVID-19 cases were recorded in Madurai district on Tuesday. With 40 patients testing positive, the tally rose to 11,487. District Monitoring Officer B. Chandramohan said the positivity rate had dropped from 19% to 7% since mid-July due to efforts made by frontline workers, doctors and administrators from the district and civic body such as active fever surveillance, establishment of several static and mobile fever clinics across the district, aggressive contact tracing, raising awareness and early diagnosis. Intensified lockdown helped in increasing the health infrastructure and contribution of private sector expanded with time as well. From a maximum of 464 in a single day, the district recorded 40 cases. A total of 147 patients were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities on Tuesday. The total number of discharged patients stood at 8,984. With four persons succumbing to the disease, the death toll rose to 261. There are 2,242 active cases. Virudhunagar reported another spike in fresh cases, with 424 people testing positive taking the district’s tally 9,269. However, 447 patients were discharged. The district, which recorded three deaths on Tuesday (toll is 109), now has 2,377 active cases. Meanwhile, a textile mill in Srivilliputtur was closed after 43 workers tested positive. An official said tests were conducted on 106 workers on Saturday and Sunday, and the results were announced on Tuesday. All the affected employees were asymptomatic and the mill had been closed for disinfection for three days, he added. Theni recorded 292 fresh cases, which took its tally to 6,261. The district also marked 175 discharges. Dindigul had 65 new cases, with which its tally went up to 3,131. The number of people discharged was 100. Ramanathapuram reported 49 fresh cases, which pushed its tally to 3,449. There were 85 discharges from hospitals. Sivaganga recorded a high number of fresh cases – 143 – which took its tally to 2,677. The number of persons discharged was 51. Thoothukudi added 189 new cases, which took the number of active cases to 1,977. A total of 349 patients were discharged from hospitals. Tirunelveli registered 155 fresh cases, which took the district’s tally to 5,797. As many as 149 people were discharged in the district, which now has 2,298 active cases. In Kanniyakumari, 128 new cases were recorded. The district has 2,002 active cases. The district marked 192 discharges and nine deaths on Tuesday. Tenkasi’s case count rose to 2,443 with the addition of 45 cases. After 386 cases were discharged from the hospitals, the district, which witnessed four deaths, has 785 patients. Youth ends life A youth in a ‘COVID Care Centre’ in Puliyangudi allegedly committed suicide on Monday night. Police said A. Muthukumar, 27, a graduate from Veerasigamani near Sernthamaram, had been kept in the ‘COVID Care Centre’ in a private engineering college. As he responded to treatment, Muthukumar was about to be discharged on Tuesday. However, he reportedly committed suicide in the room where he was staying along with two others on Monday night. A 47-year-old labourer from Aavudaiyarpuram near Thiruvenkatam had hanged himself in a ‘COVID Care Centre’ in a private polytechnic at Vasudevanallur on July 24. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-drop-in-madurai-district/article32273069.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID yet to confirm Sri Lankan gangster’s identity||A police officer who had interrogated the accused said the blood relatives of Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka, including his brother and a son born to his first wife, are alive in Sri Lanka. They could be a potential source of samples for DNA profile-matching, the official added. A forensic surgeon with whom The Hindu spoke said the biological samples of parents could be ideal for DNA profile matching, though the samples of sons and brothers could also be used. The police were not sure about the whereabouts of Lokka’s parents.  Reaching out to the Sri Lankan government on such matters is expected during the later stages of the investigation as the CB-CID teams are currently focusing on gathering basic details of the deceased and the accused. Two separate cases The CB-CID has registered two separate cases – one related to the death of the man suspected to be Lokka, and the other against three persons for allegedly helping him fabricate documents to obtain identity proof like Aadhaar card and stay in the country illegally. Mr. Shankar said the CB-CID will seek the custody of the three persons as part of the investigation being headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Raju. On Tuesday, CB-CID personnel searched a house at Cheran Ma Nagar where Lokka lived. He had also lived in an apartment at Saravanampatti in Coimbatore, according to the police. Before the CB-CID took over the case, three persons were arrested by the Coimbatore city police — a Sri Lankan woman named Amani Thanji, an advocate named D. Sivakamasundari from Madurai, and her friend S. Dyaneswaran from Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-yet-to-confirm-sri-lankan-gangster-angoda-lokkas-identity/article32272807.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fire at textile mill in Madurai||A major fire that broke out in a textile mill at Vilangudi destroyed waste cotton and some finished goods on Monday night. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Madurai and Tallakulam fought the flames for more than four hours and brought the situation under control. No one was injured in the accident as the mill had remained shut down for more than two months. District Fire Officer S. Kalayanakumar said an alert was received at 9 p.m. and three fire tenders and several water tankers were pressed into service. The fire was put out around 1.30 a.m., he added. Though the firemen prevented the flames from spreading to the machineries, the stock of waste cotton and cooking gloves were destroyed. The cause of the fire is not known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-textile-mill-in-madurai/article32273071.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Constable dies at GH||An Armed Reserve police constable attached to Tiruppur City police who was under treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai died on Tuesday. Vasu, 48, an ex-serviceman of Elumalai in Peraiyur taluk of Madurai district, visited his in-laws at D. Krishnapuram near Watrap in early July. He fell sick and was admitted to government hospital in Virudhunagar. He was later shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai and tested positive on July 6. Subsequently, he tested negative, but his treatment continued in the isolation ward for respiratory problems. According to police, the deceased had a history of heart-related ailment. Three police personnel in Madurai Range died of the viral infection in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-dies-at-gh/article32273070.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 4   Cases on Tuesday: 228 Persons tested positive so far: 5,688 Indigenous cases: 5,650 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 1,685 Persons recovered: 3,918 Deaths : 85    Persons tested positive so far: 1,000 Persons recovered: 653 Deaths: 16 Active cases: 363||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32272846.ece
05 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Garbage contractor, pourakarmika die of COVID-19-related causes||Relatives of a garbage collection contractor of the Belagavi City Corporation have complained that the contractor died of COVID-19-related causes as he could not get a ventilator in time. The contractor was admitted to the government hospital on Monday after he felt unwell. He was shifted to the intensive care unit where delay in supplying him oxygen led to his death, they said. This amounts to medical negligence, his relatives told journalists at the district hospital here on Tuesday. “Some doctors told us that there were only 11 ventilators in the COVID-19 ward that has over 350 beds. We asked them why there was no scarcity of ventilators for the rich who were getting all the benefits? They had no answer,” said the brother of the deceased. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that he would order an inquiry into the issue. He also said that the district administration would request the State government to supply more ventilators to the district. Meanwhile, a woman pourakarmika working on contract basis was among those who died. She used to clean the streets in ward number 31. She was admitted to hospital on Sunday. She died of difficulty in breathing and other complications. She used to work for the contractor who died of COVID-19-related causes. Her family members said that now that her employer was dead, they had nowhere to go to seek compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garbage-contractor-pourakarmika-die-of-covid-19-related-causes/article32272910.ece
05 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Four volunteers given vaccine in first phase of trials||The first phase of Covaxin trials, an indigenously-developed COVID-19 vaccine, is going on at Jeevan Rekha Hospital in Belagavi. The vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based company, Bharat Biotech, has been administered to the first batch of four persons and they are under observation, hospital director Amit Bhate has said. Two men and two women volunteers aged between 18 and 55 were administered the intra-venous vaccine on Friday. Their swab tests were conducted to confirm that they were COVID-19 negative and blood tests were conducted to see that they were not suffering from other ailments. They are not admitted in hospital. They are in their houses and are under observation. In two weeks, they would be given the second dose, he said. The blood samples of these volunteers will be tested for anti-bodies after 28 days. Any alteration in the health condition of the volunteers would be tested on various parameters, Dr. Bhate said. The hospital had announced that it would invite 150-200 volunteers for vaccine trials. But it has chosen only four in the first round. “We will keep on increasing the number of volunteers gradually,” he said. He also said that the second phase of trials would have more number of volunteers. Jeevan Rekha Hospital is among the 12 hospitals or institutes selected by the Union government for COVID-19 vaccine trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-volunteers-given-vaccine-in-first-phase-of-trials/article32272911.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM, Opposition leader share a hospital floor, team of doctors||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Opposition leader Siddaramaiah, who are being treated for COVID-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru, are not just sharing the same floor at the hospital, but are also being treated by the same team of doctors. Sources at Manipal Hospitals said both of them, admitted on the 11th floor, enquired about each other’s health. “This is probably the first time that a Chief Minister and Opposition leader are being treated for the same ailment at the same hospital by the same team of doctors,” said a doctor. Sudarshan Ballal, chairman of Manipal Hospitals, said political leaders who are more likely to meet a large number of people are at greater risk of contracting the infection. “It is important that everyone follow precautions and avoid large gatherings. Also, those who develop symptoms should seek medical advice without delay,” he said. Meanwhile, questions have been raised about why politicians across the board — from Union Home Minister Amit Shah to Mr. Siddaramaiah — prefer private hospitals at this time. An office-bearer of the Federation of Healthcare Associations of India pointed out that Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain got himself admitted to Max Hospital, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan to Chirayu Hospital, Bhopal, Mr. Amit Shah to Medanta, Gurugram, Haryana, Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Siddaramaiah to Manipal Hospitals, Bengaluru, and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit to Kauvery Hospital, Chennai. No faith in govt. care? “These are the people who themselves, directly or indirectly, are responsible for the state of affairs in our public healthcare. They have absolutely no faith in government healthcare hospitals/infrastructure and prefer to get admitted at private ones. What kind of example are they setting for the common man? No wonder even the common man prefers private healthcare facilities even though it means paying exorbitant charges,” said a doctor. R. Ravindra, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association in Karnataka, said it is ironic that on the one hand the government was filing criminal cases against private hospitals, while on the other policy-makers were getting admitted to private hospitals. “We are happy to treat them and hope they will realise the good work done by private hospitals,” he said. Dr. Ballal said the choice of hospital was a personal one of the patients. “We will do the best for all our patients,” he said. Sources said that by getting himself admitted to a private hospital, the Chief Minister, who is asymptomatic, was violating his own order that stated that only moderately and severely ill COVID-19 patients should be admitted to hospitals. “If he is asymptomatic, the Chief Minister has to be admitted to a COVID Care Centre, not a hospital,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-opposition-leader-share-a-hospital-floor-team-of-doctors/article32272749.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NLSIU alumnus ranks 5th in UPSC exam||As many as 40 candidates from the State passed the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination, the results of which were announced on Tuesday. Topping the list of successful candidates was Jeydev C.S., from National Law School of India University (NLSIU), who secured the fifth rank. Mr. Jeydev told The Hindu that he always wanted to work in the public sector. “While at law school, I was fortunate to be exposed to how law and governance worked in tandem. NLSIU also had a history of graduates entering government, so that was inspiring,” he said. This was the 26-year-old’s second attempt at one of the most competitive examinations in the country. After graduating from law school in 2018, he moved back to his house in Bengaluru to concentrate on the examination. “This time, I was more focused and practised writing,” he added. It was the second attempt for Yashaswini B., currently serving with the Indian Defence Estates Service. The 25-year-old engineer has been ranked 71. “After one year coaching in Delhi, I came back to Bengaluru. Since I had cleared the exam in the first attempt and had got an offer, I decided to take it up,” she said, and added that she plans on joining IAS. Nidhin K. Biju, also an engineer, cleared the examination in his third attempt and was ranked 89. Attributing his success to three different coaching centres, he said continuous and focussed revision and keeping up with current affairs helped him crack the examination. Currently under home quarantine after returning from Delhi, he said celebrations had been put off until August 6, when his quarantine ended. Coaching centres in the city said the papers this year were tougher compared to previous years, and that candidates from Karnataka had performed well. With the pandemic there was also a lot of uncertainty on when the interviews would be held. They ended on July 30. However, for candidates from containment zones and those under quarantine, it was extended till August 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nlsiu-alumnus-ranks-5th-in-upsc-exam/article32272759.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Heavy security in State ahead of ‘bhoomi puja’ in Ayodhya||Security has been increased across the State as a precautionary measure against communal disturbance on Wednesday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will perform ‘bhoomi puja’ for the Ram temple at Ayodhya. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, presently under home quarantine after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa tested positive for COVID-19, held a security review meeting with senior police officials through videoconference on Tuesday. A senior police officer said while there has been an Intelligence alert from the Union government, it is a general alert issued to all States of possible communal disturbances around the bhoomi pooja event. “We have taken all precautionary measures and deployed reserve police force at most of the communally sensitive areas,” the official said. No group has been given permission to either stage a protest or a victory march, sources said. Local police have been authorised to take a call and impose prohibitory orders in towns that have a history of communal clashes over the Ayodhya issue. For instance, prohibitory orders have been imposed in Bhatkal town, which saw communal violence in the wake of Babri Masjid demolition. Eight invitees from State Eight Hindu religious leaders and seers from Karnataka are among the invitees to the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-security-in-state-ahead-of-bhoomi-puja-in-ayodhya/article32272761.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State records highest increase with 6,259 COVID-19 cases||After seeing a dip in numbers on Monday when it recorded 4,752 cases, Karnataka on Tuesday reported 6,259 new cases, the highest on a single day so far. Previously, the State had recorded almost a similar number on July 30 when 6,128 people had tested positive. With this, the total number of cases touched 1,45,830. With 110 new deaths, the toll touched 2,704. This is apart from eight non-COVID-19 deaths. Recoveries The number of recoveries continued to outnumber new COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day. With a record 6,777 discharges on Tuesday, the highest so far on a single day, the total number of recoveries is now 69,272. Of the 6,777 recoveries, 4,274 are from Bengaluru Urban alone. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,035 cases and 30 deaths taking the toll to 1,134. The total number of cases in Bengaluru Urban now touched 63,033. Of the 73,846 active cases, 634 are being monitored in ICUs. As many as 42,458 tests including 29,488 rapid antigen tests have been conducted in the last 24 hours. While Mysuru recorded 662 cases, eleven other districts including Kalaburagi and Ballari reported more than 100 cases each. Daily deaths The State also reported over 100 deaths on Tuesday. Deaths have been reported from at least 26 districts. While 30 of the deaths are from Bengaluru Urban, 13 are from Dakshina Kannada, nine from Mysuru and eight from Dharwad.  Bengaluru Urban reports 2,035 cases and 30 deaths taking the toll to 1,134||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-records-highest-increase-with-6259-covid-19-cases/article32272741.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||20 Africans held for overstaying||As many as 120 policemen conducted a special drive in north east Bengaluru on Tuesday morning against nationals from African countries who were allegedly residing in the city even though their visas had expired. Twenty persons were detained for staying in the country without valid documents. The police also seized a cache of counterfeit currency from a house, which led to the arrest of three persons. The special drive involved raids on 34 houses in Hennur, Bagalur, Kothanur and Sampigehalli police station limits. According to the police, there were several complaints by residents alleging harassment by foreign nationals. “This was taken up seriously by the CCB and a special drive was taken up,” said the CCB in a press release. A total of 34 houses were searched and travel documents of 85 African nationals were verified. This has raised a few questions from human rights activists. “The police are well within their legal right to ask and check the travel documents of any foreign national. But given the nature of tension between local residents and people from Africa in most neighbourhoods, the police need to be cautious and ensure that their actions do not turn into targeting the community,” said senior human rights advocate B.T. Venkatesh. He added that there was no clarity on how the police could search houses in the absence of specific cases against the occupants. A senior CCB official said that during the drive, they did not indiscriminately check for travel documents or raid houses. “Based on specific complaints about persons involved in illegal activities, extensive surveillance was conducted for over a week. The drive covered only those individuals and houses, which raised suspicion,” the official said. He added, “At some houses, occupants took over half-an-hour to open the door, some tried fleeing. At multiple residences, we found mobile phones and SIM cards destroyed. In one house, we caught a person flushing some powder down the toilet, which we suspect is narcotics. We have recovered several laptops, which we suspect were used for cyber crime. They are being analysed.” In one of the houses, the police found a cache of counterfeit currency of Indian rupees, US dollars and UK pound sterling. “Three persons in the house have been arrested. We are questioning them,” said a senior police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20-africans-held-for-overstaying/article32272736.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||From hospital, CM holds meeting with officials||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who has been hospitalised for COVID-19 treatment, held a review meeting with senior officials over telephone on Tuesday and discussed issues related to increasing the number of ventilator beds in the State. Karnataka had received 681 ventilators from the Centre under PM-CARES, said a release from the Chief Minister’s Office. In a bid to dispel fears about the State administration being hampered, the Chief Minister held telephonic discussions with senior officials and said the number of ventilator beds were increased by 335 during last week in the State, including 166 in Bengaluru.The remaining 346 beds are to be installed by the end of this week. The release said another batch of 1,279 ventilators allotted to Karnataka by the Centre would be received in August. The Chief Minister directed that all these ventilators be installedimmediately. Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu went to Manipal Hospitals in the city and enquired about Mr. Yediyurappa’s health as well as that of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. Appointing staff Mr. Yediyurappa directed the Health and Medical departments to take steps for the appointment of necessary staff such as anaesthetics, paramedics and nurses required to utilise these ventilators immediately. He also directed officials to consider the requests of private hospitals in Bengaluru for ventilators required for treating COVID-19 patients and to decide on the terms and conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/from-hospital-cm-holds-meeting-with-officials/article32272745.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP seals OPD of private hospital||Continuing the action against private hospitals in the city for not handing over 50% of their beds to the government for COVID-19 cases, the BBMP has warned of “criminal prosecution” under the Disaster Management Act against five private hospitals. According to the order issued by the BBMP on Tuesday, the reply given by the hospitals for violating government orders was not satisfactory. The order mentions People Tree Hospital, Sagar Hospitals, Shri Shankar Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Shri Krishna Sevashrama Hospital Trust and Apollo Cradle Hospital, Koramangala. Meanwhile, the civic body on Tuesday sealed the outpatient department (OPD) of Bhagwan Mahaveer Jain Hospital on Millers Road. According to the BBMP, the hospital had reserved 75 beds for COVID-19 cases but had admitted only 15 patients. It allegedly took an advance from COVID-19 patients apart from making them wait for 4-5 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-seals-opd-of-private-hospital/article32272729.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IMFS hosts webinars||India March for Science (IMFS), Karnataka, is organising webinars in solidarity with Indian March for Science-2020. They are on till August 9 and will be live streamed on Facebook page marchforsciencebengalur. A talk on science and society is scheduled for today at 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/imfs-hosts-webinars/article32272755.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PAC directs CAG to audit purchase of COVID-19 equipment||The State legislature’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on Tuesday directed the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) to conduct a special audit into the purchase of COVID-19 equipment within 15 days. Former Congress Minister and PAC chairman H.K.Patil chaired a meeting of the panel and instructed the CAG to constitute a special team to conduct an audit of all COVID-19 equipment purchase. The panel also asked the CAG to conduct an auditof the expenditure incurred by the State government under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). The Karataka government had used SDRF for the purchase of equipment invarious districts. The Congress has alleged that the government has siphoned off funds by purchasing inferior quality of PPE kits, sanitisers, ventilators, masks, and other equipment at rates higher than those prevailing in the market. Mr. Patil, who has petitioned Karnataka State Human Rights Commission about the alleged violation of people’s rights while providing treatment to patients, demanded a comprehensive audit report from the CAG on the procedure followed to procure equipment, their price and quality. The Congress has alleged a scam to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore in the purchase of COVID-19 equipment, while the government has denied it, terming the charge politically motivated.  Charge and denial  The Congress has alleged a scam to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore in the purchase of COVID-19 equipment, while the government has denied it, terming the charge politically motivated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pac-directs-cag-to-audit-purchase-of-covid-19-equipment/article32272742.ece
05 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Vidyagama’ to ensure continuous learning||In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Education Department has launched Vidyagama, a continuous learning plan for children. A release from the department said that every child will be covered under this learning plan, which also promotes self-learning in children. Special attention will be given to out-of-school and specially abled children, while food materials of the midday meal scheme will be sent to the homes of government and aided schoolchildren. Under the plan, every school must form a virtual class with 20-25 students and appoint a mentor. Based on the geographical area of their residences, children should be grouped from classes 1-5 as one group, 6-8 as another, and 8-10 as yet another. Parents and children will be guided to continue their self-learning at home making use of the learning materials provided. The release added that a class-wise and subject-wise ‘Annual Programme of Work’ had been prepared to ensure uniformity in schools across the State and uploaded in the KTBS and DSERT websites (www.ktbs.kar.nic.inandwww.dsert.kar.nic.in). Mentors will be required to visit homes of children in their neighbourhood as many times as possible in a week to monitor their progress in learning and co-curricular activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vidyagama-to-ensure-continuous-learning/article32272754.ece
05 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water Adalat||BWSSB will hold a water adalat on Thursday between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. at the following sub divisions: West-1, Ground Floor, Arkavathi Bhavan, 5th Main, 9th Cross, RPC Layout, Vijayanagar 2nd Stage, Ph: 23500013; South West-1, Dwarakanath Road, V.V. Puram, opposite National College, Ph: 23425193; South East-1, Swami Vivekananda Road, opposite Lido Mall, Halasur, Ph: 22945159; South-1, Jamboosavari Dinne Main Road, J.P. Nagar, 8th Phase, Ph: 22945267.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat/article32272732.ece
05 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Webinar||A five-day webinar on “Exemplary Practices in Teaching-Learning and Evaluation of courses in Computer Science and Information Technology” was inaugurated here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar/article32272915.ece
05 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Waive property tax, vehicle tax for a year: DKS||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday demanded that the State government waive property tax, commercial tax and vehicle tax for a one-year period, as the lockdown has brought businesses almost to a halt. Addressing a press conference before participating in a party workers meeting in Kalaburagi Mr. Shivakumar said that it will take almost a year to revive the economy. The common man cannot bear the burden of tax in this situation, he added. Also, Mr. Shivakumar visited the famous Dattatreya temple at Deval Ganagapur in Afzalpur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waive-property-tax-vehicle-tax-for-a-year-dks/article32272924.ece
05 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Withdraw police case against Satyampet’||Members of the Jagatika Lingayat Mahasabha staged a protest outside the office of the Shahabad Tahsildar on Monday condemning the booking of a police case against Vachana scholar and State secretary of the mahasabha Vishwaradhya Satyampet in Davangere district. In a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister, they said that the case was meant to defame and harass Mr. Satyampet and demanded that it be withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdraw-police-case-against-satyampet/article32272909.ece
05 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Section 144 imposed||In view of Bhumi Puja for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh, scheduled on Wednesday, the district administrations across Kalyana Karnataka region imposed restrictions as a precautionary measure to avoid any untoward incidents. The Deputy Commissioners of Kalaburagi, Ballari, Koppal and Bidar respectively have banned assembly of people, celebrations and the sale and transport of liquor. The restrictions would remain in force till the morning of Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/section-144-imposed/article32272914.ece
05 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangalore varsity final semester degree, PG exam next month||Mangalore University will conduct its final semester undergraduate and post-graduate examinations of the 2019-20 academic year from September 15 to September 30. If students are not able to take the exam, they will be given a chance to appear as freshers in January 2021, according to university Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya. He told a meeting of the Academic Council here on Tuesday that the supplementary examination for other semesters will be conducted from September 15 to September 30 and also in January next. It is to enable final semester students who have not cleared the examination of other semesters to pass the examination. Regular examination in January and the supplementary examination will be conducted as a one-time measure due to the factors associated with the pandemic and to help students to complete their courses at one go. He said that suitable arrangements will be made for students from containment zones and those who have tested positive for COVID-19 to appear for the final semester examination. He said that no examination will be conducted for undergraduate students of II and IV semesters and post-graduate students of II semester whose examination otherwise should have been conducted in April-May 2020. They will be promoted on “formula-based marks”. Digital valuation Mr. Yadapadithaya said that the university will opt for digital evaluation of answer scripts of all final semester examination that will be conducted. With this, teachers need not come to the centralised evaluation centre in Mangaluru. Arrangements will be made to have three digital evaluation centres in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu. He said that the academic year 2020-21 will start in September with on-line classes. If COVID-19 comes under control, classroom teaching will begin in October. If not, off-line classes will be conducted whenever the situation turns suitable. “The thrust will be on both on-line and off-line classes during the academic year 2020-21,” he said and asked teachers to use virtual tools to reach out to students. In a significant decision, the council agreed to reduce the duration of its post-graduation course in computer application (MCA) to two years from three to bring parity with the other two-year post-graduate courses. Registrar (administration) K. Raju Mogaveera, Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma and Finance Officer (in-charge) B. Narayana spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-varsity-final-semester-degree-pg-exam-next-month/article32272921.ece
05 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Red alert in Dakshina Kannada as it continues to rain heavily||Heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds continued to lash the coastal region on the third day on Tuesday, uprooting several trees and electricity poles. Reports reaching here said that a 70-year-old woman identified as Sooru Poojary was washed away in a stream near Mururu under Kalthodu Gram Panchayat, near Kundapur in Udupi district on Monday. The body was retrieved later. She was crossing the stream after completing her work in a paddy field when the incident occurred. Some trees in Padavinangady and Boloor in Mangaluru were uprooted when squally winds swept through the city on Tuesday morning. An electricity pole fell on a moving four-wheeler near Padangady in Belthangady taluk. However, the driver escaped unhurt. A release from the Dakshina Kannada Disaster Management Authority said that a red alert has been sounded on Wednesday as there is a likelihood of the district receiving rainfall over 204.4 mm. An orange alert (with rainfall between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm) has been sounded in the entire district from August 6 to August 8. The authority has asked people to be alert. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that most places in the coastal districts are likely to receive heavy rainfall and heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places from August 5 to August 8. According to the department, Dakshina Kannada recorded an average 55.2 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours ended at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. Udupi recorded an average 85.1 mm and Uttara Kannada an average 81.8 mm rainfall during the same period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/red-alert-in-dakshina-kannada-as-it-continues-to-rain-heavily/article32272923.ece
05 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kame Gowda discharged||Octogenarian shepherd Kame Gowda, popularly known as Kere Kame Gowda, was discharged from Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) on Monday after he tested negative for COVID-19. Mr. Gowda, who is known for his commitment to building waterbodies in his native village of Dasanadoddi in Mandya district, had tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at a dedicated care centre in Malavalli. However, when his condition took a turn for the worse, Mr. Gowda, who was also nursing a leg fracture, was shifted to MIMSon July 25 on the instruction of Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh said, “He did not panic. He can be considered as an example for facing COVID-19.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kame-gowda-discharged/article32272743.ece
05 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Prakash Nikam Amrit takes charge as Raichur SP||Prakash Nikam Amrit, who took charge as Superintendent of Police of Raichur district on Tuesday, told presspersons in Raichur that curbing matka gambling, illegal sand extraction and illegal toddy and hooch sales would be his top priority. He said that he would work with the district administration in preventing the spread of COVID-19. Warning those trying to take the law into their own hands, he said that additional precautionary measures have been taken to keep the law and order situation under control in view of the Bhoomi Puja for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the district administration imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC in the entire district and also banned liquor sales on Wednesday to ensure law and order in view of the ground-breaking ceremony for the Ram Temple, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prakash-nikam-amrit-takes-charge-as-raichur-sp/article32272918.ece
05 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Dadapeer Manjarla dead||Rajyotsava award-winning Tatvapada singer Dadapeer Manjarla died of prolonged illness in Manjarla village in Raichur taluk. He was 55. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. Manjarla, who was born into a Muslim family, took to singing Tatvapadas in both Kannada and Telugu to help spread national integrity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dadapeer-manjarla-dead/article32272919.ece
05 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Four die in Raichur, Yadgir||As many as 220 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Raichur and Yadgir on Tuesday. Of these, 144 were in Raichur and 76 in Yadgir. With the 144 new cases, the total number of such cases rose to 2,853 in Raichur. Two patients died taking the toll 30. In Yadgir, with the new cases, the total number of such cases rose to 2,587. Of these, 1,928 patients have been discharged so far and 649 patients are treatment. Two patients died taking the toll 10 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-die-in-raichur-yadgir/article32272916.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State government increases fares for stage carriage by 15%||The State government has increased the fixed maximum rates for stage carriage by 15%. The decision has not gone down well with people who rely on buses to travel. “It comes at a time when we are facing job loss and salary cuts due to the pandemic. The government should have been more sympathetic to our situation and delayed increasing rates,” said a regular bus commuter. For buses plying in corporation limits, such as Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Mangaluru, it has fixed the rate of the first stage of 2 km at Rs. 8. For the second stage of 2 km, the rate is now Rs. 5.75, and Rs. 3.50 for subsequent stages.  One-and-a-half fares will apply for services operated between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., said a notification issued on July 29. High-end buses operated by State transport corporations have the discretion to fix the fares in city limits. On other routes, for ordinary services, the minimum fare has been fixed at Rs. 9.50 for the first stage of 6.5 km, and thereafter Rs. 1 per km. For luxury or super deluxe coaches (buses with foam cushion and headrest), the government has fixed a minimum rate of Rs. 13 for the first stage of 6.5 km. Hi-tech carriages (seats with sleeping comfort) can charge Rs. 14 for the first stage of 6.5 km and Rs. 1.60 for subsequent km. Anjum Parwez, principal secretary of Transport Department, said, “After a gap of seven years, the fares for stage carriages have been increased by 15%. The notification issued by the government applies for both State-run road transport corporations and private operators. The State government has fixed a maximum cap, and operators cannot charge more than the rates fixed by the government.” To cater to the increased traffic during weekends and events, a provision has been made to charge two times the fares fixed. The notification states that private operators and State transport corporations have the discretion to fix rates for inter-city AC services. Toll fees In addition to the fares fixed, the government has allowed the operators to collect toll fees from passengers. The notification states that for the use of bus stations built at cost of Rs. 50 lakh or more, a surcharge not exceeding Rs. 1 per head can be collected. Sadananda Chatra, general secretary, Karnataka Private Bus Owners Operators, said, “We have been demanding a revision of fare for over four years as fuel prices continue to rise. We are facing a lot of financial distress due to COVID-19. Our major demand of tax relaxation remains unfulfilled.”  We have been demanding a revision of fare for over four years as fuel prices continue to rise Sadananda Chatra, general secretary, Karnataka Private Bus Owners Operators||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-government-increases-fares-for-stage-carriage-by-15/article32272739.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Close to 10% of people taking RAT emerge positive for COVID-19||Around 9.41% of those who took the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) at Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits in the last one week have tested positive for COVID-19. While sharing this data at the council meeting on Tuesday, civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said, “Our approach to testing now is more of a reactionary approach in nature. We are mainly testing primary and secondary contacts, people in containment zones, and SARI and ILI cases. Hence, we will increase testing from 10,000 per day to 20,000 within the next one week to 10 days.” He underscored the BBMP’s agenda to increase the frequency of household surveys with the aim of identifying vulnerable groups, including pregnant women, senior citizens, those with co-morbidities and people suffering from SARI and ILI. Surveys will be taken up every 10 days. “Early identification, early testing and early isolation will help in bringing the number of cases down,” he added. Home isolation Responding to councillors’ claims of discrepancies in the data related to COVID-19, Mr. Prasad said that, due to lack of human resources, the civic body has not been able to keep a close tab on the home isolation cases. “Those in home isolation are deemed to be discharged on the 14th day. However, we have not been able to follow up with them. If we update the list, the total number of positive cases will come down,” he said. Several councillors brought up the issue of private hospitals charging patients even with BU number for which the mayor replied that COVID-19 positive patients with the BU number are not supposed to be charged even in private hospitals as the government pays for their treatment through Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust and Ayushman Bharat, irrespective of APL and BPL cards. 156 test positive Of the 4,464 pourakarmikas, 359 supervisors and 15 drivers tested so far, the results of 156 were positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/close-to-10-of-people-taking-rat-emerge-positive-for-covid-19/article32272731.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ex-CM too tests positive, hospitalised||Stating that his 73-year-old father could have contracted the infection possibly during his press conferences in Mandya and Mysuru in the last few days, Dr. Yathindra appealed to all those who have come in contact recently to isolate themselves and get tested. “I am staying in the hospital to be along with my father. Although I am in a different room, I am checking on him occasionally with a PPE,” said Dr. Yathindra, a doctor himself. Hospital chairman Sudarshan Ballal said that Mr. Siddaramaiah, who has a history of diabetes, was doing well and was stable. “He is undergoing appropriate evaluation and management by a multidisciplinary team of doctors,” Dr. Ballal said. In a tweet, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, “I have tested positive for #Covid19 and have also been admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors as a precaution. I request all those who had come in contact with me to check out symptoms and to quarantine themselves.” Mr. Yediyurappa, who was admitted to the hospital on Sunday night, continued to remain stable. Dr. Ballal said the Chief Minister was responding to treatment. “He is cheerful and attending to his activities,” the doctor said. After learning that Mr. Siddaramaiah has also been admitted for COVID-19, the Chief Minister wished him a speedy recovery. In a tweet, Mr. Yediyurappa said, “I wish that he gets back to his routine activities soon, with good health.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-cm-too-tests-positive-hospitalised/article32272751.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Doctors from rural areas, child actor among those who make it big||Many students from Karnataka with rural background have made it big in the civil services exam this year. M.J. Abhishek Gowda and N. Vivek Reddy from Mandya are qualified doctors and received valuable tips from M.V. Venkatesh, Deputy Commissioner of Mandya, who is also a doctor by qualification. While Abhishek was ranked 278, Vivek Reddy secured the 485th rank and. They are now bracing for a career as public servants. Mr. Gowda said he studied in Kannada medium till 10th standard in a government school at Maragowdanahalli in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district. Though he became a doctor, his mind was on cracking UPSC. “I worked as duty doctor for 3 years and simultaneously prepared for the exam,” he said. He took Kannada literature as optional in the IAS mains. Dr. Reddy is a native of Bheemaganahalli, Srinivaspura taluk in Kolar district. “I was keen to be an IAS officer even before securing a seat for medicine, and was inspired by my father who is a school teacher,” he said. Currently working as junior assistant at NIMHANS, Bengaluru, Dr. Reddy said he narrowly lost out in the interview in the first attempt by six marks. Mr. Venkatesh said the success of the two youths from rural background should inspire others to prepare and appear for the competitive examination. Among the others who cracked the exam is Keerthana H.S. A resident of Nandini Layout and a former child artiste who has won national award, she is happy to have cleared the exam in her sixth attempt. Ms. Keerthana, who secured the 167th rank, said she entered the film industry when she was four. “I went on to act in 32 films and 48 television serials. After 10th standard, I concentrated on studies,” she said. She has acted in Kannada films Karpoorada Gombe, A, and Kanooru Heggadithi and in TV serial Chiguru . The 29-year-old said she worked for two years as a software engineer and five years as a marketing engineer. She credited her success to her parents H.T. Srinivas and D.R. Chandramma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-from-rural-areas-child-actor-among-those-who-make-it-big/article32272753.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Auto driver murdered||Unidentified assailants hacked an autorickshaw driver to death in Mico Layout on Monday evening. The deceased has been identified as Mani, 27, a resident of J.D. Mara area. On Monday evening, Mani had parked his autorickshaw at a stand near his residence. He was chatting with other drivers at a nearby shop when a gang of assailants came charging towards him, said the police. They hacked him to death with lethal weapons before fleeing on their bikes. The Mico Layout police, who have taken up the probe, said the motive for the murder was yet to be established. “We are analysing CCTV footage from nearby cameras,” a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-driver-murdered/article32272733.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Consultation on PRR||The Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) will hold a public consultation on the controversial Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) on August 18. Environmentalists and citizens groups are up in arms against the 65-km eight-lane road project connecting Tumakuru Road with Hosur Road as it will affect an estimated 33,838 trees. The BDA has already received criticism for taking up a project that will have such a huge environmental impact. The public consultation will be held at ‘Nityostsava’ hall in Yelahanka. The Bengaluru Urban DC and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) will be part of the public consultation. BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev said that the authority will seriously study the suggestions made by the general public and act upon them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consultation-on-prr/article32272737.ece
05 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha logs 126 cases||In the biggest single-day spike so far, the district logged 126 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. While 74 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, 35 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel at Nooranad came from Punjab. Source of infection of a 20-year-old man from Pathiyoor is untraced. Besides, 11 who came from abroad and five from other States tested positive for SARS-COV-2. With 16 fresh cases, Chettikkad COVID-19 cluster topped the list of contact cases in the district for the second day running. Another 10 cases were reported from Alappuzha municipality. Rest of the contact cases were from Ambalappuzha (8), Kayamkulam (7), Kadakarappally (5), Poochackal (5), Pallippuram (5), Cherthala (4), Varanam (4), Pattanakkad (3), and one case each from Arthunkal, Vayalar, Chengannur, Aroor, and Kannanamkuzhy. There is a lack of clarity regarding the place of two patients. The ITBP personnel reached the district from Jalandhar in Punjab on July 7 as part of the rotational change over. District Collector A. Alexander said a total of 50 personnel had reached the district, of which 35 tested positive for SARS-COV-2. “They were in quarantine since their arrival. Their swabs were collected for testing on August 2 and the results of 35 of them came back positive,” Mr. Alexander said. Sixteen patients who had come from foreign countries and other States hailed from Alappuzha (2), Mavelikara (2),Thuravoor (2), Aroor, Ramankary, Kuthiathode, Thamarakulam, Kayamkulam, Bharanikavu, Nooranad, Budhanoor, Krishnapuram, and Thazhakara. 55 recoveries Meanwhile, 55 people, including 30 who contracted the disease through contact, tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 844. Wards 22 and 24 in Cherthala municipality, ward 22 in Alappuzha municipality, ward 5 in Pattanakkad, ward 10 in Panavally, ward 10 in Thanneermukkom, and ward 10 in Punnapra South were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-logs-126-cases/article32273063.ece
05 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||LIFE’s 3rd phase sees 119 houses ready||Construction of 119 houses has been completed in the third phase of the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission in the district. The third phase aims to provide houses to those who have neither a home nor a piece of land. According to officials, 7,191 eligible beneficiaries will get land and house in the third phase. “We will construct five housing complexes in four local bodies in the district this year. The rest of the beneficiaries will be provided Rs. 6 lakh each (Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe beneficiaries to get Rs. 6.25 lakh). The individual houses will be constructed in not less than three cents of land. Already 463 families have acquired land and construction of 119 houses has been completed,” says an official. Earlier, the State government accorded administrative sanction for construction of five apartment complexes: two at Paravoor and one each at Thazhakara, Pallipad and Mannancherry. Construction of two flats at Paravoor has begun. Seven-storey blocks are being built on 2.15 acres for 156 families at Rs. 35 crore. The 500-sq-ft. units will have two bedrooms, a kitchen, hall, among other facilities. The land has been provided by the Alappuzha municipality. The complex at Thazhakara will be constructed on revenue land, which could accommodate 140 families. The flats at Pallipad and Mannanchery will be constructed on the land provided by the respective panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lifes-3rd-phase-sees-119-houses-ready/article32273061.ece
05 August 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Above-normal rainfall in Idukki||Idukki received above-normal rainfall for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. With good inflow into the catchment, shutters of the Lower Periyar, Kallarkutty, and Malankara dams were opened. Lower Periyar From the morning, shutters of the Lower Periyar dam were raised to 120 cm and the Kallarkurtty dam 80 cm, with Kallarkutty releasing 400 cumecs and Lower Periyar 900 cumecs of water. The Malankara dam shutters were raised by 30 cm each. The water level in the Idukki reservoir rose to 2,337. 5 ft on Tuesday. The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was 117.90 ft. Average rainfall The district received an average rainfall of 96.36 mm for the past 24 hours with Peerumade taluk recording the highest rainfall of 140 mm. Udumbanchola recorded rainfall of 36.2 mm, Devikulam 118 mm, Idukki 123.30, and Thodupuzha 64.2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/above-normal-rainfall-in-idukki/article32273096.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Price decline ravages rubber nurseries too||With natural rubber cultivation facing a reversal of fortunes, hundreds of sapling and planting material suppliers are downing shutters as more and more businesses reflect the deepening crisis for the once prosperous sector. “We are caught between the devil and the deep sea,” says Baby Kuttiankal, one of the pioneering rubber nursery operators in Kerala, about the dilemma nursery operators are facing. ‘‘We are not sure of the future and, at the same time, we are not in a frame of mind to close down the operations altogether," he says about the situation facing hundreds of businesses. As vice president of the All Kerala Rubber Nursery Association, he is still at the helm of a group that has a big say in the type of planting materials available in the State. He remembers that his nursery near Bharananganam in Kottayam district was once a trendsetter in the business and was instrumental in exporting rubber saplings to Mexico. Over the last 40 years, he has seen the rise and now the fall of the rubber nursery business. Many people are abandoning it and others are shifting to other crops, he says. Josekutty Thulumpanmakkal, near Pallikkathode in Kottayam, says the setbacks suffered by the rubber sector is one of the key reasons for the closure of hundreds of nurseries. Dwindling numbers The association of nurseries had about 1,000 members about a decade ago. The number has steadily come down and about 60-70% of the former members are out of the group as more and more business owners shifted to other crops. Mr. Baby says COVID-19 too has played a big role in forcing the closure of the businesses. The cost of labour had forced nursery owners to depend on workers from other States to run their businesses. However, the onset of the COVID-19 lockdown had seen thousands of them fleeing the State for the safety of their homes. He says about 20,000 to 25,000 jobs have been lost on account of the slowdown as well as closure of the rubber nurseries. Mr. Josekutty points out the phenomenal rise in the cost of inputs as one of many reasons for the falling business. The cost of inputs such as plastic cups, coir pith and soil has risen way beyond the affordability of the sapling suppliers. While the cost of production of a unit of planting material has come to over Rs. 85, nursery owners are forced to sell it at about Rs. 60 a piece to stay on the business, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/price-decline-ravages-rubber-nurseries-too/article32273114.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Panchayat puts up a strong fight||Surviving a crisis is nothing new to Kunnukara panchayat in Paravur taluk. The people of this region had displayed their resilience in bouncing back from the floods two years ago. So, when COVID-19 broke out, the panchayat acted quickly, and that has now brought it national laurels in the form of Skotch Silver Award, considered one of the highest civilian honours. The panchayat with a population of nearly 22,000 has so far reported only two positive cases. “We have given all 5,200 families in the panchayat two rounds of Ayurveda and Homeopathy immunity boosters,” said Francis Tharayil, panchayat president. The local body now has 24 institutional and four paid quarantine facilities. Each quarantine room is sanitised and kept vacant for three days after every use. Fumigation of the panchayat office, public spaces, and inter-district vehicles started in April itself. Fifty hand-washing facilities were set up across the panchayat to ‘Break the Chain’. “Political differences never marred our COVID response, and all public rallies and demonstrations stand banned in the panchayat for the next one year,” said Mr. Tharayil. Wearing masks in public spaces was made mandatory as early as April 22. Amid this, the panchayat also ensured payment of welfare pension to nearly 4,000 beneficiaries. Nearly 300 migrants were given food and shelter during and after the lockdown, while special registration facilities were arranged for them to book train tickets back home. Technology infusion was ensured by deploying a COVID Care App developed by a local engineering unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-puts-up-a-strong-fight/article32273001.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police gear up for strict enforcement||Having been given a greater role in the fight against the pandemic, the police are gearing up for ruthless enforcement of COVID-19 guidelines both inside and outside containment zones in their efforts to rein in the spread of the disease. Contact-tracing will be done more aggressively with more teams being roped in, if need be. “Restricting the movements of primary and secondary contacts and their families so as to control disease spread will be the primary objective in containment zones. Five months after the outbreak if people still cannot get the message, then there is no longer any room for leniency,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). He added that those flouting the guidelines could expect fines of up to Rs. 2,000 and even prosecution in the coming days. Increased police presence was visible in the city, especially in the West Kochi area, which remains a containment zone. “Except for essential and emergency services, no other movements are allowed to and from containment zones. Essential items can be bought between 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. or be door-delivered including under the Amrutham project of the police,” said G.D. Vijayakumar, Assistant Commissioner, Mattancherry. Meanwhile, UDF convener Benny Behanan came down on the decision to entrust the police with the responsibility of containing COVID-19 spread, calling it “unscientific” and “irrational”. Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti district president P.C. Jacob said the government was trying to save its skin by putting the onus of COVID-19 fight on the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-gear-up-for-strict-enforcement/article32273002.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Renovate Mullassery canal to arrest flooding’||The district administration on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that the Mullassery canal had to be renovated at the earliest to avoid waterlogging at the KSRTC bus stand, Karikkamuri road, Kammattipadam and Southern Railway station. In his report submitted in the High Court, District Collector S. Suhas said there was obstruction to the flow of water due to the level of difference between Mullassery canal and the Thevara Perandoor canal. The report said it was the responsibility of the corporation for the upkeep of the the roadside drains to ensure free flow of water to the main canals. The flooding at Ravipuram and M.G. Road near Central Square took place due to the obstruction in the road side drains. However, all the canals which were included in the Operation Breakthrough project saw the flow of water into the backwaters. The stretch between the Perandoor Railway bridge and the backwaters had to be cleared to ensure that the water from the Perandoor canal reached the backwaters without any obstruction to avoid water-logging in Panampilly Nagar, Udaya Colony,Kamattipadam, and P and T Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovate-mullassery-canal-to-arrest-flooding/article32273000.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Order to take over church||The Kerala High Court has directed the Ernakulam Collector to take over the Mulanthuruthy church. Justice A. Muhammed Musthaque, while issuing an order on a contempt of court petition filed by the Orthodox vicar, ordered that if the Collector was of the view that if on account of the deployment of the police for COVID-19 duties sufficient police could not be deployed, he shall wait till such period to hand over the church to the petitioners. The court, however, made it clear that at any any rate, the affairs of the church shall not be in the hands of the Jacobite faction vicar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-to-take-over-church/article32273021.ece
05 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘No political victimisation’||The NIA submitted in the special court that there was no political victimisation in the gold smuggling case. Opposing the bail application of Swapna Suresh, second accused, the agency submitted that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to the Prime Minister seeking a comprehensive probe in the case. If at all there was any political victimisation, the Chief Minister would have raised it. The letter was read out in the court by the lawyer of the agency. The NIA also submitted that it had arrested two more persons in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-political-victimisation/article32273024.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to Kochi Corporation||The High Court on Tuesday directed the Kochi Corporation to inform it of the amount sanctioned and spent for works under the AMRUT scheme as well as its own funds utilised for flood mitigation and storm water drain restoration. The Advocate General submitted that the district administration required Rs. 5 crore for carrying out correction of slope of the Mullassery canal, cleaning of Thevara-Perandoor canal and cleaning the 12 link storm water pathways cutting across Chittoor Road and M.G. Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-seeks-details-of-funds/article32273003.ece
05 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. inefficient, says CPI(M)||The ruling front of the Kochi Corporation has done little to alleviate the city’s waterlogging issues, said a statement issued by C.N. Mohanan, district secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. Intense waterlogging was not experienced in areas where Operation Breakthrough was implemented and waterlogging in the other areas pointed to the inefficiency of the corporation’s ruling front, which had done nothing to ensure the smooth flow of water in the city’s canals, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-inefficient-says-cpim/article32272999.ece
05 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||No single formula to success, says Asish Das||There is no single formula to success, for me it was an exciting journey and I relished each moment of it, says Asish Das, the Fire and Rescue Services officer who cracked the Civil Services examination after five attempts. Repeated failures could not break his spirit as Asish considered each attempt a chance to improve. Apart from perseverance and hard work, his strategy was simple - consistent upgradation. “Soon after my first attempt, I realised there is no point in gathering knowledge if you lack analytical skills. From there I took up the challenge more seriously,” he says. 8 years in service A part of the force for the past eight years, Asish could successfully balance work and studies in between his 24-hour schedules. “Though the force is always prepared for an emergency, we will not be required all the time. I invested my entire spare time in preparing for the exams and also took leave for a couple of months before the exams.” The Mukhathala resident had kept his Civil Services dream a secret till last year, but when he cleared the mains and received the interview call, the whole department came to know about it. “The entire force was highly sportive and they kept on encouraging me,” he says. Joining the force was more of an accident for Asish as he cleared the exam in the first attempt with zero preparations. “After Plus Two I did my graduation in Hotel Management, but wasn’t keen on pursuing that career. Later, I did Madurai Kamaraj University’s MBA correspondence course and attended some coaching classes,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-single-formula-to-success-says-asish-das/article32273016.ece
05 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Perseverance pays off for Arun||When Arun S. Nair picked medical science as his optional subject, he was not sure about his choice. He had to completely depend on self-study since coaching was not available, but the MBBS graduate cleared the exam with flying colours bagging the 55th rank. “Though I was confident, I wasn’t expecting such a higher rank,” he said. MBBS Arun, who completed MBBS from Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, made his first attempt during his final year. “It was during my house surgency that I started thinking about a career in Civil Services. By that time I found medical profession a little monotonous and I wanted something more diverse and challenging,” Arun, who cracked the exam in his third attempt, said. Since he grew up in a village and studied at a government school, Arun’s story comes as an inspiration for many. “Usually students from Malayalam medium feel less confident, especially when it comes to their English-speaking skills. I too had inhibitions in the beginning, but it soon vanished. If you have passion and determination, nothing can stand in your way,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/perseverance-pays-off-for-arun/article32273107.ece
05 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||30 cases in Kollam, Minister tests negative||A total of 30 persons, including an officer of the District Jail and a health worker from Neendakara Taluk Hospital, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Among the fresh cases, 25 are contact ones, three are from abroad, and two are from Arunachal Pradesh and Telanagna. Kollam currently has 9,002 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 30,370. While 444 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 7,322 primary and 1,990 secondary contacts of the new COVID-19 cases. Minister K. Raju, who was under observation, tested negative along with two members of his staff. The district also reported 36 recoveries on Tuesday. The district administration has formed a core committee for reviewing the functioning of COVID first-line treatment centres and issuing them required guidelines. District panchayat secretary, panchayat deputy director, Corporation secretary, NHM district project manager, Kudumbashree Mission district coordinator, and panchayat assistant director, will be the members of the committee.  Core committee formed for reviewing functioning of COVID first-line treatment centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-cases-in-kollam-minister-tests-negative/article32273064.ece
05 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||21 of 23 cases in Kottayam through local contact||Even as there was a significant decline in the overall number of new COVID-19 cases, the existing clusters in Kottayam continue to record more contact cases here on Tuesday. Of the 23 cases reported on the day, 21 contracted the disease through contact, while two persons, who had returned from other States, also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.  Majority cases Notably, a majority of the contact cases were from Athirampuzha panchayat, which is part of the Ettumanur cluster and Kurichy panchayat in the Changanassery cluster. According to Health Department officials, seven persons in Athirampuzha panchayat and three in Ettumanur municipality tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day while Kurichy recorded four new cases. Contact cases were also reported from Aymanam and Manjoor panchayats as well as Vaikom municipality. With 107 persons recovering from the disease and leaving the hospital on the day, the district currently has 486 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/21-of-23-cases-in-kottayam-through-local-contact/article32273060.ece
05 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Making self-quarantine fun||Stuck at home and lacking social contact, isolation can always become a weird world of anxiety and stress. It is a tough time for everyone but the practice of self- quarantine, as it looks like now, is not going away any time soon. So to help people get through these distressing times, the Kottayam district administration is now reaching out to each and everyone locked in at homes. The initiative, titled ‘Karam Thodatha Karuthal’, aims to help these people ward off boredom by getting creative on the social media. According to officials, WhatsApp groups that together connect around 9,000 persons in self-isolation, have been launched across the 71 panchayats and six municipalities in Kottayam. The activities in these groups will be monitored and coordinated through another group at the district level. Besides the health inspectors, who are the group admins, they will also consist of a medical officer, a teacher, and a social worker each. The remaining members will be added and excluded based on the beginning and conclusion of their quarantine period, officials said. Physical distancing To begin with, videos creating awareness on the things to remember about physical contact between those in quarantine and their family members will be streamed through these groups, besides messages from celebrities, District Collector, and expert doctors etc. “The group members can get creative and share their talents and experiences to beat the isolation blues. The teacher in the group will be holding fun activities and competitions,” said M. Anjana, District Collector. According to the official, the social worker in the group will deal with the anxiety and mental pressure of the group members. The doctor and the health inspector will ensure their physical well-being. An initiative focussing on physical distancing outside homes would also be launched, Ms. Anjana said. A communication guideline for the group members had been formulated at the district level. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will officially inaugurate the project through videoconferencing here on Wednesday. Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman will publish the logo of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-self-quarantine-fun/article32273056.ece
05 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pinarayi promoting criminals: Raman Singh||Bharatiya Janata Party vice president Raman Singh here on Tuesday accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of promoting and supporting the criminals engaged in gold smuggling and other illegal activities for personal benefits. Inaugurating online a hunger strike by BJP former State president Kummanam Rajasekharan in Kottayam demanding Mr. Vijayan’s resignation here on Tuesday, Mr. Singh noted that the office of the Chief Minister was being misused for large-scale gold smuggling for the first time. “Fingers are pointed directly to his close aides, including the IT Secretary. The Vijayan government was watching the smuggling taking place through its office as a mere spectator and it demanded a Central investigation only when 30 kg of gold was seized at the airport,” he said. He further alleged that the revenue from gold smuggling was being used to fund the agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). BJP MLA O. Rajagopal presided over the function. The hunger strike that began at 10 a.m. concluded at 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-promoting-criminals-raman-singh/article32273112.ece
05 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two killed, one injured as bikes collide||Two persons were killed and one sustained grievous injuries when two speeding motorcycles collided head on near here on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Venu S. Kumar, 28, of Channikkad, and Adarsh, 25, of Manikunnam. Vignesh, 24, who sustained grievous injuries in the impact of the accident, is undergoing treatment at the Intensive Care Unit of a private hospital. The accident took place on the Pakkil-Mulankuzha road around 1.30 p.m. when the two motorcycles, coming from the opposite directions, rammed each other. As the accident spot was within a COVID-19 containment zone, the local residents initially hesitated to rescue the injured. By the time they were rushed to the hospital, two had succumbed to their injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-one-injured-as-bikes-collide/article32273057.ece
05 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||97 fresh cases in Kozhikode||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode was at an all-time high of 97 on Tuesday. One death was reported from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH). The deceased is a 63-year-old woman from Vadakara who was admitted with pneumonia on July 31. She was a chronic kidney patient. Another infected woman from Mukkom was admitted to the MCH after she had a miscarriage during delivery at a private hospital in her home town. Her source of infection is not known and all her contacts are being traced. The private hospital staff are under observation. Meanwhile, 17 more healthcare workers at the MCH were asked to go into quarantine after another staff was tested positive for the virus. Another 33 staff were asked to report if they developed symptoms. A release by the District Medical Officer said that 70 of the newly reported cases were through local transmission of the infection. Sources said that the Government Mental Health Centre at Kuthiravattom was disinfected after one of the inmates, who recently escaped from there and was brought back, tested positive for the virus. Ten staffers at the centre and as many police personnel attached to the Medical College Police Station have been asked to go into quarantine. In Malappuram Malappuram district saw the biggest spike in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday when it registered 131 more positive cases. As many as 985 infected persons were under treatment in the district. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 118 of the fresh cases were local transmissions. And the source of infection for 16 of them could not be traced, he said. Among those tested positive on Tuesday, 102 had close contacts with the infected cases. In Kasaragod Ninety-one  more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Tuesday. As many 87 persons were infected through contact. Two health workers have also contratced the disease. In Thrissur As many as 72 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Tuesday. Of them, 66 persons were infected through contact. There are now 544 active cases in the district. In Palakkad Fifty persons tested positive in Palakkad district on Tuesday. Twenty of them were infected through local contacts. While 13 were returnees from abroad, 12 were from other States. The source of infection in five cases could not be traced. In Wayanad The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Wayanad as 17 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. All the patients contracted the viral infection through local transmission, District Medical officer R. Renuka said. Meanwhile, District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared ward number 2 of the Ambalavayal grama panchayat as containment zone. In Kannur Kannur reported 37 more COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Of these, 27 persons contracted the disease through contact. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district has risen to 1,476. ( With inputs from Malappuram, Kasaragod, Thrissur, Palakkad, Wayanad, and Kannur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/97-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article32272995.ece
05 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Death of 3 Jharkhand men triggers protest||The death of three men from Jharkhand on the railway tracks at Kanjikode, near here, on Monday night triggered a wave of protests and violence by a large group of migrant workers. The protesters attacked the police and Fire and Rescue personnel who reached the spot to shift the victims to the hospital. The attackers destroyed an ambulance belonging to the Fire and Rescue Department. Six firemen were injured in the mob fury.  Kanai Viswakarma, 21; Aravind Kumar, 23; and Hariyom Kunal, 29; were found fatally knocked down on the rail tracks at Pannimada near the IIT campus, Kanjikode, around 10.30 p.m. on Monday. Hailing from Jharkhand’s Palamu district, they were part of a contract labour group working for the construction of the IIT building. They were living in a tent on the campus. While Hariyom had died on the spot, the other two died while being taken to a hospital. A large group of migrant labourers gathered at the site and prevented the police and the Fire and Rescue personnel from shifting Hariyom’s body to the district hospital. The police retreated on Monday night when the mob turned violent. According to the police, the trio could have been hit by a goods train while walking along the tracks between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. However, the protesters alleged that they were murdered by local people. Conciliatory talks The standoff between the migrant workers and the police and revenue authorities continued until 11 a.m. on Tuesday. Talks held by DySP P.P. Manoj and senior revenue officials convinced them to part with the body for postmortem. The government has offered to meet the expenses of transporting the bodies to Jharkhand. The police have launched an investigation into the deaths and the violence that followed. The postmortem will be held as per the COVID-19 protocol. As there are COVID-19 restrictions in Jharkhand, a decision on taking the bodies to Jharkhand will be taken later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-3-jharkhand-men-triggers-protest/article32273018.ece
05 August 2020||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||32 new cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 32 persons, including eight who had landed from abroad, tested positive for SARS -CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. According to officials, 17 persons contracted the disease through local transmission while seven patients came from other States. Of the local-contact cases, six persons were linked to the Kumbazha cluster while three belonged to the Adoor cluster. The contact source of three cases are yet to be ascertained, officials said. A limited community cluster was formed in the first two wards in the Puramattom panchayat, which reported two cases with unknown contacts.  Excise office closed Earlier in the day, the excise station at Adoor was closed down temporarily after four officers attached to the station tested positive for the virus. The district currently has 433 active cases and 6,793 are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/32-new-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32273058.ece
05 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||242 fresh cases keep capital on tenterhooks||The capital district reported 242 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday as the official death toll due to the infection rose to 16. While 237 people are known to have contracted the infection through local transmission, the sources of infection in five cases were unknown. A 53-year-old Kalliyoor native, who died on August 1, was confirmed to have been suffering from COVID-19. The deceased who hailed from Kamukarathala is known to have had exhibited symptoms including fever and breathlessness since July 26 following which he sought medical attention in three hospitals in Balaramapuram, Avanakuzhy and Aralumoodu, near Neyyattinkara. He was referred to the Government Medical College Hospital as his case worsened. He had taken part in his father-in-law’s cremation and other last rites on July 22 and 26. Around 50 people who were also present were identified and quarantined. COVID-19 cases continued to mount in the city in large numbers. Three more police officers have tested positive. With a sub-inspector attached to the telecommunication wing being diagnosed with the disease, the Kerala Police headquarters will remain partially closed. A police officer involved in guard duty at the Secretariat gates also tested positive. He is suspected to have contracted the infection from another policeman entrusted with Secretariat security. The first COVID-19 case was reported among Secretariat workers when an employee of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Development was diagnosed with the ailment. Around a week after one of Deputy Speaker V. Sasi’s gunmen tested positive, another gunman and his driver have also been diagnosed with the disease. With a worker in the Assembly canteen contracting the infection, the Assembly premises will be partially closed. The administrative block will be shut for three days for disinfection. Six more people are found to have been infected in the Thekkumoodu bund colony among the 46 who were tested on Tuesday. In all, 65 residents of the colony, spread across the Kunnukuzhy and Pattom wards, have tested positive. Almost all residents have been subjected to antigen tests here. As many as 310 COVID-19 patients have recovered, taking the number of people under treatment to 3,354.  A 53-year-old Kalliyoor native, who died on August 1, was confirmed to have been suffering from COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/242-fresh-cases-keep-capital-on-tenterhooks/article32273103.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medicos, experts unhappy||The government’s decision to hand over the bulk of COVID-19 containment activities, including technical tasks such as contact tracing which were so far being handled by the Health Department, to the police has invited flak from the medical fraternity and public health experts. While the medical fraternity is aghast that the Health Department’s role in COVID-19 containment is being further reduced, public health experts point out that the handling of the pandemic like a law-and-order situation and in effect shifting the blame of disease transmission to the public can derail containment efforts. “As it is, COVID-19 evokes a lot of fear, apprehension and stress amongst people, not to mention the stigma that comes along with it. Now that the government has taken the position that it is because of the laxity on the part of people that COVID-19 is spreading, the stigma is going to be very hard to shake off. Use of police force to do containment activities will drive people further away,” a public health expert said.  “Empower people” “The police do have a role in ensuring that the rules in a containment zone are maintained. The government should be instilling more confidence in the people and empowering them to take part in the containment efforts,” he said. The massive human rights violations that are taking place during the pandemic and its control are something that is seldom spoken about. The police taking over the containment efforts is likely to generate more complaints. KGMOA demand The medical fraternity has been very vocal in their protest. The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) and the Indian Medical Association have demanded that the police be involved only in law enforcement related to quarantine and that technical issues such as contact tracing be left to the Health Department.  The Joint Council of State Service Organisations said here that the government’s decision would only demoralise health-care workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-experts-unhappy/article32273005.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Going was tough, but they were tougher||A visually impaired PhD scholar at the Institute of English, Karyavattom, he appeared for the Civil Services Preliminary examination as a kind of practice. But as fate would have it, Gokul S. passed the Prelims in 2019 itself, and then the mains and the interview, securing the 804th rank in the examinations. An alumnus of Viswadeepthi English Medium School, Kattakada, and Mar Ivanios College where he studied BA and MA in English Literature, Gokul started looking up the Civil Service papers to brush up on his public speaking skills. But soon, he was giving a serious thought to the exams. He was reading various publications, and was a regular reader of The Hindu . “My Civil Services preparations evolved with me,” says Gokul. His Prelims were not long after his postgraduate exams. He had also won a junior research fellowship, and the Mains coincided with the presentation of his synopsis in front of the doctoral committee. All this did not faze Gokul much, especially as his department was very supportive. Coaching He did not enrol for any coaching for the Mains, though he did attend the mock interviews for the interview stage. Gokul, who does not rely on Braille much and has been using a screen reader for his studies, says he believes if one sets out to achieve something, solutions will emerge. “If I want to prove that I’m not different from anyone, I have to step up my game.” Gokul, the only child of Suresh Kumar G.O., an employee of the NCC Directorate, and Sobha Kumari K.K., a teacher at Cotton Hill school, wants to pursue a career in the IAS. He is yet to receive the service allocation, but if it is not what he has his heart set on, he might give the Civil Services Examination another try. Safna Nazarudeen, 23, who studied Humanities at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pangode, and completed her undergraduation in Economics from Mar Ivanios College, Nalanchira, toyed with the idea of pursuing her postgraduation but decided to pursue her dream of Civil Services. It was a risky choice, but she went ahead. Why not start young, thought Safna. She enrolled for the Civil Services coaching and appeared for the Preliminary examinations in 2019. Then came the Mains, and the interview. Safna secured 45th rank in the exams in her first attempt. It was not easy, says Safna. There is a fair bit of tension involved during the preparations, but if aspirants are disciplined and consistent, then it is achievable. Daughter of retired sub-inspector Haja Nazarudeen and Kattakada employment exchange typist Remla A.N., Safna says she had a lot of support from her mentors at the coaching institute. “My parents were there to instil confidence; and my teachers, especially Premlatha Bhatt. A lot of people helped me and that is why I could crack the exams.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/going-was-tough-but-they-were-tougher/article32273100.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State candidates do well in Civil Services exam||Two doctors, a fireman, and a visually challenged PhD scholar are among those who have cleared the Civil Services Examination 2019 from the State. Aswathy Srinivas, a doctor and native of Kollam, secured the 40th rank in the examination. Arun S. Nair, also a doctor from Kollam, secured the 55th rank. A number of candidates from the State figure in the top 100 ranks. Safna Nazarudeen of Peyad, Thiruvananthapuram, secured the 45th rank, Yashni Nagarajan got the 57th rank, and Surya Theja 76th rank. Nidhin K. Biju of Thiruvalla got the 89th rank, Devi Nandana A.V. of Mannanthala here got the 92nd rank, and Archana P.P. of Payyannur the 99th rank. Asish Das of Kollam who secured the 291st rank is a Fire and Rescue Services employee in Kollam. Gokul S. of Thirumala here, a visually challenged PhD scholar at the Institute of English, Karyavattom, secured the 804th rank. Aswathy Srinivas, who did her MBBS from Sree Gokulam Medical College, is happy at securing the 40th rank. Though her general science papers went well, Aswathy was a bit tense about her optional – medical science – as it is considered a bit tough. The main struggle was to maintain a balance between general science and medical science, she says. But she did crack the examinations. This is her fourth attempt. “Personally, I found clearing the prelims was the most difficult. The interview board was cordial and welcoming. So, it went off fine,” says Aswathy, whose first preference is the IAS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-candidates-do-well-in-civil-services-exam/article32273007.ece
05 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Drop in return of expatriates likely||While the Vande Bharat Mission flights from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to Kerala are arriving full even in the ongoing Phase V, the load in the return flights hovering around 10% seems to be an indicator of the changing migration pattern. Since the pandemic-induced lockdown began, 2,54,226 non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) have returned through the four international airports of the Statetill July 29. The UAE tops the list with 1,23,731 people returning. Saudi Arabia is second with 38,468 returnees. The registration of returnees with the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) on the websiteregisternorkaroots.orghas touched 5.5 lakh and is still continuing. The response to the repatriation flights of Air India Express, tasked to fly the returnees from West Asia to 16 airports in the country in the Phase V till August 15, and to the flights of the West Asia-based foreign carriers shows the steady flow of the returnees. Those who have landed fall in the distressed category, including those who have lost jobs owing to the pandemic-induced economic crisis, says Harikrishnan Namboorthiri K., Chief Executive Officer, NoRKA Roots. Official sources told The Hindu that the expatriates’ return would come down significantly in the coming days and the drop in requests for chartered flights to State was an indication in this direction. The spurt in the COVID-19 cases in Kerala, control over the epidemic in countries such as Saudi Arabia, restrictions being lifted in various nations around the world, and no guarantee of jobs for the returnees in the homeland are cited as the main reasons for the assumption that the return of expatriates will reduce. 300 flyers While the budget carrier Air India Express claim their flights from West Asia are full, the 428-seater Boeing 777-ER of Emirates that reached the Thiruvanathapuram internatonal airport on Monday had only 300 flyers. On the return flights of Air India Express to Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and Sharjah, the load is hovering around 10% to 20%. Foreign carriers say the load will pick up in the coming days. Air India Express and foreign carriers have been given the nod to fly to the UAE those having valid UAE’s Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship (ICA) entry permit and resident visa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-in-return-of-expatriates-likely/article32273115.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chala, Palayam traders to open shops defying norms||Two weeks after the city Corporation temporarily cancelled the licences of Pothys hypermarket over alleged violations of COVID-19 protocols, it started functioning again on Tuesday after getting permission from the civic body to sell off perishable goods. Though the hypermarket is yet to get its licence restored, for which it has submitted an application, it was able to open its doors to the public based on the temporary permission. “The hypermarket was ordered to be closed due to the issue of crowding. After that, they had written to the Corporation saying that perishable goods of Rs. 3 crore are in stock and sought permission to dispose of this. We do not have an antagonistic attitude to any commercial establishment as long as they stick to the rules,” said Mayor K. Sreekumar. The city Corporation had on July 20 ordered the drastic action as they found that a person, who was advised to go in quarantine after the first round of tests, was working in the sales section when the officials visited the store. Ward councillor Vanchiyoor P. Babu had said that the owners of the shop were not sending all the employees for tests. Meanwhile, the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi has also said that shops in Chala and Palayam markets as well as at Killippalam and Powerhouse Road will start functioning from August 7, violating lockdown restrictions but adhering to COVID-19 protocols. The traders’ body has for the past few days been raising its voice against the alleged unscientific methods used in demarcating containment zones. The Chala market has remained closed for the past 30 days, ever since COVID-19 positive cases were detected in the vegetable market. Micro-level approach The samithi said that this blanket lockdown had affected the livelihood of many people. The government should follow a micro-level approach by shutting down only those areas which were affected, rather than shutting down entire markets or large areas. Since there had been no response to several memorandums submitted to the government and the district administration, they had been forced to violate the lockdown restrictions, the samithi said. The decision was taken at a meeting of the samithi’s district committee here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chala-palayam-traders-to-open-shops-defying-norms/article32273104.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pushpanath’s Dracula makes a second coming||Rayan Pushpanath discovered Dracula , a forbidden read till then, during the summer of 1999. Along with his cousin, he sat under a brindleberry tree in their ancestral home at Chungam in Kottayam devouring the novel which their grandfather, the popular writer Kottayam Pushpanath, had translated. Over that summer, they surreptitiously finished reading almost the entire series of 20 Dracula novels that Pushpanath had written, inspired from the original work by Bram Stoker. Now, Rayan is republishing the Dracula series almost four decades after they were first released and became a sensation. In 1977, on realising the popularity of his fictional works, the author had started his own enterprise, Kottayam Pushpanath Publications. With his writing commitments for various magazines, the publication had to be closed down after some years, until it was revived by his grandson in 2018. Rayan grew up with his grandparents and his grandfather Kottayam Pushpanath became the most influential figure in his life. On Facebook  A few years back, he opened a Facebook page for Kottayam Pushpanath, while he was still alive. “The page’s inbox began to get filled with messages from well-wishers and enthusiastic readers from different parts of the world requesting for republication of Pushpanath’s novels.This paved the way to resume the functioning of Kottayam Pushpanath Publications. It has already released novels from Pushparaj series and Marxin series, featuring the popular detective characters,” says Rayan. After the success of the Dracula translation, Pushpanath thought of expanding the idea by placing the character in new contexts and situations, which led to books such as Draculayude Nizhal , Draculayude Anki, Dracula Unarunnu, Draculayude Makal , and Dracula Asiayil . Though he never travelled much, leave alone to Europe, he was skilful in portraying the mountain ranges of Europe and the streets of London and Paris and its people through his novels. These settings became as familiar as their village roads for his readers. In Dracula Asiayil , the action stretches from Mongolia to the hill station of Munnar and features detective Marxin, who appears only in stories set outside India. Initial plans “As of now, we are releasing five books from the Dracula series, through an online session attended by writers and film-makers on August 7. He has written more than 300 books, all of which will be republished soon. Since his works were earlier translated to Tamil, Kannada Telugu, Hindi, Gujarati and Bengali, we are also working on e-books and audiobooks in these languages. We are also in talks with major streaming services for a series on his detective characters,” says Rayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pushpanaths-dracula-makes-a-second-coming/article32273009.ece
05 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IMD issues rain alert across State||The formation of a low pressure area over north Bay of Bengal on Tuesday has increased the chances of Kerala receiving very heavy rainfall over the next few days. All districts can expect heavy rainfall till Saturday, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) weather update said. Orange alert The IMD has issued orange alerts signalling the need to be prepared for rain-related emergencies for Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod from Wednesday to Saturday. Orange alerts are in place for Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad from Thursday to Saturday and for Kottayam on Saturday. On Saturday, extreme heavy rainfall is likely in Idukki and Malappuram, according to the IMD. The southern districts - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha - also can expect isolated heavy rainfall. Yellow alerts have been issued for these districts till Saturday. CM’s directive Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged the public to cooperate with disaster management agencies and evacuate, if needed, from landslip-prone areas and flood-prone, low-lying regions along riverbanks. COVID-19 protocols should be strictly adhered to in the relief camps, he said. The State Government has made the arrangements necessary for tackling emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/imd-issues-rain-alert-across-state/article32273011.ece
05 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) seeks debate on policy changes||Time is up to initiate a serious debate on the dangers involved in making crucial policy alterations without public consensus and due parliamentary whetting, says CPI(M) Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai. The CPI(M) would launch a campaign on the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) and changes in labour laws and such others and also bare the tacit understanding between the right wing forces to push their agenda ignoring the loss of life and livelihood to legions following the spread of COVID-19. The accent of the discussions would be on the Central government strategy to use COVID-19 as a cover to push policy changes without moulding a public opinion or parliamentary debate, Mr. Pillai told The Hindu . “The NEP drawn up by the Centre seeks to challenge the plurality and diversity of the education system in vogue and make higher and better education a preserve of the privileged elite. It also infringes on the rights of the States to impart education for all sections for creating cosmopolitan citizens,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-seeks-debate-on-policy-changes/article32273020.ece
05 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Complaints redressal adalat||District Collector Navjot Khosa will hold an online complaints redressal adalat for the residents of the Neyyattinkara taluk on August 17. Complainants have been requested to submit their petitions through the Akshaya centres at Karumkulam Junction, Manakallu, Chappath, Kottukalkonam, Vellayani Junction, Poovar Junction, ITI Junction, Marayamuttom, Perumbazhuthoor and Kodangavila from August 5 to 7. The adalat will be held through videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complaints-redressal-adalat/article32273101.ece
05 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fishers can venture out to sea only from Aug. 7||Fishing boats will be allowed out to sea from Kerala shores only from Friday, August 7, Fisheries director M. G. Rajamanickam has said. The Fisheries Department has modified an earlier decision to allow the boats to go out from Wednesday, August 5, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warning that strong winds with speeds of 50-60 kmph are likely along Kerala, Karnataka coasts, and the Lakshadweep region.  The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has warned that high waves with heights ranging between 3.5 to 5.5 metres are likely along Kerala coasts till Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-can-venture-out-to-sea-only-from-aug-7/article32273010.ece
05 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 12 crore first prize for Onam bumper||Kerala Lottery’s Thiruvonam bumper lottery will have a first prize of Rs. 12 crore and Rs. 1 crore each will be given as second prize to six persons. In all, the total prize amount awaiting the winners in various categories is Rs. 54 crore. The winners will be selected through draw of lots on September 20, an official release said. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac officially launched the Thiruvonam bumper priced at Rs. 300 here on Tuesday in the presence of Director of Lotteries Amit Meena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-12-crore-first-prize-for-onam-bumper/article32273004.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Phone-in programme postponed||Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has postponed his phone-in programme titled ‘Krishi Manthri Vilippurath’ scheduled to be held on Wednesday. An official pressnote issued here said this was on account of the wave of COVID-19 infections in the State. The fresh date would be announced later, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phone-in-programme-postponed/article32273014.ece
05 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PSC rank list published||The Kerala Public Service Commission has published the rank list for recruitment to the post of women police constable. As many as 2,013 candidates have made it to the main rank list, a pressnote issued by the PSC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-rank-list-published/article32273013.ece
05 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Heavy rain causes widespread damage||Torrential rain that lashed Thrissur on Monday night has caused widespread damage in the district. Many houses were damaged in the strong wind. Power supply was disrupted in many places. Six houses were collapsed at Mattathur village. Many trees got uprooted. Houses were damaged in Thrissur, and Kodungallur and Talappilly taluks too. Around 50 relief camps will be set up at Kodungallur Municipality, which usually witnesses severe waterlogging and sea erosion. Because of the COVID-19 threat, people have been advised to shift to houses of relatives, if possible. There will be two sections in the camps. One general section and another for people above 60 years of age and below 10 years, and for people with various diseases. Water level in Chalakudy river has gone up after sluice gates of Peringalkuthu dam were opened. The district administration has asked people on the banks of the river to be vigilant. Currently, the water level at the Peringalkuthu reservoir is 417.95 m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-causes-widespread-damage/article32272994.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||West Kochi region witnesses spike in infections yet again||A total of 135 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. At least 32 persons tested positive from the Fort Kochi, Mattancherry and Palluruthy areas on Tuesday. Two first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) will begin functioning in West Kochi, one each in Mattancherry and Palluruthy, District Collector S. Suhas said. Considering people living in close proximity in the area, around 600 beds as institutional quarantine facilities will be provided by the Kochi Corporation. Over 700 tests were conducted, out of which 116 persons have tested positive so far, he said. Three testing squads will be deployed in the area. More positive cases are expected from divisions 1 to 28 of the corporation, and it will continue to remain a highly sensitive area with strict regulations, V.S. Sunil Kumar, Minister for Agriculture, said at a press briefing. Four health workers have tested positive — two ASHA workers from Eloor, a health worker at a private hospital in Paravur and another health worker who is a native of Alappuzha. Two Navy personnel have been infected. From Thrikkakara, 10 persons have been infected, while only one positive case was reported from Chellanam. Wards 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 19, and 20 in Chellanam are likely to be released from containment zone status as part of the gradual easing of restrictions, the Minister said. Other positive cases were reported from Koothattukulam, Vadakkekara, Thuravoor, Choornikkara, Edappally, Kadungaloor, Maradu, and Keezhmad. A 61-year-old from Kadungalloor and a 39-year-old from Panangad have tested positive after their death earlier, a press release said. Seven persons who arrived from outside the State have tested positive. A total of 48 persons tested negative on Tuesday. At Karunalayam in Thrikkakara where 51 people had been infected 10 days ago, 49 have tested negative, offering some relief, the Collector said. The number of patients receiving treatment for the disease stands at 1,036. Around 160 beds will be readied at the CIAL Convention Centre FLTC for critically-ill patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/west-kochi-region-witnesses-spike-in-infections-yet-again/article32272998.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Art that lit up the walls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/art-that-lit-up-the-walls/article32273110.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||KSU sets up panel on NEP||The Kerala Students’ Union (KSU) has set up an expert committee to address the concerns related to the new National Education Policy 2020. KSU president K.M. Abhijith told media here on Monday that M.C. Dileep Kumar, former Vice Chancellor, Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, would lead the panel, and Balachandran Keezhoth, former Registrar, Kannur University; K.V. Manoj, former research officer, SCERT; N. Mohammedali, head of the Department of History, Farook College, and Arun Karippal, senate member, Calicut University, will be part of it. The committee will submit its report in 10 days, which will be put in the public domain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksu-sets-up-panel-on-nep/article32273111.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For the Onam feast||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-the-onam-feast/article32273023.ece
05 August 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gyms set to reopen today after 4 months||With the Central government giving its nod, the gym owners are preparing to reopen their units after more than four months on Wednesday. Being stuck in financial crisis, this was the moment gymnasium owners from the city have been eagerly waiting for. But there are in a dilemma on reopening gyms as there is a sudden spike in COVID-19 cases, especially from the urban areas since the last two weeks in the district. More than 11,000 cases were reported in the last two weeks in the district. In the last three days, the district reported more than 3,000 cases. At this juncture, gym owners are reopening their centres with some fear as well as hope. The owners have to start a trial session to see how can things workout in the new normal. Gym owners were seen spraying disinfectants on the equipment on Tuesday. Permission is not given to gymnasiums in containment zones to reopen. “Initially we are in a dilemma whether to reopen or not. But instead of doing nothing, we decided to open the centres by taking all the precautions. We have also informed the members to carry their own sanitisers and ensure hygiene in the premises,” said Kilani Ganesh, member of Visakha Gym Owners Welfare Association and owner of Vayuputra Health Club, Rama Talkies Road. Gym owners have started purchasing disinfectant sprays, sanitisers and room cleaners as part of safety measures. They are also worried whether people would come to gyms or not and whether they would earn money. “I learnt that restaurants which were opened now are not doing good business. We are wondering whether people will visit gyms when there is a surge in cases. Some members have been asking for extension of the four-month membership. Since the last couple of months, we have not paid gym rents. We have to incur expenditure on paying rents, sanitisation expenses and other charges,” said Sailesh Bolisetty, of Anytime Fitness Gym, at Asilmetta Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gyms-set-to-reopen-today-after-4-months/article32273169.ece
05 August 2020||KADAPA / TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Onus is on TDP to prove its point in people’s court: YSRCP||Chief Whip Gadikota Srikanth Reddy has likened the TDP president’s press meet on the decentralisation issue as a “comedy show.” Addressing the media at Kadapa on Tuesday, Mr. Srikanth Reddy said the onus was more on the opposition party to prove its point in the people’s court. “They should resign, and not demand the elected government to step down,” he added. He recalled that the YSRCP government had promised real decentralisation in its election manifesto, and maintained that the move hence had the people’s support. “The online meetings by Mr. Naidu after a crushing defeat shows his frustration. His press meets have replaced comedy shows on television,” he said. Mr. Srikanth Reddy pointed out that the government offered a fair deal to the Amaravati farmers. It also offered to develop the North Andhra and Rayalaseema regions, he said, and appealed to the people of all the regions to look beyond political considerations to understand the real situation. Meanwhile, the TDP lambasted the government’s decision to repeal the CRDA Act and set up three capitals in the name of decentralised administration. HC order hailed Hailing the status quo ordered by the High Court, former MLA M. Sugunamma demanded that the government take the issue to the people’s court. “People will not accept the capital shift. Tirupati is 789 km from Visakhapatnam,” she said, and wondered how Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy could implement his “hidden agenda” after having accepted Amaravati when he was the Opposition leader in 2014. Ms. Sugunamma insisted that the people had always supported the TDP regime’s dream of building a world-class city, and would never accept a capital “strewn across the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/onus-is-on-tdp-to-prove-its-point-in-peoples-court-ysrcp/article32273144.ece
05 August 2020||KADAPA/TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deputy CM underlines need for fighting COVID-19 stigma||Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha stressed the need for shaping public opinion against the stigma surrounding coronavirus and building a sympathetic perspective towards patients. Mr. Basha reviewed the health infrastructure and sanitation in designated COVID-19 facilities on Tuesday. “Even as there is a sharp spike in the number of cases, the recovery rate of around 90% is also remarkable,” he said. Citing his example, Mr. Basha recalled how he and his family members had contracted the infection and recovered. Of the 2,667 cases positive cases reported in Kadapa city, 902 have recovered. Meanwhile, 29 persons were discharged from Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) after they were tested negative on Tuesday.  Meanwhile, the SVIMS has launched a helpline to address the grievances pertaining to poor communication on the health status of patients. “People can dial 0877-228 6388 (State COVID desk), 8333924682 (COVID patient information) or 0877-228 7777 (SVIMS main exchange) to get the details about the patients’ health and admission position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deputy-cm-underlines-need-for-fighting-covid-19-stigma/article32272696.ece
05 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All revenue divisions in E.G. will get care centres: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopalakrishna has said that each revenue division in East Godavari district will have a COVID Care Centre (CCC) soon. At present, there are four CCCs in East Godavari district and three more will be set up in the revenue divisions of Peddapuram, Ramachandrapuram, and Yetapaka. Speaking to a section of the media at Ramachandrapuram on Tuesday, Mr. Gopalakrishna said: “A decision has been taken to set up a CCC in each revenue division after the inspection of the Bommuru CCC, where the quality of food and medical care are good.” “Despite reporting of more number of COVID cases in East Godavari district in recent days, the mortality rate is only 1%. The CCCs are instrumental in saving the lives of thousands of people infected with COVID-19,” Mr. Gopalakrishna said. Mr. Gopalakrishna, who had a meal along with District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy at Bommuru CCC on Monday, observed: “Many patients have expressed satisfaction on the way the CCC is being run by the district authorities. The frontline staff tested positive for COVID in the Bommuru CCC are recovering fast.” Interacts with patients Mr. Gopalakrishna was the first Cabinet Minister who interacted with the COVID patients and spent time with them in the CCC in Coastal Andhra Pradesh. The Minister appealed to the COVID patients in various CCCs to co-operative with the doctors and other supported staff in maintaining the hygienic conditions for the speedy recovery. East Godavari conitnues to remain the worst-affected district in the State, with almost 25,000 COVID-19 cases being reported. The death toll in the district stands at 188, according to health officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-revenue-divisions-in-eg-will-get-care-centres-minister/article32273160.ece
05 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada GGH turns critical care facility||The Government General Hospital in Kakinada of East Godavari district has been converted into an 1,800-bedded critical care hospital exclusively for COVID-19 patients. The State Government has recently designated the GGH as a COVID critical care hospital, as the nearest State COVID Hospital located in Visakhapatnam city, almost 200 km away, was unable to accommodate COVID-19 patients from East Godavari district. From August 6, the hospital will no longer admit patients who are suffering from any ailment other than COVID-19. “Outpatients will not be given admission at GGH for any medical treatment from August 6. Those in need of emergency services, including casualty, should get themselves admitted to private hospitals,” GGH Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao told The Hindu . When asked about the impact that the absence of other medical services at GGH would have on patients, Dr. Raghavendra Rao said, “Patients can avail services for casualties and other medical treatment at private hospitals that are part of the Aarogya Sri system. The GGH will henceforth be completely dedicated to the critical care of COVID patients from August 6.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kakinada-ggh-turns-critical-care-facility/article32273158.ece
05 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu wants seer to play strategic role in party||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Tuesday met Swami Paripoornananda of Sree Peetham in Kakinada and wanted the seer to play a strategic role in the party in the State. Speaking to the media after seeking blessings of the seer, Mr. Veerraju said that he appealed to Swami Paripoornananda to play an important role in the party in Andhra Pradesh. Associating with the BJP, the seer had earlier played a key role in the campaign during the Assembly elections in Telangana State. Mr. Veerraju appealed to the people of Andhra Pradesh to conduct special prayers to Lord Rama on Wednesday at their homes, marking the 'bhoomi puja' for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Perform puja to Lord Rama with all the family members and also watch the live streaming of the bhoomi puja,” said Mr. Veerraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-wants-seer-to-play-strategic-role-in-party/article32273175.ece
05 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma donors will be given incentive of Rs. 5,000, says Nellore Collector||COVID-19 cases continued to be on an upward climb in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh, with 557 people testing positive for the virus in Nellore district and 344 people testing positive in Prakasam district. Nellore district now has a total count of 9,899 cases while Prakasam district accounts for 6,427 cases. With hospitals being pushed to the brink with the massive case load, the Nellore district administration announced a cash incentive for people who have recovered from COVID-19 to donate blood plasma. “We have started using plasma therapy to treat COVID-19 patients in the district. I appeal to those who have recovered from the virus to voluntarily come forward and donate blood plasma. An incentive of Rs. 5,000 will be given to each donor,” Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said. Visiting the COVID-19 hotspot of Venkatagiri, the Collector exhorted ward volunteers to actively identify those displaying coronavirus symptoms and make arrangements for their testing. “Top priority will be given to symptomatic cases at designated hospitals. Those with mild symptoms will be treated at COVID-19 Care Centres. People need not fear as the virus has a mortality rate of only 1%, and the rest are making a full recovery,” he said. In Nellore district, 473 patients were discharged from hospital. With this, the number of active cases came down to 5,722 in the district. Chirala had 30 fresh cases followed by Kandukur with 27 cases and Giddalur with 25 new cases. The remote village of Pamur reported 12 fresh cases. New cases also came from Dornala, Thimmasamduram, Inkollu, Peddaraveedu, Dodavaram, Pulipadu, Yaddanapudi, Jarugumalli, N.G. Padu, upugunturu, Kumarole, Mukthunitunapadu, Burepalli, Challagirigalla and Tarlupadu villages. In Prakasam district, Ongole 88 new cases were reported from Ongole. Four municipal staff involved in implementing the cluster containment action plan and a woman police personnel from Disha police station who was on lockdown duty were among those who contracted the virus. Collector P. Bhaskar said he anticipated a further spike in cases in August and asked health officials to improve facilities at COVID-19 Care Centres. Toll rises The combined death toll of both districts rose to 142 with eight more deaths — seven in Nellore and one in Prakasam district — being reported in the last 24 hours. As of Tuesday, 78 patients in Prakasam districts and 64 patients in Nellore districts have succumbed to the virus so far, a health bulletin released by the State Government said late on Tuesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plasma-donors-will-get-rs-5000-incentive-nellore-collector/article32272701.ece
05 August 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land distribution: govt. plans to scrap Vana Samrakshana Samitis||It has been proposed to scrap as many as 287 Vana Samrakshana Samitis (VSS) to facilitate distribution of over 49,500 acres of forest land to 230 community claimants in East Godavari Agency, according to Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Praveen Prakash. At a high-level review meeting after inspection of the proposed forest area in the Rampa Agency on Tuesday, Mr. Prakash said that the land was under the control of the 287 samitis. Third phase In the third phase of the distribution of forest land, the State government would distribute 21,419 acres to 7,462 individual claimants and 49,505 acres to 230 community claimants within the jurisdiction of the ITDA Rampachodavaram and Chintoor by August 15, Mr. Prakash said. Since 2006, a total of 6.5 lakh acres of forest land had been distributed among the forest dwellers both in the categories of the individual and community claims across the State, according to Mr. Prakash. Besides Mr. Prakash, Secretary to Chief Minister Solomon Arokia Raj, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, In-Charge ITDA Project Officer Praveen Adithya and other senior officials inspected the land under the purview of Tallapalem and Bhimavaram Vana Samrakshana Samitis. Mr. Prakash enquired the officials about the crop patterns, livelihood options of the forest dwellers in the East Godavari Agency and directed Mr. Muralidhar Reddy to prepare a report on the families engaged in the collection of minor forest produce. Rampachodavaram MLA N. Dhanalakshmi appealed to the team of higher officials to encourage the cultivation of horticulture crops in the land to be distributed under the RoFR. Chintoor ITDA Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana, Chief Conservator of Forests (Rajamahendravaram) N. Nageswara Rao, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-distribution-govt-plans-to-scrap-vana-samrakshana-samitis/article32273177.ece
05 August 2020||SIRIVADA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Gender inequality high among tribal families, says official||“We thought that god will bless us with a baby boy. But, again my daughter-in-law gave birth to a female baby for the third time. So we decided to sell the baby,” said the grandmother Jarapala Chittemma. J. Ravi and Rupa got married five years ago and the couple had two daughters – Hima Bindu (4) and Kanaka Durga (2) -- and on July 18, Rupa gave birth to another female baby at a private hospital. “On knowing that we had a third daughter, I got depressed. In the meantime, an ayah offered to take the baby. We readily accepted and she gave us Rs. 10,000,” Ms. Rupa said. “On seeing us returning home without the baby, Ravi had an altercation with us. He had an argument on the second day for selling the infant. We explained the situation to the ayah and asked her to return the baby,” Ms. Chittemma told the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) department officers, who visited their home. ‘Not a rarity’ Assistant Project Director (APD) M. Prameela Rani said many such cases were seen in Lambada tribal families and stressed the need to conduct awareness drives on girl child protection. “Our staff observed ill-treatment towards girl child and sale of babies in thandas (tribal hamlets) in Mylavaram, Chatrai, Gampalagudem and other mandals in Krishna district. We will plan awareness programmes in the thandas,” the APD said. When enquired by Gannavaram Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) P. Venkata Lakshmi on Tuesday, it was learnt that the ayah stopped working in the hospital soon after the incident and went absconding. Another mediator, Ajmeera Srinu alias Bodaki, who took the baby the second time, was also at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gender-inequality-high-among-tribal-families-says-official/article32272704.ece
05 August 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||20% of population may be affected, say health officials||In the last three days, the number of COVID-19 positive cases had breached the 1,000-mark every day. On August 1, the number of cases recorded was 1,155, on August 2 it was 1,227 and on August 3 it was 1,049. Health officials say that due to the enhanced number of testing the spike in cases is seen. As per P.V. Sudhakar, District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College, on an average the number of tests conducted on a daily basis is over 5,000. This indicates that about 20% of test results are turning out to be positives, which is in tune with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) prediction of 20% of the population being affected with the virus, said Director of Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) Satya Varaprasad. Going by the predictions, the population of Visakhapatnam city is close to 20 lakhs, and as per the medical experts, the number of cases could peak up to 4 lakhs in the next couple of months. “The 20% infection rate has been consistent, ever since the testing scale has been increased. The day we tested 3,000, the number of positives turned out to be over 600 and when it was 4,000 the positives recorded were close to 800,” said Dr. Sudhakar. The health officials say that community spread is on the peak and hopefully it would not cross the 20% predicted mark. The State government has given clear instructions to test as many as possible, so that the positives roll out in large numbers. This is a strategy to contain the spread of the disease, said Collector V. Vinay Chand. From mere two testing centres in the district about a couple of weeks ago, the district administration has set up over 100 centres in the district, including 72 in the GVMC limits alone. “Every PHC in the GVMC limits have been converted into a testing centre. This apart, there is Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) at KGH and labs at GHCCD, ENT Hospital and Regional Eye Hospital. We also have five mobile bus testing labs and now over six private testing labs such as Vijaya Medical Centre, Vijaya Diagnostics, Pinnacle, Indus, Apollo and a couple of others have been given the permission to conduct tests,” said Dr. Sudhakar. All the reports from the lab, including the private labs, are uploaded into the central server and high-risk and symptomatic patients are segregated and the information is passed on to the GVMC Command Control Centre. It is then up to the CCC to allocate the patients based on the risk factors to hospitals, COVID Care Centre or home isolation, he said. According to the Collector, hospitals are only for high-risk patients and those with symptoms such as breathlessness and depleting oxygen levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-of-population-may-be-affected-say-health-officials/article32273165.ece
05 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sundarakanda’ recital tomorrow||Elaborate arrangements are in place for the conduct of ‘Akhanda Sundarakanda parayanam’ on August 6. About 200 vedic scholars from National Sanskrit University (Sanskrit Vidyapeeth), Tirupati, Sri Venkateswara Vedic University and Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetham in Tirumala are drafted for the programme that will be organised at Nada Neerajana Mandapam in front of the main temple complex at Tirumala. Buoyed at the overwhelming response received to its earlier episode which was aired on July 7 marking the completion of the first sarga (volume) of Sundarakanda, the TTD has now embarked on a similar spiritual exercise wherein 227 slokas (hymns) that form second to seventh volumes will be recited on an open platform and telecast live on SV Bhakti Channel for the benefit of the devout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sundarakanda-recital-tomorrow/article32272695.ece
05 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopard creates flutter on Tirumala ghat road||There was a mild flutter on the second ghat road leading to Tirumala, when a leopard reportedly tried to chase some motorists driving up the temple town. Even though there are no casualties, a traffic constable, Murali, who escaped a near-attack situation said the big cat chased him when he was on his way to the town on his motorcycle. The incident is said to have taken place about four km from the Alipiri checking point. “I was wearing a helmet and hence could not instantly recognise the animal even as it tried to grab my leg. All that I could realise was an animal trying to attack me and in my attempt to avoid from being caught, I wildly shook my leg and sped away. It was only when another motorist who came from behind informed me about the leopard that I realised as to what really happened,” he said. Another constable, Maniprasad, who motored up half an hour later also authenticated the movement of leopard and thanked the security personnel at Alipiri for alerting him. Meanwhile, motorists have been advised either to move in groups or prefer APSRTC bus or taxi to reach the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leopard-creates-flutter-on-tirumala-ghat-road/article32272603.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||After a slight dip, pandemic curve steepens again in State||After a slight dip in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the past three days, the State once again reported close to 10,000 cases and 67 deaths in the last 24 hours as of Tuesday morning. The toll went up to 1,604, and with 9,747 new cases, the overall tally of positive cases increased to 1,76,333. With 6,953 patients being discharged in the past one day, 95,625 persons so far recovered from COVID-19 and 79,104 are undergoing treatment. The total number of positive cases doubled in nine days. Break-up Three districts reported more than 1,000 cases each, while Guntur registered 12 deaths in the past one day. The new cases and deaths in the districts are as follows: East Godavari (1,371 cases, seven deaths), Anantapur (1,325 and six), Kurnool (1,016 and eight), Guntur (940 and 12), Visakhapatnam (863 and two), Kadapa (765 and 0), West Godavari (612 and one), Vizianagaram (591 and one), Nellore (557 and seven), Srikakulam (537 and six), Chittoor (526 and seven), Krishna (420 and nine), and Prakasam (224 cases and one death). Meanwhile, more than half of the active cases were reported from five districts that recorded a huge number of cases in the past two weeks. They are East Godavari (10,558 active cases), Visakhapatnam (9,870), Kurnool (8,909), Anantapur (7,727), Guntur (7,113). They are followed by West Godavari (5,655), Chittoor (5,650), Kadapa (5,460), Nellore (5,319), Vizianagaram (3,705), Srikakulam (3,613), Prakasam (2,766) and Krishna (2,759). Krishna district has the highest recovery rate of 64.24%, while Visakhapatnam has the lowest recovery rate at 33.59%. The recovery rate of COVID cases in the State is 54.23%. Meanwhile, the number of samples tested has gone up to 21,75,070 with 64,147 tests being conducted in the past one day. The positivity rate of tests further increased to 8.11% and the mortality rate is at 0.91%. Also, the tests per million ratio has crossed 40,000-mark and reached 40,732. In other words, four persons for every hundred persons in the State were tested so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/after-a-slight-dip-pandemic-curve-steepens-again-in-state/article32273139.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Nadu-Nedu’ second phase works will take off soon, says Jagan||Works for the second phase of the ‘Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu’ programme that envisages giving a facelift to educational institutions by improving the infrastructure, would start soon, Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, announced it at a review meeting held on Tuesday. Mr. Jagan instructed the officials to make school buildings attractive places by painting their walls. He also examined the school kits comprising uniforms, notebooks, textbooks, a pair of shoes and two pairs of socks, a belt and a school bag) to be distributed to students under the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka scheme. ‘Textbooks despatched’ He said the textbooks had been sent to the districts and from there, they would be distributed to students. The Chief Minister said the government would take all possible measures to start the schools in strict adherence to COVID-10 guidelines. Later, speaking to the media, Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, who attended the review meeting, said facilities at 14,584 educational institutions would be improved at a cost of Rs. 4,732 crore under the second phase, for which the works would start in January 2021 and completed by June the same year. The Minister said the works taken up under the first phase of the programme that targeted improvement of conditions in nearly 15,000 schools, would be completed by the time the schools reopen for the current academic year. Ambitious plans The second and third phase of the programmes would cover the remaining 31,073 schools at an estimated cost of Rs. 7,700 crore. In the second phase, 14,584 institutions would get a facelift and a sum of Rs. 4,732 crore had been earmarked for the purpose. The educational institutions that would benefit by the scheme would be identified by this month-end, the works would commence on January 14, 2021, and would be completed by June. Similarly, the third round would focus on development of 16,489 institutions at a cost of Rs. 2,969 crore. The works would be identified in June 30 next year, launched on November 14, 2021 and completed by March 31, 2022, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nadu-nedu-second-phase-works-will-take-off-soon-says-jagan/article32273150.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Atrocities against women on the rise’||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday urged Director-General of Police (DGP) Gautam Sawang urging him to take necessary steps to bring to book persons who sexually assaulted a tribal woman at Veligodu in Krishna district and those responsible for the murder of another tribal woman at Nekarikallu in Guntur district. In a letter to the DGP , Mr. Naidu said he had written many letters to the DGP on the steep rise in crime in the State since May 2019, but no concrete action was taken. There was no safety to the lives and properties of weaker sections and the downtrodden. The “anarchic forces” were emboldened as the police were not acting decisively, he said. Two inhuman incidents took place on Rakshabandhan day with two tribal women becoming victims of the lawlessness. Ramavath Mantrubai was killed by running a tractor over her in Guntur district as she could not repay the debt. Though she pleaded that she would clear the debt after selling her land, they did not relent. In the second incident, a tribal woman was sexually assaulted in front of her husband. ‘Empty claims’ These incidents took place due to complacency on the part of the Police Department, he alleged.  Once the Andhra Pradesh Police had a good reputation, but growing crimes against women in the last 14 months had tarnished their image. The government boasts that the Disha legislation was brought in and Disha police stations were opened, but people were wondering why the situation on the ground had not changed, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atrocities-against-women-on-the-rise/article32273147.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New policy to improve industrial safety||The State government is contemplating bringing in a new industrial safety policy to prevent accidents, which of late, have been taking place at regular intervals. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting on industrial accidents in the State, at his camp office on Tuesday. Officials informed Mr. Jagan that a special drive was being conducted in industries to inspect the safety measures. The drive would be completed in two to three months. They proposed that a new industrial safety policy should be brought out and the existing safety regulations of industries should come under its purview. The meeting decided to bring out an industrial atlas showing the location of industries and industrial parks in the State along with their categorisation. The Chief Minister asked the officials to include a clause that Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia is paid to the family members if any employee dies in an accident. Stringent action should be against those responsible for accidents. Huge penalties are levied in developed nations if the compliance report is not filed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-policy-to-improve-industrial-safety/article32273145.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online competitions on Youth Day||The district administration is going to organise competitions for youth on the occasion of International Youth Day on August 12. The youth festival will be organised from August 7 to August 10 through Zoom video conferencing service. Competitions in essay writing, quiz, elocution, poster presentation, one-minute video making and folk, semi-classical or classical dance will be organised. Candidates aged between 15 and 29 who wish to participate can register by logging on to bit.ly/IYD_KRISHNA_DISTRICT on or before August 6. Contact details For further details, officials concerned can be contacted via ceostepkrishna@gmail.com or 0866-2452722.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-competitions-on-youth-day/article32272698.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accept Naidu’s challenge, Yanamala tells YSRCP||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has dared the YSRCP leaders to accept the challenge thrown by former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on the three capitals issue. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, his Cabinet colleagues and the MLAs were apprehensive about facing the elections because of the “growing unpopularity” against the government. “Right from day one, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been adopting destructive policies. It is ridiculous on the part of the government to talking about comprehensive development of all the regions while taking all steps to kill Amaravati. Overall development of the State can be achieved with Amaravati as the capital,” he said. ‘People cheated’ Stating that there was no development in the Rayalaseema region in the last one year, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the Chief Minister was cheating the people of the region by promising to make Kurnool the Judicial capital. “In fact, it is not in the hands of the State government,” he observed. “Muhammad Bin Tughlaq had shifted his capital from Delhi to Daulatabad and back. It ultimately led to the collapse of the Tughlaq dynasty. Similar fate awaits Andhra Pradesh if people do not protect the State from the present threat,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accept-naidus-challenge-yanamala-tells-ysrcp/article32273140.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Condolences pour in||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief over the death of folk singer Vangapandu Prasada Rao. In a tweet, he conveyed his condolences to the family members. The news that he is no more hurts a lot. He was a personal friend. Prasada Rao turned folklore into his tune and became the ‘Akshara senadhipati’ of the North Andhra movement, he said. TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu said Prasada Rao inspired people with his songs, writings and performances. It was a matter of pride for the Telugus that his works were translated into many languages, he added. JSP president Pawan Kalyan said Prasada Rao drew inspiration from tribal people and North Andhra life. “I have two decades of association with Prasada Rao. Worked with him in Praja Rajyam Party. He was worried that power was concentrated in the hands of two sections of society,” he said. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna termed Prasada Rao’s death a great loss to the people of North Andhra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/condolences-pour-in/article32273148.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive to ensure safety in hazardous units||Based on the recommendations of the high-power committee the probed the styrene vapour leak accident at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam recently, the government decided to undertake a special drive of inspections to ensure compliance of safety protocols and environmental norms by the industrial units in the State. A G.O. issued on Tuesday said the special drive must be undertaken and completed in 90 days. The first phase would cover all hazardous chemical industries covered under the MSIHC Rules, 1989, industries that store, manufacture or handle hazardous materials, chemicals (irrespective of threshold quantity of the storage), units that store, manufacture or handle explosive substances and all industrial units in the Red category. Allied wings such as the Factories Department, APPCB, Boilers Department, A.P. State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department, Director of Electrical Safety and Chief Electrical Inspector (Energy Department) will conduct joint inspection of each of the industrial units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drive-to-ensure-safety-in-hazardous-units/article32273151.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) leader Sunnam Rajaiah dies of COVID-19||Former Bhadrachalam MLA, and senior CPI (M) leader and Girijana Sangam leader Sunnam Rajaiah (68), reportedly died of COVID-19 in the early hours on Tuesday. He died while being shifted from Hyderabad to a COVID-19 Hospital in Vijayawada. He is survived by wife, two sons and two daughters. A native of Sunnamvaari Gudem village, V.R. Puram mandal, in East Godavari district, Mr. Rajaiah served as Bhadrachalam MLA for three terms. He participated in many tribal agitations, protecting tribal lands and their rights in the Agency areas in Bhadrachalam, East and West Godavari districts. The three-time MLA also participated in many agitations in the CPI(M). The Andhra Pradesh Girijana Sangam, Adivasi Sankshema Sangam and leaders of other organisations expressed grief over the demise of Rajaiah. Meanwhile, traders voluntarily observed a bandh at many villages in the Agency areas of East and West Godavari districts after hearing the demise of Sunnam Rajaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-leader-sunnam-rajaiah-dies-of-covid-19/article32272621.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed as car falls into canal||Durga Mahalakshmi (32) and her son Srimanth (6) were killed when the car in which they were travelling skidded off the road and plunged into a canal on Krishna river bund (Karakatta road) at Chodavaram village in Krishna district on Tuesday. Two others suffered injuries in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-killed-as-car-falls-into-canal/article32272705.ece
05 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ‘J-turn’ on Amaravati, says Lokesh||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has stated that the YSRCP has taken a ‘J-turn’ on Amaravati. In a series of tweets on Tuesday, he said the ruling party leaders were blowing their president’s trumpet saying that Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had constructed his house at Amaravati and raised ‘Jai Amaravati’ slogans. “Why Jagan Reddy took J-turn? Why are they afraid of referendum if they don't have vested interests?” Mr. Lokesh asked. “Nobody is bothering to implement the promised deliverance of justice in 21 days to the victims of atrocities. Over 400 atrocities have been committed against women and girls in the first 15 months of Jagan Reddy regime. There is only publicity on e-Raskhabandhan, Disha Act,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-j-turn-on-amaravati-says-lokesh/article32273146.ece
05 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah expresses concern over high judicial pendency||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu has expressed concern over the mounting pendency of cases in various courts, including the Supreme Court, and urged the government and the judiciary to ensure faster justice by addressing the issues pertaining to delay. Citing adjournment of cases, he observed that justice was becoming costly, adding that there was a need to make policies that were not only legally sound but also morally righteous and socially just. Addressing the students on the occasion of the platinum jubilee celebrations of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar College of Law, Andhra University, via video link, the Vice President said that ‘public interest litigations (PILs) should not become private interest litigations for personal, pecuniary and political interests.’ “However, there is no wrong if the PIL was for a larger public cause,” he said. Gender discrimination The Vice President asked the law students to be ‘the voice of the voiceless.’ “Gender discrimination should end and more opportunities should be provided to women,” he said and asked the students to ‘take up legal aid for the poor as a commitment’. Describing his student days at Andhra University as ‘memorable’, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu recalled his association with the ‘Jai Andhra’ movement. Recalling the names of some of his teachers, he expressed his gratitude to them. “The naming of the AU Law College after Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, who had fought all his life for social justice, is apt. It is good that the number of colleges offering law education is increasing. However, the emphasis should be given to quality of teaching and infrastructure,” said Mr. Venkaiah Naidu and hoped that Andhra University would reach greater heights by continuing to maintain high standards in teaching and research. Education policy Presiding over the meeting, Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy welcomed the New Education Policy introduced by the Centre recently. “The State government has already initiated the process for its implementation. The Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in A.P. stands at 31% and the government is planning to increase it to 50% by 2029,” he said. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar College of Law principal S. Sumitra, High Court judges Justice T. Rajani and Justice B. Devanand, and prof. K. Gupteswar were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-concern-over-high-judicial-pendency/article32272932.ece
05 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more deaths take Vizag toll to 106; 836 new cases reported||The COVID-19 tally crossed the 15,000-mark in the district with as many as 863 new cases being reported on Tuesday. With the new cases, the total number of COVID-19 cases from the district stands at 15,471. On a bright side, as many as 1,465 persons have recovered. Five more persons succumbed to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 106. A large number of people, who have been given the option of home quarantine, are also recovering well, said an official from the Health Department. As per the district COVID-19 bulletin, the total number of active cases is 8,844 and discharged is 6,521. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district are 847. Among them, very active clusters are 250. The number of active and dormant clusters is 162 and 437 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact Control Room 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244. District Collector V. Vinay Chand has appointed District Medical & Health Officer (DMHO) S. Tirupathi Rao and I&PR Deputy Director V. Maniram as nodal officers to monitor treatment for the journalists. He said that the nodal officers should ensure proper medical services to the journalists and their families. He also instructed them to provide kits, including pulse oximetres, medicines, sanitisers and others. Review meet I&PR Commissioner T, Vijay Kumar Reddy instructed the officials to create more awareness on safety measures to be taken during the pandemic. He also asked the officials to ensure proper medical services to journalists affected due to COVID-19. The officials must make sure journalists having symptoms are tested, isolated and provided treatment at hospitals or home isolation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-more-deaths-take-vizag-toll-to-106-836-new-cases-reported/article32273172.ece
05 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘E-Raksha Bandhan’ launched||Police Commissioner R.K. Meena, DCP-1 Aishwarya Rastogi, DCP (Law and order), V. Suresh Babu, DCP (Crimes), Anand Reddy (ADCP Special Branch), and other police officials participated in the ‘e-Raksha Bandhan,’ launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy through video conference to accord top priority to women protection, at the Police Conference Hall here on Monday. Mr. Meena said that the Police Department would initiate measures during the month-long programme to protect women from cyber criminals. Awareness programmes would be conducted from 11 a.m. every day through YouTube for women. Women police staff, Mahila Mitra coordinators, school girls and others saw the launch, from their respective locations online. College girls tied ‘rakhis’ to the police officers after the programme. Disha Police Station ACP Prem Kajal participated in the programme. Visakhapatnam Range DIG L.K.V. Ranga Rao and Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao participated in the launch of the programme at the District Police Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-raksha-bandhan-launched/article32273166.ece
05 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vangapandu continues to live in the hearts of people: Minister||The death of revolutionary ballad singer Vangapandu Prasada Rao at Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram district on Tuesday was condoled by people from various walks of life. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao described Vangapadu as the heartbeat of the poor people. At a meeting organised by the Department of Culture at VMRDA hall here on Tuesday, the Minister said that Vangapandu had spent all his life in the service of the poor and downtrodden and to enlighten them through his poems. Vangapandu would continue to live in the hearts of the people as long as there were folk songs and folk arts. The Minister expressed his sympathies to the bereaved family members on behalf of himself as also on behalf of the government. He said that he would strive to perpetuate the memory of Vangapandu in Visakhapatnam by taking up some programme on behalf of the State government, after taking it to the notice of the Chief Minister. Official Language Commission Chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad said that Vangapandu brought prominence to folk songs by bringing folk into people’s movements more vigorously and effectively. He described Vangapandu as a mass poet and said his death was a loss to mass movements. Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) chairman K.V. Ramana and general secretary A. Aja Sarma recalled that Vangapandu used to attract the common people with his songs even when he was working at the Hindustan Shipyard Limited in the city. His song ‘Emi pillo yeldamostava…’, written for the peasant uprisings in Srikakulam as also in other regions of the State, continues to enchant people to this day. His songs were written in north Andhra dialect and he had constantly endeavoured for the development of the region. They described his death as a loss to north Andhra and also to progressive movements and expressed their sympathies to the bereaved family members. CPI State Assistant Secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy, CPI leader B. Venkata Ramana and M. Pydiraju and CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao also condoled the death. A condolence meet was held at the Gandhi statue near the GVMC in which representatives of various people’s organisations participated and expressed their sympathies to the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vangapandu-continues-to-live-in-the-hearts-of-people-minister/article32273167.ece
05 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain likely in State||Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam during the next 24 hours, under the influence of the well-marked low pressure over the Bay of Bengal, the weathermen have said. “A low pressure was formed over the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday morning and now it lies over the north Bay of Bengal off West Bengal and Odisha coasts. The associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 km above the mean sea level is tilting southwestwards with height. It has become well-marked now,” said the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), in Visakhapatnam.  Fishermen cautioned Meanwhile, fishermen have been asked not to venture into the sea off A.P. and Yanam coasts during the next 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-likely-in-state/article32273157.ece
05 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested on charges of bootlegging||Officials from City Task Force (CTF) conducted a raid and arrested a person while he was allegedly selling liquor without having any valid licence at MVP Colony, here on Tuesday. Based on credible information, the CTF team under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police (CTF) A. Trinad Rao, conducted raid at an area near TTD Kalyana Mandapam and arrested Ladi Srinu (38) of Balaji Nagar, Arilova. The police seized various brands of 17 quarter bottles from his possession. The case has been handed to MVP police for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-arrested-on-charges-of-bootlegging/article32273163.ece
05 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC Band to perform live for corona warriors today||Indian Navy band will perform live on Wednesday, from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. at Bojjanna Konda heritage site in Sankaram, near Ankapalle, Visakhapatnam, in honour of corona warriors as part of Independence Day celebrations. DD Hyderabad will be live-streaming the band performance on DD Saptagiri and DD Yadagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-band-to-perform-live-for-corona-warriors-today/article32273173.ece
05 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A balladeer who inspired awe with his song and dance||Balladeer and revolutionary poet from North Andhra Vangapandu Prasada Rao, who died of heart-attack at the age of 77 at his native Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram district, never let go an opportunity to raise his voice against injustice and be on the people’s side. Be it the Srikakulam movement or the Smaikhandhra agitation, or his recent folk song on the importance of staying safe at home to check the spread of COVID-19, he had put to use his multiple talents of composing, singing, dancing and acting to stir the collective conscience of people. Vangapandu, as he is popularly know, had faced many an ordeal since 1972, when he associated himself with the Jana Natya Mandali, the cultural wing of the banned People’s War. He had for long been under the police glare since then. But that did not deter him from taking up the people’s cause, particularly those of the oppressed sections of society. Unique style Vangapandu’s unique style of rendition and attire helped him strike an instant chord with the masses and take his message far and wide. His songs in simple North Andhra dialect such as ‘Jajjanaka Janaare’ and ‘Em pillado eldamostava’ won many a heart. The fact that his songs were translated into more than 10 Indian languages vouch for it. Although he penned several songs for movies, he had never sought remuneration for them, notwithstanding the life of penury he had led. Deputy CM P. Pushpa Srivani, Minister Botcha Satyanarayana and several public representatives recalled his contribution to Telugu literature and to the downtrodden sections. “Prasada Rao always tried to create awareness among the people with his songs. His latest song on coronavirus highlight the importance of staying at home. They will continue to inspire generations to come,” said Nalli Dharma Rao, a writer who had long association with the balladeer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-balladeer-who-inspired-awe-with-his-song-and-dance/article32273142.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-start/article32272707.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mend your ways, Eatala warns private hospital managements||As the spate of complaints against private hospitals continues, Health Minister Eatala Rajender has asked the hospital managements to mend their ways and warned them against blackmailing patients and attendants into paying excessive bills. Addressing a press conference at the State Health Campus, Koti, on Tuesday, he said now is not the time to do business. Health department officials have already taken action against two private hospitals. Mr Rajender said a committee comprising senior officials is investigating into complaints, and that they might take action against more hospitals after receiving the report. A range of complaints such as hospital managements demanding huge amounts to admit patients, collecting Rs. 1-2 lakh per day for treatment, and demanding dues to be cleared before handing over a body were mentioned during the press conference. However, he said their agenda is not to shut down private hospitals as they want health services to be accessible to people. He has urged people not to neglect fever, cough, cold and other symptoms and to approach the nearest Primary Health Centre (PHC) for medical consultation. He said that treatment in early stages helps save lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mend-your-ways-eatala-warns-private-hospital-managements/article32272935.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet to decide on design for new secretariat today||A crucial meeting of the State Cabinet under the chairmanship of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is slated for Wednesday to take a final decision on the plan for construction of the new secretariat complex. Dismantling of the old secretariat buildings has almost been completed, but for few floors of the J and L blocks, and the Cabinet is expected to give a go ahead for calling tenders for construction of a new complex. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has formally approved the design of the new complex prepared by Chennai-based firm Oscar and Ponni Architects, suggesting some changes in the structure of the new complex like higher elevation in the front portion. The Chief Minister reviewed the design of the new complex with the architects recently. There is no clarity yet on whether the complex would have six floors with total built up area of 6 lakh square feet as expected earlier or whether another floor would be added to the existing design. The Cabinet is expected to take a final call on the issue after which tenders would be invited for taking up construction works at an estimated cost of Rs. 400 crore. Further, the Cabinet is expected to review the implementation of regulated farming that was preferred instead of the traditional methods to ensure remunerative prices to the farmers’ produce. A brainchild of the Chief Minister, the concept of the regulated farming involves taking up cultivation of crops which have demand in the market rather than opting for traditional cropping patterns which hitherto resulted in uncertainty over the returns to farmers. Barring sporadic protests by a minor section, regulated cropping has been welcomed by a majority of farmers and they opted for crops that will help them secure guaranteed returns. The Cabinet is likely to discuss about the marketing channels that should be activated as also the need for district-level action plans to ensure that harvested crops reach market in stipulated time so that there is no glut. The Chief Minister is also expected to review the situation arising out of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic whose incidence has been rising in the districts, which hitherto were not affected. The Council of Ministers is likely to examine the situation threadbare and take a call on the recommencement of the academic calendar. This apart, the meeting will review the works on the major irrigation projects like Kaleshwaram where works have been fast tracked and the manner in which a strong case could be presented before the Apex Council in sharing of Krishna water with neighbouring Andhra Pradesh to protect the interests of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-to-decide-on-design-for-new-secretariat-today/article32272953.ece
05 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Containment zones in the city a mist of names||“All yoga institutes and gymnasiums in containment zones shall remain closed for the public. Only those outside containment zones will be allowed to open up,” is part of the guidelines for reopening of more sectors of economy. 95 containment zones Hyderabad has 95 COVID-19 containment zones according to the August 3 bulletin released on August 4. As gyms and yoga institutes are allowed to function only outside the containment zones from August 5, we tried to check out the limits of such zones in the city. But there aren’t any. The medical bulletin lists 95 places up from 92 places three days ago. But the 95 places are area names except for a few exceptions where residential complexes like Ambiance Fort, Attapur, or Surabhi Apartments, Barkatpura, are identified. The list includes vast swathes of the city where Doodh Bowli, Asif Nagar, Bibi ka Chasma, Bazaar Ghat, Ghansi Bazaar and other areas are termed containment zones. In the absence of marked and cordoned off containment zones, information about inclusion of these areas is of little use to citizens.“One of the containment zones is near our house. The notice is mounted on the gate and once the gate is opened, it is like any other area. People continue to come in and go out of the apartment complex throughout the day,” says a resident near Janapriya Utopia in Attapur area. The area has other containment zones, including one where the door number is used to identify the spot. Map plan In the initial days of the pandemic, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had outlined a plan for creating containment zones called ‘Micro Plan for Containing Local Transmission of Coronavirus Disease’. The plan called for a containment zone to be decided by a rapid response team which will take into consideration the extent of cases/contacts and map them. “However, if contact listing/ mapping is taking time (>12-24 hours), then on an arbitrary basis demarcate an area of 3 km radius around the epicentre (the residence of the positive case). This area of 3-km radius will be the containment zone. If required, based on the mapping of contacts and cases, the containment zone will be refined,” says the document. However, no such marking is taking place, leading to an information vacuum. In contrast, in Delhi, the containment zones list is updated by the Revenue department and marks out the house where individuals are infected and the perimeter of the containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/containment-zones-in-the-city-a-mist-of-names/article32272939.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Travel operators slapped with hefty penalties||Cab and bus operators, who have lost livelihood for over four months thanks to the COVID-19 lockdown, have received another blow in terms of heavy penalties over the pending motor vehicle tax. Despite making several rounds of the offices concerned, no assurance is being given over the exemption from payment of tax, they lament. Attempts to meet Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao and Minsiter K.T. Rama Rao have been in vain. Private travel operators who provide transportation within the city for IT companies and also those running tourist services with short term permits are the hardest hit as they have had virtually no business for the past four months since the lockdown was imposed. WFH blow Almost all the IT companies have shifted their business operations to their employees’ homes, which rendered their transportation needs redundant. Private tours stopped during lockdown, and are almost nil even after the lockdown has been relaxed. “Rules say that the licensing authority should be informed before the tax quarter comes to a close if any vehicle is in non-use, so that MV Tax exemption may be availed in the next quarter. Lockdown regulations came into force since March 23, before the end of the first quarter. There was no way we could approach the licensing authority, in this case the Road Transportation Authority, violating lockdown norms, especially in containment zones,” said Syed Nizamuddin, president of the Telangana State Cabs and Bus Operators Association. A few operators from the non-containment zones who tried to submit the representations were told that no papers were being accepted due to COVID-19 situation, he said. Date extension Despite several requests, appeals and representations to the authorities concerned, there has been little respite, other than extension of due date up to July 31. Requests submitted online too were rejected saying the mandatory surrender of original documents such as RC, permit and fitness certificate was not done. “Several drivers had parked the vehicles at their regular locations from where they would take the first pick-up. All the documents were left in the vehicles, and they could not venture out to fetch them due to lockdown regulations,” Mr.Nizamuddin said. After expiry of the extended deadline, online portals for tax payment have begun to show hefty penalties, running into lakhs of rupees, he complained. Chaffed, the operators recently conducted a shirtless protest in front of the RTA head office. Officials on the condition of anonymity said the ball is in the government’s court now, and the Cabinet needs to take a decision about the request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/travel-operators-slapped-with-hefty-penalties/article32272940.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Elevated corridor ready in record 45 days||GHMC’s Engineering wing has pulled off a feat of sorts by completing the construction of the elevated corridor on Road No. 45 in record duration of about a month and a half. The flyover connecting seamlessly to the cable-stayed bridge on Durgam Cheruvu, to facilitate traffic flow between Hitec City/Gachibowli and the other parts of the city, is all set for inauguration provided the electrical works on the hanging bridge are concluded. Though property acquisition had taken tediously long time since the commencement of the project in April, 2018, GHMC speeded up the works once the site was handed over. Taking advantage of the lockdown restrictions, they could complete the structure even before the cable-stayed bridge is ready. “Usually, it takes 15 months for a flyover to take shape. We could complete the work within 45 days, owing to lockdown restrictions and sparse traffic on the roads,” an official said. A pet project of the Telangana government and Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao, the cable-stayed bridge will need completion of the flyover on Road No. 45 for its launch. The elevated corridor with 1.74 km length and four-lane carriage way has cost Rs. 150 crore. It provides unimpeded connectivity up to Mind Space Junction via Durgam Cheruvu and is expected to relieve congestion on Road No. 36, Jubilee Hills and Madhapur road. “We are waiting for completion of electrification work on the cable-stayed bridge, so that they could be launched together,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elevated-corridor-ready-in-record-45-days/article32272946.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virinchi’s COVID licence revoked||After Deccan Hospitals at Somajiguda, the Virinchi Hospitals in Banjara Hills has lost its permission for COVID-19 treatment after Health officials found it to be overcharging patients. The department is keeping a close watch on major corporate hospitals which are allegedly collecting huge sums for admission and treatment. There have been instances of people paying up to Rs. 18 lakh for just 16 days of treatment. A month after the State government announced maximum rates chargeable by private hospitals for COVID treatment, officials announced WhatsApp number (9154170960) to lodge complaints against private hospitals and labs. “It has been observed that Virinchi Hospitals, Banjara Hills, has been charging exorbitant rates, improper and surplus billing, and not adhering to the ceiling guidelines. Several complaints were received against the hospital. After inquiring, it was found that the complaints lodged by various sources were found to be correct,” Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said. Patients already admitted there shall be treated until time of recovery and charged as per government orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/virinchis-covid-licence-revoked/article32272933.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Agriculture engineering graduates told to work in villages||Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar has exhorted students graduating from the agriculture engineering courses to move to villages and encourage farmers on modern practices. Agriculture engineering graduates could educate farmers about use of modern machinery and in turn could earn income through their efforts, he said. Mr. Vinod Kumar accompanied by Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy participated in a web-conference on “Engineering in agriculture — Entrepreneurship Development” organized by the Institution of Engineers on Tuesday. They wanted agriculture to be incorporated under the manufacturing sector and said the graduates of the agriculture engineering could play a significant role in this direction. The effort was to enable farmers to secure remunerative prices for their produce and providing them opportunities for economic empowerment. Agriculture engineering graduates could lease such lands and adopt latest practices in cultivation and marketing the products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agriculture-engineering-graduates-told-to-work-in-villages/article32272954.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RJCCET results today||The second list of provisionally selected candidate for RJCCET-2020 for admission into first year Intermediate (arts and science streams) and vocational courses in Telangana Social Welfare Residential Junior Colleges will be released on August 5. Candidates can visit ‘www.tswreis.in‘ for results. Provisionally selected candidates will be intimated through SMS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rjccet-results-today/article32272941.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Appear before ED in ponzi scam: HC to petitioners||Justice G. Sridevi of the Telangana High Court directed Enforcement Directorate officials of Hyderabad not to take any coercive steps against businessman Syed Akthar and his two sons who were issued summons in a case of Prevention of Money Laundering Act-2002. Closing a petition filed by Mr. Akthar and his sons seeking anticipatory bail, the judge also instructed them to appear before the ED officials and cooperate with the investigators. The ED authorities issued summons to them seeking to record their statements in ponzi scam involving Heera group of companies led by Nowhera Shaik. The ED-Hyderabad unit took up an investigation following the First Information Reports issued in ponzi scam involving Heera group and its associates. Ms. Nowhera Shaik and her main associates Molly Thomas and Biju Thomas were arrested and interrogated in May, 2019, the ED officials said in a counter affidavit filed in the HC. They told the court that total proceeds of ponzi scam involving Heera group were to the tune of Rs. 5,600 crore. As part of the investigation, the ED had been analysing trail of money involved in the scam. Analysis of Heera group bank accounts revealed that money was transferred to others to cover up their sham and benami land transactions. Summons were issued to several persons who had received substantial sums of money from Heera group accounts. ED wanted to provide an opportunity to them to explain the nature of financial transactions they had with Heera group and record their statements. As part of this routine process, summons were also issued to Mr. Akthar and his sons Syed Afsar and Syed Qaiser, the affidavit said. The trio owning SA Builders and Developers received Rs. 148 crore from Nowhera Shaik. Instead of explaining their links with Heera group, the petitioners moved HC seeking anticipatory bails, the ED officials said in the counter affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/appear-before-ed-in-ponzi-scam-hc-to-petitioners/article32272943.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Officials told to promote green areas||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials of different departments to take steps to ensure that there are green areas in all the village panchayats in the form of natural parks and tree parks in the urban areas across the State. The Chief Secretary who reviewed the progress of different schemes with senior officials on Tuesday wanted the departments concerned to prepare a record of street vendors across the urban local bodies. The meeting reviewed the status of implementation of e-Office in the departments and the Chief Secretary was particular that the officials focus on effective implementation of e-Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-told-to-promote-green-areas/article32272955.ece
05 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘CM causing huge loss to Telangana’||The Telangana Congress has questioned the motive of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in holding a Cabinet meet on Wednesday while refusing to go for the Apex Council meeting on the Krishna river on the same day as called by the Central government to discuss the issue with both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments. In an open letter to the Chief Minister, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and convenor of TPCC Committee on Krishna river waters T. Rammohan Reddy said that the CM was deliberately avoiding the meeting and his behaviour would be a huge loss to Telangana for generations. “Is the Cabinet meet more important than Central government meeting on Krishna river water issue,” they asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-causing-huge-loss-to-telangana/article32272956.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jurala, Srisailam to receive flood water||All major reservoirs in Telangana, both in the Krishna and Godavari basins, are likely to receive flood over the next three-four days with heavy rains being experienced in the catchment areas of the two rivers and their tributaries in Central Maharashtra. According to the flood monitoring officials, most of the inflows into Jurala for the last one week are from Bhima due to rain in the catchment areas in the immediate upstream basin area in Karnataka. The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued flood alert on Tuesday to Godavari and Krishna rivers and their tributaries in Nasik, Pune, Satara and Kolhapur districts in Maharashtra and to Tunga in Shivamogga district in Karnataka. As most of the small and major dams have already received water up to 70% of their storage capacity, any heavy flood would prompt continuous watch on levels and release of flood downstream. The CWC has suggested the authorities of dams to monitor the intensity of rainfall and inflows using the short range inflow forecasts. Storage in Srisailam was 81 tmcft against its capacity of 215.8 tmcft at 6 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jurala-srisailam-to-receive-flood-water/article32272965.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC imposes Rs. 50,000 fine on panchayat secretary||Justice T. Vinod Kumar of Telangana High Court has on Tuesday imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000 on panchayat secretary of Landapur village in Nirmal district for allegedly tampering with records relating to rights of fishing in a local tank. The judge, hearing a writ petition filed by Talveda Fishermen Co-operative Society, instructed Nirmal district Collector to initiate departmental action against the village secretary. The Talveda society said that they had secured rights of fishing in the local Kummarikunta tank and paid the required fee to the gram panchayat. The society stated that police obstructed their fishing in the tank following objections raised by some persons who claimed rights of fishing. When the HC called for records, it was found that the payment receipt presented by the panchayat secretary was fabricated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-imposes-rs-50000-fine-on-panchayat-secretary/article32272966.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Halt Railways privatisation plan, says SCRMU||South Central Railway Mazdoor Union, Secunderabad and Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) have appealed to the NDA government to halt the ongoing drive to privatise the Railways and to the citizens to raise their voice against the move. In a press statement issued on Tuesday, general secretary Ch. Sankara Rao called for all round support for the success of the countrywide ‘Quit railway business bidding by corporate companies’ a grand success on August 9. The government and citizens should note that unlike private enterprises, it is the public sector like railways and government hospitals which have been working round the clock providing service to the people without slashing jobs. Mr. Rao charged that the Railways services became inferior because no funds were provided for modernisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/halt-railways-privatisation-plan-says-scrmu/article32272968.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR-IICT foundation day today||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology will celebrate the 77th foundation day on August 5 with P. D. Vaghela, secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, attending as chief guest. CSIR director general Shekhar Mande will deliver the presidential address. Arun Tiwari, scientist-author-speaker, V.V. Krishna Reddy, national president of Bulk Drug Manufacturers Association of India, and S.P. Vasireddi, non-executive chairman and founder of Vimta Labs, will join the event as guests of honour. This is an important event and many developments on ‘Atmanirbhara Bharat’ will be discussed, said CSIR-IICT director S. Chandrashekar. Participants can join through Facebook (shorturl.at/aevAN) and on YouTube (shorturl.at/sCDX3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-iict-foundation-day-today/article32272937.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CREDAI for RERA-approved projects only||Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) Hyderabad kick-started a campaign to caution customers purchasing the Undivided Share of Land (UDSL) as a “highly risky transaction” although the cost-benefit of such a purchase may seem “irresistible”. Instead, a TS-RERA (Real Estate Regulatory Authority)-approved purchase of apartment/commercial space is the best and safe way, said president P. Rama Krishna Rao and general secretary V. Rajashekar Reddy on Tuesday. Performance risk In UDSL transaction, the  property is sold much below the market price and the amounts may not be enough to construct and deliver the building – putting the investor’s money at a very high risk. The transaction exposes the purchaser to the builder’s performance risk of completing the project as the project tenure is about three to four years, they told the media. Under-construction or new projects, whose building permissions are approved on or after January 1, 2017, and constructed on more than 500 sq.mts of land including more than six units are liable to follow TSRERA rules. Buyers should, therefore, be alert and ensure they purchase TSRERA registered projects only, suggested Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/credai-for-rera-approved-projects-only/article32272936.ece
05 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unclaimed bag creates a flutter||An unclaimed bag found in Shalibanda in the Old City created a flutter among police and locals on Tuesday and a bomb disposal squad was called to check its contents. According to Hussaini Alam police, the incident took place between 1 pm and 1.15 pm. Soon after the bag was found, the bomb disposal squad was informed. “The bag fell onto the road from a moving auto. We are told that the passenger in the auto noticed this, but did not stop to retrieve it. A patrol was nearby and it noticed what happened and informed the bomb disposal squad. A team arrived and found clothes and eatables in the bag,” Shalibanda inspector Ramesh Kotwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unclaimed-bag-creates-a-flutter/article32272948.ece
05 August 2020||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Achieve 100% property tax collection: Addl. Collector||Additional Collector (Local Bodies) Rahul Sharma instructed municipal commissioners in the district to intensify property tax collection, and other regularisation works, to generate revenue for the municipal bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/achieve-100-property-tax-collection-addl-collector/article32272959.ece
05 August 2020||P SridharBHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Sunnam Rajaiah passes away||Former Bhadrachalam MLA and senior Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) leader and Girijana Sangam leader Sunnam Rajaiah, 68, reportedly died of COVID-19 in the early hours on Tuesday. He died while being shifted to a COVID-19 hospital in Vijayawada. He is survived by wife, two sons and two daughters. A native of Sunnamvaari Gudem village, V.R. Puram mandal, in East Godavari district, he served as Bhadrachalam MLA for three terms in 1999, 2004 and 2014. Known for his down-to-earth approach and simple lifestyle, the senior Adivasi leader endeared himself to tribal people by espousing their cause relentlessly with unfaltering commitment. His sudden sent shockwaves across Telangana’s tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam Agency and elsewhere in the State. Condolences poured in from across the political spectrum and mass organisations over the untimely death of Rajaiah, the vice-president of Adivasi Adhikar Rashtriya Manch (AARM), who left behind a rich legacy of selfless service to uplift tribal people. He spearheaded a 650 km padayatra in the Agency areas demanding change in the design of the Polavaram project to prevent submergence of forest lands inhabited by lakhs of Adivasis. His effective leadership inspired the party cadres to organise Jala deekshas and relay fasts across the Bhadrachalam Agency in protest against the transfer of seven mandals of the former undivided Khammam district to Andhra Pradesh for construction of Polavaram project as per the State Reorganisation Act in 2014. He played an instrumental role in achieving the SC/ST sub-plan in the then united Andhra Pradesh. An epitome of ideological commitment and integrity, Rajaiah strived to defend the rights of tribal people with indomitable spirit till his last breath, said CPI (M) Khammam district secretary N Nageswara Rao. Mourning the death of Rajaiah, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said Rajaiah worked for solving the problems faced by the people and he would be remembered as a political leader who led a simple life. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief over the demise of the former MLA. Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar, Ministers A. Indrakaran Reddy, Vemula Prashanth Reddy, S. Niranjan Reddy, Puvvada Ajay Kumar, E. Dayakar Rao and Satyavati Rathod and CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram also mourned Rajaiah’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sunnam-rajaiah-passes-away/article32272971.ece
05 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Administration gets tough on unauthorised layouts||Last week, on July 30, the officials of Revenue and Panchayat Raj departments demolished an unauthorised layout on the outskirts of Rudraram in Patancheru mandal. A few days before that, some more illegal layouts were identified at Kandi mandal headquarters village by revenue officials. In both the cases, the revenue officials at local level were involved and their involvement came to the notice of Collector M. Hanumantha Rao. In the first case, the layout was coming up close to National Highway number 65, which was expected to have large number of buyers in view of its proximity to the Outer Ring Road. It was not clear whether the promoters had already started selling the land. In the second case at Kandi, some 120 houses had already been constructed in the illegal layouts with the active knowledge of panchayat secretary who had reportedly accorded permissions. The Collector become serious over these issues and directed the officials to act swiftly. He has issued orders suspending panchayat secretaries of both Kandi and Rudraram for allowing of construction of houses in unauthorised layouts. Rudraram panchayat secretary Veeresham was suspended for failing to prevent the illegal layouts and notices were issued to the sarpanch, for the second time. At Kandi, former village secretary Rahim, who allowed construction of 104 houses in illegal layouts, was suspended. Currently, he was posted at Gangapur in Narayanakhed. Recently, Collector has also inspected a real estate venture where construction activity has been taking place and examined the strength of beams. “We have identified about 90 such layouts at various places in the district. As all of us are busy with construction of dump yards and vaikuntha dhamams and were unable to focus on them. From next week the focus will be on demolishing such unauthorised layouts and taking action against those involved in allowing them,” District Panchayat Officer V. Venkateswarlu told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/administration-gets-tough-on-unauthorised-layouts/article32272961.ece
05 August 2020||V. GeetanathHyderabad,TELANGANA||Climate forecast system for surface waves underway||Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) is developing a seasonal and climate forecast system for surface waves, which could help with the identification of regions with a threat of coastal erosion. The final goal of these exercises is the development of an ocean wave climate services which will help in a better coastal and navigational protection plan for India. This is one of the objectives of the upcoming ‘Deep Ocean Mission’ of Ministry of Earth Sciences, Government of India, said in-charge director T.M. Balakrishnan Nair on Tuesday. The severity of damage caused by high wave activity during cyclones, southwest monsoon and swell waves along the Indian coastal region has been increasing in recent times, causing severe damages to coastal infrastructure as well as causing large scale coastal erosion, forcing the local governments to spend crores of rupees, he said.This was recently evident during the April 2018 swell surge when the Indian coastline was damaged from Kerala to Maharastra from distant sources like the Southern Indian Ocean, Dr. Nair explained and said INCOIS scientists have identified a clear connection between the wave activity in the Indian Ocean and climate features over different timescales by keeping a close watch on the wave activity and providing advance warning to the population on high waves. The results are published in prestigious scientific journals: Nature-Scientific Reports and Climate Dynamics . The publication in Nature Scientific Reports investigated the link between wave activity in the Indian Ocean and an important summer intraseasonal variation called BSISO (Boreal Summer Intra Seasonal Oscillation). BSISO happens within a season that lasts around 3-4 months and its active phase creates significant wave activity over the Northern Indian Ocean (NIO) during summer monsoon season (June-September) and high waves are seen over the Arabian Sea. This has an adverse impact on marine activities, especially for navigation. Also, intense erosion and more floods are expected in coastal regions. Another publication from this group in the journal Climate Dynamics suggests the possible link between various inter-annual climate features, that happens once in several years like El-Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO), Southern Annual Mode (SAM) and Indian Ocean dipole (IOD, and wave activity in the Northern Indian Ocean. This study highlights that accurate representation of various climate modes in ocean models is very important to generate high accuracy wave forecasts up to three months in advance. The study was carried by a group of scientists — Remya P G, Srinivas Gangiredlla, and B Praveen Kumar, led by Dr. Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/climate-forecast-system-for-surface-waves-underway/article32272969.ece
05 August 2020||Bhopal,||Farmers demand solatium for income loss||Several farmers in at least 300 villages of Satna district are demanding compensation for the loss of crop income as they claim their agricultural fields have either been dug up or lie strewn with construction material for a water supply project for more than a year now. The Satna-Bansagar Multi-Village Rural Water Supply Scheme, to be completed next year at a cost of Rs. 1,495.89 crore, plans to bring treated water from the Bansagar Dam on the Son river to 1,019 villages in six blocks of the district. While the State government maintains pipelines are being laid on its land along roads and with the consent of owners in case of small private land patches, farmers rue the construction has left parts of their fields gravelly and infertile, unfit for cultivation. ‘Not cultivable’ “Workers dug out parts of our field and left boulders around,” said Gaurav Mishra, whose family owns five acres of land. “That part is no more cultivable.” Stating they were denied compensation for loss of income when demanded, Mr. Mishra of Bada Itma village of Ramnagar block, among those to be benefited by the project, said a part of the produce the family sold for Rs. 4-Rs. 5 lakh growing paddy, moong and soyabean every year, had now been lost. “We are not opposing the project. After all, it will bring us water,” he said. Subhash Pandey of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh has written to the District Collector, the Chief Minister and the National Human Rights Commission demanding compensation. He says the authority concerned is yet to inform him of action taken in the matter within eight weeks, as directed by the Commission in September last year. “More than 2,500 farmers are affected,” he said.  ‘No loss to farmers’ “The pipelines are being laid five-six feet underground, so there is no loss to farmers,” said A.P. Dwivedi, Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Ramnagar, who was directed by the District Magistrate in November last year to submit a report to the Commission in a time-bound way. He added the pipeline was being laid on government land along roads, “so there is no question of compensation”. The Madhya Pradesh Bhumigat Pipeline, Cable Avam Duct (Bhumi ki upyokta ke adhikaron ka arjan) Niyam, 2013, provides for compensation for crop and tree loss for “the period of laying of underground pipeline, cable or duct”. “Although there is a law, we have received no orders from the top to compensate farmers in such cases State-wide,” said a senior official of the Madhya Pradesh Jal Nigam Maryadit, a State government undertaking, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, Ashish Srivastava, the undertaking’s Chief General Manager, said it had received no such claims from farmers so far. “If there is a legitimate claim, we will of course compensate them,” he said, adding some farmers encroaching upon government land along roads might be raising the demand now. “The pipeline works aren’t causing any obstruction to farming. And there is no element of coercion,” contended M.K. Mudgal, General Manager, Project Implementation Unit, Satna. He further said the project, which began in November 2018, was being funded by the New Development Bank whose guarantee was that government land be used mostly for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-demand-solatium-for-income-loss/article32272904.ece
05 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||COVID-19 deaths: Punjab reports 20, Haryana 8||Punjab recorded 488 fresh COVID-19 cases on August 4 and reported 20 more deaths taking the tally to 462, according to an official statement. In Haryana, 623 fresh cases surfaced, taking the tally to 37,796. The State also reported eight deaths, taking the total tally to 448. The number of positive cases in Punjab has reached 19,015. The major chunk of new cases, 222 and 39, were reported from Ludhiana and Amritsar in Punjab and 169 and 96 from Faridabad and Rohtak districts respectively. Punjab Health department said active cases are 6,062 and 12,491 patients have so far recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-deaths-punjab-reports-20-haryana-8/article32272902.ece
05 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana to link welfare schemes through ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’, says CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Tuesday distributed ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ to the eligible families and announced that welfare schemes of all departments would be linked with the PPP within next three months. PPP is an e-governance initiative that will enable the citizens to get the benefit of various Centre and State government schemes at their door-step in a fair and transparent manner, the Chief Minister said in Panchkula. He said that the State government has decided to celebrate the year 2020 as ‘Susashan Sanakap Varsh’ and the integration of schemes of all departments with PPP would not only ensure effective and efficient delivery of services to the people but also put an end to the complaints of corruption and red-tapism in this system. “The State government is committed to provide good governance in the State and has taken several e-governance initiatives including ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora Yojana’, digitalisation of revenue records, Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) Portal and many more,” he said. Mr. Lal said that a separate Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID) has been established to give further momentum to the PPP programme. “The government has launched a campaign to prepare ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ to provide a distinct identity to each family in the State. Out of the available records of 56.20 lakh families in the State, data of 18.19 lakh families have been prepared and these are being provided ‘Parivar Pehchan Patras’. The additional 20 lakh ‘Parivar Pehchan Patras’ would be distributed by end of August 2020,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-to-link-welfare-schemes-through-parivar-pehchan-patra-says-cm/article32272906.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||Heavy rain in Mumbai: govt. offices closed, HC hearings hit||Heavy showers in Mumbai and the neighbouring areas crippled normal life and disrupted rail and road traffic on Tuesday, with many essential services workers, like nurses and other medical staff treating COVID-19 patients, finding it difficult to reach hospitals. Several areas in the city and suburbs have received more than 200 mm rainfall since Monday night. For the second consecutive day, the India Meteorological Department issued a red alert for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and some other parts of Maharashtra for Wednesday. In the morning, local train services, currently being operated only for essential services workers, were suspended on the Harbour Line due to waterlogging on the rail tracks. Some services on the Western and Central Lines were also affected Some roads near Byculla, Dadar and Mahalaxmi were inundated and the traffic police had to divert vehicles from those areas. Several houses in low-lying areas like Kurla, Sion and parts of Bhandup were flooded due to the heavy downpour, according to a civic official. A landslide on the Western Express Highway in Kandivali affected movement of traffic towards south Mumbai. However, there were no casualty, officials said. Waterlogging outside the civic-run Nair Hospital in central Mumbai, where several COVID-19 patients from the city are being treated, posed a problem for its medical staff. “Nurses and other medical staff have been struggling to reach the hospital due to waterlogging on the premises and elsewhere,” a resident doctor from the hospital said. The Bombay High Court adjourned its virtual hearings in various cases as many staff members could not reach the court, an official said. The court will now hear the matters on Wednesday, an official said. The State government also announced a holiday for all its offices in Mumbai city and suburbs on Tuesday in view of the heavy rainfall in the metropolis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/heavy-rain-in-mumbai-govt-offices-closed-hc-hearings-hit/article32272870.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||BJP to celebrate Ayodhya ceremony in a grand way||As Ayodhya gets ready for the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram temple on Wednesday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to turn it into a party event by organising functions in all city wards and appealed to people to celebrate the day like Deepavali. BJP’s Mumbai unit president Mangalprabhat Lodha has given a call to decorate all party offices and distribute sweets by holding pujas on roads. All party MLAs have been directed to conduct pujas and celebrations in their respective constituencies. The party has also decided to set up LED screens to live telecast the ceremony in Ayodhya.Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis will felicitate kar sevaks at the BJP’s Dadar office, while LoP in the Council Pravin Darekar has arranged a Sri Ram puja in north Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-to-celebrate-ayodhya-ceremony-in-a-grand-way/article32272867.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘No services from China for Pune-Nashik rail project’||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said no Chinese company will be involved in the Pune-Nashik semi high-speed double line railway project. After viewing a presentation of the project on behalf of Maharashtra Railway Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited and Maharel, at a meeting at Mantralaya on Tuesday, Mr. Pawar said, “The project will be expedited with the help of locals and no Chinese products or services will be used.” It is an ambitious project of the State government which will give impetus to agricultural products and freight along with passenger services. “Pune and Nashik are two leading cities in industrial and agricultural development. This project will be useful for connecting the two smart cities. It will also accelerate the development of tourism, education, agriculture, business and industry in Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik,” he added. The 235 km-long railway line will pass through three districts. The speed of the train is envisaged at 200 kmph and could be increased to 250 kmph, cutting the travel time between Pune and Nashik to two hours. The project will have 60% investment from financial institutions, and 20% each from State government and Railways. Both electrified lines will be constructed simultaneously. “At the same time, the affected farmers will be compensated as per the existing land acquisition law. Preference for employment will be given to locals, and project-affected people at the railway stations along this route and stalls for business,” Mr. Pawar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-services-from-china-for-pune-nashik-rail-project/article32272864.ece
05 August 2020||Mumbai,||Boat capsizes, two fishermen missing||Two fishermen are missing, while 11 were rescued after a fishing boat capsized around 12 km off Gorai beach in north Mumbai on Tuesday afternoon. According to the police, the boat, Lucky Star , had left for fishing at 7 a.m. on August 1, with 13 fishermen on board. “After learning of the alert of heavy rainfall from August 4, they started to return. But around 9 a.m. on Tuesday, the boat capsized some 10 nautical miles from Gorai. Another fishing boat, God King , from Uttan coastal town, which was passing by, rescued 11 fishermen around 1.30 p.m.. However, two of them are still missing,” senior police inspector Sanjay Narkar from Gorai police station said. The vessel too has not yet been found, he confirmed. The missing two have been identified as Mangesh Kadam (24) and Satish Jagtap (25), residents of Gorai Koli Wada. The disaster management department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, fire brigade, coast guard, police, and maritime board, along with a helicopter from the Navy are involved in the rescue operations, Mr. Narkar said. Collapse in Vakola Meanwhile, a residential chawl of two rooms collapsed at Agripada in Vakola around 11.30 a.m. on Tuesday, due to heavy rain. The one plus one structure was near a nullah, and a 26-year-old woman and her two daughters, aged seven and one, were swept away after the chawl came down. Her third daughter Shivanya, aged two, was rescued by locals and admitted to a hospital in Vakola. The bodies of the woman, Rekha Kakade, and one-year-old Janvi were found by a National Disaster Response Force rescue team in the evening. At the time of going to press, a search was under way to find seven-year-old Shreya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/boat-capsizes-two-fishermen-missing/article32272868.ece
05 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man held for trying to sell tocilizumab at higher rate||The Mumbai Crime Branch along with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Monday evening arrested a 30-year-old man for allegedly trying to sell Actemra 400mg (tocilizumab injection) manufactured by Cipla, at an inflated price. A team lead by senior police inspector Mahesh Desai from Crime Branch Unit IX, along with two officers from the FDA, nabbed Azam Naseem Khan (30) below the Bandra reclamation U bridge. It was found that though the MRP of the injection was Rs. 40,545, the accused was trying to sell it at Rs. 1 lakh. Mr. Khan, a Class X pass, who originally hails from Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand was working in Delhi. “He made flex boards for advertisements for a living. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, he started dealing in sanitisers and masks. He said that the pharmacy man who provided him with the sanitisers and masks for reselling had given him the idea to sell the injection meant for the treatment of COVID-19, in black market,” Mr. Desai said. According to the police, the pharmacy man had suggested him that Mumbai was the right place to sell the injection and Mr. Khan could earn quick money. “He landed in Mumbai around three days ago and was staying in a hotel. After receiving information, we sent a decoy customer to buy an injection and he was called below the reclamation bridge from where we nabbed Mr. Khan. We have seized injections worth Rs. 15 lakh from him,” Mr. Desai said. The police are now trying to trace the pharmacy man from Delhi who provided Mr. Khan with the vials of the injection. The accused was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Essential Commodities Act 1955, and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, and for the violation of the Drugs Prices Control Order 2013. He was produced before court on Tuesday, and has been remanded in police custody till August 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-held-for-trying-to-sell-tocilizumab-at-higher-rate/article32272871.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Only 2 inmates have died of virus in Delhi prisons so far’||The DG (Prisons) informed a high-powered committee (HPC) headed by a Delhi High Court judge that so far two inmates inside Delhi’s jails have died of COVID-19 out of a total of 61 inmates who contracted the virus. DG (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said that as on July 30, of the 61 inmates who contracted the virus, 55 inmates have recovered, one inmates released on bail is under home quarantine, and three inmates are with active cases of COVID-19. Mr. Goel also stated that 165 prison staff have contracted the virus, of which 143 have recovered and only 22 active cases are there who are mostly under home quarantine. Mr. Goel said a 70-year-old convict who was serving his sentence in jail no.14, Mandoli was found COVID-19 positive on June 26. On same date, the inmate developed uneasiness due to heart-related symptoms and was referred to DDU Hospital. He was then sent to Lok Nayak Hospital. Other inmates tested The DG (Prisons) said the inmate, on the request of his family, was sent to Akash Health Care Hospital, Dwarka (in custody) where he expired on July 4. Another 62-year-old inmate lodged in Mandoli jail died of COVID-19 on June 15, prompting the jail authorities to test other inmates. Mr. Goel said the jail administration is taking extra precautions with respect to inmates who are more than 55 years of age, so that they are not ‘immuno-compromised’. Decongesting jails The HPC headed by Justice Hima Kohli, which took stock of the ongoing process of decongesting prisons here, was informed that a total of 4,439 inmates have been released so far. Of which, 3,211 are undertrial prisoners (UTPs), 1,165 convicts have been released on emergency parole and 63 convicts have been released on remission of sentence. The committee had also relaxed the criteria for release during the ongoing pandemic with respect to those prisoners/ UTPs who are suffering from HIV, cancer, chronic kidney dysfunction (UTPs requiring dialysis), Hepatitis B or C, asthma, and TB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/only-2-inmates-have-died-of-virus-in-delhi-prisons-so-far/article32273051.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NIFT fee hike: students boycott online classes||Following a hike in the fee structure, students of the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) across centres and departments have boycotted online classes since August 3. In a statement issued, students said that the boycott of classes will continue until authorities provide a written assurance that the fee structure will be revised in view of the current economic situation. The students added, “Since the NIFT authorities came up with a social media policy, prohibiting any student from maligning its policies and employees on social media, at the occurrence of which they may be debarred from taking exams or sitting for college placements, students have been unable to express their grievances.” The All India Students’ Association demanded an immediate roll back of the fee hike. “For the upcoming semester, NIFT has increased its fees by around 10%. Most of the courses, including regular laboratory classes, will be impossible to conduct amid the pandemic. Hence, it is injustice to force the students to pay full tuition fees,” read the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nift-fee-hike-students-boycott-online-classes/article32273052.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Implement environment plans, NGT tells States and UTs||Following a plea seeking punitive action against operation illegal operation of marriage halls, nursing homes, clinics and hotels in Uttar Pradesh, the National Green Tribunal has directed all States and Union Territories to implement district environment plans in coordination with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Terming a report furnished by the U.P. Pollution Control Board as “far from satisfactory”, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “We direct the State PCB to revisit its plan. The CPCB may oversee preparation of such action plan in the light of earlier orders. Plan may be finalised with within two months.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/implement-environment-plans-ngt-tells-states-and-uts/article32273053.ece
05 August 2020||Pune,||Downpour in Kolhapur, five dams overflow||Heavy rains pounded Kolhapur district in Pune division on Tuesday, which received more than 560 mm rainfall over a 24-hour period. Very heavy showers were recorded in Gaganbawda tehsil, and at least five dams in Kolhapur are overflowing due to the steadily rising water levels of the Panchganga, Warna and Bhogawati rivers. “Gaganbawda received 137 mm rain in the last 24 hours. Three water projects on the Panchganga and one each on the Bhogawati and Warna have gone under water. The Jambre earthen dam too is filled to capacity,” said an official from the Kolhapur district administration. As a precautionary measure, authorities have started discharging 6,922 cusecs of water from the Almatti dam and 1,139 cusecs from the Koyna dam. The showers have resulted in the Radhanagari, Dudhganga and Warna dams being filled to more than 60% of their respective storage capacities. Last year in August, Kolhapur and Sangli districts faced the most devastating floods since 1989, resulting in over 50 deaths and destruction of thousands of hectares of cropland. Moderate rainfall, with heavy showers in isolated places, were witnessed over Pune district. The showers brought relief to Pune city, which witnessed its driest July in five years. Despite excess rains which resulted in dams being filled to capacity last year, scanty rain in July this year has caused the water stocks in Pune’s four major dams — Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar — to dip sharply. The collective water stock in the four dams is at present a little over 31% of the cumulative storage capacity of 29.15 thousand million cubic feet (TMCft). In stark contrast, during the same period, the four dams were filled to 88% and 86% of their total capacity in 2019 and 2018 respectively. While Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was seriously mulling water cuts until last week, Tuesday’s showers may cause them to postpone the move since the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast robust rain for the district throughout August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/downpour-in-kolhapur-five-dams-overflow/article32272866.ece
05 August 2020||Pune,||State reports highest single-day recoveries||Maharashtra reported its highest single-day recoveries on Tuesday, with 12,326 patients being discharged to take the total recoveries till date to 2,99,356. As many as 7,760 new COVID-19 cases were reported across the State on Tuesday, taking the total cases to 4,57,956 as the number of recoveries outweighed the surge in cases for the third consecutive day. With 300 more deaths, the fatality toll has reached 16,142. The number of active cases has come down to 1,42,151 with the recovery rate rising to 65.37%, State Health Department officials said. “Till date, of a total 23,52,047 laboratory samples, 4,57,956 (19.47%) have been tested positive with nearly 54,000 samples across the State tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 3.52%. Of the fresh cases, Pune district reported the maximum, with more than 2,200 new cases and 56 fatalities taking the total case tally to 98,876 and the death toll to 2,342. The district administration, however, said the number of active cases was less than 27,000. 709 cases in Mumbai In contrast, Mumbai city and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported their lowest surges in days. Mumbai recorded just 709 new cases on Tuesday as its total case tally reached 1,18,115, of whom only 20,309 are active. The city reported 56 more deaths, taking its fatality toll to 6,549. After Pune and Mumbai, Kolhapur reported 40 deaths, taking its death count to 165. With 243 fresh cases, the district’s total cases have reached 6,657, of whom 3,915 are active. Thane district reported 13 fatalities, taking the death toll to 1,101. The district saw a relative low spike of 368 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-reports-highest-single-day-recoveries/article32272865.ece
05 August 2020||Beijing,||China accuses U.S. of ‘bullying’ over TikTok||China accused the U.S. on Tuesday of “bullying” over popular video app TikTok, after President Donald Trump ramped up pressure for its U.S. operations to be sold to an American company. In the latest diplomatic spat between the world’s two biggest economies, Beijing hit back after Mr. Trump gave TikTok six weeks to arrange a sale of its U.S. operations — and said that his government wanted a financial benefit from the deal. Under investigation “This goes against the principles of the market economy and the (World Trade Organization’s) principles of openness, transparency and non-discrimination,” said Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin. “It’s outright bullying.” The app has been under formal investigation on U.S. national security grounds, and Mr. Trump said that Microsoft was in talks to buy TikTok. He has given ByteDance until mid-September to strike a deal, a tactic that is almost unheard of. “It’s got to be an American company... it’s got to be owned here,” Mr. Trump said on Monday. “We don’t want to have any problem with security.” The U.S. and China have clashed over various fronts recently, essentially barring Chinese telecoms company Huawei from the U.S. market and waging a global campaign to isolate the company over national security concerns. Beijing slammed the latest move as “political manipulation”. Mr. Wang told a regular press briefing on Tuesday: “The U.S., without providing any evidence, has been using an abused concept of national security... unjustifiably suppressing certain non-U.S. companies.” He said the national security grounds for the U.S.’s clampdown on Chinese firms “does not hold water”, adding that the companies conduct their business activities in accordance with international rules and U.S. laws. “But the U.S. is cracking down on them on trumped-up charges,” said Mr. Wang, who warned the U.S. not to “open Pandora’s box”. TikTok has as many as one billion worldwide users, who make quirky 60-second videos with its smartphone app. ‘Global company’ But the pressure for a sale of its U.S. and international business, based in Los Angeles, has left the company and its Chinese parent ByteDance facing tough decisions. In an internal letter to employees on Tuesday, the company’s founder Zhang Yiming suggested the U.S.’s aim was to ban the app rather than force a sale of its U.S. operations. He told staff to “anticipate more difficulties in the future” and said anti-China sentiment has recently “risen significantly in many countries”. “Regarding public opinion, we must be able to accept misunderstandings for a period of time,” he said. “I hope that everyone does not take to heart the short-term reputational damage, and does the right thing with patience.” In an earlier statement, ByteDance said it has always been committed to becoming a global company and was considering “re-establishing TikTok headquarters in major markets outside the U.S.” U.K. media reported that it was considering a relocation to London.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-accuses-us-of-bullying-over-tiktok/article32272572.ece
05 August 2020||Madrid,||Spain’s former king flees country||Spain’s former king Juan Carlos, at the centre of an alleged $100-million corruption scandal, has reportedly fled to the Dominican Republic after his shock announcement that he was going into exile. The 82-year-old revealed on Monday that he had taken the decision to leave Spain to help his son, the current King Felipe VI, “exercise his responsibilities”. The letter, published on the royal palace’s website, did not mention where the former king would go, nor when exactly he would leave the country. But on Tuesday, daily newspaper ABC reported that he left Spain on Sunday and flew to the Dominican Republic via Portugal.  The La Vanguardia and El Mundo dailies similarly said he planned to stay with friends in the Caribbean country, but online newspaper El Confidencial said he could be in Portugal, where he spent part of his youth, or in France or Italy. Asked by AFP about the reports, a royal palace spokesman refused to give any information about Juan Carlos’s whereabouts. “The only information we have is the information which was published on the website of the royal palace yesterday. It is the only information which we have,” he said. The ex-king’s lawyer, Javier Sanchez-Junco, issued a statement on Monday saying his client was not trying to escape justice by going into exile and would remain available to prosecutors. Popular for decades The former head of state has been under a cloud since various media reported that he allegedly received funds from Saudi Arabia and probes are now under way in both Switzerland and Spain. Spain’s Supreme Court announced in June an investigation to determine the legal responsibility of the ex-monarch — but only for acts committed after his abdication in 2014, because of the immunity he holds. The suspicions centre on $100 millionallegedly paid secretly into a Swiss bank account in 2008. Socialist Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez spoke out in July, saying “the entire Spanish population are receiving disturbing information which is troubling for us all, including me”. He ascended the throne in 1975 on the death of the fascist dictator Francisco Franco and ruled for 38 years before abdicating in favour of his son Felipe VI in June 2014. He was a popular figure for decades, playing a key role in the democratic transition from the Franco dictatorship which ruled Spain from 1939-1975.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spains-former-king-flees-country/article32272583.ece
05 August 2020||HONG KONG,||The thinkers behind Xi’s hard line||When Tian Feilong first arrived in Hong Kong as demands for free elections were on the rise, he said he felt sympathetic toward a society that seemed to reflect the liberal political ideas he had studied as a graduate student in Beijing. Then, as the calls escalated into protests across Hong Kong in 2014, he increasingly embraced Chinese warnings that freedom could go too far, threatening national unity. He became an ardent critic of the demonstrations, and six years later he is a staunch defender of the sweeping national security law that China has imposed on the former British colony. Mr. Tian has joined a tide of Chinese scholars who have turned against Western-inspired ideas that once flowed in China’s universities, instead promoting the proudly authoritarian worldview ascendant under Xi Jinping, the Communist Party leader. This cadre of Chinese intellectuals serve as champions, even official advisers, defending and honing the party’s hardening policies, including the rollout of the security law in Hong Kong. China’s Hong Kong “Back when I was weak, I had to totally play by your rules. Now I’m strong and have confidence, so why can’t I lay down my own rules and values and ideas?” Mr. Tian, 37, said in an interview, explaining the prevailing outlook in China. “Hong Kong is, after all, China’s Hong Kong,” he said. “It’s up to the Communist Party to clean up this mess.” While China’s Communist Party has long nurtured legions of academics to defend its agenda, these authoritarian thinkers stand out for their unabashed, often flashily erudite advocacy of one-party rule and assertive sovereignty, and their turn against the liberal ideas that many of them once embraced. They portray themselves as fortifying China for an era of deepening ideological rivalry. They describe the U.S. as a dangerous, overreaching shambles, even more so in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. They oppose constitutional fetters on Communist Party control, arguing that Western-inspired ideas of the rule of law are a dangerous mirage that could hobble the party.  World power They argue that China must reclaim its status as a world power, even as a new kind of benign empire displacing the U.S. They extol Mr. Xi as a historic leader, guiding China through a momentous transformation. Many scholars, including Tian’s dissertation adviser, Zhang Qianfan, argued that Hong Kong, with its robust judicial independence, could inspire similar steps in mainland China. “I had also been nurtured by liberal scholars,” Mr. Tian said.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-thinkers-behind-xis-hard-line/article32272592.ece
05 August 2020||COLOMBO,||Rajapaksas aim for victory as Sri Lanka goes to polls today||Over 16 million voters in Sri Lanka will on Wednesday have a chance to elect their representatives to Parliament in the all-island polls that the ruling Rajapaksa administration is aiming to sweep with a two-thirds majority. Following President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s rise to power last year on a huge mandate, his Sri Lanka Podujana Party (SLPP, or People’s Party) is seeking a decisive parliamentary majority to amend the Constitution, especially the 19th Amendment passed during the former government’s term that clips the President’s executive powers. The election, which was postponed twice due to the coronavirus pandemic, will see the direct election of 196 legislators — while the remaining 29 will make it through a ‘National list’ — to the 225-member House. The additional measures to follow health guidelines while holding polls has cost the country’s Election Commission an additional LKR 3 billion, raising the total cost of elections to LKR 10 billion, according to officials. Mr. Gotabaya’s elder brother Mahinda Rajapaksa, serving as the Prime Minister in the present caretaker government, is contesting Wednesday’s polls as the Prime Ministerial candidate. The Alliance led by SLPP is widely expected to do well in the polls, more so due to the government’s efforts in containing COVID19 in the island — 293 active cases as of Tuesday and 11 deaths — and a fragmented political opposition. Significantly, the two main political parties of Sri Lanka — the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and the United National Party (UNP) — have been reduced to a rump this election, while the SLPP, launched in 2016 by the Rajapaksas, with a large chunk of the SLFP, is trying to consolidate power in the legislature. Weak opposition The SLFP, under former President Maithripala Sirisena, has realigned with the SLPP, and the UNP, suffered a big split. Its former deputy leader Sajith Premadasa broke away, taking along most former UNP MPs, and is contesting separately from the new Samagi Jana Balawegaya (United People’s Front), effectively challenging his former leader and ex-Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, fighting polls from the UNP. Although it is not easy for a single party or alliance to secure a two-thirds majority under Sri Lanka’s Proportional Representation system of elections, the absence of anti-defection laws allows newly elected MPs from opposition parties to cross over to government. The prospect of a two-thirds majority to the Rajapaksa administrations worries some sections, especially rights activists across the country, who fear that such power might threaten democratic freedoms, specially with no strong opposition. “When they [Rajapaksas] were in power the last time, the CID and intelligence officials would come and observe even small meetings of NGOs. That sort of surveillance might begin again,” said Gnanaveera Dissanayake, a human rights activist based in Kurunegala, in the North Western Province, from where PM Mahinda Rajapaksa is contesting.  Tamil vote Meanwhile, the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), which had the largest representation of minority Tamils from the north and east in the last Parliament, is seeking to retrain its presence in Parliament. Though many voters are disappointed with the lack of adequate development on the ground, contestant and former MP from Jaffna Dharmalingam Sithadthan said the TNA hoped that the people would still give it a good mandate to represent them as a block. “People know that we tried our best to engage with the previous government on constitutional reform. It is not fair to say we failed. It just shows that the Sinhala political leadership is reluctant to devolve more powers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rajapaksas-aim-for-victory-as-sri-lanka-goes-to-polls-today/article32272585.ece
05 August 2020||JERUSALEM,||Netanyahu warns Hezbollah||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday warned the Lebanese militant Hezbollah group after Israeli forces said they thwarted an infiltration attempt by the militants. Mr. Netanyahu said Israel would defend itself. “We will do what is necessary to defend ourselves. I suggest to all of them, including Hezbollah, to consider this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/netanyahu-warns-hezbollah/article32272573.ece
05 August 2020||Harare,||Mnangagwa vows to ‘flush out’ critics||Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Tuesday warned he would “flush out” opponents as rights groups reported dozens of activists had been arrested in a crackdown on dissent. Mr. Mnangagwa, who took over from longtime ruler Robert Mugabe after a coup in November 2017, said his administration was facing “many hurdles and attacks” including “divisive politics of some opposition elements”. “The bad apples who have attempted to divide our people and to weaken our systems will be flushed out,” he warned. “We will overcome attempts at destabilisation of our society by a few rogue Zimbabweans acting in league with foreign detractors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mnangagwa-vows-to-flush-out-critics/article32272590.ece
05 August 2020||Beirut,||Massive blast in Beirut kills at least 10||A huge explosion near the centre of Beirut killed at least 10 people, sending shockwaves across the Lebanese capital, witnesses and security sources said. The blast occurred in the city’s port area, where there were warehouses housing explosives, Lebanon’s state news agency NNA and two security sources said. A third security source said there were chemicals stored in the area. Footage of the blast shared around by residents on social media showed a column of smoke rising from the port district followed by an enormous blast. Those who filming what initially appeared to be a big blaze where thrown backwards by the shock. It was not immediately clear what caused the blaze that set off the blast or what kind of explosives were in the warehouses. The Governor of Beirut port said that a team of firefighters at the scene had “disappeared” after the explosion. At least 10 bodies were taken to hospitals, a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/massive-blast-in-beirut-kills-at-least-10/article32272589.ece
05 August 2020||Kuala Lumpur,||Kuala Lumpur, Aug 4, 2020 (AFP) -||Malaysian police on Tuesday raided the Qatar-based broadcaster Al Jazeera's Kuala Lumpur office and seized computers as part of an investigation into a documentary about migrants that has angered the government, the broadcaster said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kuala-lumpur-aug-4-2020-afp/article32272571.ece
05 August 2020||Washington,||Washington, Aug 4, 2020 (AFP) -||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Tuesday vowed to protect Hong Kong pro-democracy campaigners who have fled the city and denounced China after Beijing said that police had ordered the arrests of overseas activists.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/washington-aug-4-2020-afp/article32272581.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Rekindle Kashmir’s lost and real connect||In the din as well as the deathly silence to mark a year since the reorganisation of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the abrogation of its special status, another anniversary — almost a historical vignette today — has, not surprisingly, been forgotten. But it carries today deep poignancy as New Delhi continues to reflect on strategies to win the so-far elusive victory over the hearts and minds of the people, beyond the triumphalism that has accompanied the constitutional integration. Foiling ‘Operation Gibraltar’ It was on August 5, 1965 that two Kashmiri Gujjars helped to thwart one of Pakistan’s most devious conspiracies in the Valley. At Darra Kassi, near Gulmarg, Mohammed Din, and Wazir Mohammed at Galuthi in the Mendhar sector, reported the Pakistani infiltration (to, respectively, the Thana at Tangmarg and the headquarters of the infantry brigade at Poonch) that was intended to spark an uprising in Kashmir, as part of its insidious ‘Operation Gibraltar’ relying on a ready-to-rebel fifth column within the Valley. Nothing of that sort happened, as other Kashmiris too reported on the presence of the infiltrators, who were soon flushed out. In short, ‘Operation Gibraltar’ failed, as did every other attempt by Pakistan because of the fundamental belief of Kashmiris in the goodness and greatness of India. Mostly forgotten and unsung, Din and Mohammed, stood for and reinforced the idea of India in Kashmir, with the courage of their conviction and often at the cost of their lives — like thousands of other Kashmiris over more than the seven decades since Independence. Today is a day to recall and remember some of these Kashmiris; each deserving a fulsome tribute; for ultimately the real test of the decisions made a year ago will be the people. Consider, for instance, the story of Baramullah’s Maqbool Sherwani. It was Sherwani, in 1947, who helped delay the Pakistan-backed tribal invaders march to Srinagar from Baramulla before the arrival of the Indian armed forces. The tribal invaders eventually found him out; tortured him, shot him and crucified him, but not, as I wrote once earlier, before he cried out one last time, “Muslim Sikh Etihad, Zindabad (Victory for the unity of Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims). This, said Mahatma Gandhi at his prayer meeting, later, “was a martyrdom of which anyone, Hindu, Sikh, Muslim or any other, would be proud.” A principal with principles But there were other Sherwanis too! In 1965, as the Gujjars discovered the infiltrators, there was one formidable educationist, a legendary principal of the local women’s college, Ms. Mehmooda Ali Shah, who faced a minor act of rebellion. She heard that one of her students had shouted “Pakistan Zindabad!” on the college grounds. Dressed as always in a handloom sari, Ms. Shah (both a Gandhian and a Fellow Traveller) marched down the grounds, with hundreds of students and staff watching her, and confronted the student. The legendary principal slapped the delinquent student hard, admonished her and went back to her office amidst pindrop silence. For nearly two decades as principal, Ms. Shah exemplified through her personality, and through her word and deed, not just the quest for the empowerment of Kashmiri women but her ability to stand up for the ideas that endeared India to the Kashmiris. The power of the Soviet bond At the height of the Cold War, in 1955, when the Anglo-American bloc (it is often conveniently forgotten these days) was arm-twisting New Delhi to hold a plebiscite in Jammu and Kashmir, the First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev and the Premier Nikolai Bulganin, visited India. Nehru insisted that they visited Srinagar where they watched the genius, Dina Nath Nadim’s opera: ‘ Bombur Taa Yemberzal (The Narcissus and the Bumble bee’), an allegorical reference to the clash between Imperialism and Socialism. So deeply inspired were they by the visit that Khrushchev and the Soviet Union recognised Jammu and Kashmir as an integral part of India soon thereafter, and continued to cast its veto to block any attempt by the United Nations Security Council to intervene in Kashmir. If it was Nadim who brought the plight of Kashmir to the world, and the justness of India’s cause, it was the extraordinary art of Ghulam Rasool Santosh that revealed Kashmir’s unique syncretic culture. Santosh’s paintings reflected not just the unity of the cosmos, but also the glories of Sufi and Tantric thought. The larger fusion of the diversity of India within Kashmir’s multiple streams is reflected in Santosh’s art. The Bangladesh war What greater testament to India’s rights, freedoms and democracy could be there than the brilliant Editor and later parliamentarian, Shamim Ahmed Shamim. Shamim’s satirical prose on the pages of his newspaper, Aaina (Mirror) did more for Indian democracy than any speech by an Indian diplomat in the United Nations. It was Shamim’s stirring words in the Lok Sabha, in 1972, to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on the Bangladesh War that found real resonance with the people of the Valley and across the world. “Madam,” he said, “leaders have changed the course of history, but rarely has anyone changed geography.” Steps needed By almost common consensus, the most effective police chief in the history of Jammu and Kashmir, was the barely school-educated Kashmiri, Peer Ghulam Hassan Shah, who broke the back of the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front and the Kashmir Al-Fatah. It was his professionalism combined with a huge intelligence network of informers which was able ensure that no Pakistan-inspired operative had a free hand in Kashmir. In the legacy of leaders such as Peer Ghulam Hassan Shah and Ms. Mehmooda lies the future of New Delhi in Kashmir and the future basis of Kashmir’s faith in India. Executive decisions and even constitutional amendments are not the challenge; Article 370 had lost much of its potency even before the decisions made last year. The real challenge has remained the emotional integration of Kashmir within the national mainstream. For that to happen, Jammu and Kashmir has to move beyond the control exercised by its Kafkaesque bureaucracy, who rely more on astrology than common sense, and must discover its new generation of leaders, across professions, who will truly be the pillars of a future Naya Kashmir. Clearly, restoration of Statehood and the early conduct of fair elections are essential first steps in that journey. Amitabh Mattoo is Professor, School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rekindle-kashmirs-lost-and-real-connect/article32272558.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Violating human rights in the Valley||A few human rights concerns have emerged in the Kashmir Valley over the last one year since the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. Till the time of writing, the national portal of India website india.gov.in continued to show this Article as a part of the Constitution! What is the truth? Unchecked preventive detention — whether in the form of house arrest (admitted or denied) or preventive detention in jail in the Valley or outside the erstwhile State — is a matter of grave concern. So is the difficulty in accessing information whether through normal channels of communication or through electronic means such as the Internet. Under house arrest The concept of house arrest is not specifically mentioned in the criminal manual but the state is empowered to declare a building or house as a sub-jail. Through such declarations, residential accommodations of some political leaders have been converted into sub-jails. The resident of a sub-jail is automatically and undeniably under detention and what is commonly known as house arrest. When a residential accommodation is declared a sub-jail, the state virtually acquires and takes over the property for its own purposes. The owner of the property is entitled to rent or compensation for the use and occupation of the property. So, in a sense, a person under house arrest without receiving compensation is doubly jeopardised. Compulsory takeover of property even for a limited period has been an issue of great concern in Mizoram where vast tracts of land were taken over by the armed forces to quell an insurgency. Many of these landowners have petitioned for compensation, though with little effect. Residents of the Valley will perhaps face the same problem as the Mizos. A variation of house arrest was employed during the Emergency when a few tourist resorts close to Delhi were declared as sub-jails and prominent political leaders incarcerated therein, without taking over their property. In a sense, therefore, some Emergency steps have now been adopted to quell dissent. Preventive detention Preventive detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) has caused immense hardship to a very large number of persons. Preventive detention is based on a prognosis of future events on the basis of past conduct. Like all preventive detention laws, the PSA is draconian but our Constitution provides important procedural safeguards that must be followed by the state or else the detention order will be quashed. Among them is the fundamental right to be communicated, as soon as may be, the grounds on which the order has been made and the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order. Decisions of the Supreme Court hold that if there is an unexplained delay of even one or two days in dealing with the representation, the order of preventive detention is vitiated. A challenge to an order of preventive detention can be mounted on these and other procedural grounds. The law regulating the PSA is no different. Many preventive detention orders have been challenged through habeas corpus petitions but unfortunately many of them are still pending in the concerned High Court. This did not happen even during the Emergency. What is the truth behind the delay? And now a new theory has been advanced by the state. In the case of one political leader, it was stated in an affidavit in the Supreme Court that he had not been preventively detained or kept under house arrest, which means that his residence was not declared a sub-jail. In other words, he was a free person. In that event why was his house swarming with policemen and why was he not free to move around? What is the truth? A Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court held in the case of A.K. Roy v. Union of India (1981) that, “Laws of preventive detention cannot, by the back-door, introduce procedural measures of a punitive kind... The normal rule has to be that the detenu will be kept in detention in a place which is within the environs of his or her ordinary place of residence. If a person ordinarily resides in Delhi to keep him in detention in a far of place like Madras or Calcutta is a punitive measure by itself which, in matters of preventive detention at any rate, is not to be encouraged... Whatever smacks of punishment must be scrupulously avoided in matters of preventive detention.” Although the PSA permits a detenu being detained outside the erstwhile State, such detention should ordinarily not be resorted to for a variety of reasons. But unfortunately the view of the Supreme Court has been followed more in the breach in the case of several PSA detenus. One gets the impression that resort to preventive detention is actually as a measure of punishment or conviction without a trial. There are several other reasons why the incarceration of hundreds of persons in the erstwhile State is a gross human rights violation. What makes the situation worse is that a very large number of children have had to suffer what is euphemistically called detention for their own good. The welfare and best interests of a child can hardly be decided in a police station without the involvement of the parents of the child. Taking a step back Access to information might not yet be a fundamental right but it is certainly a human right. For the last one year, the residents of the Valley have been deprived of the benefit of 4G Internet. This has had an adverse impact on various aspects of daily life. For students, the joy of learning has become an imposition with 2G Internet. Medical professionals have difficulty in advising and counselling their patients. The right to health is an essential component of the right to life and this has been denied to a large number of patients. Businessman have suffered, the economy in the Valley has taken a hit and it appears that the powers that be are in no mood to relent. The Supreme Court has twice intervened but with no tangible effect. Orders concerning the Internet were required to be reviewed under the rules by a committee headed by the Cabinet Secretary. The committee has been downgraded and is now headed by the Home Secretary. In other words, rather than a step forward towards access to information, a small step back has been taken. While it may be that uncontrolled access to Internet could pose a security risk through misuse by terrorists and militants, today’s technology is so far advanced that it is possible to block access even in a limited way. For example, thousands of child pornography sites have been successfully blocked in different parts of the world, including India. Therefore, where there is a will to checkmate militants and terrorists through the effective use of technology, it is possible to do so, but taking a short cut by permitting download only by 2G possibly does more harm to a greater number of people than is necessary and is disproportionate. It is time to introspect and make the human rights of all our citizens an inclusive subject of free and frank discussion. If we keep beating about the bush, its leaves will eventually fall. What happens then? Justice (retd.) Madan B. Lokur is a former Supreme Court judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/violating-human-rights-in-the-valley/article32272566.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from mediating Ayodhya||On March 8 last year, the Supreme Court of India appointed a three-member Mediation Committee to attempt mediation in the Ayodhya Babri Masjid Ram Janambhumi dispute pending before the Court. Justice (retd.) Ibrahim Kalifula, former judge of the Court, Sri Sri Ravishankar and myself were the three members. We immediately commenced the process of having meetings with the many parties to the case, together and separately. The initial time of two months was extended to August 15, 2019, which the Court advanced to July 31, 2019. Closure to the issue All parties could not reach agreement by that time, and the Court started the hearing of the case on August 6. In mid-September, at the request of some parties, the Court permitted resumption of mediation. Around the time of conclusion of arguments in end-October, several parties submitted their agreement on a settlement formula so that the views of other parties be sought under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure or the formula be adopted for a broad order under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. The Court delivered judgment in the case on November 9, 2019. It adverted to the terms of settlement arrived at in the mediation process, but expressed its inability to proceed with the same since all parties had not signed it. It gave the disputed land and adjoining parcels to the Hindus for building the Ram Mandir and allotted five acres elsewhere to the Muslims. The judgment was bitterly resented and intellectually criticised for favouring the Hindus. But there was also relief that there was closure to this issue and that no more bloodshed took place. Importantly, the Court breathed constitutional protection and longetivity to the Protection of Places of Worship Act, 1991, which protects all other places of worship of all religions from conversion; with this, India will be spared repeats of this mandir and masjid mayhem. Mediation dynamics Certainly in the history of mediation this is a most momentous case, given the context, communities, history of violence, ancient archaeology and present ground realities, the interplay between law and logic and emotions and faith, and what the outcome boded for the future of hundreds of millions of people. There are many, many lessons to be learnt from mediating Ayodhya. Some will remain undisclosed owing to the confidentiality which covers the mediation proceedings. Others will emerge perhaps when the time is right, and the manner is appropriate. But for me, the indelible lesson is one concerning a very basic nature of public disputes. Put simply — and sometimes the most important things can be stated very simply — when conflict starts, there is a movement towards each end of the spectrum. The periphery swells, strident voices command attention, extreme demands are made, and soon it is the combative ones within the combatant sides who call the shots. They benefit ideologically, politically and personally. They fashion the litigation and the courts give them the right to represent their communities. The moderates, on the other hand, behave moderately, can be easily shouted down or shunted out. Fearing charges of being traitors, they toe the line. Leaving aside the mediation sessions (about which I say nothing here) I have spoken to many people about this dispute — before and after, and apart from, the mediation. Overwhelmingly, they favoured the middle ground, accommodation, compromise, moving on, securing to each side what it needed most, recognising that the non-negotiables were different. When I put it all together, I am left with the inescapable feeling that if strong voices had pushed for moderation and dialogue and harmonious solution, there would have been a countervailing centripetal movement cancelling out the centrifugal one. And then the following scenario would not be unimaginable. Then and now Sometime in the 1980s, a meeting is facilitated between the senior Shankaracharyas, the accepted representatives of the Hindu faith, and the President of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, Maulana Ali Miyan, accompanied by the head of the waqf Board and other leading Muslim clerics. They are all under intense public pressure to find a solution; if religious men cannot, hotheads and politicians will have a field day, they are told. In an atmosphere of respect and confidentiality, these holy men can talk freely and explore multiple options for settlement. Sharing the contested space is desirable, but if the Hindus feel strongly about locating a large Ram temple, the Muslims must hear an apology for the wrongful act of sneaking in an idol into the mosque in 1949. And if the language is not of giving up or giving in but to please give to the brother with greater need since he fervently believes that this is the birthplace of the Lord, the response is likely to be commensurate. Maulana Ali Mian is scholarly and wise, and can give his people a crucial piece of advice. Do not treat this as an ordinary masjid versus mandir dispute. Lord Ram for the Hindus is like Allah for us. We may win legal battles, but we will win no war here. Give it to them generously and we will be the winners. But on one condition — this must be no precedent. What we really fear is that this is a prelude to other demands. When conveyed to the Hindus, their response can be clear — you need have no fear for the rest. In Kashi and Mathura no doubt the old temples were destroyed by Muslim invaders, but we have built new ones where worship is happening for many years, and we do not want to change that. Ayodhya is different because we do not have a temple for Ram. We will prevail on the government to bring in a law to protect all other places of worship; let this country be free of this spectre of breaking houses of religion. Choose any parcel of land, and it will be yours to build a new mosque. And as a measure of goodwill, other mosques in Ayodhya can be repaired and renovated. How much better we would have been, my countrymen, if this had been the reality. But learning the lesson for the future, it can be if there is both targeted action and a groundswell, each feeding into the other, which creates the momentum and movement towards the middle platform where both sides can meet to resolve public disputes. An urgent need of our times is to create this centre for moderating dialogue. May it come about soon. It will be the sacred space which the great poet, Jalāl ad-Dīn Rūmī, spoke about: Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and rightdoing, there is a field. I will meet you there. Sriram Panchu is Senior Advocate and Mediator. The views expressed are personal. E-mail: srirampanchu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lessons-from-mediating-ayodhya/article32272560.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||J&K and Ladakh, a year on||Though Syama Prasad Mukherjee highlighted the implications of Article 370 with the slogan “ Ek desh mein do vidhan, do pradhan, do nishan nahi chalenge (We can’t have two Constitutions, two Prime Ministers and two flags in one country)” , it was not until 1979 that the full discriminatory nature of Article 35A came to light. A single-judge Bench quashed the appointment of Dr. Ravinder Maadan as an Assistant Professor at the Government Medical College in Jammu. The court ruled that Dr. Maadan, who had married a non-state subject, was no longer a permanent resident and hence not eligible for government employment. It was only 23 years later, in 2002, that a three-member Bench of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court declared that the daughter of a permanent resident marrying a non-permanent resident will not lose her permanent residency. However, it did not wade into the discriminatory nature of Article 35A and stated it to be an “academic issue”. Article 35A was unfair not just to women. It deprived benefits to thousands of descendants of West Pakistan refugees who migrated during that period even though they are Indian citizens. It ensured that the descendants of Dalit Valmikis, brought in from Amritsar and Gurdaspur in Punjab as safai karamcharis in 1957, were ineligible for government jobs and were forced to continue in their designated occupation. The presence of Article 370 in the Constitution paved the way for various constitutional anomalies. For instance, while Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code was struck down by the Supreme Court, it continued to exist in the Ranbir Penal Code that was followed in the erstwhile State. Similarly, critical legislation passed by the Government of India, such as the Right to Information Act, Right to Education Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, were not applicable to the erstwhile State. Transformational development It was for these reasons, and the Prime Minister’s vision of “one nation, one Constitution”, that led the government to effectively remove Articles 370 and 35A. The largely bipartisan support received in both Houses of Parliament reinforced the fact that the entire nation spoke as one voice. It has been a year since the government’s move. Contrary to claims of “large-scale unrest” and “international ramifications”, the move has not only been peaceful but has also seen overwhelming support from all sections of society and the international community. The government views the effective removal of Article 370 as a key vehicle to usher in transformational development in the region. Many districts in J&K are now terror-free. Anti-terror operations are being executed in a coordinated manner and are receiving support from local residents. Residents of J&K and Ladakh can now aspire for the same opportunities that residents in other States have. The government’s commitment to holistically integrate the region is visible in the new programmes that have been launched. Under the National Saffron Mission, more than 3,500 hectares of land are being rejuvenated for saffron cultivation. Saffron grown in Kashmir now has the coveted geographical indication tag giving it prominence in the export market. The government is also incentivising farmers to introduce ultra-high density plantation of apple and other fruits. Tourism infrastructure is being upgraded in mission mode, and bijli, sadak, paani issues are being addressed on a war footing. In a bid to further boost tourism and connectivity, 11 airports in J&K and two in Ladakh are being considered under the UDAN scheme. The health sector has been transformed with the opening of two AIIMS Hospitals and five new medical colleges. The Ayushman Bharat scheme is now available for all residents of J&K. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre provided all the necessary infrastructure and logistical support to the region. A confidence-building measure The government believes that the integration of the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh will be complete in spirit only when grassroots democracy, as envisaged by the 73rd and 74th Constitution Amendments, are firmly established. The Block Development Council elections in October 2019 saw a record turnout and were free of violence, even though there were calls for boycott and threats of violence. This is an important forerunner to more endeavours being made to strengthen democracy. While the abrogation of the Articles has served as an initial confidence-building measure, a lot more needs to be done. The government will continue to strive under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of “ Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwaas ” to ensure that the people of the region get all that B.R. Ambedkar envisioned while framing our Constitution. G. Kishan Reddy is the Minister of State for Home Affairs and Member of Parliament from Secunderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/jk-and-ladakh-a-year-on/article32272568.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The meaning of Gandhi’s silence||The horrific bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945 did not immediately draw condemnation from leaders across the world. This is not particularly surprising. It was a deeply polarised world, very much in the throes of World War II, and still largely under colonial dominion. Leaders with the global reach and the moral stature capable of speaking out on such an event were in short supply. But these were not M.K. Gandhi’s problems. Widely celebrated by then as a global apostle of non-violence and a critic of Western imperialism, he wielded immeasurable moral force. Yet for months, Gandhi refused to speak about the event. In September, The Times in London sought confirmation of astonishing rumours that he had endorsed the use of the atomic bomb. To this, Gandhi merely stated that he had not made any “public statement on the atomic bomb”. To a U.S. correspondent, Gandhi said in October: “The more I think of it, the more I feel that I must not speak on the atomic bomb. I must act if I can.” What do we make of this mystifying silence?  The many possibilities Was this a tactical silence that waited for events to play out? While this may be an entirely plausible, even prudent, explanation, it does not accord with Gandhi’s reasoning at the time. Recall that he felt he “must not speak”, but act. Was Gandhi’s compulsory silence about the atomic bomb an analogous form of protest? While it is tempting to draw this conclusion, it would not be accurate. For Gandhi, desisting from speech had a specific meaning that was neither a poetics of revolt nor could it be universalised; it had to be experienced individually. This leaves open two less commonplace possibilities. Many religious traditions link the abstinence from sound with divinity. Was Gandhi’s silence the activation of such a theological silence? This is not the case. Gandhi’s form of silence was neither a form of total obedience to a deity nor a way of discovering one’s relation with the world. Was Gandhi’s silence a form of mindfulness? In 1935, he explained that he was resigning from the Congress to “impose silence” so he could “explore the yet hidden possibilities of non-violence.” For him, life was lived in the domain of activity. It was through individual action that a vow of silence could be cultivated. The meaning of mauna For Gandhi, ahimsa and mauna were inextricably linked in a framework, wherein non-violence was about carrying out practical actions that entailed self-purification and self-control. What differentiated mauna from mere silence was that it did not necessitate cessation of speech as much as controlled activity. The emphasis was on selfless and disciplined activity rather than negative abstinence of speech or action. It is important to point out that in his periods of silence, Gandhi continued with his daily discipline, correspondence, and selective interactions with visitors to the ashram. The role of mauna in his ahimsa was a break from the circulation of violence and counter-violence. Gandhi intoned that while an atom bomb can cause physical harm, it cannot kill the soul. This is also a way he inverted ideas of victory and defeat, suggesting that the victors were vanquished in their loss of self-control but courageous death of the victims was a form of transformation. Mauna enabled him to convert violence into a learning experience because like in any learning, it required making modifications on oneself. The magical quality of unspoken-action is again revealed in an interview with Margaret Bourke-White on January 30, 1948, a few hours before he was assassinated. He reaffirmed the practice of ahimsa in relation to the atom bomb and observed that he would not escape from the pilot dropping the bomb but confront him with wide open eyes. He said, “The pilot will not see our faces from his great height, I know. But the longing in our hearts… would reach up to him and his eyes would be opened.” Gandhi’s silence after the calamity suggests how he transformed a spectacular tragedy into spiritual action. Rajeev Kadambi teaches political theory and ethics at O.P. Jindal Global University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-meaning-of-gandhis-silence/article32272569.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||More of the same||The list of U.S. President Donald Trump’s attacks on the inflow of skilled foreign workers into the country continues to expand rapidly, with the latest salvo from the White House seeking to potentially prevent such workers from participating in any federal government contracts indefinitely. The executive order signed by Mr. Trump specifically targets the H-1B visa as one that purportedly results in the loss of jobs to U.S. persons owing to cheap foreign labour. Indian nationals tend to be granted 60-70% or more of visas in this category annually, which implies that the potential impact of this order on IT and ITES firms based in India could be considerable, and produce a ripple effect in the bilateral economic space. Notwithstanding the sense of shock that this order is likely to cause among those in corporate India who invest in the U.S. economy and create jobs there, it should hardly come as a surprise given the steady tightening of the screws on the U.S. immigration paradigm during the final months of the Trump administration. Even in April 2020 the White House announced that it would be suspending the issuance of green cards, effectively halting legal migration into the U.S. In June 2020, the immigration crackdown was extended via an order to stop processing new visas across several skilled worker categories, including H-1B visas. While the latest order avoids the language of an outright ban on foreign workers joining federal government contracts, it calls for a review of contracting and hiring practices by federal agencies, with a focus on foreign temporary workers and U.S. government-related services that were offshored to foreign countries. To an extent, it is understandable that the weight of performance expectations that rests upon Mr. Trump’s shoulders is of immense magnitude. The economy, which was in fine fettle until the COVID-19 pandemic struck, appears to be grinding to a halt, with an expected surge in unemployment numbers to nearly 18 million jobless people. To describe the U.S. government’s response to the pandemic crisis as tepid, bumbling, and wrong-headed would be generous. There is a high possibility that voters may punish Mr. Trump on November 3, 2020. However, instead of striking a positive note about finding the U.S.’s greatest source of economic resilience in the diversity of its people, Mr. Trump has steadily retreated deeper into the morass of hateful tropes about immigrants stealing jobs. This may well strike a chord with his core support base of blue-collar workers across middle America who are undeniably in economic pain, but it does little to repair the damage done since 2016 to the fabric of American society. Bitter polarisation is a perennial trait of the political landscape of the U.S., but it has rarely ever been as exacerbated as in the last four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/more-of-the-same/article32272552.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Language of unity||By rejecting the three-language formula advocated in the National Education Policy (NEP 2020), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has only reiterated the State’s unwavering position on an emotive and political issue. Its two-language policy, implemented decades ago after a historic agitation against the imposition of Hindi, remains non-negotiable for almost the entire political class. Opposition from the State had last year forced the Centre to amend the draft NEP and withdraw a proposal to teach Hindi as a third language in schools in non-Hindi speaking States. Yet in the NEP, approved by the Union Cabinet last week, it chose to push for the three-language formula, packaging it as a means to promote multilingualism and “national unity”. Though the policy said that no language will be imposed on any State, it has expectedly cut no ice with parties in Tamil Nadu, which have risen in near unison to oppose the proposal. In fact, Mr. Palaniswami, citing “collective sentiments” of the people, noted that the proposal was “saddening and painful” and appealed to the Prime Minister to allow States to follow their own language policy. In a State that resisted multiple attempts to impose Hindi since 1937, political parties are understandably wary of any mandate to impart an additional language in schools. They fear this would eventually pave the way for Hindi to enter the State through the back door. Since 1985, the State has even refused to allow Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas to be set up as they teach Hindi. The two-language policy of Tamil and English, piloted by former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai in 1968, has thus far worked well in the State. In a liberalised world, more windows to the world are being opened up for those proficient in English, a global link language. The State’s significant human resources contribution to the ever-expanding IT sector is also attributed to the English fluency of its recruits as much as to their technical knowledge. There is this counter-argument that Tamil Nadu is depriving students of an opportunity to learn Hindi, touted as a national link language. However, its voluntary learning has never been restricted and the growth over the past decade in the number of CBSE schools, where the language is taught, would bear testimony to this. The patronage for the 102-year-old Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha, based in Chennai, also proves this. In the Sabha’s centenary year, Tamil Nadu accounted for 73% of active Hindi pracharaks (teachers) in South India. Out of necessity, many in the State have picked up conversational Hindi to engage with the migrant population that feeds the labour needs from factories to hair salons. Only compulsion is met with resistance. India’s federal nature and diversity demand that no regional language is given supremacy over another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/language-of-unity/article32272553.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Trouble on the hills||The recent serious clashes between the security forces and large bands of Mizo terrorists are a matter for concern. In the general election to the district council of the Mizo Hills district, held earlier this year, the tribals showed such enthusiasm that it was clear they did not believe in terroristic methods or in supporting the Mizoram rebels who are seeking a separate, independent State. A study team of legislators from Assam recommended last June that the military presence in the region should be reduced to the minimum, but the latest turn of events makes it clear that this is not the time for such action. The terrorists are now making another attempt at creating a serious situation. These guerillas are reported to have been trained by the Chinese communists at certain East Pakistan centres. “Mizo National Front” posters have begun to appear again even in Aijal. The Mizo rebels have also been receiving help from the Kukis and Naga hostiles. And leftist extremists are known to be building a subversive network all over the north-east, including the Mizo Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/trouble-on-the-hills/article32272561.ece
05 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Vivo set to end IPL association||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has been forced into a corner with IPL title sponsor Vivo set to end its association with the T20 league. Following the border tension with China, Vivo — a Chinese mobile phone manufacturer — and the BCCI have been on the verge of invoking force majeure and mutually agreeing to end the five-season contract after just two editions. Conference call  The Hindu understands that BCCI president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah had a conference call with Vivo representatives, with IPL chairman Brijesh Patel in attendance, on Tuesday. Both parties are understood to have agreed to amicably terminate the agreement. The BCCI had refrained from revisiting the IPL sponsorship deal during Sunday’s governing council meeting. This was followed by a public outcry over the league’s association with a Chinese company. However, a BCCI insider claimed that Tuesday’s meeting was a fallout of Vivo’s demand to renegotiate the deal. “They had reached out to the president and the secretary a while ago and sought a revision of the deal, citing prevailing market conditions and public sentiment. “Since they were demanding a substantial reduction in sponsorship for the 2020 edition, it was mutually decided to look at options,” said the BCCI insider.  It is learnt that Vivo wanted “at least 30% reduction” in the amount for the forthcoming edition, to be played in the UAE from September 19 to November 10. In 2018, Vivo signed a five-edition deal worth Rs. 2,199 crore (approximately Rs. 440 crore per year) as title sponsor. If force majeure is invoked, it could absolve both parties from compensating the other for the premature termination of the deal. While no one from the BCCI was available for an official comment, a Vivo India spokesperson said the company is “not commenting on the matter yet”. Fresh tender for 2020? A formal announcement on the separation is expected “very soon” so that the BCCI can invite fresh bids “only for the 2020 edition”. It is understood that a business conglomerate with close ties to an IPL franchise may explore extending its association with the IPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vivo-set-to-end-ipl-association/article32272721.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Olympic core group camp for shooters postponed||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) reversed its decision to hold a coaching for the Olympic core group at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, from August. “Under the prevailing conditions with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic, the governing body decided to defer the camp, till the conditions are safe all around as well as suitable for outstation travel,” said a statement from the NRAI on Tuesday. Even though the NRAI had announced about the camp in the media, it had not intimated the coaches and the shooters. Thus, there was no effort to have a camp in the first place, despite the announcement. The range has, however, been used by prominent shooters after it was reopened for the elite shooters by the Sports Authority of India (SAI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-core-group-camp-for-shooters-postponed/article32272876.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Title sponsor’s ‘withdrawal’: it was a good toss to lose||By hinting at pulling out of the IPL this year, Vivo has saved embarrassment all around. The noise-makers in India will take credit for removing a Chinese company from the title sponsorship, while Vivo itself gets some breathing space at a time when the economic climate is not conducive to investing millions of dollars on a cricket tournament in the UAE. It was a business decision, as opposed to the political decision were India to make that call. Sometimes in cricket, captains acknowledge when “it is a good toss to lose.” That way the decision to bat or bowl first is taken out of their hands. With the government of India reluctant to take a stand, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) quite sensibly unwilling to, and the nay-sayers gaining in volume (in both senses of the word), Vivo’s call, even if an official confirmation is yet to surface at the time of writing, must come as a relief. It was a good toss to lose. Cricket diplomacy Had the call not come from the other side of the border, cricket would have been in the familiar but unfair position of having to speak for a people. Too often in India, cricket is asked to make the kind of decisions the government ought to be making. Some years ago, cricket had to play a diplomatic role, helping to build bridges with Pakistan, an indication that diplomats from both sides had failed. Now cricket was expected to play a political role and pull out of IPL’s sponsorship deal with Vivo, a reflection on the politicians. The IPL has for long been a plaything of the politicians. Every year, right on cue, there is some group objecting to it being played. A court case is filed here, a public protest is held there, and patriotism is called into question. A frustrated official once said it was time to rename the IPL. “Call it PIL,” he said, following a series of public interest litigations. It might be the drought in one part of India, the refusal of one venue to accept players from another, or the resurgence of a long-standing river water-sharing issue. The IPL guarantees publicity; it is a platform to exhibit patriotism, nationalism and all those isms that have politicians drooling. Free air time is guaranteed, with the added bonus of appearing like a man with a mission. The Confederation of All India Traders (motto: ‘Small business is big business’) jumped into the fray with a letter to the ailing home minister and the foreign minister saying that “the decision of the BCCI (to retain Vivo as the title sponsor) runs contrary to the broad policy of the government.” Not to be outdone, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch expressed its displeasure, adding for good measure that if the Chinese company were not removed, it would appeal for a boycott of the event. They presumably meant switching off the television every time the IPL or any of BCCI’s sponsors appeared on it. There is no official government ban on existing Chinese sponsorship. China-linked investments in India’s tech start-up sector is around four billion dollars. According to The Hindu BusinessLine , companies which have major Chinese investments include BigBasket, Byju’s, Dream11, Flipkart, Ola, MakeMyTrip, Oyo, Paytm, PolicyBazaar, Quikr, Snapdeal, Swiggy, and Zomato. You can boycott all of them, of course, but without a firm directive from the government —which is entitled to give one regardless of how it affects the economy — that might be a step too far. The IPL allows authorities to raise a storm without having to face the backlash. It is the ideal vehicle to satisfy those who think with their hearts as well as those who do so with their heads. And especially those who don’t think at all. Getting your own back on an adversary you don’t trust is understandable, maybe even necessary. But dealing with China must involve an overarching plan, a clear strategy, not mere chest-beating and uncertainties. Arun Dhumal, BCCI treasurer, put it in perspective when he said, “When you talk emotionally, you tend to leave the rationale behind. We have to understand the difference between supporting a Chinese company for a Chinese cause or taking help from a Chinese company to support India’s cause.” There can be other objections to holding the IPL — the COVID-19 risk, for instance, is ever present, and the health of the players and support staff will be a concern at all stages. Are just three venues sufficient to hold 60 matches over 53 days? It is harsh on the pitches and the players. Unlike in the past, when the IPL was shifted to South Africa (2009) and the UAE (2014), the challenges are of a different kind. So there is an argument there. But the argument that cricket should be the yardstick by which we measure our national strength is beginning to pall. Patriotism should be made of sterner stuff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/title-sponsors-withdrawal-it-was-a-good-toss-to-lose/article32272711.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Magnus Carlsen reigns supreme||Magnus Carlsen needed just three games, spread over two hours, to complete a commanding 2.5-0.5 victory over Ian Nepomniachtchi in the second set for the $150,000 chess24 Legends of Chess title on Tuesday. After battling to win the first set 4-2 by sweeping the two blitz games on Monday, Carlsen stretched his winning run by clinching the first rapid game in 27 moves and battled harder in a complicated second game to take a 2-0 lead. Nepomniachtchi erred early, traded his rook for a bishop but thereafter for nearly 50 moves, Carlsen searched for victory that eventually came after 76 turns. Needing only a draw to close the final with a set to spare, Carlsen attained a better position and split the point in 36 moves. Ding makes it Carlsen’s win also helped Ding Liren qualify for the Tour’s Grand Final beginning on August 9. Ding was second on the points tally aggregated from the Tour. As a result, title-winners Carlsen and Daniil Dubov will be joined by Hikaru Nakamura and Ding in the finalethat offers $300,000 in prize money.  The result: Final: Set Two: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 2.5-0.5 [Game One: Carlsen bt Nepomniachtchi; Game Two: Nepomniachtchi lost to Carlsen; Game Three: Draw].   Set One: Carlsen bt Nepomniachtchi 4-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/magnus-carlsen-reigns-supreme/article32272712.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||We have a head start: England skipper Root||After beating the West Indies 2-1, England captain Joe Root feels his side has an advantage going into the first Test against Pakistan. “Having played some high-intensity Test cricket will serve us well going into the series and will give us a bit of a head start. “But it is important we don’t take it for granted and we are very aware Pakistan is a talented team,” Root said on Tuesday. England will also be wary of the fact that it has lost the first Test in eight out of the last 10 multi-match series and hasn’t beaten Pakistan in a series at home or away since 2010. “Our guys are up to speed and familiar with the rhythm of Test cricket and there is no excuse going into this week,” Root said, when asked about his side's troubles in series openers. Pakistan’s strengths Asked to assess Pakistan’s strengths, he highlighted the bowling group. “There are guys with raw pace, a left-arm angle and some young talent we might have not seen before. Then you have wily campaigners like Mohammad Abbas who has done well here.” Root also revealed that the inclement weather on Tuesday meant Ben Stokes couldn’t bowl during practice. A decision on his ability to bowl will be made on Wednesday, but he could once again play just as a batsman, as he did in the last Test against the West Indies.  We are very aware Pakistan is a talented team||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-have-a-head-start-england-skipper-root/article32272872.ece
05 August 2020||Paris,||Marc Marquez to miss Czech MotoGP||Reigning MotoGP world champion Marc Marquez will miss his second straight race after he was ruled out of Sunday's Czech Grand Prix following another operation on his fractured right arm, his team said Tuesday. “After undergoing a second operation on his injured right arm, Marc Marquez and HRC have decided that the world champion will not ride in the Czech Republic in order for him to recover more,” Honda said in a statement. He will be replaced this weekend by German test rider Stefan Bradl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marc-marquez-to-miss-czech-motogp/article32272875.ece
05 August 2020||Agence France-Presse,||Tennis returns as service resumes at Palermo||The stadium announcer at Palermo on Monday wished a warm and welcome return to tennis lovers as the WTA tournament in Italy started five months after the last one, with bottles of hand sanitiser attached to the nets. When Croatia's Donna Vekic and the Netherlands' Arantxa Rus took to the clay-court late on Monday some 150 days after the sport's hiatus started they were not wearing face masks. The line judges and umpire were masked and the players had to stand behind a social distancing line to approach them. Players were told politely to wear their masks during the rest periods and to sanitise their hands from the dispensing bottles attached to the net poles. There were hand gels in the passages between seats and entry points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tennis-returns-as-service-resumes-at-palermo/article32272877.ece
05 August 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Morgan’s ton propels England||England, powered by skipper Eoin Morgan’s quickfire 106 (84b, 15x4, 4x6), piled up a huge 328 in the third and final One-Day International against Ireland here on Tuesday. Tom Banton (58) and David Willey (51) also helped themselves to half-centuries. England recalled Tom Curran in place of left-arm seamer Reece Topley, out with a groin injury, while Ireland opted for paceman Mark Adair over spinner Simi Singh.  The scores: England 328 in 49.5 overs (Morgan 106, Banton 58, Willey 51, Tom Curran 38, Young three for 53) vs. Ireland.   Toss: Ireland .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morgans-ton-propels-england/article32272713.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Theatre doyen Ebrahim Alkazi passes away||Theatre director Ebrahim Alkazi, who revolutionised Indian theatre and was the longest-serving director of the National School of Drama, passed away on Tuesday here at the age of 94. Alkazi was remembered for his contribution towards modern Indian theatre, including bringing in technical aspects of the craft and making the NSD the premier training institute for theatre. In his tenure as director of NSD from 1962 to 1977, he mentored students who went on to become great actors, including Naseeruddin Shah and Om Puri. Alkazi’s son, theatre director Feisal Alkazi, said he passed away on Tuesday afternoon after suffering a massive heart attack. He had been admitted to Escorts Hospital on Sunday night, Mr. Feisal said. Speaking about his father’s legacy, Mr. Feisal said: “Everybody remembers him as the father of Indian theatre. He was the first person to bring regional language plays to NSD, he built a strong institutional structure and brought Indian theatre to the world.” Among the over 50 plays he directed were Girish Karnad’s Tughlaq and Dharamvir Bharati’s Andha Yug . “NSD family deeply mourns the passing away of theatre legend, Padma Vibhushan Shri Ebrahim Alkazi, ex-director of NSD from 1962-77. This is a great loss to the country and specially to the theatre world,” NSD said in a tweet. NSD Director In-charge Suresh Sharma said Alkazi, who founded the NSD Repertory Company, was not only a renowned director, he was also a great administrator who would inspect students’ hostels and teach classes, making his tenure as director “the NSD’s golden years”. Condolences for Alkazi poured in on social media. “Ebrahim Alkazi, doyen of Indian theatre, mentored and inspired generations of artists,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet that Alkazi would be remembered for making theatre more popular and accessible across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/theatre-doyen-ebrahim-alkazi-passes-away/article32272709.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||doesn’t discriminate||The trailer for Amazon Prime’s World’s Toughest Race: Eco-Challenge Fiji is what we would expect of anything associated with Bear Grylls; this show featuring 66 teams on an 11-day expedition across 671 kilometres of Fiji’s rainforests, mountains, ravines, rivers, swamps and more. With the series franchise in its 24th year, it continues to offer a gruelling amalgam of taxing mental and physical pressures, along with moments of positivity. Leading Team Khukuri Warriors (named after a type of machete associated with Gurkhas in India and Nepal) are 29-year-old twin sisters Nungshi and Tashi Malik who are excited to be representing India and South Asia for the first time. Their team also comprises mountain climbing expert Brandon Fisher from USA, skiing and rafting expert Praveen Singh Rangar, and the twins’ father Colonel VS Malik, a retired officer of the Indian Army and part of the Team Assist Crew (TAC).  Tashi agrees that their presence on World’s Toughest Race could engender a progressive discourse about gender stereotypes in the adventure subculture. “We were the only two sisters taking part in this race, so emotionally, it was not one-against-four but two-against-four, so there was a mental and psychological comfort before going into this challenge,” she starts, “When we climb a mountain, it’s not just for the thrill of it, but for the girls and women being uplifted in our society. This gives us greater strength.” Nungshi tacks on, “Nature doesn’t discriminate on gender, and neither is excellence determined by it!” Sibling strength is incomparable in this complex formula of endurance, wit, spirit, and physical stamina. Tashi recalls crying at times when she felt her sister was not helping and vice versa, a far cry from their climbing ventures, but adds, “In these expeditions, you are trying to survive on your own and then tending to others, and this was a new experience for us. So the emotional strength we talked about just now also played as a weakness because there were times we could not take that.” Nungshi firmly adds, “This was also the first time we were a team in a competitive environment. Though consciously we are trying to survive, there is this element of making sure the team also survives. Each of us in the team had our own skill-sets. No one made any comments on others. We had to control our temper which was easier with my twin around.” Inspiring experiences Bear Grylls, perched on a cliff edge somewhere in the United Kingdom, is sporting his trademark shades and a cheeky grin. The adventure series  holds a special place in his heart. “We’ve never hosted or put together a show of this scale and ambition before; seeing humans at their physical, emotional and mental limits was so incredible and inspiring. We didn’t know if people were able to finish it. And [the Malik sisters] are true inspirations, all about positivity and smiling through the storms. The teamwork aspect — starting and finishing as a team — is unique to World’s Toughest Race . When a team comes together just right, it’s like a team of 20. But when there’s sleep deprivation and you’re lost, and you blame someone for poor navigation, the team falls apart.” He likens this to a tea bag in hot water where strength and vibrancy are revealed. As the host, Grylls, often has to remind himself to, unlike during a show like Running Wild , step back and let the adventurers engage in their own race, which he says adds to the rawness of the show. “We had to let them make mistakes. I watched some teams make catastrophic navigational errors which would just end their race. But when they’re pushed to their limits, you see them come through.” Naturally, with such testing conditions in this terrifying race, the girls had their moments of mental distress. Nungshi admits to being “greenhorns of racing”, explaining, “There were moments we felt we had to give up. I, particularly, had reached almost the end of my physical and mental endurance; I remember having this conversation with my father. He was aware I was using a lot of persuasive words and that would mark the end of our race, but he would say ‘Remember: boys fall after 72 hours, but girls get stronger,’ and that stuck with me for a long time. When the drive is stronger than the fear of risking your life, it gives your rocket extra fuel.” Urging the Malik sisters to dish a little bit more about Grylls that we may not know, and Nungshi responds, “During the race, we saw he has such a soft side to him! He’s quite emotional; he had tears in his eyes when he watched us at one of the toughest points of the race because he knew we were absolute rookies. He reiterated that anyone who goes on this kind of adventure is a superhero and he’s a great role model, with a great sense of humour.” The timing of The World’s Toughest Race during the COVID-19 lockdown is “incredible,” states Grylls, adding, “We are in a global time of hardship, which requires you at home to work with your team — your family or those you work with — and weather your own ‘storms’. The World’s Toughest Race has you look at courage in big moments, and calm in the crises.”  World’s Toughest Race: Eco-Challenge Fiji streams on Amazon Prime Video from August 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/doesnt-discriminate/article32273038.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Change from within||The adage ‘an apple doesn’t fall far from the tree’ rings true in the case of 21-year-old Sai Ram Pillarisetti. A fourth year medical student at the University of Central Lancashire, United Kingdom, he has established the UK’s first International Medical Students Wing — a division of the British International Doctors Association (BIDA) of which he is the youngest member. Established in 1975, BIDA represents the voice of international medical graduates, and now, international medical students, in the UK. He is the son of well-known Hyderabad-based breast surgeon and president of the Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Dr Raghu Ram. Currently on a two-week visit to India, he talks to us on his initiative and his role in BIDA: What is the International Students Wing's mission?  Most international medical students studying in the UK do not have family members in the medical profession to guide them through their education and training. Although they could access this support at University, in my experience, it is not as robust as it could be. To bridge this gap, I conceived and established the student wing of BIDA. The aim is to empower students from India and other countries who are pursuing their MBBS in the UK, and provide a platform to guide them during the formative training period. How has the pandemic affected the medical students?  The effects of the pandemic have been felt in every part of the world and ours is no different. The need for social distancing will prove to be challenging in terms of the exposure medical students experience to patients during hospital placements. Medical teaching in hospitals forms a major part of the curriculum and is vital to learning. The last academic year was cut short by the pandemic, with medical schools and UK universities closing in March. According to UK’s General Medical Council (GMC) regulations, this will mean that students across the country will need to make up for the lost clinical hours during the upcoming academic year. This additional workload plus an already rigorous course will prove to be very challenging.  One of our recent successes was the scrapping of the NHS surcharge fee for immigrant medical staff Sai Ram Pillarisetti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/change-from-within/article32273040.ece
05 August 2020||August 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Homing in||I cannot miss this AR Rahman track. It is a Nature-based song and the visuals offer a riot of colours. So soothing both to the ears and the eyes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/homing-in/article32273031.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU prof. Apoorvanand quizzed in Delhi riots case; phone seized||Police have questioned Delhi University Professor Apoorvanand on Monday in connection with communal riots that broke out in the Capital in February. His mobile phone has also been seized. A senior police officer confirmed the development. In a statement shared online, Mr. Apoorvanand said that he was asked by Special Cell to appear for questioning in connection with FIR number 59. He was questioned for five hours after which police seized his phone. “While cooperating and respecting the right of police authorities to conduct a full, fair and thorough investigation, one can only hope that the probe would focus on the real instigators and perpetrators of the violence against a peaceful citizens’ protest and the people of north-east Delhi,” he said. In the statement, he also said that he hopes the investigation doesn’t lead to “harassment and victimisation” of protesters and their supporters who “asserted their democratic rights through constitutional means” while stating their dissent against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, National Population Register (NPR) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). The professor said that it is disturbing for him to see that supporters of the anti-CAA protests are being considered the source of violence. Rioting and conspiracy Mr. Apoorvanand has been questioned in FIR number 59, the same FIR in which Jamia Coordination Committee media coordinator Safoora Zargar, PhD student Meeran Haider, and an MBA graduate Gulfisha Fatima have been accused of rioting, conspiracy and under sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and arrested. The FIR was registered on March 6 based on a complaint by Sub Inspector Arvind Kumar posted in Crime Branch. Former JNU student Umar Khalid and one Danish are named accused in the document.  ‘Pre-planned’ The FIR stated that Mr. Kumar was told by an informer that the riots which broke out in Delhi on February 23-25 were pre-planned as part of a conspiracy. He alleged that the riots were planned by Mr. Khalid and his associates, who are members of different organisations. He claimed that Mr. Khalid gave inflammatory speeches at different locations and instigated people to flock streets and block roads, leading to chaos and subsequently riots. “For the purpose of arranging for people to indulge in violence during the riots, one Danish, a resident of Bhajanpura, was given the responsibility,” the FIR stated. It added that because of the same reason, children from minority community studying in different schools were taken home by their parents earlier than usual. “If this conspiracy is investigated deeply, then one can find the rioters as well as instigators involved,” he stated in his complaint. The case was transferred to Special Cell for further investigation. Mr. Apoorvanand, on May 30, authored a column for a web portal The Wire in which he wrote: ‘A conspiracy is being hatched in Delhi: to create the story of a conspiracy’. The fiction Delhi Police would like us to believe is that there was a conspiracy behind the violence in the north-east part of Delhi in the last days of February – a conspiracy involving those who, in any manner, had participated in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-prof-apoorvanand-quizzed-in-delhi-riots-case-phone-seized/article32272895.ece
05 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||AAP holds protest over hooch tragedy in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday held demonstrations in Punjab against the State government over the hooch tragedy that has so far claimed 111 lives. AAP leaders and workers led by State party chief Bhagwant Mann, who were marching towards Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s residence to ‘gherao’ it, were stopped by the police on the way. The protesters, who sat on a dharna after being stopped by the police, alleged that the State government had completely failed to curb the liquor mafia and the probe into the hooch tragedy should be handed over to the CBI or it be investigated by a sitting High Court judge. “While the mafia is openly selling poison, the government continues to be in slumber. The mafia is enjoying patronage of the government,” alleged Mr. Mann. Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said “the spurious liquor case should be investigated by a sitting High Court judge or the CBI, as the State police had time and again proved a complete failure in conducting a free and fair investigation.” Meanwhile, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday that no one will be spared if found complicit in the hooch deaths. “Some unscrupulous elements took advantage of the police focus on battling the COVID-19 pandemic to satiate their greed at the cost of the lives of Punjabis,” said Capt. Amarinder.  Opposition flayed Hitting out at the Opposition for exploiting the tragedy for their petty political interests, the Chief Minister said this was not the time to play politics but to stand by the government in its efforts to eliminate the mafia that was indulging in such acts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-holds-protest-over-hooch-tragedy-in-punjab/article32272884.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ASI’s daughter gets third time lucky||Vishakha Yadav (26), daughter of a Delhi Police Assistant Sub Inspector Rajkumar Yadav, scored sixth rank in Civil Services Examination 2019. She said she owes her success to mother Sarita Yadav. A homemaker, Ms. Sarita was by Vishakha’s side when she felt low after two failed attempts. She was also beside her during her long nights of preparations. “When I failed in my first attempt, it was a huge setback. Three years of preparing and taking exams knowing that you may not even get through need a huge amount of psychological and emotional support. My mother has been there to pull me out of every dark moment. She would take care of my food, my clothes and everything. All I would do is study,” she said. When she felt like giving up, her mother would say: “I am sitting with you, you study, nothing will happen.” A B.Tech graduate from Delhi Technical University, she quit her highly-paid job in 2017 to prepare for UPSC exams. All her friends, she said, are married or are getting married. But her parents never brought the topic or marriage or job to her. “They never put pressure on me for getting married or getting a job or do anything else. They gave me complete freedom to build my life,” she said. For close to three years Vishakha abstained from social media, including WhatsApp, and focused on her studies. She took coaching for a year and then spend days immersed in books at a nearby library. It was only a month ago that she started using WhatsApp. Day without worry Finally, after three years, on Tuesday, she spent a day without worrying about studies and preparations. “My interview was on March 18 but as usual, I wasn’t sure if I will get through. So I started studying for my fourth attempt. It is the first day when I can really relax,” she said. What came as a surprise for Mr. Rajkumar, posted in DCP office in Dwarka, was his daughter’s rank. “She was working so hard. So I had a feeling that she will get through. But I didn’t know that she will bag the sixth rank,” the proud father said. Mr. Rajkumar said that he barely got time off work to help her in daily struggle. But “her mother did a lot”, he admitted. Mr. Rajkumar was at work when Vishakha called and informed him about the results. His joy knew no bounds.  Making police proud Apart from Vishakha, those who cleared UPSC exams and are associated with Delhi Police include 2010 batch Constable Firoj Alam posted in police control room unit, Assistant Commissioners of Police Natasha and Garima, and Navneet Mann — daughter of Inspector Sukhdev Singh Mann.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/asis-daughter-gets-third-time-lucky/article32272859.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi IAS probables to focus on education and environment||Delhi boy Jatin Kishore, currently a 2018-batch officer in the Indian Economic Service (IES), ranked second in the civil services exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). This was his second attempt. Mr. Kishore said that he was happy to have secured the second rank and that he would like to focus on education and environment during his career. “The IAS is a wonderful platform to serve and contribute to improving the society in general. Depending on the district I am posted in, I will address the challenges. However, in general, I would like to focus on education as it forms the base of life,” he said. With a similar goal to focus on education, Himanshu Jain who came fourth, said: “I see my selection in IAS not as an achievement but an opportunity to serve the nation.” Hailing from Palwal in Haryana, he has been in Delhi since the time he was in Class 8. Disparity in equality After completing his BA (Hons.) in economics from Hansraj College, Mr. Jain did not make it past the prelims in his first attempt, but continued his preparation. His second attempt was successful and he hopes that he can serve the country and his home State Haryana after being inducted into the IAS. “I would like to work on issues like primary education to deal with the problem of illiteracy and the wide disparity in equality,” Mr. Jain said. Jamia coaching centre In another achievement for the city, 30 candidates who received coaching and training at the Residential Coaching Academy (RCA) of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) have been selected in UPSC’s civil services exam. The university said that 25 of them were residing in RCA and five were trained at the mock interview programme of the centre. JMI Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar said that the consistently high performance of the RCA-trained students in civil services examinations year after year is a matter of great pride and satisfaction for the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-ias-probables-to-focus-on-education-and-environment/article32272860.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Independent inquiry sought into police brutality on Jamia students||A bunch of petitions, filed in connection with the December 2019 violence during the Jamia Millia Islamia University protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), sought the Delhi High Court to constitute an independent enquiry to probe the police brutality on students inside the campus. In a marathon hearing, which went for around six hours, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for activist and advocate Nabila Hasan, said there should be an independent probe which should completely exclude the police. “We cannot expect the police to conduct a fair inquiry when their chargesheet say not a single police officer carried out any illegal activity during the violence,” Mr. Gonsalves remarked, adding that the police themselves destroyed the public property. Mr. Gonsalves also called for an independent probe into the incident of setting a bus on fire, claiming that there was evidence to suggest that it was done by the police to support a false narrative that students had indulged in arson. He submitted CDs containing videos related to the incident, which he said should be looked into. A parallel The senior advocate also cited the landmark judgment of the Supreme Court in the Manipur fake encounter case to argue that the police can’t be trusted with the investigation. He said that the protest march towards the Parliament was a political embarrassment for the government, which was why the police beat up the students mercilessly. Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, representing one of the petitioners, Anshu Kapoor, also sought an independent committee to probe the police brutality. He said that the police should not become a judge in its own cause. Mr. Khurshid pointed out that since there was a public road dividing the Jamia campus, students had gathered on the road where they were also joined by others. He said the university must provide space for students to protest. Ethos of democracy He said the march towards the Parliament was an ethos of our democracy even if it was a dissent towards the government. He also took the attention of the High Court on the issue of absence of protocol for enforcement agencies to follow while entering universities. In the Jamia violence case, the police had entered the varsity without seeking any prior permission. Mr. Khurshid also said that the High Court could consider giving compensation to the students who were victims of excessive police force. During the hearing, senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for another petitioner, Vaibhav Misra, also urged for an independent inquiry into the police’s misconduct. Ms. Jaising questioned why the police entered the varsity when the alleged law and order situation which took place according to the police happened outside the campus. When Section 144 was not declared in the area, the question of unlawful assembly doesn’t arise, Ms Jaising argued, adding that police must also face trial for their misconduct. “Just because you wear uniform, it doesn’t give you a right to blind a student,” Ms Jaising said, adding that the brutailty shown by police was with the intention of “teaching a lesson to the students with a danda”. As the hearing remain inconclusive, the court posted the case for further hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/independent-inquiry-sought-into-police-brutality-on-jamia-students/article32272892.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 tests fall by 50% in city||With the number of daily COVID-19 tests falling by 50%, the new cases stayed below the 1,000 mark in Delhi for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. A total of 674 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours and the total tally now stands at 1,39,156, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Of the total cases, 1,25,226 people have recovered and there are only 9,897 active cases. Also, 12 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,033. In July, an average 19,684 tests were done every day, whereas only 9,295 tests were done in the past 24 hours, according to today’s bulletin. Also, there were 499 containment zones in the city. Sero survey Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that collection of blood samples for a serological survey in the city will take “one or two” more days than the earlier set deadline of August 5. “Around 15,000 samples will be taken,” Mr. Jain said. On Tuesday, The Hindu had reported that though the survey started on Saturday, it will begin in three of the 11 districts only from Tuesday, which will be completed by August 7. During the serological survey, blood samples of random people from across the city will be taken to check how many per cent of them have developed antibodies against the COVID-19 virus. The Minister also said that the city is better placed in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-tests-fall-by-50-in-city/article32272863.ece
05 August 2020||guwahati,||Remote Arunachal corner gets 2G network, awaits power||August brought 2G mobile phone network for Vijaynagar, one of the remotest administrative circles in Arunachal Pradesh. A person needs to walk for six-seven days through tiger territory to reach the location. But the euphoria for some 4,500 people of the habitation in Changlang district close to the Myanmar border was short-lived. The solar-powered batteries that ran the sole tower with a coverage radius of 5 km crashed within 48 hours. Vijaynagar is now awaiting a set of heavy batteries only the Indian Air Force (IAF) can deliver in choppers from eastern Assam’s Jorhat town. This, officials said, would depend on the unpredictable weather that “played villain” during the installation operation spanning more than 45 days. “The network died because of poor battery back-up soon after it reached Vijaynagar on August 1. The IAF needs at least four sorties to bring better, larger batteries that Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) will be providing from Jorhat in Assam,” said T. Rumi, Additional Deputy Commissioner, based at nearest town Miao.  Tiger territory Vijaynagar is 157.56 km from Miao and one needs to trek through the 1,895 sq. km. Namdapha Tiger Reserve to reach the place. “The government is trying to make a road between Miao and Vijaynagar, which still awaits electricity and depends on solar energy,” Mr. Rumi told The Hindu .  ‘Temporary setback’ The “temporary setback” notwithstanding, district officials acknowledged the 2G mobile connectivity for Vijaynagar as “historic”. Changlang’s Deputy Commissioner Devansh Yadav said the place did not have telecom connectivity earlier. “We did provide satellite telephone service at Vijaynagar. But there were only five users, including two civilians and the (paramilitary) Assam Rifles unit there. Even the satellite phones stopped working a year ago,” a sub-divisional engineer of BSNL said, seeking anonymity. Inhabited sparsely by the Lishu community, Vijaynagar was “discovered” by the Assam Rifles during an expedition in 1961 led by its Inspector-General A.S. Guraya. He named the valley after his son Vijay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/remote-arunachal-corner-gets-2g-network-awaits-power/article32272886.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Mumbai to oversee smog tower project in the Capital, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the Indian Institute of Technology (Mumbai) has agreed to oversee the smog tower project in Delhi. The project aims at fighting air pollution. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, Mr. Mehta said the National Buildings Constructions Corporation Limited (NBCC) will construct the tower and TATA Projects will carry out the installation work. The court adjourned the case for further hearing next week. In the previous hearing, Mr. Mehta had said the project would be completed in 10 months. On July 29, an indignant SC had threatened contempt action against the IIT-Mumbai after learning that the premier institution opted to pull out of the project. A week ago, the court had given the Centre seven days to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the IIT-Mumbai to install the smog tower. The Bench had taken a stern view against the Centre when it realised that its January 13 order to install an experimental smog tower at Anand Vihar intersection here has not been complied with even after seven months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-mumbai-to-oversee-smog-tower-project-in-the-capital-centre-tells-sc/article32272893.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Probing agencies trying to criminalise us, allege Hany Babu’s defence panel||The Committee for the Defence and Release of Delhi University professor G.N. Saibaba condemned the “attempts to criminalise” the group by investigating agencies on Monday. It also slammed the arrest of another DU professor and member, Hany Babu. On Sunday, the National Investigating Agency (NIA) seized some documents related to the group, which was formed to advocate for the acquittal of Dr. Saibaba, during a search at Mr. Babu’s house. The group alleged that Mr. Babu’s arrest was undertaken “without sufficient basis”. It added that the raid at his house was ostensibly undertaken to collect material to corroborate his arrest. “It defies all logic…to the point that the NIA now finds itself searching for material to justify the arrest, post-facto and concocting false “evidence” against him,” the group said in a statement. The committee also refuted statements from the NIA linking it to activists arrested under the Elgar Parishad case so far, which it said were being made to “criminalise the committee and its members through the principle of ‘guilty by association’.” It highlighted that the committee was constituted of non-partisan concerned citizens from a range of backgrounds and reaffirmed its conviction in the innocence of Dr. Saibaba, as well as of Dr. Hany Babu, and others recently arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case. It also called for “reigning in of the intimidatory tactics of investigative agencies” and reiterated its “strong condemnation of such measures”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probingagenciestryingtocriminalise-usallegehany-babusdefencepanel/article32272900.ece
05 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU gets Rs. 455.02 cr. from HEFA for new infrastructure||Jawaharlal Nehru University V-C M. Jagadesh Kumar on Tuesday said the university got approval from the Higher Education Funding Agency (HEFA) for Rs. 455.02 crore for construction of new academic buildings, hostels, research centres and installation of integrated and unified Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. JNU said several new schools and special centres had been established at the varsity that called for an urgent need of hostel facilities to accommodate students and researchers. Mr. Kumar said apart from hostels, the funds allotted by HEFA will be utilised for the construction of academic complex buildings for the School of Engineering, Atal Bihari Vajpayee School of Management and Entrepreneurship and other projects in the pipeline. Mr. Kumar further added that a new Advanced Instrumentation Research Facility (AIRF) and Advanced Animal Research Facility shall increase the research capability of the university and also be made available for other institutions of the country as National Facility. “Advanced Animal Research Facility will be useful for carrying out research on communicable, non-communicable and rare diseases including infectious agents such as COVID-19,” he said. The university said approximately 1.3 lakh candidates apply for entrance examination but only 2,000 students get admission every year. It said a special centre for e-learning will be developed to impart education to those who did not get admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-gets-rs-45502-cr-from-hefa-for-new-infrastructure/article32272896.ece
05 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Muslim groups demand arrest in ‘beef’ attack case||Several members of the Muslim community called on Gurugram Police Commissioner on Tuesday seeking immediate arrest of all the accused in the case pertaining to the attack on a pick-up van driver Lukmaan this past week on suspicion of transporting beef. Gurugram Jamiat Ulema-i-Hind, in a letter to the Police Commissioner, urged him to “intervene and take appropriate actions that will assure Gurugram that these kinds of communally motivated attacks will not be tolerated and the Gurugram administration stands with its residents and is committed to protect the life and liberty of the Muslims”. They also expressed shock over policemen who could be seen as mere spectators to such a heinous crime. “They demanded that Lukmaan be provided with the best medical assistance from the State. Another delegation led by Muslim Ekta Manch chairman Hazi Shehzad Khan alleged that Lukmaan was forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” while being beaten up, and the accused also prevented the police from carrying out their duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/muslim-groups-demand-arrest-in-beef-attack-case/article32272857.ece
05 August 2020||Chandigarh,||Jakhar for action against ‘indisciplined’ Cong. MPs||A day after the two Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, both from the Congress party, sought a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) probe into the production of illegal liquor in Punjab against the backdrop of the hooch tragedy, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday said he would be writing to party president Sonia Gandhi to seek action against the duo for their “brazen indiscipline”. Pointing out that Mr. Bajwa and Mr. Dullo had been engaging in such anti-party activities for quite some time by talking against their own party and targeting the Congress government in Punjab, Mr. Jakhar said their attacks had increased after Captain Amarinder Singh announced his decision to contest the 2022 elections. Mr. Jakhar described the attack of the two MPs on their own government as a “copy-paste job” of what had happened in Rajasthan in January, in the wake of 107 infant deaths over which Mr. Sachin Pilot had flayed his own government.  ‘Desperate for power’ Mr. Jakhar described the action of the two MPs, who had on August 3 approached the Punjab Governor to demand a probe by the CBI and ED into the liquor deaths as a “manifestation of their desperate desire to grab the high seat of power by hook or by crook”. “Having probably seen the 2022 polls as their last chance to make it big in the corridors of power, the duo saw their hopes shattered and, out of sheer frustration, were knocking at all possible doors to sneak their way to the top echelons of power,” he said, adding that there are strong rumours of the two MPs being in touch with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jakhar-for-action-against-indisciplined-cong-mps/article32272885.ece
05 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘Our Ram is ready to take on the enemy with a smile’||As the countdown to the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya begins, eminent sculptor Ram Sutar and his son Anil Sutar are eager to get a green signal from the Uttar Pradesh government to give a final shape to the statue of Lord Ram which will be erected on the banks of Saryu river. “In 2018, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had selected our specimen of the statue but after that, we haven’t heard from the officials,” said Mr. Anil, speaking for his 95-year-old father. At 251 metres, he said it is going to be the tallest statue in the world. “During our meeting, the CM said he wanted the statue to be totally indigenous and we promised him the same,” said Mr. Anil. The demand came in the light of news at the time of the unveiling of Sardar Patel’s Statue of Unity, also designed by the Sutars, that a large amount of bronze used in the statue was imported from China. “It simply depends on the demand. Earlier, there was not much demand for such tall statues. To meet the requirement, we have to increase the capacity of our workshop,” he said. The Ram statue, he said, would be seen holding a bow in one hand and an arrow in another. “The idea is to show him ready to take on the enemy. But there is no attempt to show him in an aggressive form. There would a pleasing smile on his face, reflecting equanimity which is the hallmark of his personality.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/our-ram-is-ready-to-take-on-the-enemy-with-a-smile/article32272889.ece
05 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. to promote cage fishing||With demand and consumption of freshwater fish rising in the State, the Odisha government has decided to start cage fishing in a big way. The government has come out with a new policy to promote cage culture in medium and large reservoirs. In cage fishing, cages are set up inside a water body and fish are stocked, fed and harvested at appropriate time. It has invited expression of interest for availing of long-term lease of the cage culture subzones in Hirakud reservoir. The government has allowed farming of 18 indigenous species for aquaculture by entrepreneurs or companies in the cages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-to-promote-cage-fishing/article32272890.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks clarification from DU||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought more clarification from Delhi University (DU) on the modalities for the upcoming Open Book Examination (OBE) to be held for final-year undergraduate students. Justice Prathiba M. Singh said she would like to confirm the details from DU about email of colleges/helplines for students, setting up of the grievances committee, uploading size for the answer sheets amongst others. The court posted the petition, challenging DU’s decision to hold online OBE, for further hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-seeks-clarification-from-du/article32272891.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP to organise live telecast of Ram Mandir ceremony||The BJP will attempt to convert the Ram Mandir Bhoomi Pooja ceremony in Ayodhya into an “exercise in secularism” in the Capital here on Wednesday, said party sources. Senior party leaders are scheduled to fan out across the city’s 70 Assembly segments to connect citizens from various religious communities to PM Narendra Modi’s participation in the programme. “In addition to linking as many citizens as possible with the programme via live telecast of the ceremony on specially-installed LED screens, the senior leadership will also connect people from across religious communities with it...,” a party source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-to-organise-live-telecast-of-ram-mandir-ceremony/article32272899.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Mandoli police quarters to serve as ‘temporary jail’||The Delhi government has decided to convert Mandoli Police Housing Complex into a “temporary jail” with a capacity of 1,800 inmates to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus in city jails. “The Minister of Home, Government of NCT of Delhi is pleased to declare police quarters in the police housing complex adjoining Mandoli jail, Delhi, as “temporary jail”, till further orders, in view of COVID-19 pandemic,” a notification issued by the Delhi government on July 31 read.    “New inmates will be first put up at the facility for two weeks before they are moved to the jails to make sure that COVID-19 does not spread in the jails,” an official said . Also, inmates already in different jails in the city, who might turn suspected cases of the virus, will be moved to the new facility .  Currently, the complex is functioning as an 850-bed ‘COVID care centre’ and the district officials have been directed to vacate the complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mandoli-police-quarters-to-serve-as-temporary-jail/article32272861.ece
05 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooch tragedy: key player held||Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday said the State police have arrested a Ludhiana-based paint store owner for triggering the chain of events that ultimately resulted in the death of 111 people. Mr. Gupta said Rajeev Joshi was nabbed late on Monday evening. He has disclosed that he supplied the three drums of methanol that were used to make the spurious alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hooch-tragedy-key-player-held/article32272887.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- Goel||Former Union Minister Vijay Goel on Tuesday demanded the renaming of Babar Road in Bengali Market to ‘5 August Marg’ on the eve of the ceremony related to the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. The senior BJP leader said he had also written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and NDMC Chairman Dharmendra stating that his suggestion was supported by the Bengali Market Residents’ Welfare Society and Bengali Market Traders’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-goel/article32272897.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday thanked South Korean Ambassador Shin Bong-Kil for praising the “Delhi Model” of combatting the COVID pandemic. Mr. Kejriwal said that he was happy that the “Delhi Model” was being recognized across the globe and that all nations needed to join hands to fight and defeat COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-kejriwal/article32272898.ece
05 August 2020||New Delhi,||East body gives Rs. 10L compensation to sanitation worker’s kin||The East Delhi Mayor, Nirmal Jain on Tuesday awarded Rs. 10 lakh compensation to kin of a sanitation worker, who died due to COVID-19. Pooja, wife of late Manoj Kumar, was given a cheque at the civic body’s headquarters. Mr. Jain said the government ought to provide financial assistance of Rs. 1 cr. as announced by it earlier — and had written to the CM in this regard. In a letter to the government, the Delhi Safai Karamchari union informed that up to 16 sanitation workers had died due to the virus between May and July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/east-body-gives-rs-10l-compensation-to-sanitation-workers-kin/article32272901.ece
