08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||18 killed as landslip buries tea workers’ quarters in Idukki||At least 18 persons were killed and 52 others are missing after a series of landslips at the Nayamakkad tea estate at Pettimudy, near Rajamala in Idukki district, late on Thursday. Four layams (housing lines of tea garden workers) were buried under debris as a hill nearly 3 km away from the housing lines, located in a landlocked valley, slid down. Most of the victims were asleep and were trapped under the debris. Twelve of the 82 residents escaped, according to official figures. Three injured workers were admitted to the Tata General Hospital at Munnar. One seriously injured woman, Palaniyamma, was admitted to the Kolencherry Medical College. Access difficult Forest Department officials who started the rescue operations were joined by teams from the NDRF and the Fire and Rescue services. The area, which housed about 15 line quarters, was water-logged, which made rescue difficult. Incessant rain, uprooted trees and boulders on the narrow road from Rajamala to Pettimudy hampered access to the site of the landslip. The Nayamakkad estate is located about 30 km from Munnar, adjacent to the Eravikulam National Park (ENP), and can be accessed though the national park. Since the park is closed and the bridge at Periyavarai was washed away in a flash flood, the area has been inaccessible. Residents said they heard a loud noise with huge rocks and mud falling over one of the housing quarters around 11.30 p.m. “But the area was under a blackout and without communication network for a few days and the news of the mishap only reached outside after 6 a.m. on Friday,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-killed-as-landslip-buries-tea-workers-quarters-in-idukki/article32300592.ece
08 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,||15 killed as AI flight skids off Calicut airport runway||At least 15 persons, including the pilot and co-pilot, were killed and 153 injured when a Vande Bharat mission flight from Dubai overshot the runway at Calicut International Airport, broke into two parts and fell into a deep gorge around 8 p.m. on Friday. The injured passengers were shifted to hospitals in nearby Kondotty and various hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode districts. The condition of many passengers at the Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital and the MIMS Hospital is said to be critical. Rescue operations were led by the disaster management team, police and fire and rescue personnel from both Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. More than a dozen ambulances from Kozhikode were sent to the airport. An NDRF team also reached the site to assist with the rescue operation. The Boeing aircraft, carrying 189 passengers and six crew, attempted to land amidst heavy tailwinds and rain on the table-top runway. It failed to hold on the runway due to poor weather conditions, and skidded for more than 75 m. The accident was similar to the fatal crash of another Air India Express aircraft that overshot the Mangalore International Airport 10 years ago. Following the accident, the airport was closed and flights diverted. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation has ordered a detailed inquiry into the matter. The Indian consulates in Dubai and Sharjah have activated five helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the Air India Express flight. “We pray for the wellbeing of passengers and crew... Our helplines +97156 5463903, +971543090572, +971543090571, +971543090575,” Dr. Aman Puri, Consul General of India, said. The helpline number in Sharjah for updates is +97165970303.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-killed-as-ai-flight-skids-off-calicut-airport-runway/article32300590.ece
08 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records 10,483 new cases, 10,906 recoveries||Maharashtra reported 10,483 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking its total case tally to 4,90,262. The State also recorded 300 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 17,092. However, the number of recoveries exceeded the surge in cases, with 10,906 patients being discharged, taking the cumulative total to 3,27,281. In contrast, Mumbai recorded 862 new cases, raising its case load to 1,21,012, of which 20,124 are active cases. With 45 more deaths, the city’s toll has risen to 6,693. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the case fatality rate stands at 3.49%, while the recovery rate has improved to 66.76%. State Health Department officials said a record 82,000 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and active cases in the State stand at 1,45,582. Pune reported a surge of nearly 3,000 cases, taking its case tally to 1,07,204. The district recorded 70 deaths, pushing its toll to 2,566. The district administration said there are a little over 27,000 active cases. Solapur reported 303 new cases as the district’s tally rose to 10,868, of which 4,351 are active. Seven more deaths have pushed its death toll to 563. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane district reported 15 fatalities, taking its death toll to 1,167. However, the district reported a relatively low surge of 355 cases, pushing its case load past the 37,000 mark. Vasai-Virar recorded 14 deaths to take its toll to 343, while 135 new cases pushed its case tally to 13,262. Panvel reported 19 deaths, taking its toll to 203. With 175 fresh cases, its total case tally has risen to 8,246.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-10483-new-cases-10906-recoveries/article32300994.ece
08 August 2020||Mysuru,||Bad weather hampers search for missing persons in Kodagu||The search for five persons who have been missing following a major landslip at Brahamagiri Hills in Kodagu district was hampered because of bad weather on Friday. Among those missing is a 80-year-old priest of Talacauvery temple. A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team along with local police launched an operation a few km down the area that was hit by the landslip early on Thursday. The rising water level and continuing rains hindered their efforts. Officials in the district administration said the mission did not make much progress owing to bad weather in the area where the Cauvery was overflowing, inundating vast swathes of land. The Central Water Commission said the Cauvery was at its highest flood level at Napoklu. Meanwhile, another NDRF team, local police, and fire personnel rescued members of two families, including a three- month-old baby, from Balegundi which was cut off due to rise in flood waters, and shifted them to a safe place. Meanwhile a person died after falling into an over-flowing farm pond in his land at Harur in Sringeri taluk on Friday. Sringeri police gave his name as Vasudeva Bhat, 56, of Haruru in Nemmaru Gram Panchayat. He is survived by wife. This is the second death due to heavy rain in Chikkamagaluru. It has been raining heavily in Sringeri taluk for the last one week. Streams and agricultural ponds are over-flowing in the taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bad-weather-hampers-search-for-missing-persons-in-kodagu/article32300610.ece
08 August 2020||DHARWAD,||Rs. 5 crore released for Dharwad district||In the wake of spate in Benni Halla and Tuppari Halla in Dharwad district, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil visited various villages of Navalgund taluk on Friday to oversee the relief measures taken up. After interacting with the officials, residents and local volunteers, the Deputy Commissioner informed presspersons that Rs. 5 crore had been released for flood management and relief measures in the district. He said that already nodal officers had been appointed for 83 flood-prone villages in the district and steps had been taken to shift residents to safer places immediately. He said that using the funds released by the government, steps will be taken to get the damaged connecting roads repaired immediately and compensation will be released to owners of the houses that had been damaged partially or fully. Earlier, Mr. Patil reviewed the situation at Yamanur village where Benni Halla is in spate. He inspected the bridge leading to Nargund near Amaragol village, and the situation in Gobbaragumpi, Alagavadi, Hebbala, Javoor, Hanasi, Shirakold and adjoining villages where the water had entered some farmlands. The Deputy Commissioner promised to immediately release funds for the repair of the road between Hanadi and Shirakol villages, which has been washed away owing to the spate in Tuppari Halla. The DC said that all steps were being taken to help the residents of flood-affected villages and the survey on crop loss will be expedited to ensure the early release of compensation to the affected families. He also inspected the Government Higher Primary School school at Hanasi village and asked officials to immediately make arrangements for converting it into a relief centre. As per an initial assessment, the floods are likely to have damaged crops in 3,000 hectares in Navalgund taluk alone where sowing has been completed in 47,000 hectares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-5-crore-released-for-dharwad-district/article32300825.ece
08 August 2020||MANGALURU,||‘Funds no constraint for relief work’||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Friday said funds are no constraint to take up rain-relief works in the State and the government will release Rs. 5 crore additional funds each to 11 rain-affected districts, including Udupi. The government has been preparing to face the disaster for a month now, he said. Speaking to reporters after visiting Padubidri beach in Udupi district that has been witnessing massive sea erosion, along with Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha, Mr. Ashok said the government will facilitate the construction of a sea wall at Padubidri to prevent further erosion. “I will speak to Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi and arrange construction of the sea wall. There is no constraint of funds as Rs. 300 crore is available from the Central natural disaster relief aid. Let the district administration send a proposal, I will approve it immediately,” the Minister said. The government, Mr. Ashok said, was well prepared to tackle the rains unlike last year when it had just come to power. The previous government had not made any preparations, he said, adding he had held a number of meetings since a month to prepare for the monsoon. The focus was on 10 districts that were prone to rain-related havoc. “I have asked all district in-charge Ministers to be stationed at their districts to monitor relief operations,” Mr. Ashok said. He said the government will release Rs. 340 crore to the Housing Department for reconstructing houses for those who lost theirs in last year’s floods. Beneficiaries will be asked to collect the relief amount. The government has released Rs. 20 crore to the Fire and Emergency Services Department to procure necessary equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/funds-no-constraint-for-relief-work/article32300828.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Case burden shows steady rise in State||The State on Friday reported 1,251 new cases of COVID-19 and 814 recoveries. Of these new cases, 1,080 cases are locally acquired infections, with 73 cases having no epidemiological link. The number of health-care workers affected is 18. While the cumulative case burden has reached 31,700, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals across districts is 12,411. Till date, 19,147 persons have recovered from the disease. Five more deaths, from Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Malappuram and Kannur, were added to the official toll by the Health Department on Friday, taking the death toll to 102. Disease transmission continues to be intense across Thiruvananthapuram district, which reported 289 cases on Friday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that while containment measures had been strengthened and the police were roped in to stringently implement regulations, it will take at least 10 days to show any palpable changes. The new cases reported by districts are Kasaragod 168, Kozhikode 149, Malappuram 143, Palakkad 123, Ernakulam 82, Alappuzha 61, Wayanad 55, Pathanamthitta 39, Kottayam 37, Kollam 36, Thrissur 33, Idukki 23 and Kannur 13. The number of samples tested in the State in the last 24 hours is 27,608. The number of areas designated as hotspots at present is 506.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/case-burden-shows-steady-rise-in-state/article32300889.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,||CBI takes up investigation into Rs. 45-cr. fraud at Indian Bank||Three suspects, including a bank official, have been accused of forging documents and cheating Indian Bank of Rs. 45 crore. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case into the alleged term deposit scam, in which the suspects made transactions in the account of the Chennai Port Trust to commit the offence. Acting on a complaint lodged by the zonal manager, Indian Bank, Chennai, the agency’s Anti-Corruption Branch registered a case against Ganesh Natarajan of Alwarpet, V. Manimozhi of Virugambakkam and Sermathiraja, branch manager, Indian Bank, Koyambedu branch, Chennai. The allegation was that the suspects entered into a criminal conspiracy and committed the offence of forgery, impersonation, fabrication of documents, criminal misappropriation and cheating on term deposits and current account transactions in the name of the Chennai Port Trust – General Insurance Fund and cheated the bank of Rs. 45 crore. Going by the First Information Report, for the first time the bank participated in the open tender floated by the Chennai Port Trust for term deposits and succeeded in the bid. This was communicated to the Koyambedu branch, following which term deposit accounts were opened on March 7. Three days later, a man visited the branch and introduced himself as Ganesh, Deputy Director, Finance, Chennai Port Trust, and requested for opening a current account in the name of the Chennai Port Trust – General Insurance Fund by submitting some documents. After the account was opened, the suspect visited the branch on March 12 and requested pre-closure of term deposits and issued cheques favouring transfer of funds into the accounts of several individual entities. Similar pre-closure of term deposits took place on a few occasions, following which Chennai Port Trust officials got in touch with the bank. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Ganesh had opened the account with forged documents and he, along with his associate Manimozhi had defrauded the bank. It came to light during the inquiry that branch manager Sermathiraja and several unknown persons were part of the fraud. When Manimozhi and one of his associates Selvakumar visited the branch on May 15, the bank officials handed them over to the local police. However, it is not clear whether a case was registered then. Requesting the CBI to investigate the role of Sermathiraja and others in the case, the bank accorded sanction under the provisions of Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, to the agency. Investigators said the accused committed several other offences and caused huge amount of wrongful loss of public money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-takes-up-investigation-into-rs-45-cr-fraud-at-indian-bank/article32300727.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will close marines’ case only after ‘hefty’ compensation: SC||The Supreme Court appreciated the efforts put in by the Republic of Italy to prosecute its marines accused of killing two fishermen off the coast of Kerala in 2012, but insisted that it will close their criminal trial in India only after the victims’ families are heard and paid a “hefty” and “adequate” compensation. “We appreciate the steps taken by Italy to prosecute the two marines. But if you want the case closed here, you have to pay adequate compensation to the families,” Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, addressed advocate Suhail Dutt for Italy on Friday. A sum of Rs. 1.5 crore has already been paid to the fishermen’s families. “We are willing to pay a reasonable compensation,” Mr. Dutt said. “No, you will pay adequate compensation, not a reasonable one. You will bring the cheque here and we will hand it over to the families,” Justice Bobde said. The court asked the Centre to negotiate a “hefty” compensation with Italy. “We will get the best compensation from them,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured the court. The court ordered the Centre to implead the victims’ families in the case within a week. “We want to hear them. You [Centre] find where they are and you bring the families here,” Chief Justice Bobde, speaking for the Bench, directed the Centre. Marines Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre were detailed on Italian ship ‘Enrica Lexie’ when they allegedly shot the fishermen, thinking they were “pirates”. The marines, who are in Italy now, will face criminal investigation there. India is entitled to compensation for the loss of life. Its freedom and right of navigation was violated by the marines, the tribunal held. The hearing was based on an application filed by the Centre informing the Supreme Court that it has decided to “accept and abide” by an international tribunal’s award that the Marines enjoy immunity from prosecution in India. The government said India was bound by the award of the arbitral tribunal formed under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. It said the tribunal award was “final and without appeal”. Senior advocate K.N. Balagopal argued for Kerala, saying: “The award passed by the Permanent Court of Arbitration is in conflict with the Supreme Court judgment in 2013. This verdict upheld the authority of the Union of India to prosecute the Marines. So, an international award which is in conflict with a domestic law, notwithstanding India's ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Seas, can be implemented only if it is made into law under Article 253 of the Constitution”. “We will get the best compensation from them,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured the court. The court ordered the Centre to implead the victims’ families in the case within a week. “We want to hear them. You [Centre] find where they are and you bring the families here”, Chief Justice Bobde, speaking for the Bench, directed the Centre. Marines Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre were detailed on Italian ship ‘Enrica Lexie’ when they allegedly shot the fishermen, thinking they were “pirates”. The Marines, who are in Italy now, will face criminal investigation there. India is entitled to compensation for the loss of life. Its freedom and right of navigation was violated by the Marines, the tribunal held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-close-marines-case-only-after-hefty-compensation-sc/article32300596.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Move out ammonium nitrate in 3-4 days’||Noting that around 12,000 people are living in the vicinity of the container freight station (CFS) in Manali where 740 tonnes of seized ammonium nitrate has been stored, the police and related agencies have asked the Customs Department to move out the consignment within three to four days. On Friday, the Customs successfully completed the e-auction for the consignment that was seized five years ago. Informed sources told The Hindu that a licensee from a neighbouring State had successfully bid for the consignment. Security near CFS Security will be stepped up near the CFS in North Chennai to ensure that the consignment is moved out safely. “At present, the material is at a CFS with 9 m space all around the containers. Safety precautions including fire extinguishers and monitors are in place. But due to proximity of human habitations and since it is in an open yard, we have suggested that it be moved to a safer location,” said K. Sundaresan, Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives and Head South Chennai Circle. On Friday, a high-level meeting was conducted to discuss the issue. Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Additional Commissioner (Chennai North) A. Arun, Joint Commissioner (North) V. Balakrishnan, Customs officials and Mr. Sundaresan attended the meeting. It was decided to increase security at the present location until the material is moved out. Earlier, a senior police officer said, “We have told Customs authorities to safely dispose of the ammonium nitrate quickly since they have initiated the process of auctioning. Or otherwise, they will have to store it in safer places. Such a place is not available in the city.” Earlier, a senior police officer said, “We have told Customs authorities to safely dispose of the ammonium nitrate quickly since they have initiated the process of auctioning. Or otherwise, they will have to store it in safer places. Such a place is not available in the city and they have to move it to Namakkal or Tiruchi where they have (designated) magazines — a place where explosives are stored exclusively.” A designated magazine is a storage space built according to certain guidelines and has thick walls and roof and at a time only four persons are allowed to enter it. A magazine also is situated at a location, which is away from human habitation. The State has a number of such locations, Mr. Sundaresan added. Earlier on Thursday, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) along with DGP, Fire and Rescue Services, C Sylendra Babu, had inspected the CFS. The team noticed that the warehouse spread over 18 acres was surrounded by CFS’ to the East, West and Northern directions and Ponneri High Road. The officials also reported that the nearest habitations to the CFS are Manali New Town at a distance of 700 m in the northern direction with a population of 7,000 people, and Sadayankuppam village at a distance of 1,500 m in the East with a population of 5,000 people. Taking into account the ground reality, the TNPCB too directed the Customs, which had seized the consignment imported from Korea by a Karur-based firm without licence, to move out the ammonium nitrate at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/move-out-ammonium-nitrate-in-3-4-days/article32300677.ece
08 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Will invite Yogi to open facilities near mosque’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be invited to inaugurate the public utility facilities coming up next to the mosque in Dhannipur village in Ayodhya. But there will be no ritual for laying the foundation stone of the religious structure itself, the Trust mandated to construct the mosque has said. Mr. Adityanath would be invited as the head of Uttar Pradesh. “I am hopeful he will come and even contribute [funds] towards it,” Athar Hussain, secretary of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, told The Hindu on Friday. However, there were no plans to invite Mr. Adityanath for the inauguration of the mosque because, as per Islamic tradition, there was no question of having such a ritual, said Mr. Hussain. Advice of scholars There was no precedent for a ritual for laying the foundation stone of a mosque in any of the four Islamic schools of jurisprudence, Mr. Hussain said. “I spoke to scholars of all four schools,” he added. Mr. Hussain’s remarks come in the backdrop of Mr. Adityanath’s comments that he would not visit any ceremony for the mosque in Dhannipur due to religious reasons, if invited. Speaking to private television channel ABP on August 5 after attending the bhoomi pujan (foundation stone laying) ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Adityanath also stressed that he did not expect to be invited.“If you ask me as a CM, then I have no inhibitions towards any sect, faith or community. If you ask me as a Yogi, I will definitely not go. I will not go because I am a Hindu,” Mr. Adityanath said. He had the full right to express and practise his method of worship as a Hindu, he added. When pressed further, Mr. Adityanath sarcastically said: “The day they invite me, the secularism of many people will come under threat.” The construction of the mosque in Dhannipur village, 25 km west of the site where the Babri Masjid stood, is yet to take off nine months after the Supreme Court verdict in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi title suit. Apart from the mosque, the Trust will also construct a centre showcasing Indo-Islamic culture of several centuries, a centre for research and study of Indo-Islamic culture, a charitable hospital, a public library and other public utilities on the five-acre land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-invite-yogi-to-open-facilities-near-mosque/article32300588.ece
08 August 2020||Mumbai,||Flying squads to check if hospitals are overcharging||The Maharashtra government on Friday directed district and civic authorities to form flying squads to inspect if private hospitals are overcharging COVID-19 patients, and following the State’s directives on ensuring the availability of beds. Health Minister Rajesh Tope has directed all district collectors, municipal commissioners and divisional commissioners to submit inspection reports within three days. Mr. Tope said the flying squads should check if private hospitals have displayed the State government’s orders at their main gates. The minister also said that a special mechanism has to be established to check the final bill amount issued by private hospitals to COVID-19 patients and to audit the rates charged by private ambulance services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flying-squads-to-check-if-hospitals-are-overcharging/article32300993.ece
08 August 2020||Mangaluru:,||Govt. to build relief centres||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Friday said the government will build disaster relief centres in three coastal districts at a cost of Rs. 10 crore each. Speaking to reporters at Udupi, he said the centre for Udupi will come up at Karkala. Such centres will be used to accommodate disaster-affected people during the monsoon. They will be used to hold government programmes during the rest of the year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-build-relief-centres/article32300829.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,||Panels formed to study draft EIA, NEP: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday said the government has constituted expert committees to study the Draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA 2020) notification and the National Education Policy (NEP). The government will take a final call on these two reports based on the recommendation of the committee, he told journalists in Tirunelveli after chairing a meeting at the Collectorate to review the measures to tackle COVID-19. The expert committee would study the merits and demerits of the NEP and submit its report to the government. Similarly, the government would take a stand on the Draft EIA based on the expert committee’s report. Asked if the norms in the CRZ notification that prohibits construction activities close to the shoreline would be relaxed, he said a few cases had been filed in the courts and the government would await the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panels-formed-to-study-draft-eia-nep-cm/article32300678.ece
08 August 2020||Tirupati,||Four die after consuming sanitiser||Four persons died allegedly after consuming hand sanitiser reportedly due to non-availability of liquor in Tirupati on Friday. Veeraiah (50) and Kumaraswamy (30), residents of the Scavangers Colony near Leela Mahal circle in the city, allegedly consumed hand sanitiser along with Venkataratnam and Srinivasulu, as they reportedly could not afford to buy liquor. They were four fell sick after consuming hand sanitiser on Friday. The panicked family members immediately rushed them to the SVRR government general hospital for treatment, but they died while undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-die-after-consuming-sanitiser/article32300593.ece
08 August 2020||Kolkata,||Adhir to PM: include Bengali as classical language in NEP||Congress Lok Sabha MP and party leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to include Bengali in the list of classical languages in the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP). The MP from Murshidabad district asked why Bengali has been sidelined in the NEP. Anthropological and archaeological evidence, he said, suggested that Bengali-speaking people were a conglomerate of several racial elements welded together by the language. He said the NEP stated that “in addition to Sanskrit, other classical languages and literatures of India, will also be widely available in schools as options for students.” Mr. Chowdhury said, “Therefore, I would urge you to include Bengali language in the list of classical languages in the New Education Policy of India after delving deep into the entire gamut of qualifications to determine the list of classical languages.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/adhir-to-pm-include-bengali-as-classical-language-in-nep/article32300961.ece
08 August 2020||Chandigarh,||Hooch tragedy: two key absconders arrested||Punjab police on Friday arrested two key absconders in the hooch tragedy while adding murder charges to the FIRs against all prime accused in the case. With the arrest of father-son duo, the total number of arrests has gone up to 54.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hooch-tragedy-two-key-absconders-arrested/article32300792.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Sexual assault victim’s condition still critical’||A 12-year-old girl, who was sexually assaulted and has suffered severe head injuries, will need another surgery and her condition continues to remain critical, sources at AIIMS said. They said her platelet count is low and she is being treated at the neurosurgery ICU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sexual-assault-victims-condition-still-critical/article32300791.ece
08 August 2020||New delhi,||Delhi govt. launches Electric Vehicle Policy||The Delhi government on Friday launched its Electric Vehicle Policy, which aims to boost the city’s economy, reduce pollution levels and generate employment in the transport sector. It also includes incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-launches-electric-vehicle-policy/article32300790.ece
08 August 2020||Kolkata,||Social activist Chandrasekhar Kundu joins TMC||Prominent social activist Chandrasekhar Kundu, who spearheaded the Save Food movement, joined the Trinamool Congress on Friday. Mr. Kundu was inducted into the party by its secretary general Partha Chatterjee. Over the last four years, Mr. Kundu’s efforts have prevented wastage of over 3 lakh plates of food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/social-activist-chandrasekhar-kundu-joins-tmc/article32300963.ece
08 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Home quarantine for 700 Army porter aspirants||Authorities of Namsai district in Arunachal Pradesh have issued a notice to around 700 local youths, who had participated in an Army recruitment rally for porters, to be under home quarantine for 14 days after several soldiers who were deployed for the event tested positive for COVID-19. The applicants from Namsai and adjoining districts took part in the recruitment rally at the Government Higher Secondary School in Mahadevpur on August 2 and 3. On Thursday, 54 personnel of an Army camp in the district tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-quarantine-for-700-army-porter-aspirants/article32300964.ece
08 August 2020||Pune,||5,561 people relocated in Kolhapur district||Despite the intensity of showers over Kolhapur lessening on Friday, the district administration evacuated more than 5,000 people from 23 villages as the Panchganga river continued to flow above the danger level. “A total 5,561 people, along with 1,132 animals from low-lying areas, have been shifted to safer zones. Most of those evacuated are from Karvir and Gaganbawda tehsils, both of which have received heavy rain throughout the week,” Kolhapur Collector Daulat Desai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5561-people-relocated-in-kolhapur-district/article32300996.ece
08 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC clears deck for 65+ artistes to resume work||The Bombay High court on Friday quashed two government resolutions that barred the presence of cast and crew above 65 years on TV, film sets. Setting aside the orders, a Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla said they were discriminatory and breached the rights of the artistes to practise their trade and earn a livelihood with dignity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-clears-deck-for-65-artistes-to-resume-work/article32300995.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,||SSLC results to be announced on Aug. 10||The State government is set to announce the results of the Class 10 SSLC examinations at 3 p.m. on August 10, a little over a month after students wrote the last paper. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar made the announcement on social media on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-results-to-be-announced-on-aug-10/article32300612.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,||State govt. changes quarantine norms||The State government has done away with the seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine for international returnees to Karnataka. Instead, such travellers now have to compulsorily follow a 14-day home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-changes-quarantine-norms/article32300613.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,||State records 101 more COVID-19 deaths||With 101 deaths reported on Friday, Karnataka’s COVID-19 toll touched 2,998. As many as 943 deaths were recorded in the past 10 days alone. This is apart from eight non-COVID-19 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-101-more-covid-19-deaths/article32300614.ece
08 August 2020||Tirunelveli,||e-pass system cannot be abolished: Palaniswami||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday made it clear that the e-pass system for inter-district and inter-State movement will stay. Opposition leader M.K. Stalin had earlier demanded its abolition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-pass-system-cannot-be-abolished-palaniswami/article32300680.ece
08 August 2020||Chennai,||Centre allocates Rs. 712 cr. to T.N. to fight COVID-19||The Centre has allocated around Rs. 712 crore to Tamil Nadu under the COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package. On Thursday, the Centre released Rs. 200 crore towards the second tranche.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-allocates-rs-712-cr-to-tn-to-fight-covid-19/article32300679.ece
08 August 2020||Chennai,||Chennai’s count drops below 1,000||Even as another 5,880 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, Chennai’s daily count fell below 1,000 for the first time since mid-June. The city recorded 984 fresh cases, taking its tally to 1,07,109.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennais-count-drops-below-1000/article32300682.ece
08 August 2020||Chennai,||Chennai’s daily count falls below 1,000-mark||Telangana registered 2,207 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, a new high that took the total number of positive cases to 75,257. Twelve patients died and the total for fatalities was 601. The total active cases on Thursday were 21,417 with 1,136 more people declared recovered, adding up to a total of 53,239 recoveries. Greater Hyderabad continued to 532 cases. Rangareddy had 196 and Medchal-Malkajgiri 136 while Warangal Urban district added 142 cases. Kamareddy (96), Karimnagar (93), Nizamabad (89), Jogulamba-Gadwal (87) and Khammam (85) showed a gradual increase. The government bulletin issued on Friday said 23,495 samples were collected on Thursday, and total samples stood at 5.66 lakh. Kerala on Friday reported 1,251 new cases. Of these, 1,080 were locally acquired infections, and 73 had no epidemiological link. While the cumulative case burden touched 31,700, there were 12,411 patients in hospitals. Till date, 19,151 persons had recovered. Five more deaths, from Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Malappuram and Kannur, were added to the State’s official toll by the Health Department on Friday, taking it to 102. Thiruvananthapuram district reported 289 cases on Friday, all except two being locally acquired infections. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that containment measures had been strengthened and police were implementing regulations, but it would take 10 days for any change to be visible. The new cases were in Kasaragod with 168, Kozhikode 149, Malappuram 143, Palakkad 123, Ernakulam 82, Alappuzha 61, Wayanad 55, Pathanamthitta 39, Kottayam 37, Kollam 36, Thrissur 33, Idukki 23 and Kannur 13. Kerala tested 27,608 samples in a day. Andhra Pradesh’s tally passed the two-lakh mark on Friday, and the State witnessed the biggest spike of 89 deaths in a day. There was an additionof 10,171 cases. It became the only State to witness one-lakh infections in 11 days. The overall tally was 2,06,960 and the death toll 1,842. East Godavari (28,850 cases), Kurnool (24,679), Anantapur (22,273) and Guntur (20,236) were the worst hit. As another 5,880 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, Chennai’s daily count cases fell below 1,000 for the first time since mid-June. The city recorded 984 fresh cases, taking its overall tally to 1,07,109. For the fifth consecutive day, the death of 119 persons was recorded, taking the toll to 4,690. Chennai’s daily COVID-19 count first breached the 1,000-mark on June 3 (1,012 cases). The highest daily figure was 2,393 cases on June 30. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally climbed to 2,85,024, of which 52,759 persons were under treatment.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-and-ap-face-challenge-of-fatalities/article32300546.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Can 4G Net be restored in J&K, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government to explain whether 4G Internet could be restored in select areas of Jammu and Kashmir where there was no trouble, saying even former Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (L-G) G.C. Murmu had recommended it while in office. Mr. Murmu recently resigned from office. “The L-G has said that there is no difficulty in restoring 4G. You have to give an explanation for that,” Justice R. Subhash Reddy, one of the three judges on the Bench headed by Justice N.V. Ramana, addressed the government side. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta apprised the court of Mr. Murmu’s departure from office and said a detailed response would be filed on the issue.“In your response, do not go strictly by whether or not contempt is there. You should also say whether 4G can be restored in areas [which posed no security challenge],” Justice Reddy remarked. The court posted the case for August 11. Contempt petition The court is hearing a contempt petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, an NGO, that a high-powered special committee was not formed in compliance with a judgment of the top court on May 11 to review the need to continue with the “blanket restrictions” on 4G Internet access in J&K, especially amid the COVID-19 pandemic. In the last hearing on July 28, the Centre told the Supreme Court that it would “verify” reports in the media quoting Mr. Murmu saying 4G Internet speed should be restored in the Valley. Mr. Murmu’s reported recommendation caused a stir as the Centre had been maintaining, and even filed an affidavit in the court, that the situation was not ripe to restore high-speed Internet owing to heightened terror activities. It had agreed to review the situation again after two months. The Centre has already informed the court that a special committee chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla met twice on the need to review the restrictions placed on 4G Internet connection in J&K, but deferred its decision on the issue considering the “startling situation” of continued terror attacks in the Valley. On May 11, the Supreme Court, acting on a writ petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, directed the Centre and J&K to constitute a special committee with the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, as Chairperson followed by the Secretary, Department of Communications, and the Chief Secretary, Union Territory of J&K. In its contempt petition and a separate application filed in June, the Foundation said that nearly a month had passed since the court judgment. There was no record in the public domain on the formation of a special committee “to consider the necessity and proportionality of the ongoing blanket mobile Internet speed restrictions in the entire Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir” as directed by the court, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/can-4g-net-be-restored-in-jk-asks-sc/article32300561.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tie-up promises vaccine for India||Serum Institute of India (SII) has announced that it has entered into a new partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accelerate the manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines for India and low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). “Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, via its strategic investment fund, will provide at-risk funding of US$150 million to Gavi, which will be used to support the SII to manufacture potential vaccine candidates, and for future procurement of vaccines for low- and middle-income countries,’’ noted a statement issued by SII. It said the collaboration would provide upfront capital to SII to help them increase the manufacturing capacity now so that, once a vaccine, or vaccines, gain(s) regulatory approval and World Health Organisation (WHO) pre-qualification, doses could be produced at scale for distribution to India and LMICs, as early as the first half of 2021. “The funding will support at-risk manufacturing by SII for candidate vaccines from AstraZeneca and Novavax, which will be available for procurement if they are successful in attaining full licensure and WHO pre-qualification. SII has set a ceiling price of US$ 3 per dose. The arrangement also provides an option to secure additional doses,’’ noted the release. It quoted SII CEO Adar Poonawalla as saying that they had partnered with Gavi and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to advance the manufacturing and delivery of up to 100 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines for India and LMICs in 2021. “SII has earlier partnered with Gavi and pharmaceutical companies to manufacture vaccines that protect against meningitis, severe diarrhea, pneumonia and measles. The current deal now builds on a MoU between AstraZeneca and Gavi, announced in June, which will guarantee 300 million doses of AstraZeneca’s candidate vaccine to the wider COVAX facility, to be supplied upon licensure or prequalification. These two deals can help guarantee access to early doses for the most vulnerable on a truly global scale,’’ said the company. Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, said, “India has a proven track record of manufacturing safe and cost-effective vaccines not only for India, but for the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tie-up-promises-vaccine-for-india/article32300573.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vasundhara meets Nadda||Former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president J.P. Nadda a week before the convening of the Rajasthan Assembly, at a time when Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s government is facing internal strife. Sources confirmed that Ms. Raje met Mr. Nadda and BJP general secretary (organisation) on Thursday and Friday and discussed the situation in the State. Ms. Raje has so far maintained a diplomatic silence over the internal revolt in the Congress, and accusations by the latter that the BJP was in cahoots with rebel Congress leader, Sachin Pilot, to destabilise the Gehlot government. Senior leaders of the party said Ms. Raje and Mr. Nadda discussed affairs related to the State politics and that the exercise was aimed at being on the same page as far as party moves were concerned. ‘Organic occurrence’ State leaders played down the meeting. “Ms. Raje is a national vice president of the BJP and her meeting with the party president is an organic occurrence,” State BJP chief Satish Poonia told The Hindu . The Congress had alleged that Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was active in fomenting trouble for the State government, although he has vehemently denied the accusation. Governor Kalraj Mishra has convened a sitting of the Assembly on August 14 after stating that such a meeting could only be convened with a 21-day notice, looking at the COVID-19 situation. Congress MLAs are holed up in a resort in Jaisalmer for the time being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vasundhara-meets-nadda/article32300550.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEP lays the foundation for a ‘New India’, says Modi||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 laid the foundation for a ‘New India’ of the 21st century, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, emphasising the shift from rote learning and “herd mentality” to creative and innovative thinking. Addressing a conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under the NEP, he said there had been no major changes in the education system for many years, resulting in the promotion of a “herd mentality” in Indian society instead of the values of curiosity and imagination. “So far, the focus has been on ‘what to think’. The NEP emphasises a shift in approach to focus on ‘how to think’ instead,” he said. “In these times, there is no dearth of information and content, which is available on every mobile phone. But it is important that we know which information is necessary,” he stated and called for modes of teaching based on inquiry, discovery and analysis, which would encourage students to participate in the classroom learning process out of their own interest. The conclave is being hosted by the Education Ministry and the University Grants Commission (UGC). ‘Mission mode’ The NEP would be implemented in a “mission mode”, said Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare said similar webinars would be held in every State over the next two months so that the process of implementation was decentralised. By September-end, there would be a complete strategy for State-wise implementation, he added. The NEP’s focus on employability and vocational education will start being implemented immediately through undergraduate degrees with embedded internships and apprenticeships. The UGC released guidelines for such degree programmes at the conclave, saying that a minimum of one semester could be spent at the workplace. Mr. Modi also welcomed the “healthy debate” that was on across the country over various aspects of the NEP. On using the mother tongue as the medium of instruction until Class 5, he said the approach was necessary to make global citizens who were rooted in their culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nep-lays-the-foundation-for-a-new-india-says-modi/article32300564.ece
08 August 2020||Chennai,||India registering highest daily cases||Confirmed cases and deaths from COVID-19 crossed the 60,000 and 900 mark respectively for the second consecutive day in India, with 60,833 infections and 928 fatalities recorded on Friday. Maharashtra (10,483 cases and 300 deaths), Andhra Pradesh (10,171 and 89), Karnataka (6,670 and 101), Tamil Nadu (5,880 and 119) and Uttar Pradesh (4,404 and 63) contributed to the bulk of these. The total cases have now gone up to 20,86,123 and the death toll is now 42,577. 68.22% of those infected have recovered. Data from Tripura was unavailable at the time of going to press. Cases in India are doubling every 24 days. The seven-day rolling average for new cases — 55,105 — is a close second to that of the U.S. at 55,510. As many as 896 people have died on an average daily in the last week in India, a figure that is third to the U.S’s 1,150 and Brazil's 1,033. Close to 2.27 crore samples have been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-registers-highest-daily-cases-currently/article32300608.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Chidambaram takes a dig at Rajnath||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Friday took a dig at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh over a Ministry of Defence (MOD) document that gave details about Chinese aggression. “Someone is out to get Mr. Rajnath Singh out of the Defence Ministry! Otherwise, why would the Defence Ministry website put out the truth about the Chinese aggression and occupation of Indian territory?” asked Mr. Chidambaram in a series of tweets about the MOD document that has been removed from the website. “That single statement damaged Mr. Rajnath Singh (people ask, did the Ministry and the Army fail to act on the intelligence inputs and allowed the Chinese to bring troops and equipment and cross the LAC?). That statement also exposed the PM’s famous declaration that “no one intruded into Indian territory and no one is occupying Indian territory. I suspect there is a Chinese mole in the Defence Ministry!” he tweeted. Chinese companies Meanwhile, at the party’s official press briefing, spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged that the BJP had used the services of three Chinese companies — UC Web Mobile, Gamma Gaana Limited (Tencent of China) and ShareIT Technology — in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The companies had links with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and were now being banned by the Centre, the Congress said. “When it comes to China, what exactly are your compulsions? Why do you close your eyes and slip into silent mode amidst brazen incursions by China in Ladakh? Why did your party take the help of China in the Lok Sabha elections?” asked Mr. Khera. The charge came on a day when BJP president J.P. Nadda attacked the Congress for links with the Chinese government and the Communist Party. “Respected Nadda ji, Spreading lies is your speciality and misrepresentation is your style...Stop your bundle of lies,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-takes-a-dig-at-rajnath/article32300557.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Congress remains in a fix over its leadership question||As Sonia Gandhi completes a year as the interim president of the Congress on August 10, there is still no clarity on the way forward with regard to appointing a full-time president. If the party extends Ms. Gandhi’s tenure for sometime, as is likely, it will have to officially inform the Election Commission of India (ECI) and subsequently get it endorsed by the Congress Working Committee (CWC). The CWC, however, is unlikely to meet any time soon as all the attention is on the August 14 session of the Rajasthan Assembly and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s plan to prove majority on the floor of the House. “The future course of action, as and when it is decided, will be shared with you”, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters at a virtual press conference on Friday. The party’s plan of a revamp, including appointment of a full-time president, is now caught between the Sachin Pilot-led rebellion in Rajasthan and the ongoing pandemic. Rahul’s position Though there is a growing clamour among a section of party leaders for Rahul Gandhi to take over as the party president once again, he has not shown any urgency to get back to his earlier position. Interestingly, Ms. Gandhi was brought in as the interim president not only because the party couldn't arrive at a consensus over a non-Gandhi leader, but also because only a leader from the family was expected to hold together the different factions. However, subsequent events have challenged this notion as young leaders — from Ashok Tanwar in Haryana to Jyotiraditya Scindia in Madhya Pradesh — have quit and the party lost the Madhya Pradesh government, where it had come to power after 15 years. More recently, at a closed-door virtual meeting of the party’s Rajya Sabha members, the old guard was questioned by a young MP over the UPA government’s track record that led to the 2014 debacle. The comment resulted in a public backlash from four UPA ministers — Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Milind Deora — and the MP was forced to retract his position. Even before the party could tame the dissidence in Rajasthan, it is growing in another Congress-ruled State — Punjab. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar has now asked for disciplinary action against two Rajya Sabha members — Samsher Singh Dullo and Partap Singh Bajwa — for seeking a CBI and ED inquiry against illegal distilleries in the State. The party needs to get back to the drawing board with regard to the leadership question and consider suggestions from leaders like Mr. Tewari, who have advocated elections for the top post if the Gandhis are not inclined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-remains-in-a-fix-over-its-leadership-question/article32300559.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||No free grain in July for 40% of PMGKAY beneficiaries||Almost four out of ten people dependent on free food from the Centre did not receive their July allocation under a special scheme to help tide over the COVID-19 crisis, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan told journalists on Friday, blaming States for their failure to distribute the free grains and pulses. In fact, as many as 11 States and Union Territories did not carry out any distribution at all under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in July, the first month of the extended scheme. In the first phase, from April to June, about 95% of the 81 crore beneficiaries received their grain allocation. In July, that dropped to just 61%, according to an official statement. Only 6% of the free chana has been distributed. The lag is partly because some States follow staggered a bi- or tri-monthly distribution cycle, said Mr. Paswan, adding that such States have promised to distribute both the July and August allocation during this month. The laggard States include Punjab, West Bengal and Uttarakhand. In the flood-hit States of Assam and Bihar, the PMGKAY coverage for July was only 21% and 52%, respectively. PMGKAY was rolled out in April as part of the Centre’s response to COVID-19 and resultant lockdown, which deprived crores of people of their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-free-grain-in-july-for-40-of-pmgkay-beneficiaries/article32300576.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chief Justice welcomes CBI probe into Sushant death||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Friday greeted the news of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) taking over the investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput with a word of appreciation. “CBI has taken over the investigation into the Patna case (based on a complaint of abetment to suicide filed by Rajput's father),” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the three-judge Bench led by the CJI. “Good. And we are told that CBI has filed an FIR,” Chief Justice Bobde responded to Mr. Mehta. The exchange happened during the hearing of a PIL filed by a law student seeking a CBI probe into the death. The court dismissed the PIL, saying the law student is a “total stranger” to the cause and Mr. Rajput’s father, K.K. Singh, is pursuing the case. However, the hearing on Friday coincided with the Bihar government filing an affidavit to justify the decision of its police to register the case against another Bollywood actor, Rhea Chakraborty, and her family members. The State’s affidavit was filed in response to a separate plea by Ms. Chakraborty to transfer the case from Patna to Mumbai. In an affidavit, Bihar said though Rajput died in Mumbai, his father suffered the consequence in Patna. It said an offence can be tried either at the place where it has been committed or where the consequence ensues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chief-justice-welcomes-cbi-probe-into-sushant-death/article32300585.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Food Vision 2050 Prize for Naandi Foundation||Rockefeller Foundation has selected Naandi Foundation, Hyderabad-based non-profit, as one of the ‘Top 10 Visionaries’ in the world for the Food Vision 2050 Prize, announced in New York on Thursday. The recognition fetches Naandi a prize money of $ 200,000. The award recognised the application of Arakunomics model in regions of Araku, Wardha and New Delhi, leading to the Food Vision 2050 that follows an “ABCDEFGH” framework centring on: Agriculture, Biology, Compost, Decentralised decision-making, Entrepreneurs, Families, Global Markets, and ‘Headstands’, or turning current approaches on their head. Naandi competed with over 1,300 entries in a two-level contest that was spread over almost a year. Rockefeller Foundation will be releasing immediately $150,000 and the balance $50,000 after a three-month accelerator programme that is intended to help Naandi realise its vision. Naandi’s vision titled “Arakunomics” was based on work with tribal farmers in Araku for nearly 20 years. It is a new integrated economic model that ensures profits for farmers, quality for consumers through regenerative agriculture. The economic model is a tribute to the tribal farmers of Araku region for the world class coffee produced and launched in Paris in 2017, as well as for the high carbon landscape transformation they did in over 955 villages, thereby planting 25 million trees. Arakunomics success in Araku led to Naandi replicating the model to support the livelihoods of farming communities in the villages of Wardha – infamous for agrarian distress, as well as later in New Delhi, as part of an Urban Farms Co programme. It hopes to expand its “food-print” by creating thousands of farm livelihoods by transforming their agriculture over one million acres spread across India, said a press release on Friday. Rockefeller in their citation says “...in your vision we see a beacon of light we think can illuminate the world. Your Vision inspired. If implemented, it can transform. It feels lofty yet feasible - audacious yet vital. It can reveal a path forward to a nourishing, resilient, sustainable and equitable food system for 2050, if not well before. We think the global community can be activated to learn from and take ideas from your vision.” Anand Mahindra (chairman, Mahindra Group) is the chair of the board of Naandi Foundation which comprises of Kris Gopalakrishnan (co-founder, Infosys Ltd.), Rajendra Prasad Maganti (chairman, Soma Enterprise Ltd.), and Satish Reddy (chairman, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd.) as other members. Apart from trustees, bulk of Naandi’s investments have come from the CSR funds of the Mahindra Group of companies and long term grants from Paris-based Livelihoods Fund. Established in 1998, it works in 19 States in India and has impacted seven million lives so far, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/food-vision-2050-prize-for-naandi-foundation/article32300532.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||SC dismisses Rehana Fathima’s bail plea||A Supreme Court Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra asked a Kerala rights activist what kind of message of the “entire culture of the country” is she giving her children by allowing them to paint on her half-nude body and “spreading the obscenity”. The activist, who is seeking bail, clarified her stand through senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan that “for a man to stand with his dhoti tucked up is no offence, for a woman it is. I only wanted to sensitise my children to that”. “This is obscenity which you are spreading... Clearly what you are doing is obscenity”, Justice Mishra insisted during a virtual court hearing on Friday. He asked why the activist did all this. “You may be an activist. Are you aware of what may be happening to these growing up children? What impression will they get of the entire culture of this country?”, he said. Mr. Sankaranarayanan urged the court to look at the larger context. He said the probe was over and police had already raided her home. “Why should my liberty be at stake,” the senior lawyer asked. The court, however, dismissed her appeal. High Court order The activist had moved the Supreme Court against a Kerala High Court order denying her anticipatory bail in cases concerning an edited video on social media allegedly of her minor children painting on her semi-nude body. Two questions The activist had raised two questions of law concerning the application of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the provisions of the Information Technology law against her. She said the cases against her violated her fundamental right of life, liberty and dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution. She asked “whether female nudity [even when not visible] per se constitutes obscenity?” and “whether children painting on their mother s body can be concluded to be ‘sexual gratification’ and ‘child abuse’ under these stringent laws?”. The petition said “there can probably be nobody except a pervert who would be aroused to sexual desire by seeing the nature of the work. Intention In addition, the petitioner’s message accompanying the uploaded edited video makes it clear that she intended to normalise the female form for her children and not allow the distorted ideas of sexualisation to pervade their minds”. “Goddesses in Kerala are frequently depicted in idols and murals with bare breasts. When one prays at the temple, the feeling is not of sexual arousal but one of divinity”, the petition said, citing several other instances to explain the social context in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-dismisses-rehana-fathimas-bail-plea/article32300542.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||New Secretariat to have 7 floors||The stage is being set for the commencement of construction of the state-of-the-art integrated secretariat complex as the design for the new complex had been approved by the State Cabinet. Contrary to expectations that the secretariat will have six floors with 6 lakh square feet built-up area, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has preferred a seven-storey integrated complex with close to 7 lakh sq.ft area. Rectilinear fashion According to the new design, the podium/basement height would be 14 feet with seven floors, each with height of 14 feet. The design will be in rectilinear fashion with respect to the site and the building would have ground plus six floors. It will have a grand imposing entrance with 15-foot-high entry podium with a 3-storey arrival portico. The entrance will be a 3-storey atrium which is the centre of the building and the interiors would be decorated with "Telangana Mural Art" and LED wall showcasing Telangana’s developments. There will be a large landscaped central courtyard with a fountain. The large interior courtyard, which is the “Brahmasthanam” will have red sand stone podium with murals engraved showcasing the art and culture of the 33 districts. These green spaces help in control of air as well as the reduction of carbon emission from the building. The complex would be spread over an area of 600 ft x 300 ft with building coverage amounting to 9.7% of the 25.5-acre land, 50% area would be reserved for landscaping and 25% for roads and pavements. The new complex has been designed with parking for 650 cars and 500 two-wheelers and it also incorporates other facilities like bank, ATM. crèche, fuel filling station, fire station, visitor waiting halls, a mosque and a temple. The building had been designed to give feel of monumentality. The distribution of entrances, cores, service cores and toilet had been designed as per Vaastu Sastra. The main entry will be located on the east side with a separate entrance for the Chief Minister. The seventh floor had been designed for vaastu compliance for the Chief Minister’s Office, Cabinet meeting hall, Chief Secretary’s office, advisors, personal secretaries and support staff and VIP waiting areas. The remaining floors had been planned for Ministers’ chambers, departments and conference rooms. The lower floor would accommodate large meeting halls, archives, VVIPs, dignitaries waiting, large reception, VIP waiting areas, police surveillances and Intelligent Building Management Systems (IBMS) Record rooms. The organisation of function, sequences and space within the spaces are connected through corridors. The courtyards in the buildings are great booster for the flow of natural air and ventilation. Services like the stairs, lifts for the Chief Minister, lifts for Ministers, visitors and fire lifts will be easily accessible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-secretariat-to-have-seven-floors/article32300871.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||2011 report had flagged unsafe conditions at Calicut airport||According to an aviation safety report submitted to the Ministry of Civil Aviation in 2011, the runway at Calicut International airport where an Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot the runway resulting in the death of at least 11 persons, was unsafe for flight operations due to inadequate safety area along the runway and at the end of the runway to safeguard against planes skidding off. “The down slope at the end of the runway 10, on which the accident took place, has a very steep down slope. There is only a 90 metre safety area at the end of the runway, which should be at least 200 metres. Similarly, on both sides of the runway there is only 75 metre of safety area, when that should be at least 150 metres,” says aviation safety expert Mohan Ranganathan, who prepared the as part of the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Committee. “There has been no effort on the part of AAI to rectify the safety infringements ... The runway strip is just half the minimum width laid down. This fact was known to the DGCA... Have they considered the danger involved? Has the DGCA or airlines laid down any operational restrictions or special procedures,” Mr. Ranganathan highlighted in a letter to then Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Naseem Zaidi. It added that landing in wet and tailwind conditions could be a safety hazard. He also adds that it is important to clean the runway of rubber which gets deposited after every flight. The failure to do so can lead to aircraft losing control. Significantly, the DGCA had ordered a safety audit of airports earlier this year after several airports saw instances of aircraft overshooting the runway or skidding during heavy rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2011-report-had-flagged-unsafe-conditions-at-calicut-airport/article32300548.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Probe dominance of online advertising platforms: report||A report examining the future of news in India has recommended that the Competition Commission of India investigate the dominance of online advertising platforms. The report, prepared by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, stated, “The advertisement-revenue model for digital news may be displaying indications of market failure. To orient the market for digital news towards the public good, the role and practices of online advertising platforms must be systematically studied by a specialised authority.” The report also favoured the enactment of “light-touch measures” to address misinformation. It said, “The entire chain of misinformation needs to be addressed in order to effectively tackle the crisis of misinformation.” The report suggests a range of legislative, co-regulatory and voluntary measures, which provide an integrated framework to prevent the spread of misinformation and enhance reader literacy. Calling for the imposition of “appropriate responsibilities” on digital news entities, the report stated, “The legal vacuum for digital news needs to be filled in a manner, which is sensitive to the nuances of online discourse. The report recommends granting limited powers to the Press Council of India, in conjunction with a voluntary registration procedure and the development of a brief, accessible code of conduct as a mechanism for the imposition of editorial responsibility.” “The role of online platforms in the distribution of news should be addressed through targeted interventions based on the design aspects of such platforms,” the report added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-dominance-of-online-advertising-platforms-report/article32300570.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Extension of Sree Chitra institute head revoked||In an unusual move for an autonomous scientific institution, the Department of Science and Technology (DST) has revoked extension of tenure for a director of one of its autonomous institutes, little over a month after approving it. Asha Kishore, Director of the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Thiruvananthapuram, in a letter to Union Science Minister Harsh Vardhan, has alleged harassment. The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has ordered a stay on her extension. According to documents perused by The Hindu , V.K. Saraswat, NITI Aayog member and president of the SCTIMST’s governing body (GB), after a board meeting on May 12, approved Dr. Kishore’s continuation as Director for 5 years till she “superannuated” at 65. Being an autonomous institute of ‘national importance,’ the established practice — akin to the Indian Institutes of Management and Indian Institutes of Technology — is that the Board has the final say in appointments. Among the members of the Board and those who endorsed Dr. Kishore’s extension on June 2 was Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST. In a June 21 letter, Dr. Kishore, while thanking Dr. Vardhan for “supporting the extension of her term for five years,” highlighted that she faced “unwarranted external interference ... and regular mudslinging by few employees of the institute.” She alleged that a “former secretary of Vijnana Bharati [an RSS-affiliated organisation that now organises prominent science festivals funded by the government] visited her office, shouted at her, and demanded that she resign.” Dr. Kishore added that there were several social media campaigns to target her and the institute’s medical and technology products. On July 28, Rajeev Tayal, a senior official of the DST, wrote to Mr. Saraswat, saying that the institute was withdrawing the order extending Dr. Kishore’s tenure. The broad argument made was that the GB had not followed rules in appointing the Director and that extensions were normally for a short term, and not for five years, which amounted to the original tenure of the Director. No explanation was given for why these rules were not brought to light when the board met and approved Dr. Kishore’s extension and the decision endorsed by the DST’s seniormost official. Dr. Kishore declined comment when reached by The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extension-of-sree-chitra-institute-head-revoked/article32300529.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Karnataka’s COVID-19 purchases under lens||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) may examine a reference from the Karnataka Legislature’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) for a special audit into the purchase of COVID-19 equipment by the State government. The PAC has also asked the CAG to audit the spending from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) during the pandemic. The State Congress has alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits, sanitisers, masks and other equipment. The issue will be examined in all likelihood, according to a CAG source. The audit may be taken up under the leadership of new CAG chief, G.C. Murmu, who will take charge on Saturday. He will succeed Rajiv Mehrishi. During 2020-21, at the all-India level, the CAG’s audit plan includes Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, minimum support price operations and performance of eNAM, a pan-India electronic agriculture-related trading portal, as part of the assessment of schemes meant for farmers’ benefit. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana, aimed at 24x7 electricity for all, will also be examined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnatakas-covid-19-purchases-under-lens/article32300527.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Minor assaulted at Hyderabad care home||In a shocking incident which has come to light after a week’s delay, a minor orphan girl was found to have been sexually assaulted by a benefactor of the protection home where she stayed in the city, prompting child protection authorities to shift all other girls out of the home. As per details shared by highly reliable sources, the 14-year-old victim was staying at Maruti Orphanage in Deeptisri Nagar where she had been admitted in 2015, after her parents died. Post COVID-19 outbreak in March, when children were being allowed to go to parents’ or relatives’ homes, the girl was also taken home by her uncle. A few days after that, the uncle asked the home authorities to take her back without giving any reason. The caretaker refused to accept the girl saying without COVID-19 test, she cannot take her back. He, nevertheless, kept insisting time and again for next four months, and courting firm denial from the home, he left the girl with his cousin who is also a close kin of the girl. Noticing that the girl was unable to walk properly, the woman questioned her. Initially, the girl said her uncle had beaten her up, but upon physical examination, her aunt learnt that she had been sexually assaulted and brutalised. Caretaker’s involvement After much questioning and goading, the girl revealed that a donor of the home where she had stayed sexually assault her repeatedly, after giving her soft drink laced with drugs. The caretaker of the home, too, would assist him. Missing detail in FIR The girl’s aunt reported this to the Bowenpally Police Station where a zero FIR was registered on July 31, and later transferred to the Ameenpur Police Station under the limits of which the home is located. FIR by Bowenpally police, however, omits the girl’s four-month stay at her uncle’s place, and instead, mentions that she was directly taken to her “sister’s place” from the protection home. The home, which was located in Miyapur earlier, was given licence by the Women and Child Development department in 2017, after the district level inspection committee certified it. Almost 60 out of the 70-odd children staying at the home were referred here by the district child protection authorities. This was one of the few homes which accepted children during COVID-19 lockdown, sources informed, even while the victim had been repeatedly denied a return. Over 50 children present in the home have been rescued and shifted to four different homes in the district after the incident, sources said. The victim has been sent to Niloufer Hospital for medical examination and treatment. Three persons, including donor Venugopal, and caretakers of the home Vijaya and Jayadeep have been arrested and sent for remand, while the Rangareddy District Child Protection Unit has lodged a complaint with Jeedimetla Police against the victim’s uncle for beating her up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-assaulted-at-hyderabad-care-home/article32300537.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul attacks BJP, tweaks 2014 poll slogan||As COVID-19 cases crossed the 20-lakh mark, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the Centre on its handling of the pandemic. He retweeted his July 17 tweet, in which he predicted 2 million cases by August 10, with a fresh comment. “ 20 lakh ka aankra paar, Gayaab hain Modi Sarkar [20-lakh figure has been crossed and the Modi government has disappeared],” he said, tweaking the BJP’s 2014 election campaign slogan of Abi ki baar, Modi Sarkar [This time, Modi government] On Thursday, he claimed that economic losses due to COVID-19 would mount four times the current levels. In another tweet, he said, “RBI reveals the real 'Mood of the Nation': People's confidence at all time low. Fear and insecurity are at all time high. Expect more bad news on the economy and jobs front”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-attacks-bjp-tweaks-2014-poll-slogan/article32300562.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,||HC quashes case against nine foreign nationals||The High Court of Karnataka has quashed the criminal cases registered against nine foreign nationals belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat on the condition that they immediately leave the country by giving an undertaking that they will not visit India again within the next 10 years. They also have to pay the fine amount that may be levied by the competent authority. Though the court prima facie found that the Tourist Visa, under which they were allowed to enter India, did not allow them to indulge in activities permitted under the Missionary Visa, it allowed them to leave the country by adopting a similar concession given by the Madras High Court in the cases of Tablighi Jamaat members. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order on petitions filed by Farhan Hussain and three others from South Africa, Ibrahim Jassy and two others from Gambia, Rejo from Indonesia, and Saleh Imran Ahamed from the United States. The petitioners were engaged in religious propagation in Tumakuru after attending the Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in Delhi, which later became a centre for the spread of COVID-19 in March. They were among the Tablighi Jamaat members blacklisted by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The petitioners questioned the legality of the criminal cases booked against them for violating the Foreigners Act, 1946.  The court said the criminal cases booked under the Foreigners Act would be revived and the investigation would continue if the nine foreign nationals failed to comply with any of the concessions granted to them. However, the court declined to quash criminal cases against Syed Zubair of Tumakuru and two others, who had assisted the nine foreign nationals. It directed the police to complete the probe within six months. The court also clarified that the concession shown to the foreign nationals should not be construed as an extension of their visa so as to facilitate their stay any longer than what was reasonably required for leaving India.    While declining to accept the argument on behalf of the accused that the police had initiated action based on “prejudiced media propaganda”, the court said the police, who were performing yeoman service during the COVID-19 pandemic, had exercised a lot of restraint despite running a huge risk of infection and tolerating attacks/assaults.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-quashes-case-against-nine-foreign-nationals/article32300535.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Will invite Yogi to open facilities near mosque’||“If you ask me as a CM, then I have no inhibitions towards any sect, faith or community. If you ask me as a Yogi, I will definitely not go. I will not go because I am a Hindu,” Mr. Adityanath said. He had the full right to express and practise his method of worship as a Hindu, he added. When pressed further by the interviewer, Mr. Adityanath sarcastically said: “The day they invite me, the secularism of many people will come under threat.” The construction of the mosque in Dhannipur village, 25 km west of the site where the Babri Masjid stood, is yet to take off nine months after the Supreme Court verdict in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi title suit. Apart from the mosque, the Trust will also construct a centre showcasing Indo-Islamic culture of several centuries, a centre for research and study of Indo-Islamic culture, a charitable hospital, a public library and other public utilities on the five-acre land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-invite-yogi-to-open-facilities-near-mosque/article32300530.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Spillway gates of Jurala project opened again||The spillway gates of Jurala project in Jogulamba-Gadwal district were opened on Friday evening after a gap of 12 days to discharge flood of over 25,600 cusecs from the seven gates lifted for one-metre height eachopened at 6.15 pm and corresponding spillway discharge is 25613 cusecs (7 gates-1m). Another 25,000 cusecs of flood was also being let into the river course with power generation. “The discharge of flood has been in the measure of over 50,000 cusecs together although the inflows into the dam are about 25,000 cusecs at 9 pm. However, the decision has been taken based on the Central Water Commission (CWC) advisory and the expected rise in the flood to the reservoir all through the night”, flood monitoring officials at Jurala said. Discharge of flood at Almatti was about 1.8 lakh cusecs and at Narayanpur it was nearly 1.88 lakh cusecs at Narayanpur. The CWC has forecast that flood to Almatti would be over 8.2 tmc ft in 12 hours starting from 8 pm on Friday with the expected inflows likely to be about 1.91 lakh cusecs. Similarly, the flood into Narayanpur is assessed to be around 6.6 tmc ft with inflows in the range of 1.52 lakh cusecs and that into Tungabhadra dam would be around 4.75 tmc ft with inflows of nearly 1.1 lakh cusecs. In its inflow forecast-cum-advisory for Srisailam dam, the CWC officials said: “Due to very heavy rainfall in the upper Krishna basin from past 2-3 days, heavy inflows are observed in Almatti, Narayanpur and Jurala dams giving rise to higher outflows. Subsequently, heavy inflows are expected at Srisailam dam and it may lead to cross it’s threshold limit on Saturday based on the discharges from Jurala”. The CWC authorities have also asked the authorities of the three dams to monitor the situation and operate the releases accordingly. According to the flood monitoring officials, there was very heavy rainfall of 19 cm in Augumbe, the origin of Tunga river, 15.3 cm in Koyna, catchment of Koyan river, 14.5 cm at Mahabaleshwar, the origin of Krishna river, and 8.8 cm in Warana, the catchment of Warna river, a tributary of Krishna, during the 24 hours preceding 8.30 am on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spillway-gates-of-jurala-opened-again/article32300881.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||15 killed as AI flight skids off Calicut airport runway||The Civil Aviation Ministry said the flight IX 1344 operated by B737 aircraft from Dubai overshot runway at Kozhikode at 7.41 p.m. “No fire reported at the time of landing,” it noted. Messages and condolences poured following the accident. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Pained by the plane accident in Kozhikode. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. .. Spoke to Kerala CM@vijayanpinarayi JI regarding the situation.” Wayanad MP and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: I'm shocked to hear about the crash landing of an Air India Express flight, coming from Dubai, at Kozhikode, Kerala... I pray that all the passengers have survived this terrible ordeal. My thoughts are with the crew, the passengers and their families and friends at this time.” Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressed shock over the accident. CMO sources said Chief Minister spoke to the Prime Minister and the latter assured him all help and assistance from the Centre. Mr. Vijayan informed him that rescue operations were in full swing, the sources said. The Chief Minister has deputed State Minister A.C. Moideen to coordinate rescue operations. An IG of police has been deputed to oversee the rescue operations.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-killed-as-ai-flight-skids-off-calicut-airport-runway/article32300533.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||18 killed in massive landslip in Idukki||A resident of one of other housing lines said water gushed into the lines followed by heaps of mud. “There were some 30 houses in those four lines and a club,” he said. “We were able to rescue four people and two families came out on their own... We could not inform the police as there was none around and with no network, we could not even contact our relatives in Tamil Nadu,” he said. M.V.G. Kannan, Munnar DFO, said, “The bridge over the Periyavarai has now been repaired for emergency operations and BSNL connectivity, though patchy, has been restored.” Bad weather and lack of road accessibility have hampered rescue operations, Devikulam sub-collector S. Premkrishan said. M. Mohandass, member of the nearby Luckham ward of the Munnar Grama Panchayat, said the area had never witnessed landslips and none thought it would ever occur there. The victims have been identified as Gandhiraj, 48,; Sivakami,38; Vishal,12; Ramalakshmi, 40; Murukan, 46; Mayil Swamy, 48; Kannan,40; Annadurai,44; Rajeswari,43; Kausalya, 25; Thapasiyammal, 42; Sindhu, 13; Nidhish, 25; Panirselvom, 50; Ganesan, 40. Two of the deceased are yet to be identified. Health Minister K. K. Shylaja said a special mobile medical team and 15 ambulances were sent to the accident spot. Mr. Mohandass said the landslide was eerily similar to the one at Kavalappara in Malappuram last year when the area had remained inaccessible and the outer world only came to know about the massive disaster next morning. The State government has declared a financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of the landslip victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18-killed-in-massive-landslip-in-idukki/article32300538.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea to probe Cong. link with China dismissed||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition seeking a National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe into an alleged agreement between the Indian National Congress and the Communist Party of China to exchange high-value information. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde called the averments in the petition “absurd in law”. “It is absurd or something unheard in law... You are saying that China has entered into an agreement with a political party and not the government. How can a political party enter into an agreement with China?” Chief Justice Bobde asked senior lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for PIL petitioners Shekhar Jha and journalist Savio Rodrigues. Chief Justice Bobde said the petitioners could the petitioners to “withdraw the petition with liberty to approach the High Court.” At the outset, Mr. Jethmalani alleged that it was an “agreement between a political party of this country with the only political party in that country.” The Bench said a fresh petition could be filed if that was the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-to-probe-cong-link-with-china-dismissed/article32300555.ece
08 August 2020||Mumbai,||Bihar investigating officer released from quarantine||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Friday said it has allowed Bihar IPS officer Vinay Tiwari, quarantined here after arrival to oversee a probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to return. Mr. Tiwari, Superintendent of Police of Central Patna, has been exempted from quarantine protocols, an official said. “Considering that it is only the fifth day of his arrival, and since the request for exemption from came from the Patna police, and considering the SOP provisions to exempt passengers on a short duration visit, it is hereby decided to exempt Mr. Tiwari from home quarantine,” an official said. Mr. Tiwari will have to leave Maharashtra before the seventh day of his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-investigating-officer-released-from-quarantine/article32300569.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||TJ coverage: SC to wait for NBA, PCI responses||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Friday voiced his exasperation at petitioners expecting the Supreme Court to work against the clock. The top judge was responding to a plea that the court should intervene and direct the government, without any further delay, to take action against certain sections of the media who communalised the incident of a Tablighi Jamaat congregation during lockdown by linking it to a spike in the spread of COVID-19. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, for petitioners, said over two months have passed since the reportage of the events in March. No action has been forthcoming from the government. “We are increasingly seeing petitioners trying to bind us to these timelines... Should we go on and give a wrong direction because of a timeline?” CJI Bobde asked. The Bench then decided to wait for responses from the National Broadcasters Association (NBA) and the Press Council of India (PCI) before passing “orders”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tj-coverage-sc-to-wait-for-nba-pci-responses/article32300574.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bollywood actor Rhea questioned for 7 hours||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday questioned Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and three others in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Ms. Chakraborty had earlier requested that her statement be recorded after the next hearing in the Supreme Court on her petition. However, the agency has rejected her request. Subsequently, accompanied by her brother Showik, she reached the ED office in Mumbai. The agency also quizzed Mr. Showik, Ms. Chakraborty’s chartered accountant, and her former manager, Shruti Modi. Ms. Chakraborty was questioned for over seven hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bollywood-actor-rhea-questioned-for-7-hours/article32300583.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Will close marines’ case after hefty compensation’||“We will get the best compensation from them,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured the court. The court ordered the Centre to implead the victims’ families in the case within a week. “We want to hear them. You [Centre] find where they are and you bring the families here,” Chief Justice Bobde, speaking for the Bench, directed the Centre. Marines Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre were detailed on Italian ship ‘Enrica Lexie’ when they allegedly shot the fishermen, thinking they were “pirates”. The marines, who are in Italy now, will face criminal investigation there. India is entitled to compensation for the loss of life. Its freedom and right of navigation was violated by the marines, the tribunal held. Centre’s application The hearing was based on an application filed by the Centre informing the Supreme Court that it has decided to “accept and abide” by an international tribunal’s award that the Marines enjoy immunity from prosecution in India. The government said India was bound by the award of the arbitral tribunal formed under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). It said the tribunal award was “final and without appeal”. Senior advocate K.N. Balagopal argued for Kerala, saying: “The award passed by the Permanent Court of Arbitration is in conflict with the Supreme Court judgment in 2013. This verdict upheld the authority of the Union of India to prosecute the Marines. So, an international award which is in conflict with a domestic law, notwithstanding India's ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Seas, can be implemented only if it is made into law under Article 253 of the Constitution”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-close-marines-case-after-hefty-compensation/article32300543.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry lists out 16 districts for high mortality||Sixteen districts in four States — Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana — are a cause of concern, said the Union Health Ministry on Friday, after confirming that these areas were reporting COVID-19 mortality higher than the national and States’ average. “A meeting was held with officials of the areas to analyse the factors driving the high mortality in these districts and devise ways and means to reduce the mortality,” said the Ministry. Areas including Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat; Belagavi, Bengaluru urban, Kalaburagi and Udupi in Karnataka; Chennai, Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Theni, Tiruvallur, Tiruchirappalli, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar in Tamil Nadu; Hyderabad and Medchal Malkajgiri in Telangana have been shortlisted by the Ministry “because, apart from the higher case mortality, these districts account for 17% of India’s active cases, high daily new cases, low tests per million, and high confirmation percentage,” said a senior Health Ministry official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-ministry-lists-out-16-districts-for-high-mortality/article32300571.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Swaroopa and vritti jnana||The atma chaitanya jnana that destroys ignorance is shown to be distinct, superior and also the reason for all kinds of objective knowledge gained by the human mind and intellect in the text Laghu Vasudeva Mananam, said Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. The former, known as swaroopa jnana, is intuitive, direct and immediate that is not dependent on anything else. But the latter, vritti jnana, is what is known by the mind and its mental processes and includes Vedanta knowledge. The term ‘jnana’ is used along vritti owing to the fact that swaroopa jnana is also present in it. Vritti or mental activity is only an instrument or ‘upadhi’ to aid knowledge accumulation and is not to be mistaken as capable of revealing atma chaitanya jnana. It functions just as the sense organ eye, by which one is able to see objects, people, etc. The eye by itself can only see. But the knowledge of what is seen is grasped owing to the mind. At times one may see many things but if the mind is not involved the understanding may not take place. Swaroopa jnana is explained with the analogy of sunlight illumining the wall when it falls on it. But suppose it falls on a mirror fixed on it, the light gets reflected in different ways. But these differences are all from the sun alone for there is no other source of light. Also, it is shown that the knowledge that reveals objects in the waking and dream states is vritti jnana. But the experience of the deep sleep state as total non-awareness that one feels after waking is owing to the inherent swaroopa jnana. Swaroopa jnana thus reveals what is known and also what is unknown. Ignorance of atma is removed only by the light of the atma that enters the mental mode that has taken the shape of atma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swaroopa-and-vritti-jnana/article32300568.ece
08 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||MLA seeks river data from China||A Congress MLA in Arunachal Pradesh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a reminder to Beijing for the resumption of the sharing of hydrological data on rivers originating in Tibet. Ninong Ering, a former Lok Sabha member, representing the Pasighat West Assembly constituency now, said the river-related information from China stopped coming two years ago. The lack of data has prevented people downstream in India from taking timely action for avoiding disasters, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mla-seeks-river-data-from-china/article32300554.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to take part in Kavkaz 2020 in Russia||In a resumption of bilateral and multilateral military exercises which were deferred due to COVID-19, India will take part in the Russian Kavkaz 2020 strategic command-post exercise next month. The invitees also include China and Pakistan, apart from other member-states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. The invitation comes amid the ongoing standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in in Eastern Ladakh. A small tri-service contingent will take part in the exercise to be held in Astrakhan , a defence source said. “The Indian contingent includes 150 Army personnel and smaller number of personnel from the Navy and Air Force,” the source stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-take-part-in-kavkaz-2020-in-russia/article32300552.ece
08 August 2020||Srinagar,||Manoj Sinha takes oath as L-G of J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) administration will soon initiate direct dialogue with the people to end the situation of uncertainty and the menace of terrorism, the Union Territory’s new Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Friday soon after being sworn in. The 61-year-old, who was administered the oath of office by Jammu and Kashmir High Court Chief Justice Gita Mittal at a simple function at the Raj Bhavan, also said he wants to accelerate development in the Union Territory. “August 5 is a very important day in the history of Jammu and Kashmir. After years of isolation, Jammu and Kashmir joined the national mainstream. I have been told that many works which could not be completed in years have been completed in the past one year,” Mr. Sinha said after taking oath. “I want to accelerate that development,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manoj-sinha-takes-oath-as-l-g-of-jk/article32300551.ece
08 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||700 sent to quarantine after test for Army porters||The authorities of Namsai district in Arunachal Pradesh have issued a notice to some 700 local youths who had participated in an Army recruitment rally for porters to be home quarantined for two weeks after several soldiers tested positive for COVID-19. The Army often takes in porters for about six months to carry essentials and equipment to and from forward posts in the high altitudes across the Himalayan belt. Each porter is “treated like a soldier” during his tenure. The 700 applicants from Namsai and adjoining districts took part in the ‘recruitment’ rally at the Government Higher Secondary School in Mahadevpur on August 2 and 3. On Thursday, 54 personnel of an Army camp in the district tested COVID-19 positive. Some of these personnel were involved with the rally. “Considering the possibility of the virus having been transmitted to the aspirants who participated in the recruitment rally, the Namsai district administration has asked all the aspirants or participants of the rally to remain in strict home quarantine for at least 14 days,” an official said, adding that the notice was issued on August 6. “During home quarantine period, if any symptoms of COVID-19 such as fever, cough, body pain, loss of smell and taste, etc., are noticed or felt, such person(s) shall immediately report to the nearest public health centre or the district surveillance officer for undergoing testing,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/700-sent-to-quarantine-after-test-for-army-porters/article32300553.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Restart hot cooked meals at anganwadis’||The government must resume provision of hot-cooked meals and ensure implementation of anganwadi services such as growth monitoring and community management of acutely malnourished children either within the day care centres or at the houses of the beneficiaries, urged the Right to Food Campaign in a memorandum to Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani. It has also sought a revision of the food package offered via anganwadis and recommended a “comprehensive package of cooked food and dry rations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restart-hot-cooked-meals-at-anganwadis/article32300582.ece
08 August 2020||Bhopal,||‘Digital detox’ for student as bail condition||The Gwalior Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has granted bail to a college student on the condition that he removes himself from social media for two months for “digital detoxification” and continues preparing for a competitive examination. Justice Anand Pathak on August 4 directed Harendra Tyagi, an 18-year-old agriculture science student, to “not be present on any social media platform for two months for digital detoxification”. The lawyer for the accused Sushant Tiwari said he would mend his ways to become a better citizen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digital-detox-for-student-as-bail-condition/article32300586.ece
08 August 2020||MYSURU,||Zookeeper dies in jumbo attack||A zookeeper died after he was attacked by an elephant on Friday. Harish was working at the elephant enclosure at Mysuru zoo for a long time and had established a bond with the pachyderms, it is learnt. The zoo management, which expressed shock over the incident, described Harish as a skilled person. “The incident occurred when Harish was in the process of tying a female elephant when another elephant attacked him suddenly. He was taken to a hospital but could not be saved,” Zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu.  Such incidents are said to be uncommon at the zoo as the keepers are well acquainted with the animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zookeeper-dies-in-jumbo-attack/article32300615.ece
08 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Two held for hoisting saffron flag on mosque||The Meerut police have arrested two alleged members of Bajrang Dal in connection with the hoisting of a saffron flag on a minaret of a mosque in the city, an official release said. According to the SP (City), based on a complaint with a video clip they received, an FIR against four persons was registered and two youngsters were detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-hoisting-saffron-flag-on-mosque/article32300793.ece
08 August 2020||Mumbai,||Country’s first Kisan Rail flagged off from Deolali||Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on August 7 flagged off the country’s first Kisan Rail train from Deolali, in Nashik, to Danapur, in Bihar, through video-conferencing. Speaking on the occasion, the Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare said, Kisan Rail would help in the transportation of agricultural produce, especially perishable commodities, at cheaper rates and aid farmers in getting the right price for their crops.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/countrys-first-kisan-rail-flagged-off-from-deolali/article32300969.ece
08 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Doctor on COVID duty succumbs||A 36-year-old government doctor, who reportedly contracted coronavirus at the altar of duty while heading the Manuguru-based quarantine centre, succumbed after battling the virus for a week at a hospital in Hyderabad in the small hours of Friday. Dr. Gubbala Naresh Kumar handled multiple duties as the Deputy District Medical and Health Officer and the District Immunisation Officer, and above all was a frontline warrior. The sudden death of the young doctor, who hailed from Bhadrachalam, came as a terrible shock to the members of the medical fraternity and others. Dr. Naresh had lost his life while trying to save coronavirus patients as a warrior, leaving behind his wife and two daughters, aged 9 and 7 years. He nurtured an ambition of becoming a pulmonologist to serve the needy in his native predominantly tribal populated district. But his death aborted his plans, bringing a promising career to an abrupt end. Collector M.V. Reddy expressed his profound grief over the sudden death. He termed Dr. Naresh a ‘COVID warrior’, who tirelessly offered his services to the needy with utmost care and diligence. He had recently secured a seat in PG medical course (pulmonology) in Osmania Medical College and tragedy struck him at a time when he was about to go for higher studies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctor-on-covid-duty-succumbs/article32300858.ece
08 August 2020||KOLKATA,||West Bengal adds 2912 new COVID-19 cases||West Bengal on Friday recorded 2,912 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 89,666. With 52 more deaths, the State’s toll has risen to 1,954. Kolkata recorded 20 deaths, pushing the city’s toll to 907. Of the latest victims, 14 were from North 24 Parganas district and eight from Howrah district. While the number of active cases in the State has climbed to 24, 652, the recovery rate remains at 70.33%. A total of 25,258 samples were tested in the State in the past 24 hours. Swapan Ghosh, the chairman of board of administrators of Panihati Municipality in North 24 Parganas, succumbed to the virus on Friday. In another development, the body of a COVID-19 patient remained unattended for almost 18 hours in Kestopur. The elderly woman, who had tested positive, died on Thursday evening, but the body was taken for cremation only on Friday afternoon. Incidents of delay in the disposal of bodies of COVID-19 patients have come to light in the past few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-adds-2912-new-covid-19-cases/article32300566.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Foreign nationals from U.S., U.K, Germany and France can travel to India||The Union Home Ministry has allowed foreign nationals from the U.S., the U.K, Germany and France to travel to India on “business, medical and employment” visas under the air bubble scheme. This is the first time that the government has clearly spelt out who can fly into India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/foreign-nationals-from-us-uk-germany-and-france-can-travel-to-india/article32300578.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. plans to close Ritchie Street after traders test positive||Owing to a rise in the number of traders testing positive for COVID-19, the Greater Chennai Corporation may close the Chintadripet Ritchie Street Radio Market, which has been attracting a large number of customers. The electronic market is the largest in the State, with over 3,000 shops selling a wide range of electronic goods and spare parts. Due to the promotion of online classes and online facilities during the pandemic, the demand for electronic devices increased in the market, causing both people in the city and from other districts to throng the commercial hub. Civic officials said traders had started testing positive, increasing the risk of the virus spreading to buyers. “Eight traders have tested positive at a screening camp. They are asymptomatic. This is a cause of concern,” an official said. In addition to the eight, many others who tested in private laboratories on their own had also tested positive. Such traders have been categorised as residents of zones where their residences are located. According to sources, a total of 23 persons have tested positive so far. After the Corporation sealed a number of shops as their owners tested positive, at least 600 others have agreed to undergo testing at Corporation facilities. “Initially, most traders were reluctant and scared to get tested. Whenever sanitary inspectors visited shops, they close up and leave the area. So most of them and their employees are yet to be tested,” an official said. “Buyers are likely to spread the disease to other districts. We have to take preventive measures. We are worried about the possibility of another cluster similar to the one at Koyambedu market,” an official said. Increase in turnover Many shops have reported an increase in turnover after the pandemic because of rising demand for electronic devices. Buyers from Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have also been visiting the market in large numbers, increasing the risk of COVID-19 spread, officials said. On Saturday, civic officials are planning to conduct another round of testing in the area to isolate traders who have been infected. The Corporation has collected 900 to 1,000 samples in each of the market areas to detect and isolate cases more efficiently. “Domestic spread has been reduced. We will focus on traders. Traders in the market for automobile spares in Pudupet will also be tested on Saturday,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-plans-to-close-ritchie-street-after-traders-test-positive/article32300685.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State adds 5,880 fresh COVID-19 cases; 119 fatalities recorded||Even as another 5,880 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, Chennai’s daily count fell below 1,000 for the first time since mid-June. The city recorded 984 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking its tally to 1,07,109. The city’s daily COVID-19 count first breached the 1,000-mark on June 3 (1,012 cases), and except for a day, on June 16, when the city recorded 919 cases, the number of infections daily stayed above the 1,000-mark till now. The city’s highest daily figure has been 2,393, on June 30. The State’s tally climbed to 2,85,024, of which 52,759 persons were under treatment. A total of 6,488 persons were discharged. As of date, 2,27,575 persons have been discharged after treatment. However, for the fifth consecutive day, 119 deaths were recorded, taking the toll to 4,690. Among the deceased was a 32-year-old woman from Ariyalur. She was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Tiruchi, on August 3. She died of COVID-19, pneumonia, respiratory failure, acute kidney injury, post caesarean section and broad ligament hematoma on August 5.  Among those discharged, 1,103 were from hospitals in Chennai. With this, the city has 11,606 active cases and 93,231 discharges. Of the 119 deaths, 24 persons died in the city, followed by eight deaths in Chengalpattu, and six each in Salem, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai and Thoothukudi. Though cases dipped in the city, a majority of the districts in the northern and southern parts of the State continued to see a surge in fresh infections. Tiruvallur recorded 388 cases, Chengalpattu 319 and Ranipet 253. Among the other northern districts, Tiruvannamalai recorded 248 cases, while 211 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore. Kancheepuram and Vellore had 166 and 156 cases respectively. A total of 351 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Theni, while Tirunelveli had 200 cases. The daily count in the other southern districts was: Madurai 109; Tenkasi 117; Thoothukudi 192; Virudhunagar 101; Dindigul 134 and Kanniyakumari 187. Coimbatore recorded 228 cases, while Thanjavur and Pudukottai had 217 and 173 cases respectively. A total of 105 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruchi. Twenty-four returnees also tested positive. Another 67,352 samples were tested. Till date, a total of 30,88,066 samples have been tested in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-adds-5880-fresh-covid-19-cases-119-fatalities-recorded/article32300720.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai in a ‘long pause’, makes incremental gains||With the city’s daily count dropping to under 1,000 cases for the first time in nearly one-and-a-half months, there seems to be a sort of slowing down of the pandemic. While the number of cases is coming down in the city, despite about 12,000 tests being performed every day, the percentage of recovered cases and active cases too have made steady, yet incremental gains. “Let’s not be hasty and make any declarations yet. Yes, the numbers have been consistently lower than 1,100, and today, even lower, despite ramping up tests. We can probably say that there has been a ‘long pause’ in the epidemic in Chennai,” said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. He warns that any celebration will be premature at this stage. However, he acknowledges the steady work that has led to these gains — the high number of tests, fever camps, contact tracing and volunteer outreach in nearly every home in the Corporation limits. “The way this epidemic proceeds rests a lot on public behaviour. Mask wearing has really picked up in Chennai. That has helped too,” he said. Prabhdeep Kaur, Scientist E/deputy director, Indian Council of Medical Research- National Institute of Epidemiology, agrees. “Compliance with the mask wearing rule is better now; much better than in some places in Europe. Testing and mask wearing are two things that are making a big difference. More people are wearing masks and more people are willing to get tested too,” she added. Behavioural change The significant change has also been social, a behavioural change. That is also why transmission has slowed down. More people are cautious and aware, wanting to test themselves. Transmission, as a result, is not happening beyond the family and the workplace, she added. Dr. Radhakrishnan explains that the new emerging concern is workplace transmission, now that companies have been allowed to bring in people. “One worrisome area is the common lunch habit. People fail to maintain distance. They, of course, do not wear masks. We are intervening with offices to ensure that the message goes out to all employees coming in to work, and are also changing our messaging subtly to suit the group.”  Testing and mask wearing are two things that are making a big difference. More people are wearing masks and more people are willing to get tested Prabhdeep Kaur Scientist E/deputy director, ICMR- National Institute of Epidemiology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-in-a-long-pause-makes-incremental-gains/article32300711.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC allows LT consumers to avail up to 150 KW||In a major relief to many small and medium scale industries, Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has notified the amendment to the electricity supply code which allows consumers to have an option to avail up to 150 Kilowatts (KW) under the low tension category, compared to an earlier limit of up to 112 KW. The consumers are permitted to remain in the old scheme if they are willing to do so. A major difference under the new amendment is that the consumer can avail LT supply up to 150 KW, provided they pay a fixed demand charge as that of HT supply (Rs. 350 / Kilovolt Ampere (KVA) instead of Rs. 70/KW), according to an expert. He also pointed out that, hitherto, consumers were paying hefty penalty charges once they exceeded the sanctioned demand of 112 KW and were not in a position to develop the electricity infrastructure needed for availing the HT supply due to space and other financial considerations. “The aim of the proposed amendments is to improve the HT/LT line ratio, facilitate consumers to obtain supply under the ‘Ease of doing business’ programme of the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, and provide choice of supply to other consumers,” TNERC said in the explanatory note in the gazette notification. Even though the Tangedco would lose on the penalty, so far collected due to the new amendment, it would be offset by the fixed demand charges to be collected from this category of consumers, the expert said. In case if a customer has availed supply up to 130 KW and if the recorded demand does not exceed 150 KW, then he has to pay demand charges up to 1% of the consumption charges for every exceeding KW. In case of where demand exceeds 150 KW, it will attract excess demand charges of 1% per KW up to 150 KW and 1.5% per every KW above 150 KW for the first two occurrences. Demand charges of 3% will be levied for every KW over and above 150 KW for the third occurrence and 10% in case of fourth occurrence. If the recorded demand exceeds 150 KW for the third time or more, the Tangedco can issue a notice for converting the LT connection into a HT connection. “This is a welcome move and would help medium and small industries to put more machinery in their facility. Tamil Nadu is one of the few States to allow a limit of up to 150 KW,” said A.N. Sujeesh, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association.  Tamil Nadu is one of the few States to allow a limit of up to 150 KW A.N. Sujeesh,President, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-allows-lt-consumers-to-avail-up-to-150-kw/article32300699.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kannan Ambalam an inspiration for communities in Ethiopia||About 15 years ago, Kannan Ambalam was among the several thousand civil service aspirants in the country. Despite being unsuccessful in all his seven attempts to clear the civil services exams, this 43-year-old native of Tamil Nadu is now an inspiration to several youth and local communities in Ethiopia. An associate professor teaching public administration in Wollega University in Nekemte in Western Oromia region of Ethiopia, with no formal training in civil engineering or water-related issues, Mr. Ambalam is now the man behind 48 small bridges and 28 water springs in the African country. Banking on documentaries on the internet for basics of constructing bridges and depending on his students and locals in neighbouring villages for their labour, Mr. Ambalam mobilises materials for bridges and constructs them in his free time. “It all started when I saw an elderly woman attempting to cross a stream. We helped her cross it by laying two trees across the stream. It has been a long way since,” recalls the Ph.D. holder from Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. On hearing about his good work, neighbouring villages invited him to construct small bridges in their areas too. “Construction is a costly affair here and hence there are not many bridges. But we wanted to show how people can come together and build a bridge for themselves, which can improve their lives,” says Mr. Ambalam. Mr. Ambalam and his students have built bridges up to 24m in length and 4m in breadth. “We are not professional engineers but with these bridges, people’s income has increased, dropout rate in schools has come down and access to healthcare has improved. We don’t charge anything and we are not a company. We are only a group of youngsters believing in indigenous solutions for existing problems. We have also constructed a checkdam to benefit farmers here.” Acknowledging his disappointment on not clearing the civil service exams, the native of Pondhugampatty in Madurai district just didn't give up on community service. “I thought, if I had become an IAS officer, I could have done more to the people around me. But I did not succeed. I still wanted to help people around me and that is who I am,” he says. He fondly recalls his teacher Kuppusamy from a government school in Palamedu, who encouraged him to take up community service. “Most of the trees on that campus now are those which I planted. I was interested in gardening. It continued during my NSS days in Thiagarajar College, my MCC days as well as when I was president of Jhelum Hostel in JNU.” The challenges of understanding the local language Asan Oromo or financial resources needed for the projects have never stopped him from going ahead with his mission. “I may not speak the language like them but the locals here realise my intention and help me. When I work along with them without shoes, they know I am one among them,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kannan-ambalam-an-inspiration-for-communities-in-ethiopia/article32300698.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against acquisition of Jaya’s house may go to Division Bench||A single judge of the Madras High Court on Friday referred to a Division Bench a case filed by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa, who challenged a land acquisition officer’s July 27 award for acquiring her aunt’s Poes Garden residence Veda Nilayam. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh felt it would be appropriate to refer her case also to the Division Bench since he had already referred a similar case filed by her brother J. Deepak, who had challenged the acquisition proceedings in entirety and not just the award alone. Advocate General Vijay Narayan brought it to the notice of the court that a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose had declared the siblings to be the legal heirs of Jayalalithaa on May 27 and recorded their undertaking to establish a public trust. The court had left it to the siblings to identify select properties left behind by their aunt, liquidate them and utilise the money for performing public welfare activities through the trust. It had also directed the State government to provide adequate security to the legal heirs. “I have gone through that judgment carefully and found that the Division Bench had ordered for listing of the case once again after eight weeks only to report compliance of the two aspects related to formation of the public trust and providing security,” Mr. Narayan said. Concurring with the A-G that the Bench had ordered for re-listing of the case only for a limited purpose of reporting compliance of their order, Justice Venkatesh said the problem now was that the siblings wanted to retain Veda Nilayam for their personal use. They were willing to liquidate other properties for the purpose of creation of a trust and hence, it would be appropriate that the present writ petitions also get listed before the Bench in order to avoid any contrary orders being passed by different judges, he added. When Ms. Deepa’s counsel insisted on staying all further proceedings with regard to the acquisition until her writ petition gets listed for hearing before the Division Bench, Mr. Narayan wondered what was there to stay now when the award amount had already been deposited in a city civil court.  The judge agreed and refused to pass any kind of interim orders. He directed the Registry to place the matter before Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi, who would decide whether the cases would get listed before a Division Bench holding the portfolio concerned at present or before the same Bench which declared the siblings as legal heirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-acquisition-of-jayas-house-may-go-to-division-bench/article32300731.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold being smuggled on repatriation flights||At a time when people are scrambling to find seats on repatriation flights, Chennai Customs officials are finding gold being smuggled through such services. In three instances this week, Customs officials seized over 2 kg of gold from passengers from the Middle East. On Monday, two persons were arrested for concealing 1.2 kg of gold. The next day, a passenger from Dubai had hidden 280 g of gold. The same day, two more passengers from Dubai were found hiding 731 g of gold. Officials said these passengers were mere carriers. These are labourers working abroad, now returning home for various reasons. “We have been vigilant with all flights arriving in the city,” an official said. “Perhaps, a group that wants to smuggle gold has been identifying poor labourers taking these flights and has been handing over gold, asking them to give it to someone waiting here. These people get paid Rs. 2,000 or a little more for carrying the gold,” a Customs official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-being-smuggled-on-repatriation-flights/article32300707.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion for I-Day rehearsals||In view of rehearsals ahead of the Independence Day celebrations at Fort St. George, traffic curbs have been announced on August 8, 10 and 13 from 6.30 a.m. till the end of the rehearsal. Kamarajar Salai from Napier Bridge to RBI Subway North on Rajaji Salai and Flag Staff Road will be closed. Vehicles on Kamarajar Salai heading to Parry’s Corner via Rajaji Salai may go via Swami Sivananda Salai, Anna Salai, Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Salai, R.A. Mandram and North Fort Salai. Those coming from Rajaji Salai and proceeding towards Kamarajar Salai via Rajaji Salai may take the route via North Fort Salai, R.A. Mandram, Muthusamy Salai, Muthusamy Bridge, Anna Salai and Wallajah Salai. Vehicles coming from Muthusamy Bridge/Anna Salai and going towards Parrys Corner/Kamarajar Salai via Flag Staff Road may take the route via Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Salai, R.A. Mandram and NFS to reach Parry’s Corner and Anna Salai, Wallajah Salai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversion-for-i-day-rehearsals/article32300683.ece
08 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Now, medical insurance to attract home buyers||A city real estate developer has announced a comprehensive medical insurance scheme, which also covers COVID-19, for new customers. Announced by Akshaya Pvt. Ltd., the scheme will be valid for 3 years for which the developer will pay the full premium upfront. It will cover a family of four, including two adults and up to two children. The total cover will be divided into slabs of Rs. 10 lakh, Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 20 lakh. This will apply to those who buy from any ongoing project in the month of August. T. Chitty Babu, chairman & CEO, Akshaya Pvt. Ltd., said, “We want to ensure that our customers and their families are fully insured during these difficult times.” The company said it had already made changes to three of its ongoing projects, redesigning homes suitable for a post-COVID-19 world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-medical-insurance-to-attract-home-buyers/article32300689.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Handloom Cafe launched in Egmore||The Tamil Nadu Weavers’ Cooperative, popularly known as Co-optex, has launched a Handloom Cafe in Egmore to mark National Handloom Day on Friday. The walls of the cafe are replete with information about the State’s handloom weaves and those who create them. One of the walls carries a photo representing the five major weaving communities in the State, with an accompanying panel providing information about them and their weaves. At the far end of the cafe, a specially designed Korvai loom, used in Kancheepuram, is on display. The loom was designed by M. Manickam, a member of the latest generation in a long line of weavers. Two display cases, each at the entrance and near the loom, will display various varieties of saris woven in the State. T.N. Venkatesh, managing director of Co-optex, said the cafe cost Rs. 70 lakh to build and funds for the initiative came from the State government’s support programme for handlooms. “I have been toying with the concept since January. But the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown delayed its realisation,” he said. “The cafe can be used for mini-seminars of 20-30 people,” Mr. Venkatesh said. The cafe will function from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handloom-cafe-launched-in-egmore/article32300688.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK fighting two enemies, but will win’||DMK president M.K. Stalin said on Friday that his party was fighting two enemies — one at the Centre and another in the State — at the same time. Yet, it would emerge victorious at the 2021 hustings to return to power for a sixth time. Paying tribute to his father, former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, on his second death anniversary, Mr. Stalin said: “We might be out of power at the moment. But our ideology is strong, our party is strong. In the last two years, we have had many victories in the Assembly, Parliament and local bodies’ elections. Our party’s voice is the first voice that speaks for the rights of our people, for our language.” False propaganda He claimed a lot of false propaganda and controversies were being spread about the DMK. “We are stepping on and crossing fire for the country,” he said. Mr. Stalin and senior leaders of the DMK paid respects to the former Chief Minister at his memorial on the Marina Beach in the morning. Mr. Stalin also unveiled a statue of Karunanidhi at his native village Tirukuvalai via video conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-fighting-two-enemies-but-will-win/article32300733.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DCE issues admission guidelines||The Directorate of College Education has instructed colleges to provide the fee structure of the courses they offer and upload the prospectus on the DCE’s website,www.tngasa.org. The principal and the admission committee will be responsible for violations of the guidelines, the DCE has said in its government order issued on Friday, for the academic year 2020-21. The guidelines provide details of admission procedure, rules of reservation, preparation of merit list and details of ancillaries allowed in a programme.  Teachers’ associations point out that this year too, despite the time the department had due to the pandemic, the guidelines have come after self-financing colleges have completed their admission processes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dce-issues-admission-guidelines/article32300704.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable, fruit traders defer strike||The strike announced by the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sankangalin Peramaippu on August 10 has been postponed after talks with officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and Greater Chennai Corporation. In a release, the Federation’s president, A.M. Vikramaraja, said it was earlier decided that all vegetable, fruit and flower shops would down shutters. However, it has now been postponed as officials have assured them that arrangements to reopen the Koyambedu wholesale complex would be made after consultation with the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister, once they return to Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-fruit-traders-defer-strike/article32300705.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AI-powered tool will help small businesses||A start-up founded by an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras has developed a tool to help small and medium enterprises. The tool, FAST, analyses data to understand the current business scenario and calculate future business trends. Incubated by NASSCOM, the start-up geniSIGHTS has developed the AI-powered business intelligence suite that takes 30 seconds to be set up for the first time. It then generates data-driven insights and responds to voice commands as well. IIT-M alumnus Rajesh Kumar, with experience in consulting with Fortune 100 organisations, and Parvathy Sarath, an expert in advanced analytics, machine learning and AI, have co-founded the start-up. Mr. Kumar, managing director of geniSIGHTS, said, “COVID-19 has impacted small businesses significantly. These companies are now constrained to save on their operational costs and have to look for agile insights for competitive advantage.” According to him, the conversational tool provides customisation at the hands of the decision maker on key performance indicators and charts, among other . Ms. Sarath, geniSIGHTS’s chief analytics officer, said the tool was targeted at widening the scope of AI adoption and making the platform affordable and accessible to small and medium-scale businesses. Cognizant’s emeritus vice-chairman Lakshmi Narayanan said, “Deep analytics and insights visualisation at the speed of thought is what FAST aims to achieve, with a solution that integrates high-speed voice input with AI-powered analytics engine in the cloud.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ai-powered-tool-will-help-small-businesses/article32300715.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 712 crore for T.N. under Centre’s package||The Centre has allocated around Rs. 712 crore under the COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package to Tamil Nadu. On Thursday, the Union government released Rs. 200 crore towards the second tranche. In April, the first tranche was provided, in which the State got Rs. 312.64 crore. As of now, the Centre has to give Rs. 200 crore more to the State. Also called the COVID-19 Package, the assistance is meant for a host of measures aimed at handling immediate requirements. It covers, among others, the strengthening of the public health infrastructure for testing, including procurement and installation of Reverse Transcription- Polymerase Chain Reaction (PT-RCR) machines and RNA extraction kits. It can also be used for development of ICU beds; installation of oxygen generators, cryogenic oxygen tanks and medical gas pipelines in public health facilities; procurement of bed-side oxygen concentrators; engagement, training and capacity building of necessary human resources; and incentives to healthcare workforce and volunteers. In a circular to the States, the Centre pointed out that the emergency component of the package had been extended from June 30 to March 31, 2021. The States have been advised to adopt “efficacious measures” while utilising the funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-712-crore-for-tn-under-centres-package/article32300714.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. flayed for reducing ex gratia||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday condemned the AIADMK government for halving the ex-gratia for families of frontline workers who die while on COVID-19 duty to Rs. 25 lakh from Rs. 50 lakh announced earlier. “It was Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami who gave the assurance of ex-gratia of Rs. 50 lakh. While he initially announced that the ex-gratia would be Rs. 10 lakh, he later increased it to Rs. 50 lakh and a government job to a family member of the deceased frontline staff,” Mr. Stalin said. Medical expenses The DMK president said the Chief Minister had announced that frontline workers who get infected while on COVID-19 duty would get Rs. 2 lakh after recovery to meet the medical expenses. “Till date, we do not know how many such workers have been given either Rs. 2 lakh nor is there any information on how many families of deceased workers have been given the compensation of Rs. 50 lakh and a government job. This government is hiding all such information,” Mr. Stalin said. “The Chief Minister was the one who made the promise of providing Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia. He should know that he has the moral responsibility to fulfil the promise. If you have the heart and sympathy, then there is a way to fulfil the promise,” he added. He urged the Chief Minister not to diminish the sacrifices made by the frontline workers and their families.  If you have the heart and sympathy, then there is a way to fulfil the promise||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-slams-govt-for-reducing-ex-gratia/article32300725.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Digging of roads banned for four days||The Greater Chennai Corporation has decided to ban line agencies and residents from digging roads from August 8 to 11 to facilitate inauguration of the submarine optical fibre cables from Chennai to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Residents who dig roads during the period will be penalised. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate the project this week. Civic agencies, such as Metrowater, have also been authorised to dig roads without permission from the Corporation, officials said. Such digging affects telecom connectivity. V.K. Sanjeevi, chief general manager, Chennai Telephones-BSNL, said, “The cable comes through Port Blair into Santhome beach and goes to a landing station. We need to protect the cable as it goes via many parts of the city, including Haddows Road and Flower Bazaar.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digging-of-roads-banned-for-four-days/article32300686.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Class 10 results out on Monday||The Class 10 results will be announced at 9.30 a.m. on Monday, the Director of Government Examinations said. Students can see their results by visiting www.tnresults.nic.in, www.dge1.tn.nic.in, or www.dge2.nic.in and providing their registration number and date of birth. Results will also be sent via SMS to the mobile numbers submitted by students to their schools. Students can collect temporary marksheets from their school heads from August 17 to 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-10-results-out-on-monday/article32300702.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Venkaiah praises farmers||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday lauded Indian farmers for producing foodgrains in higher quantities this year, despite the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown restrictions. Speaking at a function organised by the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) to mark its foundation day, along with a virtual consultation on ‘Science for resilient food, nutrition and livelihoods: contemporary challenges,’ Mr. Naidu said that he saluted the farmers for the record production, compared to the previous year. When livelihoods and the economy were severely affected by the pandemic, the farming community stood firm against all these challenges, he said. Highlighting the commitment of the Union government to double farmers’ income by 2022, the Vice-President said that a number of initiatives were already being implemented.  Pointing out that the United Nation’s ‘State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020’ report had stated that the number of people suffering from hunger had increased since 2014, he said the pandemic may have worsened the situation. He highlighted the steps being taken by the Indian government to address malnourishment and hunger. K. Vijaya Raghavan, principal scientific advisor, Government of India, spoke on the need for developing a new model of sustainable development, which has no negative impact on biodiversity and climate change. M.S. Swaminathan, eminent agricultural scientist and founder of MSSRF, spoke on the need to enact legislations to strengthen the rights of women farmers. K.S. Murali, executive director, presented the annual report. The foundation also announced a new ‘Mina Swaminathan Fellowship on Gender and Development’ for journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/venkaiah-praises-farmers/article32300709.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Snake park needs funds to keep going||A trip to the snake park near IIT-Madras will be etched in the memory of anyone who grew up in the city. Many would have definitely visited the Chennai Snake Park as part of school excursions or family trips. The park, inching towards its 50th year, is now in dire need of financial help, as its income has been affected by COVID-19. It has requested donations from the people to keep the park running. From pythons, spectacled cobras, saw-scaled vipers and common kraits, there are around 30 types of snakes, crocodiles, iguanas and tortoises in the park, run by the Chennai Snake Park Trust, a charitable trust that runs a research and study centre of national importance, under the Central Zoo Authority. It is also academically affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Open University. “This is India’s first snake part and has been in existence since 1972. Our main source of income was the entry tickets, priced at Rs. 20 for adults and Rs. 10 for children. We used to get close to five lakh visitors a year — four lakh adults and one lakh children. This used to fetch us a revenue of close to Rs. 1 crore,” said R. Rajarathinam, director, snake park. He said they were managing to feed the reptiles with the help of donations. “With this money, we purchase feed and some of our staff also catch fish and rodents to feed the reptiles,” he said. However, they need more funds to keep the park running. Meanwhile, Dipankar Ghose, special activity co-ordinator for the snake park, said that to raise funds, the park had introduced the Snake Charmer Scheme. The snake park will provide its services to industries, offices, educational institutions, clubs, residential colonies and gated communities to create “snakebite free zones” on their campuses and premises, especially with the monsoon around the corner. “The park will also offer complimentary access to the park, volunteer training and conservation programmes. Patrons will be taken for field trips and camps, under the supervision of experts,’ he said. or details, contact: +91 94449 81723/+91 73959 17040.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snake-park-needs-funds-to-keep-going/article32300717.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter hacked to death in Kodungaiyur||Dhamodharan alias Chellakunju, 31, a history-sheeter, was hacked to death in Kodungaiyur by a bike-borne gang late on Thursday. The police suspect one Mohan, with whom the victim fought a few months ago, and are searching for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-hacked-to-death-in-kodungaiyur/article32300691.ece
08 August 2020||Coimb,TAMIL NADU||Four youths die as car rams tree in Coimbatore||Four youngsters died and one suffered injuries after their car rammed a tree near Thadagam in Coimbatore district in the early hours of Friday. Police said that the five friends — S. Indhiresh (22), R. Karthik Raju (22), V. Mohan Hari (23), N. Manikandan (22), and R. Prajesh, (23) — had gone on a long drive from Coimbatore to Anaikatti on Thursday night. Indhiresh allegedly drove the car at a high speed and rammed a tree at Kalaiyanur near Thadagam at 4 a.m. While Prajesh was injured in the accident, the rest were killed on the spot, according to police. Slippery roads due to rain coupled with the speeding led to the accident, police said. The injured was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday morning. Thadagam police registered a case under Sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-youths-die-as-car-rams-tree-in-coimbatore/article32300734.ece
08 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Rain to have a positive impact on water supply’||Urban and rural local bodies in the district would be able to supply water to residents as and when all the tanks get filled, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said in a release after he held a review meeting at the Coimbatore Collectorate on Friday.  Kudimaramathu scheme All the tanks were getting filled up after they were dredged and their inlet channels were cleaned under the Chief Minister’s Kudimaramathu scheme. If the South West Monsoon rain were to continue, the tanks would fill up fast and it would have a positive impact on water supply. He asked officials from the Public Works, Revenue, Municipal Administration and others and Fire and Rescue Service personnel to coordinate relief work and keep an eye on water course.  He asked the PWD officials to monitor water flow in Rivers Noyyal and Bhavani to keep higher officials posted of increase in flow. He also spoke about the distribution of essential commodities and financial assistance through fair price shops to PDS card holders and various sections of the society. The release said senior district administration officials participated in the meeting. ‘Evacuate people if necessary’ A press release issued after his visit to Mettupalayam to witness the flow in River Bhavani and take stock of the district administration’s preparedness said he asked the officials to keep ready community halls, wedding halls and schools if the necessity arose to evacuate people from the River Bhavani banks and low-lying areas. In the last two days, the inflow into the Pilloor Reservoir was 34,000 cusecs and the discharge was 25,000 cusecs to maintain the water level at 97 feet. The full reservoir level is 100 feet. Last year, the discharge from the Reservoir was 88,000 cusecs. But this year the situation thus far had not warranted such a huge discharge. But nevertheless, revenue divisional officers, tahsildars, block development officers, municipal commissioners, Fire and Rescue Services personnel and police should closely monitor the situation. He asked the officials to ensure that sand bags were ready and so were town-criers to alert at the right time. He also directed the Disaster Management Department to alert people through media. The Minister also appealed to the people to avoid bathing in water bodies during the rainy season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-to-have-a-positive-impact-on-water-supply/article32300735.ece
08 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wind energy generation picks up in Tamil Nadu||Wind energy generation has picked up in Tamil Nadu over the last few days, as the State has had its peak windy days. However, the generation can go up further, say wind energy producers. “The winds are good. This is one of the best years. There are instances when the mills had to be shut down because of very high winds. But several wind mills are stopped, stalling evacuation of wind energy without any reason,” says one of the wind energy producers here. In the years when the winds were this high, the State had seen wind energy consumption go up to 100 million units a day. Now, it does not cross 80 million units, he said. With an installed wind energy capacity of nearly 8,500 MW, wind energy consumption on June 1 this year was 27 million units and it increased to 79 million units on August 6. Last year, the installed capacity was 8,468 MW in the State and wind energy consumption on August 6 was 65 million units and on June 1, it was 40 million units. Wind energy generation is high in the southern and western districts in Tamil Nadu. Additions to installed capacity have been low for the last three to four years, with just about 100 MW to 200 MW added every year, said K. Kasthurirangaian, president of Indian Wind Power Association. Captive consumption of wind energy is not high this year because migrant workers at industries have gone home. But the wind energy producers continue to support the government with forecasts so that wind energy generation can improve, he added. Sources in the industry said that the scope for evacuation is high across the wind energy-producing districts. The Indian grid code says that wind mills must be given “must run” status. Yet, wind mills are shut down. The government and the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation should take steps to increase the generation and should not shut down wind mills, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wind-energy-generation-picks-up-in-tamil-nadu/article32300694.ece
08 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan woman accused in Lokka case shifted to Puzhal||The Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) officials, investigating the case related to the death of a person, suspected to be Sri Lankan fugitive Angoda Lokka, shifted one of the accused, Amani Thanji from Coimbatore, to Puzhal central prison on Friday. Amani, a woman from Colombo, was one of the three accused arrested by the Coimbatore city police on Sunday, on charges of producing false documents to help suspected Sri Lankan gangster Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera aka Angoda Lokka, who had reportedly died in Coimbatore in July. Police sources said that she was admitted at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) shortly after her arrest as she developed health complications. Only foreign national Following the completion of her treatment, five CB-CID officials accompanied her in a police vehicle from CMCH to Chennai in the early hours of Friday. Being the only foreign national among the accused, she was shifted to Puzhal central prison, according to sources. Amani developed health complications after she allegedly consumed pills to terminate her pregnancy after Lokka’s death. Probe on The CB-CID sources on Friday said that the Sri Lankan gangster reportedly underwent a plastic surgery at a private hospital in Coimbatore during his stay in the city. The deceased also used to frequent a gym at Cheran Maa Nagar, where he was staying. The CB-CID officials are probing further into these findings, officials sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-woman-accused-in-lokka-case-shifted-to-puzhal/article32300695.ece
08 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TECA welcomes amendment||The Tamilnadu Electricity Consumers Association has urged the Tamilnadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to strengthen the Low Tension (LT) power infrastructure in the State. In a press release, association president S.R. Rabinder welcomed the recent amendment to the Tamilnadu Electricity Supply Code, increasing the permitted maximum sanctioned demand for LT consumers. The consumers could now go up to 150 kW (approximately 200 HP) of maximum sanctioned demand as against 112 kW (150 HP) earlier. This was expected to create a demand from LT power consumers. Hence, the Tangedco should strengthen the infrastructure, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teca-welcomes-amendment/article32300738.ece
08 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Online admission for UG programmes begins at TNAU||Online admission to 10 undergraduate programmes offered by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University began on Friday with Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar launching the process. A release said the programmes offered at 14 constituent and 28 affiliated colleges were B.Sc. Agriculture, Horticulture, Forestry, Food, Nutrition and Dietetics, Sericulture and Agri Business Management and B.Tech. Agricultural Engineering, Food Technology, Biotechnology and Energy and Environment Engineering. Those interested can register online their application by visitingwww.tnauonline.infrom Friday. Details regarding courses and admission process were available atwww.tnau.ac.in. For further details dial 0422-6611322/ 6611328/ 6611345 or 6611346 between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on working days. The last date to receive filled-in applications was September 17. Thereafter, it would release the rank-list on September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-admission-for-ug-programmes-begins-at-tnau/article32300749.ece
08 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special teams formed to nab burglars||Coimbatore City Police on Friday formed four special teams to arrest a gang attempting burglaries in residential areas during night in the city. On Thursday night, it attempted to break into a house at A.G. Pudur in Irugur and Kotari Nagar in Singanallur. On Friday, Singanallur police registered a case against the gang, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-nab-burglars/article32300748.ece
08 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water level crosses 97 feet in Bhavani Sagar Dam||With the inflow continuing to be over 24,000 cusecs, water level in Bhavani Sagar Dam crossed 97 feet here on Friday evening. At 7 p.m., the water level stood at 97.05 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. While the inflow was 24,722 cusecs, the discharge was 500 cusecs in Kalingarayan canal and 400 cusecs in Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals. The storage was 26.481 tmcft against the capacity of 32.800 tmcft. Public Works Department officials said that water level had gone up by 11 feet in the last five days and increase in discharge would be decided in a day depending on the inflow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-crosses-97-feet-in-bhavani-sagar-dam/article32300736.ece
08 August 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal Collector tests positive for COVID-19||Karaikal District Collector Arjun Sharma has tested positive for COVID-19 and is under home isolation. Soon after the results of swab samples received on Thursday night from the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital indicated the viral infection, Mr. Sharma went into home isolation. “At present, the Collector is asymptomatic. Another test will be conducted after seven days and he will be under observation for the subsequent three days. Thereafter, the Collector would undergo seven more days of home quarantine before assuming normal duties,” Mohanraj, Deputy Director of Immunisation, Karaikal, said. The District Collectorate will be remain closed until it is fully sanitised, Dr. Mohanraj said. The Collector had his swab samples taken after his cook tested positive for the virus earlier this week. The cook’s swab samples were tested on his return from a visit to Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-collector-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32301036.ece
08 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, two sons killed in accident||A woman and her two sons were killed here on Friday when they were knocked off their two-wheeler by a lorry. The woman had petitioned the Superintendent of Police seeking an investigation into the death of her husband at the private company he was employed in here last month. Jamuna (35) of Silaepalli in Vepanapalli, and her sons, Vel Murugan (11) and Venkatesh (8), were heading for Krishnagiri when the lorry knocked them down. Jamuna and Venkatesh were killed on the spot. Vel Murugan died on way to the hospital. On July 16, Jamuna’s husband Murugesan (38), who was employed as a cook in the jewellery unit of Titan Industries had collapsed and died at the workplace. Deputy Director of Health Govindan said Murugesan was COVID-19 positive, but asymptomatic, and also had morbid obesity. His body was cremated. On July 24, Jamuna petitioned Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar, alleging that her husband was electrocuted while handling the grinder switch and demanded a CB-CID inquiry. In her petition, Jamuna had alleged that the SIPCOT Police got her signature for permission to cremate her husband’s body, citing that he was COVID-19 positive. She also wondered why the body was cremated when those who died of the disease were to be only buried. The police obtained her thumb impressions saying it was for the autopsy and later told her that they would cremate the body as her husband had tested positive for COVID-19. The petitioner had also found it strange that no direct contact of her husband, including she, her children or any co-worker had since tested positive. When contacted by The Hindu, the Deputy Director of Health reiterated that the death was due to morbid obesity even though the person had mild COVID-19 infection. As for the way the body was disposed of, Dr. Govindan said the bodies of those who died of COVID-19 could either be cremated or buried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-two-sons-killed-in-accident/article32300737.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PWD urged to draw maximum water from Periyar dam||With water level rising in Periyar dam, Madurai farmers want the Public Works Department (PWD) to draw maximum water from the dam to fill up Vaigai dam so as to facilitate early release of water for irrigating the first crop in the double-crop areas in Madurai and Dindigul districts. Following good rain in the catchment areas, the water level in Periyar dam rose to 131.80 feet at 4 p.m. on Friday. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,150 million cubic feet (mcft) at 4 p.m. M. Murugan, president, Periyar Single Crop Area Farmer’s Association, said that first water had to be released for irrigating 14,000 acres in Cumbum Valley. “With the combined Periyar credit crossing 4,000 mcft level, farmers of double-crop areas are now eligible for water release. But, the storage in Vaigai dam is very low. Hence, it has to be filled immediately so that water can be released for irrigation,” he said. After the release of water for double crop-areas, water has to be released for single-crop areas in Madurai district from September 15, he added. Maximum quantity of water has to be drawn from Vaigai dam to avoid the Periyar water overflowing to Kerala side when it reaches the maximum permissible level of 142 feet, said R. Arul Prakasam, president of Periyar Water Distribution Committee. Mr. Murugan says that following good rainfall, the situation has changed positively for farmers in the last one week. “Water has to be released as soon as possible for commencing agricultural operations. This will provide relief for farmers, who have been financially suffering due to COVID-19 pandemic,” he added. Water for irrigating 45,000 acres of ayacut of double crop area in Dindigul and Madurai district usually begins on or after June 1 as and when the combined Periyar credit touches 4,000 mcft. However, due to scanty rainfall, there has been a delay in releasing water for the past few years. “As a result farmers could grow only a single crop in the double crop areas last year,” said an Agricultural official. Though the water will be released more than two months behind schedule for ‘kuruvai’ paddy cultivation, it must be ensured that water is released for five months, said M. Tirupathi, a farmer from Kulamangalam. “Usually, the PWD releases water only for four months to cultivate paddy. But, this year they must provide guarantee that they will release water for an additional one month,” he said. “This will help farmers to grow long duration paddy varieties and avoid harvesting of crops during the rainy season. This will also fetch good profits for the farmers,” he added. A PWD official said that discussions are held regarding the release of water for irrigation. “A Government Order was awaited to finalise the date of releasing water,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-urged-to-draw-maximum-water-from-periyar-dam/article32300978.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||It’s scary on total lockdown night||Under the lockdown conditions, most of the roads in the city and highways in suburban areas are deserted. This is more pronounced on Saturday and Sunday nights due to the total lockdown being implemented on Sundays. Since most of the commercial establishments and shops choose to switch off lights, including that of their name boards, as an austerity measure, the roads become unusually darker. When the street lights are not switched on or go out of order, night ride becomes scarier. But for the police checkposts on the entry to the city on all sides and a few policemen at important junctions, the city and its suburbs are deathly silent and eerie.Not even a single person could be seen even after travelling for a few km in the city and suburbs. The police can take the credit for preventing people from travelling unnecessarily in these times of COVID-19 surge.However, those forced to travel at night for emergency situations face the threat from bike-borne thieves who can easily waylay people, making use of the deserted roads and darkness, especially at a time when lockdown has rendered many youths are jobless for months. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said that all five patrol vehicles of the city are moving across the city even during night. This is besides the night round officers covering the length and breadth of the city. Stating that the city has witnessed some untoward incidents in Koodal Pudur area, Mr. Sinha said focus during night was in Koodal Pudur, Anna Nagar and Avaniapuram police station limits. “All the 14 checks-posts are more active these days and unnecessary movement of vehicles at night is contained to a large extent,” he added. Milkmen, farmers and traders start to hit the roads in the early hours of Mondays to sell or buy essential goods from the suburban areas to the city and they could become easy targets for armed robbers. However, Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar said highway patrols ensured safety on highways. Though the district has not reported any specific trouble during night, Mr. Sujit Kumar said that people should alert the police whenever they find any suspicious people lurking under the cover of darkness. “Within minutes our patrol teams will reach the spot. We have 15 Madurai Kavalan two-wheeler patrol teams securing the rural roads,” he said. Virattipathu-Achampathu-Nagamalai Pudukottai stretch of Theni highway beyond the Fenner Colony police check-post is the scariest of the lot in the late night hours. No road has so many deep curves and blind spots for drivers. Pitch black darkness is there at the junction where Kanniyakumari-Srinagar four-lane highway flies over Theni highway. K. Sivakumar, a driver, who need to drop employees in the late night hours, said it is scary when returning alone to the city from Nagamalai Pudukottai as he has seen bike-borne men waiting in the dark oppositePulloothu road along Nilayur Channel and again near the ‘L’ curve on the Pudukulam road where vehicles need to slow down. The junction that comes within the NHAI jurisdiction lacks a high-mast lamp at this big intersection all these years leaving it under total darkness everywhere around the bridge. A NHAI official said that it could install a high-mast light provided the local body came forward to maintain it and foot the power bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-scary-on-total-lockdown-night/article32300983.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Language policy: High Court wants State government to spell out stand||The Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) on Friday directed the State government to submit an affidavit reflecting its definite stand on the language policy to be adopted in educational institutions. A few days ago, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had opposed the three-language formula proposed in the National Education Policy (NEP 200) and reiterated that the State would continue to implement the two-language formula. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Suresh Kumar observed that the definite stand reflecting the policy of the government should be informed to the court, by way of a sworn affidavit, to be filed either by the Chief Secretary or the Secretary to the School Education Department. “If it is the stand of the State to have two-language formula, this court wants a definite commitment to that effect from the government, as to whether these two languages are Tamil and another language or Tamil and English alone,” the court observed. It was hearing a batch of writ appeals pertaining to redeployment of surplus teachers. The court asked if Tamil and English alone were the languages to be taught in schools in Tamil Nadu. And if medium of instruction to be adopted was either Tamil or English, whether the State government has any reservation to release the grant-in-aid to aided schools that shift medium of instruction from Tamil to English or have both Tamil and English. Further, the court asked whether the government has taken any policy decision to have a complete and comprehensive legislation, to deal with private schools (minority and non-minority, aided or unaided), by which not only the academic and administrative matters but also service issues/disputes can also be effectively administered and redressed. So far, except the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Regulation Act, 1973 and the Rules, no other legislation is available to deal with these issues. These issues are dealt with and administered only by government orders and administrative instructions issued from time to time on a case-to-case basis. Instead, why should the government not think of having a comprehensive legislation to administer issues pertaining to private schools and if so, what is the proposal to have such a legislation and the time limit within which such a legislation can be brought in, can be spelt out by the government, the court said. The case was adjourned for further hearing to August 20.  If it is the stand of the State to have two-language formula, this court wants a commitment to that effect from the government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-wants-state-to-spell-out-stand-on-language-policy/article32300697.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai sees 109 positive cases||In Madurai district, a total of 109 cases were recorded, here on Friday, taking the total number to 11,797. All cases were indigenous according to the State Health Bulletin. With 184 persons discharged, the total reached 9,733. The death toll rose to 278 as two persons succumbed on Friday. The total number of active cases dropped from 1,864 to 1,786. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar recorded 101 cases on Friday. It has taken the total number of positive cases to 9,542. The total number of discharge increased to 7,621 after 205 people got discharged from hospitals on Friday. Meanwhile, two men, aged 70 years and 78 years, died at Sivakasi GH and Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital respectively on Thursday. It has taken the toll to 116. Collector R. Kannan said the positivity rate that stood at around 30% in second half of July has dropped below 8%. Theni Theni had 352 fresh cases which took the tally to 7,188. The number of people discharged from the hospitals stood at 276. Dindigul Dindigul had 134 fresh cases, with which the total number of COVID-19 positive cases had gone to 3465. There were 117 people discharged from the hospitals. Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram, the number of new cases stood at 43 and the tally was at 3546. The hospitals discharged 38 patients. Sivaganga In Sivaganga, the number of fresh cases was at 64, according to the medical bulletin. There were 62 discharges from the hospital on a single day. Tirunelveli Tenkasi district that added 117 new cases on Friday had 877 active patients even as its tally moved up to 2,748. While 108 patients were discharged from hospitals, four persons succumbed to the viral infection. The tally in Kanniyakumari district moved up to 6,015 and the number of active cases to 1,816 with the addition of 181 cases. The district saw five deaths while 198 persons were discharged. Thoothukudi district which is struggling to contain the pandemic had 195 cases on Friday that pushed its tally to 8,648 and active cases to 1,784 even as six persons lost their lives. With the addition of 200 fresh cases, Tirunelveli’s tally moved up to 6,265 and active cases rose to 2,294. Even as 170 patients were discharged, four died on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-sees-109-positive-cases/article32300980.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Virtual court hearings, a success: High Court Judge||Justice B. Pugalendhi of Madras High Court has expressed his displeasure over advocates continuing to resort to delaying tactics in arguing the batch of petitions pertaining to PRP Granite Exports that were listed before him. The advocates insisted that final hearing should be taken up only on consent from both sides, as per a court notification. Justice Pugalendhi observed that the notification was issued taking into account the COVID-19 situation as there were practical difficulties in getting instructions from clients who were residing in far off places and counsel were held up in their native places. The Judge said the same is not applicable to Tamil Nadu, a State with good internet connectivity even in remote villages. The reasoning cannot be applicable to the present case. The High Court Bench had disposed of 4,832 cases out of 5,020 cases via virtual hearings in July alone. Virtual court was a boon as an advocate residing in a remote village can present his case before the High Court and even the Supreme Court. So the court fails to understand why it is difficult to conduct final hearing of cases,” the Judge said. Virtual hearing had proved to be a success and the number of filing and disposal made in July is a proof of the same. If the parties in the present case fail to make their arguments, this court will not hesitate to proceed as contemplated under Section 386 of CrPC, to proceed with the appeal based on papers placed before the court without expecting the appearance of the parties, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-court-hearings-a-success-high-court-judge/article32300987.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||More children being surrendered to adoption agencies during lockdown||A total of 11 children have been surrendered to special adoption agencies in Madurai district during the COVID-19 lockdown since March 2020. Representatives from the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and the adoption agencies say that the numbers were higher compared to previous year. Chairman of CWC, Madurai district, K. Vijayasaravanan, says that a major reason cited by parents when they surrender children was loss of livelihood due to COVID-19 pandemic. Giving an instance, he said that one of the children admitted to a adoption agency was a four-day-old girl child who was surrendered by her parents at the primary health centre in T. Ramanathapuram which is part of Elumalai block on Thursday. The parents said they already had two girl children to look after. According to a data accessed by The Hindu , the children surrendered to the two special adoption agencies in the district- Grace Kennett Hospital and Claretian Mercy Home- include seven girls and four boys. Apart from this, another 11 children have been admitted to these two special adoption agencies under the category of ‘Children in Need for Care and Protection’ (CNCP) by the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). These include children who have been abused, illegally adopted, rescued or abandoned. “The total number of children given to these agencies during this period is 22,” the Chairman said. Director of Claretian Mercy Home, Jose Pitchai, says, “caring for a third child is one of the reasons for giving them up. This is especially true this year [2020] as many people have lost their jobs and are unable to provide food or care for their children.” He adds that children born out of premarital and extramarital relationships are another major reason for surrendering or abandonment. Dr. Vijayasaravanan says that in case there are more parents who wish to give up their children, the agencies were more than willing to accommodate them in their homes. “This is much better for the child than illegal adoption or infanticide,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-children-being-surrendered-to-adoption-agencies-during-lockdown/article32300975.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MKU for smooth transition to digital learning||Madurai Kamaraj University University (MKU) through its Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC) is facilitating smoother transition to the world of digital learning and teaching by offering assistance to both students and teaching staff on usage of various online platforms and study material. Registrar (in-charge), MKU, V. S. Vasantha, said that teachers and students were now uploading their material completely online. “Attendance, study material, teaching and incorporation of different file types including audio and video may be new to several teachers and students. EMRC’s role is to facilitate media studies and create online content. Those who require assistance can contact the Centre,” she says. The Registrar (in-charge) adds that several persons including students and professors have contacted the university regarding how one must access platforms like SWAYAM (Study Webs of Active-Learning for Young Aspiring Minds) which is the Ministry of Education’s e-learning platform. Apart from this, the university was using platforms like Google Meet for live classes and their own website and application for uploading seminars, academic papers, powerpoint presentations and videos. “The University is ready to share all the content it has created for undergraduate courses to all teachers and students,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mku-for-smooth-transition-to-digital-learning/article32300974.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court asks film producer to appear before police||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed film producer K.E. Gnanavel Raja to appear before the Ramanathapuram police for inquiry in connection with a case pertaining to a chit fund scam. Justice V. Bharathidasan directed Gnanavel Raja to appear before the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ramanathapuram on August 7 itself and adjourned the hearing in the anticipatory bail petition filed by the film producer to August 14. The court directed the police not to arrest him. In his petition, Gnanavel Raja said he had nothing to do with the scam or the people involved in it. He was not aware of the fact that the people who had acquired the theatrical rights of a film produced by him were involved in the chit fund scam, he said. He said that Neethimani, who had acquired the rights, his wife Menaka and one Anand were named accused in the scam based on a complaint lodged by Thulasimanigandan. Thulasimanigandan and 58 others had invested Rs. 3 crore in the chit fund and the amount was not repaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-asks-film-producer-to-appear-before-police/article32300985.ece
08 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 130 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 17,746 cusecs and a discharge of 1,650 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 32.55 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 921 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 4,723 mcft. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 75.50 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 775 cusecs and 754.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 64.20 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 781 cusecs and 55 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article32300989.ece
08 August 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Indian Coast Guard rescues 14 fishermen||The Indian Coast Guard rescued a fishing vessel, saving 14 lives mid-sea, 88 nautical miles off Nagapattinam on Wednesday. The fishermen, from Tuticorin who had set sail on the boat GN Sabari on August 4, were stranded due to rough weather caused by the southwest monsoon, and the vessel was drifting dangerously due to machinery breakdown. A merchant ship sighted the drifting vessel and the information was relayed to the Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre, Chennai, following which the Indian Coast Guard ship, Shaurya, was diverted to carry out a Search and Rescue (SAR) mission, much to the relief of the crew. The vessel, with a damaged propeller, was towed by the Coast Guard ship to the Nagapattinam Fishing Harbour for repairs, a press release said. The boat owner and the Department of Fisheries were also kept informed of the rescue operation, the release added. The Coast Guard urged fishermen to adhere to safe practices while fishing and carry communication and lifesaving equipment on board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-coast-guard-rescues-14-fishermen/article32301023.ece
08 August 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Coast Guard rescues 14 fishermen||The Coast Guard rescued a fishing vessel, saving 14 lives mid-sea, 88 nautical miles off Nagapattinam on Wednesday. The fishermen from Thoothukudi, who set sail on August 4, were stranded in rough weather as the vessel was drifting dangerously due to a breakdown.  The vessel, with a damaged propeller, was towed to the Nagapattinam Fishing Harbour, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coast-guard-rescues-14-fishermen/article32300729.ece
08 August 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Plan to felicitate three women who rescued two youths from drowning||Three women of the district, who rescued two youths from a pool of water at a reservoir being constructed across the Marudhaiyar at Kottarai on Thursday, have come in for praise from the police, who are planning to felicitate them soon. The three women, Senthamilselvi, Muthammal and Anandavalli of Adhanur, were washing clothes nearby when they sighted four persons struggling for their life after having ventured into the water. Two of them who had ventured into the water to take bath near the drainage point. The other two youths had gone to their rescue. Upon noticing the four persons, the three women swung into action immediately risking their own personal safety and entered the water. The three women had removed their saris and threw them towards the four persons who were struggling for their life. The women caught hold of each other to make a chain and rescue the youths. The women managed to rescue two youths but the other two drowned. Their bodies were retrieved by firefighters later. The police on Friday posted a message in WhatsApp groups praising the three women terming them as ‘Veera Mangaigal’ for their valiant and humane act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-felicitate-three-women-who-rescued-two-youths-from-drowning/article32301032.ece
08 August 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Tailoring training for transgenders||A group of transgenders are undergoing training in tailoring in Perambalur under the Prime Minister’s Mahila Sakthi Kendra Scheme. Eleven transgenders with government issued identity cards have been selected to undergo the training under the scheme implemented by the Department of Social Welfare in coordination with the District Women Welfare Officer. The month-long free training is being held at the Lakshmi Vilas Tailoring Institute. The training commenced on Thursday. District officials said the training was being conducted with due precautions in view of the COVID 19 pandemic and physical distancing norms were being adhered to. The trainees were being taught to stitch face masks, chudhidhars, blouses, petticoats and other garments. The trainees would be issued certificates on successful completion of the training. They would also be extended support to get free tailoring machines under government scheme and also to get credit from banks for starting self employment ventures, Collector V.Santha said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tailoring-training-for-transgenders/article32301034.ece
08 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Overbridge nearing completion in Puducherry||In a major relief to commuters travelling on Villupuram-Puducherry stretch, the Public Works Department is set to open the overbridge at Arumpathapuram paving the way for smooth flow of traffic on the busy road. The work for the overbridge, which commenced in 2016, got stuck mid-way after nine persons approached the Madras High Court seeking more compensation for the land they parted with for the project to have an overbridge at the Arumpathapuram railway gate. “We have provided the requisite compensation as per the order of the court and the land was handed over to us in February. The work started immediately after that but got delayed further due to lockdown restrictions. Now, work is on in full swing. We are planning to open the bridge for traffic by this month,” Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam told The Hindu . For the last several months, commuting on the stretch remained a harrowing task as vehicles were diverted through Perambai and Moolakulam due to the construction work for the overbridge. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways sanctioned the Rs. 28.98 crore project in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overbridge-nearing-completion-in-puducherry/article32300724.ece
08 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry Code Volume-V released||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Friday released the first edition of Puducherry Code Volume-V containing details of laws enacted from 2017 to 2020. The Chief Minister handed over the first copy to Chief Judge P. Dhanabal at a function at the Legislative Assembly. A government release here said the first edition would provide details of Puducherry Goods and Services Act, 2017, the Puducherry Loading and Unloading (Regulation of Employment and Welfare) Act, 2017 and the Puducherry Technological University Act, 2019. Besides details of the legislations, the book would provide the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Acts. The first edition of the book, priced at Rs. 300, would be available at the Government Press. The contents of the Code would be uploaded on Law Department’s websitewww.law.py.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-code-volume-v-released/article32300722.ece
08 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||5 more COVID-19 deaths recorded in Puducherry||The COVID-19 toll ticked up to 75 after five more deaths were recorded in Puducherry on Friday even as the active cases swelled to 1,873 with 244 new admissions in the last 24 hours. All the fatalities, which included three women, were recorded in Puducherry — four at IGMCRI and one in JIPMER. Four of the victims suffered from other co-morbities such as diabetes and hypertension. The fifth victim was brought dead and later tested positive for COVID-19, S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said. 233 new admissions While 233 of the new admissions were recorded in Puducherry, 10 were in Karaikal and two in Yanam. In addition to this, 567 patients are under home isolation — 518 in Puducherry and 49 in Yanam. The infection rate for the 24-hour period was 28.5% with 244 positives from testing 856 samples while case fatality rate increased to 1.5% from 1.4%. Of the 1,873 persons currently undergoing institutional treatment, 1,097 are in Puducherry, 88 in Karaikal GH, 117 in Yanam GH and four in Mahe. So far, 2,914 patients were cured and discharged, including 77 on Friday.  More samples tested Till now, 45,098 samples have been tested, of which 39,554 samples have returned negative and the results of 226 samples are pending. Meanwhile, M. Kandasamy, Welfare Minister, and his son, who were admitted to JIPMER after testing positive, were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-more-covid-19-deaths-recorded-in-puducherry/article32300728.ece
08 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders in Ponnamaravathy to down shutters from Aug 8 to 12||Traders in Ponnamaravathy Town Panchayat limits have decided to keep their shops closed from August 8 (Saturday) to 12 (Wednesday) to help check spread of the novel corona virus. A decision to this effect was taken at the general body meeting convened by Ponnamaravathy Varthagar Kazhagam on Friday, its president S.K.S Palaniappan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-in-ponnamaravathy-to-down-shutters-from-aug-8-to-12/article32301041.ece
08 August 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Two detained by ‘Q’ branch police||Two persons, identified as Nijamudeen, 33, of Pesalai, Mannar district, Sri Lanka, and Gowrishankar, 25, of Madurai were detained by the ‘Q’ branch police here on Friday. According to the police, the two were moving under suspicious manner near the beach. Discreet probe revealed that Nijamudeen has been living in the Sri Lanka refugee camp in Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district since 2017. As he had allegedly planned to go back to Sri Lanka through illegal means, Gowrishankar took him on his two-wheeler from Rajapalayam to Mandapam. Further inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-detained/article32300988.ece
08 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three die near Sankari||Three persons died and four others suffered severe injuries when the mini lorry they were travelling in rammed a truck near Sankari in the early hours of Friday. Police said the deceased were identified as B. Rajashekar (27), Krishnasamy (61) and Selvam (56). They died on the spot. Three others who travelled with them, and the driver of the mini lorry, were rushed to hospital with severe injuries. Sankari police have registered a case. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-die-near-sankari/article32300742.ece
08 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Traffic police officer attacked||A traffic Special Sub-Inspector was attacked while on duty by a person near Sooramangalam here on Friday. Police said SSI Rajasekar was on duty near Swarnapuri when a person named Suresh Babu, who was on a two-wheeler, allegedly obstructed traffic movement. The officer asked him to move and an argument ensued between them. Suresh Babu allegedly attacked Rajasekar and the officer suffered minor injuries. Sooramangalam police have registered a case and the charges against Suresh Babu include using abusive language and preventing a government officer from discharging his duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-police-officer-attacked/article32300743.ece
08 August 2020||SALEM/DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Inflow increases at Mettur dam||The inflow at Mettur dam started increasing from the early hours of Thursday. According to officials from the Public Works Department, the water level at the dam stood at 65.55 ft against its full level of 120 ft. The stored capacity at the dam was 28,996 tmc and the inflow was 30,000 cusecs. The discharge to the delta region was reduced from 3,000 cusecs to 1,000 cusecs around 9.30 a.m. owing to less demand. Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami raised the shutters of the dam for irrigation in delta region on the customary date of June 12 this year. In 2019, the dam’s shutters were raised on August 13. According to officials, considering the discharge from Kabini dam and rain at the catchment areas, the inflow is expected to increase in the coming days. On August 7 in 2019, the water level at Mettur dam was 53.47ft and the stored capacity was 20 tmc. The inflow then was 5,000 cusecs and the discharge to Cauvery river was maintained at 1,000 cusecs. At the given rate of inflow of water to the dam, it may take over two weeks of time to attain Full Reservoir Level. The inflow at Hogenakkal touched 41,000 cusecs late Friday afternoon, as the water level in Cauvery rose steadily. On Friday morning, the inflow in Hogenakkal crossed 38,000 cusecs. Karnataka announced further increase in the discharge with a release of 69,000 cusecs from Kabini and KRS reservoirs. Flood alert In its wake, the inflow at Hogenakkal is expected to cross 50,000 cusecs by Saturday. The district administration had already announced a flood alert along the banks and cautioned the temporary settlements for evacuation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-increases-at-mettur-dam/article32300757.ece
08 August 2020||SALEM/DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Inflow into Mettur dam increases||The inflow into the Mettur dam started increasing from early hours of Thursday. According to officials from the Public Works Department, the water level at the dam stood at 65.55 ft against its full level of 120 ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 28,996 mcft and the inflow was 30,000 cusecs. The outflow from the dam to the delta region was reduced from 3,000 to 1,000 cusecs around 9.30 a.m. owing to less demand. According to officials, the inflow is expected to increase in the coming days. The inflow into Hogenakkal touched 41,000 cusecs late Friday afternoon. Karnataka announced further increase in the outflow with a release of 69,000 cusecs from Kabini and KRS reservoirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-into-mettur-dam-increases/article32300701.ece
08 August 2020||Srivilliputhur,TAMIL NADU||Accused escapes, nabbed||A 20-year-old youth, B. Prabhu, who was arrested on Thursday in an assault case in Narikudi, escaped from police custody around 3 a.m. on Friday while being taken to the sub-jail at Srivilliputhur. Police said they traced Prabhu in Srivilliputhur around 8.30 a.m. and took him into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accused-escapes-nabbed/article32300976.ece
08 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||IPR and innovation critical ingredients of economy, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Intellectual Property Rights and innovation were critical ingredients of the economic framework, according to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The Finance Minister made this remark at a virtual meeting organised by the SASTRA, Deemed to be a University, Thanjavur, to mark the inauguration of the Nani Palkhivala Centenary Celebrations on Friday. Describing the late Nani Palhkivala as a versatile genius, Ms. Sitharaman outlined the commitment of the Central Government to ease the burden on the taxpayers and simplify the tax structure. Stating that digitised assessment and ‘faceless’ appeals were on the cards, she said that transparency in handling tax disputes was the primary agenda of the Ministry of Finance and this would be achieved by comprehensive reforms to be made in the assessment and scrutiny processes. Ms.Sitharaman delivered the 16th Nani Palkhivala Memorial lecture and launched the TATA Palkhivala Chair on Artificial Intelligence and Alternative Dispute Resolution. N. Chandrashekaran, Chairman – Tata Sons, recalled Nani Palkhivala’s association with the company and appreciated SASTRA’s efforts to salute his memory. Giving a perspective of the situation relating to case-related arrears pending before India’s courts, he said that increasing confidence in judicial machinery and cooperation between parties for dispute settlement were essential to create a transformational change in the litigation scene. S. Vaidhyasubramaniam, Vice-Chancellor, SASTRA, Deemed to be a University said that a year-long celebration was being planned in memory Palkhivala whose contribution to the law was legendary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ipr-and-innovation-critical-ingredients-of-economy-says-nirmala-sitharaman/article32301037.ece
08 August 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Patient attempts to end life||A 39-year-old COVID-19 positive patient, attempted to end his life by jumping from the second floor of the COVID care centre at Uthamapalayam and suffered multiple injuries on Friday. The man, who is working in an IT company in Bangalore had come here to see his wife and new born girl child at Kombai. As he tested positive, health department officials admitted him at the COVID care centre at Uthamapalayam. As the man could not see his family, he had shown symptoms of depression. When he was informed two days ago that his wife and newborn child had tested positive and were admitted in the GH at Theni, the man insisted on going there. As he was not given permission, he jumped off the building. The police arrived and rushed him to the Theni GH for treatment. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-attempts-to-end-life/article32300981.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||One-fourth of COVID-19 patients asymptomatic||A quarter of Tiruchi’s COVID-19 patients are asymptomatic and have been placed in home isolation by district authorities. According to a district health bulletin, as on Friday morning, there were 245 patients in home isolation, among the 1,088 total active cases in the district. Of the 245, 142 are within city limits while 103 are in the various rural parts of the district. Among the 142, 18 are in the Ariyamangalam zone, 50 in the K. Abishekapuram zone, 43 in the Ponmalai zone and 31 are in the Srirangam zone. Meanwhile, in the rural parts of Tiruchi, 22 were from Lalgudi, 12 from Manapparai, 10 from Manikandam, 15 from Manachanallur, four from Marungapuri, nine from Musiri and 11 from Pullambadi, six from Thiruverumbur, two form Thottiyam, eight from Thuraiyur and four from Uppilliyapuram. This does not mean that only 245 of them are asymptomatic patients in the district, said a senior health official in the district. These 245 patients belong to the below 60 age demographic and do not have any co-morbidities affecting their health. Among the 245 patients are ante-natal mothers, while a majority of them are primary and secondary contacts of patients who tested positive. “Once a patient tests positive for the viral infection, depending upon whether they are asymptomatic, the local medical team, including sanitary inspectors, will visit their house and check if they have a separate room to be isolated in, separate toilet and washroom and a person to care for them,” the official said. Depending upon these norms, the patient is allowed to be in home isolation or is shifted to the COVID Care Centre on Bharathidasan University Khajamalai campus. A total of 86 patients are currently being monitored at the centre in Khajamalai. If asymptomatic patients are over the age of 60, or have any prior health complications, they will be shifted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, officials said.  10 ventilators The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Friday received 10 new ventilators from the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. The ventilators, which will be used exclusively at the COVID-19 ward, will help further expand the COVID-19 facilities available at the hospital. A total of 80 ventilators were already available at the COVID-19 ward at the MGMGH. The addition of the newly delivered ventilators would further enhance the treatment facilities at the GH, doctors at the GH said. To further increase the COVID-19 treatment infrastructure of the MGMGH, C. Vijayabaskar, Health Minister, had announced that the nurses’ hostel block at the MGMGH would be converted into a 400-bed COVID-19 block. “The work is under way and nearing completion. It will soon be ready for patients,” a senior health official at the hospital said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-fourth-of-covid-19-patients-asymptomatic/article32301039.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police to create separate tracks for two-wheelers on select roads||The city police are working on creating separate tracks for two-wheelers on select roads which are wide enough and those which are identified as accident-prone. “The traffic police identified three or four roads at present within the city limits where a separate track for two-wheelers could be created along those roads,” Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan said. The police would be involving the Tiruchi Corporation authorities to take forward the initiative. “The idea to create a separate track along select roads in the city emerged after it was found that two-wheelers accounted for nearly 80 % of road accidents within the city limits,” Mr. Loganathan said. The police would identify more major thoroughfares and roads which were very wide in order to demarcate a separate track for two-wheelers. Roads which were found to be accident-prone would also be taken up under this proposed initiative. Much would depend on the availability of road space before creating the separate track on either sides, Mr. Loganathan said. Once the roads are identified in coordination with civic body authorities, the police would demarcate the two wheeler tracks along the road with a colour code and paint symbols of two-wheelers.  Felicitated Twenty Tiruchi city police constables who were completely cured of COVID-19 and rejoined duty were felicitated at a function on Friday. Mr. Loganathan distributed appreciation certificates to each constable to motivate them to discharge their duty with dedication as frontline workers to curb spread of viral disease. Mr. Loganathan also gave away health kits containing fruits, dates, nutritious drink, gloves, masks and sanitiser to every Constable to welcome them back into duty. He said 55 police personnel of Tiruchi city who were affected by COVID-19 had recovered completely till now and rejoined duty. Twelve others were undergoing treatment for the viral disease. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) A. Pavan Kumar Reddy, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) R. Vetharathinam and senior police officers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-create-separate-tracks-for-two-wheelers-on-select-roads/article32301030.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region witnesses spike with 763 new Corona virus cases||The central region on Friday recorded a sharp spike in COVID-19 with 763 patients testing positive for the viral infection. The region also recorded eight deaths- three each in Pudukottai and Thanjavur, and one each in Ariyalur and Karur. In Pudukottai, men aged 50, 68 and 70 died of co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension, while in Thanjavur, two women aged 64 and 73 and a 59-year-old man died of respiratory failure and systemic hypertension. A 32-year-old woman from Ariyalur with broad ligament hematoma and an 82-year-old man with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary edema from Karur also died when COVID-19 further complicated their health. Among the 217 positive patients in Thanjavur were an assistant engineer of the Public Works Department, a staff nurse at the Government Raja Mirasdar Hospital, a lab technician at a private lab, a pharmacist at the Government Hospital in Papanasam, a conservancy worker at a private hospital, a junior revenue officer and a junior assistant at Pattukottai and a revenue inspector at Padanallur. In Tiruchi, 105 patients tested positive, including five employees of the State Highways department. An assistant engineer, a divisional manager, two drivers and a technical assistant tested positive and have been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Meanwhile, the Tiruchi City Corporation has declared Vignesh apartments in Vayalur Road, Rani Annadurai Street in K. K. Nagar, Kaja Nagar in Edamalaipatti Pudur, Sheshadri Nagar in R. S. Puram and a residence at J.K. Nagar near Airport as containment zones after the residents tested positive for the viral infection. In Pudukottai, four ante-natal mothers, 46 local cases, 55 patients with symptoms of Influenza Like-Illnesses (ILI), and 59 primary and secondary contacts were among the 173 who tested positive. In Nagapattinam, 78 patients tested positive for the viral infection, a sharp increase since the last few weeks. Among them are 34 cases were contacts of positive persons, 14 patients were with ILI symptoms, eight healthcare workers, two antenatal mothers, two local cases and six inter-district travellers. Tiruvarur recorded 44 new COVID-19 cases, while Karur recorded 26 cases. In Perambalur, 69 patients tested positive. A total of 449 patients have treated and have been discharged from the hospital, while 192 are undergoing treatment. Ariyalur recorded 51 COVID-19 cases, including interdistrict travellers and primary contacts. The patients are undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-witnesses-spike-with-763-new-corona-virus-cases/article32301040.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Call to employ Tamil Nadu youth at Golden Rock Railway Workshop||Cadre of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and other organisations staged an agitation in front of the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here on Friday in support of their charter of demands. The agitators, numbering around 150 carried placards, containing their demands and raised slogans also demanding the Centre and the railway administration to accord priority for wards of retired railwaymen in employment in railways. The agitation was conducted in the wake of railway workshop taking up verification of certificates of over 500 candidates mostly from various North Indian States who were selected by the Railway Recruitment Board for recruitment to the post of Grade-III technician at the workshop over the past few days. Members of the Democratic Youth Federation of India, Students Federation of India, a few members from the Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam and Makkal Paathukaapu Sangam also participated in the agitation that lasted nearly two hours. The agitation was led by CPI-M Ponmalai branch secretary Karthikeyan. The agitators wanted the Centre and State government to provide employment to 90 % of candidates from Tamil Nadu in Central government offices in the State and 100 % in State government service. They also demanded the immediate withdrawal of a government order allowing candidates from other States in Tamil Nadu government service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-employ-tamil-nadu-youth-at-golden-rock-railway-workshop/article32301028.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stiff competition for admission into arts and science colleges||Securing admissions for under graduate programmes in arts and science colleges in and around the city has turned rather tough for even 'above average' students. Apparently, only top scorers are able to secure admissions into UG programmes in leading arts and science colleges as the cut-off limit has been raised this year for almost all the courses. Students who had scored in the range of 60 % to 80% in Plus Two say they find themselves left high and dry, as their names are not found even in the third or fourth merit lists of the colleges. As many top-scorers prefer arts and science programmes over engineering degrees in recent years, the trend is not entirely unusual, but the tight cut-off has meant the students with top scores have to set their sights on higheto lesser noticed colleges in rural parts, according to a senior faculty of a leading arts and science college in the city. College principals say the competition has turned stiff for even self-financing courses. "The marks the students have scored may look good for them. But, when it comes to competition, only those who score well above the cut-off will be able to secure admissions," a principal of a leading arts and science college said, referring to a score of 596 out of 600 by a candidate admitted into B.A. Economics programme. The shift in attention of top-scorers towards arts and science programmes was the reason why the Department of Higher Education contemplated online counselling for admission for B.A., B.Sc., B.Com and BBA programmes before the start of the academic year. However, the idea was not pursued. "It is unfortunate that the move was withdrawn. Online counselling would have widened opportunities for deserving students to choose colleges of their choice in a transparent way, and for implementing the reservation system in a better manner,” K. John Kumar, former Head, Department of History, Bishop Heber College, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stiff-competition-for-admission-into-arts-and-science-colleges/article32301024.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Big Bazaar out of bounds for vehicles||The City police has announced that three and four wheelers would not be allowed on Big Bazaar Street in the city on Saturdays this months as a measure aimed at checking the spread of COVID 19. Two wheelers and emergency vehicles can ply on the road, according to a police press release. No other vehicle would be allowed on the road between 8 a.m. and 9 p.m. on Saturdays (August 8,15,22 and 29). The release pointed out that the road attracted heavy crowd and traffic on Saturdays as total lockdown is enforced on Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/big-bazaar-out-of-bounds-for-vehicles/article32301035.ece
08 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Govt. keen on industrialisation in south TN: CM||The State government was keen on industrialisation in southern districts by providing incentives to investors coming forward to set up manufacturing units, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Friday. During an interaction with the media, Mr Palaniswami’s attention was drawn to the lacklustre industrial activity in the Nanguneri Special Economic Zone. Responding, he said, the government was prepared to help potential investors by giving attractive incentives including land at 50% subsidised cost. A transparent single window clearance system was in place for clearing investment proposals. Presently 14 export-oriented units in Nanguneri SEZ had exported Rs. 650 crore-worth products. The government had signed MoUs with 39 firms that are going to start their units in the SEZ. An oil refinery would be set up in Thoothukudi at an outlay of Rs. 49,000 crore to provide direct employment to 5,000 persons and indirect employment to 1 lakh people, he said. Brittannia would start its manufacturing facility at Gangaikondan Industrial Growth Centre near Tirunelveli. He said the government was performing exceedingly well in implementing water management programmes executing one scheme every year in all the districts to augment irrigation systems. A scheme at an outlay of Rs. 160 crore to take surplus water of Pazhaiyar to Radhapuram is being undertaken. Possibilities of judiciously utilising the surplus water of Gadana and Ramanadhi Dams will be explored. “The Tamirabharani – Karumaeniyar – Nambiyar linking scheme, after the completion of three phases, will see the start of the final and fourth phase soon. This mega project will be completed and commissioned by December,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Civic infrastructure and drinking water facilities in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts were being strengthened, he said. Mr Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for eight projects in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts at a cost of Rs. 208.30 crore. He inaugurated 19 completed projects on an outlay of Rs. 31.04 crore. Tirunelveli Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish and Tenkasi Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan apprised the Chief Minister about the measures being taken to contain COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-keen-on-industrialisation-in-south-tn-cm/article32300991.ece
08 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||e-pass system cannot be abolished, says Palaniswami||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday made it clear that the e-pass system for inter-district and inter-State movement during the pandemic cannot be abolished. A day after Opposition leader M.K. Stalin demanded the abolition of the system, Mr. Palaniswami told journalists in Tirunelveli that since people from other States and abroad were coming in, restriction on movement was needed to arrest the spread of COVID-19. Hence, a stricter e-pass system was being implemented. Once the spread of the infection comes down, public transport will be resumed and the procedure to get e-passes will be simplified. Since an additional committee has been formed in every district to simplify the issuance of e-passes, those who want to move out for emergencies will get them easily, he said. Workers of private factories, after getting due permission from the District Collectors concerned, by submitting the list of the workforce, can go to their workplaces without any hurdle. Companies that have to bring their workers back from the northern States can also do so after the staff members are subjected to mandatory medical screening on entering Tamil Nadu, said. When a journalist said the Union government had rejected the State’s proposal to cancel the final semester examinations in colleges in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, he said the government would act as per the Centre’s guidelines. The government will induct 500 more ambulances to bring COVID-19 patients to hospitals, he said. An incentive of Rs. 5,000 will be given to emergency medical technicians and drivers of ‘108’ ambulances, he added. On the recent custodial deaths of trader Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, he said the government had taken steps to prevent such incidents. To a question on Mr. Stalin’s assertion that the DMK would be voted to power in 2021, he said that the people would decide this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-system-cannot-be-abolished-says-palaniswami/article32300713.ece
08 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Flood warning issued in Tiruppur district||The Public Works Department (PWD) on Friday issued flood warning to those living on the banks of River Amaravathi, as the dam was expected to reach its full capacity. A PWD official from Amaravathi Basin No. 3 at Amaravathinagar said the water level had reached 82.09 feet on 6 a.m. on Friday. As heavy rain continued in the dam’s catchment areas, the water level was expected to reach its full capacity (90 feet) soon and the dam shutters would be opened anytime to release the surplus, he said. Udumalpet tahsildar Jeyasingh Sivakumar said all village administrative officers, revenue inspectors and local body officials of the villages on the river bank were monitoring the situation. A team of police personnel were deployed at Amaravathi Dam. Shelters such as schools and community halls in the vicinity of the villages have been identified and the families in the villages would be evacuated in a short notice, he said. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said in a release on Friday that people living on the banks of River Amaravathi and River Noyyal (in Tiruppur Panchayat Union and Tiruppur Corporation limits) must exercise caution due to excess discharge of water in both the rivers. He advised those living on the river banks to evacuate and stay at government shelters. Public must ensure the safety of their livestock in case of floods and abstain from visiting the river for washing and other purposes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-warning-issued-in-tiruppur-district/article32300741.ece
08 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Police rescue 133 minors from spinning mill in Avinashi||Nearly 10 days after the rescue of 40 minors from a private spinning mill near Avinashi here, a team of officers from Tiruppur District Police rescued 133 minors from the same place on Thursday. The team led by Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal along with officials from the Labour Department visited the mill in Alathurmedu on Thursday following Madras High Court directions.  Justice N. Kirubakaran directed the inspection based on a habeas corpus petition filed by C.M. Sivababu, president of Tamil Makkal Desiya Katchi from Tiruvannamalai, which said that six minors from Tiruvannamalai district were “illegally confined” in the mill. Ms. Mittal told The Hindu on Friday that upon inspecting the mill, the police team found 133 minors – 118 girls and 15 boys aged between 14 and 18 years – working in the mill. “We found five girls in the mill and one girl had already left for her home town in Tiruvannamalai district,” she said. There were 332 workers in the mill, of which 133 were minors. Most of them were from Tiruvannamalai and were brought to the mill without e-passes, Ms. Mittal said. Cheyur police registered a case against the mill owners on Thursday for violation of COVID-19 lockdown . The five rescued girls were produced for a Madras High Court hearing via video-conferencing from Tiruppur on Friday. Another girl was produced from Tiruvannamalai district. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani asked the nine respondents in the case, including Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, Joint Commissioner of Labour, Coimbatore, and owners of the spinning mill, to file an affidavit in two weeks, according to police sources. Following the rescue, the 133 minors were made to stay at the hostel in the spinning mill with police protection. Meanwhile, the Tiruppur district administration on Friday arranged for the transport of the 40 minors rescued on July 28. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said a case against the spinning mill was pending at the Madras High Court, based on which action would be initiated against the mill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-rescue-133-minors-from-spinning-mill-in-avinashi/article32300740.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Mega plan to improve green cover||The Thiruthuraipoondi Panchayat Union has embarked upon a massive tree plantation drive to improve the green cover by raising two lakh trees over a period of five years. A meeting in this regard was convened by A. Baskar, Panchayat Union Chairman, at the Union Office in which the elected local body representatives including the presidents of 32 village panchayats coming under the Thiruthuraipoondi PU, government officials, environmental activists and non-government organisations representatives participated. At the meeting it was decided to encourage the people to plant saplings and raise trees in the open space available at their respective houses by presenting two saplings, distribute 1000 tree saplings and 50 coconut plant seedlings per village panchayat with an objective to plant and raise around two lakh trees in the PU domain within next five years. Awards would be presented for best maintenance of saplings/trees every year and the awardee village panchayats would become eligible to receive special funds for their involvement in the project. Field inspections would be conducted every year before August 15 from 2021 to identify the best performing village panchayats. Meanwhile, the Thanjavur Corporation has joined hands with the Cauvery Rotary Club, Thanjavur for creating a dense native forest in a space of around one acre at Karanthai. Around 9000 saplings of native trees varieties would be planted at a cost of Rs. 9 lakhs by adopting the Miyawaki technique and the maintenance and rearing of the saplings would be taken care by the Rotary Club for three years, according to Collector M.Govinda Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-plan-to-improve-green-cover/article32301026.ece
08 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rain eases in Udhagamandalam, Kundah||The intensity of rain dipped in Kundah and Udhagamandalam taluks in the Nilgiris district on Friday morning. However, Gudalur continued to receive heavy showers. Due to the improvement in weather, there were no reports on uprooting of trees along the Ooty-Gudalur Road on Friday. District Fire Officer T. Immanuel said the focus was now on clearing smaller village roads, many of which are still blocked due to fallen trees. Fire and Rescue Services personnel spent more than two hours on Friday to clear a tree that blocked the Ooty-Gudalur Road near the Wilson Plantation. “We have also cleared the roads near Emerald on the way to Manjoor town,” said Mr. Immanuel. Five houses located in a TANTEA estate were destroyed in a landslip reported at Nelliyalam in Gudalur. Fire officials said that a 22-year-old man was injured and was taken to hospital. Fortunately, the homes were largely empty as the residents had gone for work on Friday morning when the incident happened, officials said. For the fourth consecutive day, many villages surrounding the Kalampuzha stream running through Gudalur were inundated. The district administration stated that the Nilgiris received an average of 131.75 mm rain over a 24-hour period till Friday morning. Gudalur, Devala and Upper Gudalur stations recorded the highest rainfall, with more than 330 mm rain in each of the areas. Avalanche and Upper Bhavani too received heavy rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-eases-in-udhagamandalam-kundah/article32300745.ece
08 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ministers inspect relief efforts in Gudalur||Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani and Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan inspected relief efforts in Gudalur on Friday. They visited the hamlets of Puthurvayal, Athipalli and Padanthorai and met the residents who were impacted by the rain and flooding from nearby streams. They also distributed food and assistance to the residents. Speaking to reporters in Udhagamandalam after the inspection, Mr. Velumani detailed the rescue and relief operations carried out by the Fire and Rescue Services Department and the State and National Disaster Response Force. He said that more than 900 people, including women and children, were evacuated from their houses and housed in temporary relief camps. They were provided food, medicine and adequate healthcare by the district administration and the health department, the Minister said. Compensation Mr. Velumani said the government would provide a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each to two persons who died due to tree fall in Udhagamandalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-inspect-relief-efforts-in-gudalur/article32300747.ece
08 August 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Hospital in trouble for overcharging||Virudhunagar Health Department has temporarily cancelled the permission given to a private hospital in Aruppukottai for treating COVID-19 patients on complaint of overcharging. Based on a complaint from a patient, a team of Joint Director of Medical and Rural Health Services and Family Welfare conducted an inspection at City Hospital in Aruppukottai on Thursday. The officials scrutinised the case sheet and the bill and found that the hospital had not adhered to the regulated fee structure. A statement from Collector R. Kannan said the hospital had collected Rs. 7.40 lakh from the patient. It was told not to admit any more patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-in-trouble-for-overcharging/article32300986.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees five deaths as total cases cross 6,000-mark||Coimbatore district reported five COVID-19 deaths and 228 new cases on Friday as overall tally crossed the 6,000-mark and stood at 6,227 cases. A 70-year-old woman, who was COVID-19 positive and admitted on Tuesday at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, died on Wednesday. A 67-year-old woman admitted to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on July 23 after testing positive died on Wednesday. The remaining patients – three men aged 75, 86, and 73 – died at private hospitals on Thursday. The 228 cases were from Coimbatore Corporation limits and other blocks including Sulur, Thondamuthur, Karamadai, Madukkarai, Thudiyalur, Valparai and S.S. Kulam, according to Health Department sources. Out of the 6,227 cases, 4,546 have recovered and 1,580 were active. Coimbatore district reported 101 deaths as of Friday. A total of 224 patients were discharged. Thirteen tested positive in the Nilgiris. The district also recorded its third COVID-19 fatality. The district administration said that the person had been living in Thudiyalur in Coimbatore for the last two years, but his permanent address in his Aadhaar card mentioned that he was a resident of the Nilgiris. Tiruppur reported 31 cases, taking the tally to 1,089 cases. The fresh cases included a 52-year-old doctor from Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital who was reported to be COVID-19 positive. It also included a five-year-old girl from Vellakoil block, sources said. Cases were reported from Tiruppur Corporation limits, besides Avinashi, Vellakoil, Udumalpet, Palladam and Mangalam. Of the 1,089 cases, 750 have recovered and 319 were active. As many as 168 cases were reported in Salem. Health officials said 164 cases were indigenous, including 130 in corporation limits. Two patients have travelled to other districts and two have returned from Bihar. Erode saw 67 cases taking the tally to 955. A total of 43 cases were reported in corporation limits. While 20 cases were contacts of positive cases, 35 had no contact history. Twelve were persons, who undertook inter-district travel. A total of 295 patients continue to be under treatment. A 66-year-old woman, admitted on August 1 and tested positive, died on August 5. In Namakkal district, 34 cases were reported. According to officials, a majority of cases were contacts of previous patients and three have travelled to other districts like Coimbatore, Erode and Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-five-deaths-as-total-cases-cross-6000-mark/article32300753.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Move out ammonium nitrate in 3-4 days’||Earlier, a senior police officer said, “We have told Customs authorities to safely dispose of the ammonium nitrate quickly since they have initiated the process of auctioning. Or otherwise, they will have to store it in safer places. Such a place is not available in the city and they have to move it to Namakkal or Tiruchi where they have (designated) magazines — a place where explosives are stored exclusively.” A designated magazine is a storage space built according to certain guidelines and has thick walls and roof and at a time only four persons are allowed to enter it. A magazine also is situated at a location, away from human habitation. The State has a number of such locations, Mr. Sundaresan added. Earlier on Thursday, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) along with DGP, Fire and Rescue Services, C. Sylendra Babu, had inspected the CFS. The team noticed that the warehouse, spread over 18 acres, was surrounded by CFS’ to the East, West and Northern directions and Ponneri High Road. The officials also reported that the nearest habitations to the CFS are Manali New Town at a distance of 700 m in the northern direction with a population of 7,000 people, and Sadayankuppam village at a distance of 1,500 m in the East with a population of 5,000 people. Taking into account the ground reality, the TNPCB directed the Customs, which had seized the consignment imported from Korea by a Karur-based firm without licence, to move out the ammonium nitrate at the earliest.  Such a place is not available in the city and authorities have to move it to Namakkal or Tiruchi where they have magazines — a place where explosives are stored||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-out-ammonium-nitrate-in-3-4-days/article32300700.ece
08 August 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Naviluteertha dam almost full||Following incessant rain in the catchment areas, the Naviluteertha dam on the Malaprabha is nearly full and officers plan to open the flood gates any moment. Irrigation officers issued a warning to farmers in low-lying areas and those on the river bank of the Malaprabha asking them to move to higher altitude. The dam with a gross capacity of 37 tmcft, now has live storage of around 25 tmcft. Meanwhile, rainfall subsided in Belagavi city on Friday. The police closed the inter-state bridge at Kudachi village after water began to flow over it following release from Maharashtra. Irrigation officers estimated that around 1.51 lakh cusecs was released from Maharashtra to Krishna and tributaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/naviluteertha-dam-almost-full/article32300831.ece
08 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Coordination officers to be posted||Karnataka and Maharashtra have agreed to depute irrigation officers to coordinate with each other on water release from dams. “Our officer will be posted to their reservoirs. One of their officers will be deputed to ours. This will improve our real-time communication,” Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said at a meeting of officers here on Friday. A senior officer will be deputed at Koyna dam in Maharashtra. A Maharashtra officer will be posted at Almatti dam. This will ensure that most of the important decisions taken in the catchment and command areas of the Krishna will be made known immediately, he said. Officers assured him that most reservoirs were yet to be filled and there was no threat of flooding as of now. The Navilu Teertha dam on the Malaprabha is nearly full and officers plan to open the crest gates of the reservoir any moment. Irrigation officers have asked farmers in low-lying areas and those on the river banks to go to safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coordination-officers-to-be-posted/article32300660.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic body to process garbage tenders||After months of indecision and vacillating on whether to cancel garbage tenders that were processed last year, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to start issuing work orders to contractors. The civic body fears that it will be in contempt of the Karnataka High Court if it fails to do so. The Mayor-led committee was pushing for implementation of the Indore model of Solid Waste Management where a single vehicle with separate compartments would be used to collect dry and wet waste. This, despite the fact that the garbage tenders that were finalised envisaged separate collection of dry and wet waste. “With this development, it seems unlikely that the Indore model will be implemented in the city,” said a senior civic official. The Mayor-led committee, that was until recently opposing the garbage tenders that envisage separate collection, has reportedly gone back on its decision. On Friday, a second round of meetings was held to discuss the way forward. Sources privy to the development said that the meetings decided to issue work orders to 45 contractors to whom the civic body had already issued a Letter of Acceptance. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said the civic body had now decided to abide by the High Court’s directions. He explained that the garbage tenders were floated after the previous council gave a green signal. While contractors will be responsible for collecting and transporting wet and sanitary waste, dry waste will continue to be collected by ragpickers from Dry Waste Collection Centres (DWCCs) or self-help groups. “The present council had passed a resolution in favour of one contractor collecting different streams of segregated waste. Contractors challenged this in court,” he said. In February, the High Court had directed the BBMP to issue work orders to contractors of 45 tenders and finalise the remaining 120-odd tenders. Many civic officials and waste management experts have said that the Indore model may not work for Bengaluru, as it is a much larger city which generates nearly 5,000 tonnes of waste every day. According to a source in the BBMP, “While both the garbage tenders that we have already floated and the Indore model insist on collection of segregated waste, the difference lies in the frequency of collection.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-to-process-garbage-tenders/article32300620.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No more institutional quarantine for international returnees to Karnataka||The State government has done away with the seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine for international returnees to Karnataka. Instead, such travellers now have to compulsorily follow a 14-day home quarantine. So far, seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven-day home quarantine was mandatory. Only those aged above 60 with terminal illness, pregnant women, and children under the age of 10 were exempted. According to a circular on the revised guidelines issued on Friday, symptomatic passengers classified into category 1 will be segregated from other passengers and sent to dedicated COVID-19 health centres for testing. If they test positive in a rapid antigen test (RAT), they will be triaged for home isolation or shifted to a COVID-19 hospital. If they test negative, they will be isolated and managed clinically. Their swab samples will also be taken for an RT-PCR test, and if they test positive they will be triaged for home isolation or shifted to a COVID-19 hospital. If they are negative, they will be advised a 14-day home quarantine, the circular stated. All asymptomatic passengers, who will be classified under category 2, will be sent to home quarantine for 14 days. If home quarantine is not possible for any reason, they will be allowed institutional quarantine.  Travellers who are on a short business visit should establish themselves as business visitors. They should produce original confirmed return flight tickets which should not be dated more than seven days from the date of arrival. Documents pertaining to the purpose of visit/invitation letter, place of stay/ hotel reservation, and valid visa copies should also be submitted. If the traveller is coming for a short duration of 48 hours (counted from arrival time), he/she is exempted from the COVID-19 test and quarantine. If the duration of stay in Karnataka is more than 48 hours and less than seven days, a COVID-19 test shall be done (swab sample drawn immediately on arrival for RAT), and after getting a negative report the person can complete his or her engagements and go back. Business/short-term visitors who come with a negative RT-PCR test report shall be exempted from testing on arrival. This test should have been conducted within 96 hours prior to the journey. Passengers who arrive in Karnataka after landing in other States should undergo an RAT after reaching their respective districts if they are symptomatic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-more-institutional-quarantine-for-international-returnees-to-karnataka/article32300629.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC results to be announced on Aug. 10||The State government is set to announce the results of the Class 10 SSLC examinations at 3 p.m. on August 10, a little over a month after students wrote the last paper. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar made the announcement on social media on Friday. Students can access the results on the following websites:www.kseeb. kar.nic.inandwww.karresults. nic.inat 3.45 p.m. About 8.4 lakh students across the State had registered for the SSLC examination, which was conducted from June 25 to July 4. At the time, the government’s decision to go ahead with it was hotly debated as a few States had cancelled their Class 10 board examinations on account of the pandemic. The SSLC examinations were originally scheduled to be held in March and April but had to be postponed owing to the nationwide lockdown. When it was finally held, students and invigilators had to undergo thermal screening and take other precautionary measures like wearing masks and using hand sanitisers at exam centres. Thirty-two students had tested positive for COVID-19 and many of them could not write the exam. The department has said that those who were unable to write the exam due to COVID-19 would be treated as freshers and could write the supplementary exam, the dates of which are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-results-to-be-announced-on-aug-10/article32300671.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State records 6,670 fresh cases, 101 deaths||With 101 deaths reported on Friday, Karnataka’s COVID-19 toll touched 2,998. As many as 943 deaths were recorded in the past 10 days alone. This is apart from eight non-COVID-19 deaths. With 1,200 deaths in Bengaluru Urban so far, the district has contributed 40% of the total deaths. But the number of deaths in Bengaluru Urban has come down in the past four days, and on Friday the district recorded 22 deaths. While the toll touched 213 and 206 in Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada, respectively, it crossed 100 in Kalaburagi and Dharwad. The toll is nearing 100 in four other districts (Ballari, Belagavi, Hassan, and Bidar). With a Case Fatality Rate of 1.81%, Karnataka is now in fourth position in terms of deaths. New cases The State on Friday recorded 6,670 cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,64,924. After recording nearly 5,000 recoveries on an average in the past few days, the number came down to 3,951 on Friday. With this, the total number of recoveries touched 84,232. Of the 77,686 active cases, 678 were being monitored in ICUs on Friday. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,147 cases on the day, taking the total number of cases there to 69,572. As many as 43,553 tests, including 23,664 rapid antigen tests, were conducted in a 24-hour period. The State, which started using rapid antigen tests from July 17, has since conducted over three lakh tests. An order has been placed for another five lakh antigen test kits and they are likely to arrive by Monday, said C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs andtesting in the State’s COVID-19 task force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-records-6670-fresh-cases-101-deaths/article32300631.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With cases rising, students want NEET postponed to November||Students hoping to get a seat in medical or dental colleges have demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled to be held on September 13 be postponed. In Bengaluru, where an average of 2,000 or so cases are being reported every day, students have launched online classes. “Many of us who have registered are from containment zones, and our homes have been sealed. Students in containment zones will not be able to write the test and will lose an entire year,” an aspirant said. They want the test to be postponed to November as NEET is conducted in only a few cities in the State. A source in the Medical Education Department said that they were yet to examine the issue. A petition for postponement of the Joint Entrance Examination and NEET has been filed by students in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-cases-rising-students-want-neet-postponed-to-november/article32300623.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pothole-filling begins||With parts of Karnataka reeling under heavy rains and floods, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad reviewed the city’s rain preparedness on Friday, and directed officials to begin filling potholes that have cropped up again this monsoon. He said that the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) had predicted less rainfall for the city in August. “In June and July, the average rainfall is 185 mm, but we received 65% excess rains in those two months. In the first week of August, the rain received was 28% less than the average. Since less rains have been predicted, officials have been instructed to take up pothole-filling,” he said. Hot mix from the BBMP’s batch mix plant will be used to fill potholes on the 1,400 km of arterial and sub-arterial roads. “For the roads in wards, 198 maintenance contractors have already been identified. The pothole-filling exercise will be reviewed every week,” he said. The BBMP had identified 209 vulnerable spots along the 842-km stormwater drain network in the city. Of these, 153 had been classified sensitive and 56 as highly sensitive. “These are points where the water level in the drain can increase with heavy rains, and there are chances of overflow. We have fitted sensors at 28 locations to monitor the water level. Sensors would be fitted in the remaining sensitive and highly-sensitive points soon,” Mr. Prasad added. Of the 842-km stormwater drain network, the civic body had strengthened 381 km; work on the remaining stretches would be taken up in phases. The Revenue Department had allocated Rs. 50 crore for flood mitigation, of which Rs. 15 crore will be utilised to install radars to monitor rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pothole-filling-begins/article32300621.ece
08 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Relief for govt. staff||In a bid to instil confidence among its employees who are working as COVID-19 warriors, the State government has decided to provide an insurance cover of Rs. 30 lakh in the event of their death from the disease. An order in this regard was issued by the State government on Friday. The relief will apply to all State government employees, irrespective of their cadre and post, an official release said. In addition to this, the government will bear the entire treatment cost if any employee on COVID-19 duty tests positive. The president of the Sate government employees’ union had expressed concern over the death of several staff on COVID-19 duty. He had sought measures, including adequate compensation, to boost the morale of the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relief-for-govt-staff/article32300626.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||For students writing exams||Students writing exams will be exempted from home quarantine after testing negative in a rapid antigen test or carrying a negative RT-PCR test report. The test should be conducted within 96 hours prior to the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-students-writing-exams/article32300632.ece
08 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State to seek 10 tmcft of water for Gowribidanur from A.P.||The State government is considering a proposal to request Andhra Pradesh to give about 10 tmcft of water to the parched Gowribidanur taluk, according to Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who is also in-charge of Chickballapur district that encompasses Gowribidanur. At a programme in Gowribidanur, he said the idea was to return the water to be given by Andhra Pradesh from parts of Karnataka that have adequate water. He said authorities from Karnataka would soon hold consultations in this regard with the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister. He also said tourist places like Vidurashwatha in the district would be developed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-seek-10-tmcft-of-water-for-gowribidanur-from-ap/article32300674.ece
08 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||HAL donates ambulances||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Thursday donated two ambulances to Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute under its Corporate Social Responsibility programme. R. Madhavan, Chairman and Managing Director, HAL said these specialised ambulances can be used for transporting patients who require medical monitoring while in transit and non-invasive airway management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hal-donates-ambulances/article32300618.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC conductor succumbs||A 42-year-old conductor of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), who tested positive for COVID-19 a few days ago, died on Friday. “He was working in Peenya depot and had been on leave since July 15,” said a BMTC official. To date, five BMTC employees, including bus crew, have succumbed to COVID-19. According to officials, 293 employees contracted COVID-19, of whom 216 have been discharged. Among the active cases, 31 employees are in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-conductor-succumbs/article32300622.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man kills wife||A man who allegedly killed his wife was arrested by the police 30 hours later in Puttenahalli. Nazneen Sherief, 43, a resident of JP Nagar V Phase, was murdered in her house on Wednesday evening. “Her throat had been slit. The murder weapon, a kitchen knife, was found at the spot. Her husband, Khaleem Sherief, 50, was missing.” said a police officer. The police tracked him down and arrested him on Thursday. “He claimed to have killed his wife as he suspected her of having an affair,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-kills-wife/article32300624.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On referrals||To facilitate admission of positive patients referred by other districts to Bengaluru hospitals, the Health and Family Welfare Department has directed the referring district administration to mail a request to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Special Commissioner (Health) with all the details of the patient, including specimen referral code, district code, mobile number, age, gender, and reasons for referral. The email address is spcomswm@bbmp.gov.in. Following this, the BBMP will allocate a bed through its online portal. Patients walking in directly without referral will not be admitted under the government quota. However, they can be admitted against private quota beds, if available, and they will be charged as perthe fixed rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-referrals/article32300627.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pujari aide arrested||Sleuths from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) probing cases related to gangster Ravi Pujari, who was extradited from Senegal earlier this year, have arrested one of his gang members. The accused, Ikhlaq Qureshi, 45, hails from Uttar Pradesh but was residing in Nagamangala in Mandya district. Qureshi was arrested in 2007 for his alleged connection with the shootout on Shabnam Developers where two staffers were shot dead in close range. He secured bail but absconded. He violated bail conditions and had not attended court hearings in the past 13 years, a senior police officer said. The CCB again arrested him after they got fresh leads in the probe. They said he supplied firearms used in the shootout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pujari-aide-arrested/article32300675.ece
08 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Businessman duped in ‘red mercury’ scam||The police have busted a gang for duping a businessman into purchasing a non-existent metal, ‘red mercury’, which they claimed possessed several mystical qualities and could be used to make nuclear weapons. They robbed him of Rs. 3 lakh. A middleman in the transaction claimed to have been assaulted and threatened by the victim. The businessman, Sridhar, runs a mobile repair shop in Kammanahalli. “He got a call from Sagar who claimed that his contact Manoj had red mercury, and was ready to sell it for Rs. 3 lakh, even though it was worth over Rs. 3 crore,” said the police. The police have arrested four members of the gang, of which three have tested positive for COVID-19 and were hospitalised..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/businessman-duped-in-red-mercury-scam/article32300617.ece
08 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Chief Secretary empowered to take emergency steps||As the flood situation in the State precipitated, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday empowered Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar to proceed with emergency measures without awaiting his approval. The Chief Minister, who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru, spoke to the Chief Secretary over telephone and took stock of the flood situation in the State. He also spoke to Kodagu district in-charge Minister V. Somanna and expressed concern over the landslip at Talacauvery. Meanwhile, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has instructed the Secretary to the Water Resources Department, managing directors of various boards in the department and the chief engineers of all the reservoirs and command areas to initiate precautionary measures. He directed them to stay put in their jurisdiction in this emergency situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-secretary-empowered-to-take-emergency-steps/article32300669.ece
08 August 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Sringeri temple premises flooded||The premises ofSharada Peetha in the temple town of Sringeri is inundated by the Tunga waters following heavy rain. The parking yard, Kappe Shankara temple, the pathway to the Sringeri seer’s place, and the dining hall are all flooded. Many residential localities in the town too are badly affected. Around 15 people reached the roof as the water level increased at Kurubageri in the town. Two people were stranded on a building at Gandhi Maidan. The police rushed to the spot with a boat and rescued them. According to the Chikkamagaluru district administration, 12 houses were partially damaged inSringeri taluk and landslips were reported in some parts. Hundreds of electricity poles and trees have fallen and power lines have been cut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sringeri-temple-premises-flooded/article32300668.ece
08 August 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Charmadi Ghat closed till Aug. 11||The Chikkamagaluru district administration has prohibited movement of vehicles on Charmadi Ghat stretch of NH-73 (234 previously), till the midnight of August 11. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam issued the order on Friday. The order stated that there had been landslips and incidents of tree falls on the road due to heavy rain in Charmadi Ghat for the last one week. Considering the safety of travellers, the administration has prohibited the movement of all types of vehicles on the stretch. Dr. Gautam suggested the alternative route of Shiradi Ghat via Mudiger Handpost-Jannapura-Anemahal-Shiradi to reach Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/charmadi-ghat-closed-till-aug-11/article32300832.ece
08 August 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Monkeys stranded on trees||At Rajanahalli near Harihar in Davangere district, a 25-member team from the Fire and Emergency Services and Forest departments toiled for over seven hours on Friday to rescue a group of monkeys stranded on trees submerged in the overflowing Tungabhadra. However, till late evening their efforts had not yielded much results. Although they tried to drive them towards the rescue boats, the frightened monkeys did not move towards them. Instead, they jumped from one tree to another, making the efforts more difficult. District Fire Officer of Davangere Basava Prabhu Sharma, who was at the site, said they had now moved to a distance after tying two ropes tightly from the submerged tree to the branches of the tree on the river bank in the hope that the monkeys might use the ropes to move to safety. “We also have tied a net used to catch wild animals so that we can pull them to safety,” he said. The trees are at a distance of 80m from the bank of the overflowing river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/monkeys-stranded-on-trees/article32300673.ece
08 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Seer passes away||Abhinava Shivaputra Mahaswami, 64, seer of Shanmukharoodh Mutt, Vijayapura and Shanthashrama, Hubballi, passed away owing to a cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Belagavi on Friday night. The seer was hospitalised in Vijayapura two days and was brought to KLE Hospital in Belagav on Friday evening, junior seer of the mutt Abhinava Siddharoodh Swami said. The final rites will be held at the shanthashrama premises in Hubballi on Saturday at 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-passes-away/article32300841.ece
08 August 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Girl washed away in Dharwad||An eight-year-old girl was washed away in a stream after she slipped and fell into it while crossing an inundated road in Ganjigatti village of Kalaghatagi taluk in Dharwad district. The mishap occurred on Thursday evening when Sridevi Hanumanthappa Ganiger was crossing the road across along with her mother. The body is yet to be recovered. A team of NDRF and Fire and Emergency Services is searching for the body. On Friday, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil visited the village and consoled the parents. Tahsildar Asho Shiggavi is monitoring the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-washed-away-in-dharwad/article32300830.ece
08 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Inflow into Tungabhadra dam up||Heavy rain continued to lash upper parts of Karnataka resulting in heavy inflow into the Tungabhadra dam. Presently, there is 46.55 tmcft water in the dam against the total capacity of 103 tmcft. The water level stood at 1,615.35 ft against the maximum water level of 1,833 feet. On Friday, the dam received 81,218 cusecs of water. It is likely to reach maximum level by next week. As much as 8,225 cusecs were released on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inflow-into-tungabhadra-dam-up/article32300833.ece
08 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||32 families shifted from flood-prone areas||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has shifted 32 families from Ganesh Nagar in Mittabagilu village of Belthangady taluk to safer areas. Ganesh Nagar was among the areas in Mittabagilu and Malavanthige villages of the taluk which were severely affected by flooding and landslips last year. The government had sanctioned land for construction of houses for these families. Officials said as construction was yet to be completed, the families had continued to stay in their present location. Yatish Ullal, Assistant Commissioner, Puttur sub-division, told reporters that 115 persons from 24 families moved to the houses of relatives and friends. The remaining 34 persons from eight families were moved to a temporary shelter at the government school in Mittabagilu village, he said. Social distancing and other precautions were taken while shifting the families and also at the rehabilitation centre, he said. Rehabilitation centre Personnel from Mittabagilu and Malavanthige panchayats were surveying areas and identifying families who also need to be shifted to the rehabilitation centre. “I met representatives of Baranke area, who have agreed to move to the rehabilitation centre,” said Belthangady tahsildar Mahesh G. Action was taken to clear the dead wood logs that had flown down and blocked the Mruthyunjaya river at a check dam in Antara village of Belthangady taluk, he added. Earth movers have been placed at strategic locations in Charmadi Ghat, which connects Mangaluru with Chikkamagaluru, to immediately reach places in the district that witness landslips. Few houses in Malavanthige had been partially damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32-families-shifted-from-flood-prone-areas/article32300835.ece
08 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Seawater enters MRPL’s plant, construction site||As the monsoon continued to remain active in the coastal region, waters of the raging Arabian Sea entered the construction site of the proposed seawater desalination plant of Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., near Tannirbhavi here on Friday. The bund between the sea and the seawater inlet sump for the proposed plant must have given way, said MRPL spokesperson Rudolph Noronha. The immediate concern was about the makeshift tents that were erected by some migrant labourers who were working, Mr. Noronha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seawater-enters-mrpls-plant-construction-site/article32300839.ece
08 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Widespread rain in DK and Udupi||Several houses were partially damaged following rain in Udupi district on Friday. The total average rain in the district was 68 mm in the last 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. on Friday. While 12 houses were partially damaged in Byndoor taluk, four houses each were damaged in Kundapur and Brahmavar taluk. Three houses were partially damaged in Kapu. Some horticultural fields were damaged in Brahmavar and Byndoor taluks. Udupi taluk received 52.3 mm, Kundapur taluk 71 mm, and Karkala taluk 73 mm in the same period. The rain was widespread in Dakshina Kannada with the district recording an average of 54 mm in the 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. on Friday. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, the highest of 129 mm was recorded in Belthangady. The level of the Netravathi at Bantwal was 7.4m, while it was at 28.7m in Uppinangady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/widespread-rain-in-dk-and-udupi/article32300836.ece
08 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Seven deaths, 166 new cases reported in DK||As many as seven COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died and 166 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. According to a bulletin by the district administration, five victims were from Mangaluru and one each from Puttur and Belthangady taluks. In Udupi, five patients with co-morbidities died, taking the toll to 55. As many as 245 persons tested positive on Friday. In Hassan, nine deaths were reported on Friday, taking the toll to 88. This is the highest number of deaths reported in a single day in the district. Kalaburagi district reported seven deaths and 271 new cases on Friday. The death toll in the district is now 129. Ballari recorded five deaths, taking the toll to 93, and 684 new cases. Bidar reported one death on Friday, taking the toll to 91. Koppal reported 173 new cases and three deaths. Belagavi and Dharwad districts recorded the highest single-day rise with 390 and 266 positive cases respectively. Dharwad recorded nine deaths while Belagavi reported two. Bagalkot recorded 148 cases, Uttara Kannada 120, Davangere 111, Gadag 105, Haveri 90, and Chitradurga 57. Davanagere and Gadag recorded two deaths each while Haveri reported one. 241 persons tested positive in Raichur and Yadgir districts.  (With inputs from Hassan, Kalaburagi, Hubballi, and Yadgir)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-deaths-166-new-cases-reported-in-dk/article32300838.ece
08 August 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bracing itself for four more days of rain||Kodagu which is reeling under torrential rain since the last five days, is bracing for extreme weather conditions for four more days. The India Meteorological Department has issued a red alert valid till Saturday and an orange alert till Tuesday. Red alert is issued in case the forecast is above 204.5 mm of rainfall while an orange alert is for rain that is between 115.6 mm and 204 mm. The district administration has said people of the region in case of any emergency may call 08272-221077 or WhatsApp no. 8550001077. Bhagamandala, which is the epicentre of this year’s rain fury so far, received 400 mm of rainfall during the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday. This was preceded by a record rainfall of 486.6 mm during the previous 24 hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bracing-itself-for-four-more-days-of-rain/article32300662.ece
08 August 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Outflow from KRS, Kabini up||Parts of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts in the downstream of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) and the Kabini reservoirs are expected to face inundation as the outflow from the dams have been increased. Discharge from the Kabini reservoir, which was at the rate of around 50,600 cusecs on Friday morning, was increased to around 78,000 cusecs by evening. Low-lying areas in H.D. Kote, Nanjangud, and Suttur were flooded and the bridge to Suttur was completely submerged. The Kabini was flowing above the danger mark in Nanjangud where the water level was hardly a few feet below the railway bridge while the Hadinarukalu Mantapa was submerged. Meanwhile, the crest gates of the KRS were also opened on Friday evening and the outflow was at the rate of 30,000 cusecs which could go up to the rate of 50,000 cusecs. This is expected to increase over the next two days consequent to heavy rain in Kodagu, the catchment area of the Cauvery and also discharge from the Hemavati reservoir in Hassan. The combined discharge from the KRS and Kabini reservoirs on Friday evening was at the rate of 1,08,000 cusecs. Hence parts of T. Narsipur, which is at the confluence of the Cauvery and the Kabini, is expected to witness flooding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/outflow-from-krs-kabini-up/article32300661.ece
08 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Yathindra tests positive||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s son Yathindra Siddaramaiah too has tested positive for COVID-19. Dr. Yathindra, who represents Varuna Assembly constituency in Mysuru, took to Twitter on Friday afternoon to announce the news.Mr. Siddaramaiah had tested positive earlier and is undergoing treatment at Bengaluru. Dr. Yathindra was with him. He has appealed to the people who came in contact with him to quarantine themselves and take precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yathindra-tests-positive/article32300625.ece
08 August 2020||Mysuru/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Landslips galore as rain batters Kodagu||The Kodagu district administration has said there were at least 30 landslips till Thursday evening owing to the continuing rain and fresh incidents were reported on Friday too. The highway connecting Madikeri with Mangaluru has been blocked at multiple places owing to landslips and uprooted trees, and the local authorities were working on a war footing to clear the road. Giant trees uprooted in the higher altitudes have been swept down by the rivulets, and those trapped below the bridges and blocking the flow of the water were removed using cranes. Even the Kodagu Deputy Commissioner’s office faced the brunt of the rain as it is close to the Madikeri–Mangaluru highway. Deputy Commissioner Annie Kanmani Joy said restoration and repairs would commence on Saturday. People living in the hilly terrain identified as hazardous will be evacuated and 20 families have already been shifted to a relief centre opened at the Government Higher Primary School in Virajpet. District in-charge Minister V. Somanna, other elected representatives, and senior officials from the district administration used a boat to reach Bhagamandala to take stock of the situation.  In other parts of Malnad region, notably in Chikkamagaluru district and Sakleshpur in Hassan district, vast tracts of agricultural fields and houses were inundated. Scores of houses have been damaged, prompting the local authorities to deploy boats to rescue stranded people. There were 11 landslips in Charmadi Ghat stretch which left hundreds of people stranded at Kottigehara in Mudigere taluk and at the checkpost. The operation to restore the route continued amid heavy rain. There were major breaches along different stretches of the highway and movement of heavy vehicles could be banned till the repairs are completed. So far 108 houses have been damaged in Chikkamagaluru district owing to rain. An NDRF team, comprising 30 members, has reached the district to take up rescue operations. As the Hemvati river is in spate, the Holemalleshwara Temple in Sakleshpur town is almost submerged. As many as 196 houses have been damaged and a portion of the police station at Yeslur has collapsed. Continued rain in the coastal belt has forced the authorities to increase the outflow from the reservoirs in Uttara Kannada district. Respite in NK There was some respite from rain in the districts of north Karnataka. The water level in the swollen rivers and streams has subsided. In Belagavi district, rain in Khanapur and surrounding catchment areas augmented the volume of water in the Malaprabha and the Markandeya and also in the Ballari Nala rivulet. The Navilu Teertha dam on the Malaprabha river is nearly full. Water at the rate of 1.51 lakh cusecs has been released from Maharashtra into Krishna and its tributaries. In Dharwad district, several streams, including the Benni Halla, are in spate, inundating farmland.  (With inputs from Hubballi and Belagavi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/landslips-galore-as-rain-batters-kodagu/article32300667.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hemavati reservoir gates opened||The crest gates of Hemavati reservoir at Gorur near Hassan have been opened to release 20,000 cusecs of water due to heavy rain in the catchment area. As on Friday morning, the water level in the reservoir stood at 2,911.64 ft against the full reservoir level of 2,922 ft. As on Friday 6 a.m., the inflow was 47,320 cusecs. Hemavati Project officers appealed to the public in the downstream to take precautionary measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hemavati-reservoir-gates-opened/article32300842.ece
08 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha’s tally goes up by 60||The district logged 60 COVID-19 cases and 30 recoveries on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 46 patients contracted the disease through contact. Eight persons who came from other States and six others from abroad too tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district reported one more COVID-19 related death. The deceased was identified as a 63-year-old man from Poochakkal. Among the contact cases, 22 were reported from Chettikkad. The rest of the contact cases were from Pattanakkad (7), Vayalar (4), Arthunkal (2) and one case each from Thamarakulam, Ezhupunna, Pallippuram, Thrikkunnapuzha, Perumbalam, Mulakuzha, Chennithala, Kuthiathode, Thaikattusserry, Vandanam and Eruva. 951 active cases Of the 30 people recovered, 21 had contracted the disease through contact. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 951. All wards in Pattanakkad, ward 15 in Thrikkunnappuzha, ward 1 in Vayalar, wards 18 and 22 in Aroor, ward 12 in Ambalappuzha North, ward 7 in Arookutty and ward 18 in Kanjikuzhy were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzhas-tally-goes-up-by-60/article32301006.ece
08 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Kuttanad braces for flood-like situation||Scores of trees and power poles got uprooted in different parts of Alappuzha in torrential rain and strong winds on Friday. At least 56 houses were damaged in the district, including 17 in Mavelikara taluk, 16 in Cherthala, nine in Karthikappally, seven in Ambalappuzha, five in Chengannur, and two in Kuttanad. According to officials, four relief camps, two in Chengannur and one each in Cherthala and Kuttanad taluks, were opened. A total of 77 people belonging to 19 families were shifted to the camps as of Friday evening. Fourteen people from three families at Mithrapuzha in Chengannur were moved to a relief camp opened at JB School, Keecherimel after the water level in the Pampa river rose. Twenty-two people of five families at Ennakkad in Chengannur were shifted to a Pakal Veedu. Earlier this week, the administration had opened one camp each in Kavalam grama panchayat and Cherthala North village. The relief camp at ward 4 in Kavalam houses five members of a family, while 36 people of 10 families are residing in the camp at Cherthala North. The district administration has also decided to open a gruel centre at Mukkathari, near Veeyapuram, for 165 people. Several parts of Kuttanad have been inundated following an increase in the flow of floodwaters from the eastern side. Floodwaters have entered a number of houses in Thalavady, Kavalam, Nedumudi, Champakulam and so on. Several low-lying areas in Chengannur, Karthikappally, and Cherthala taluks have also been submerged. Orange alert today The weather agency has declared an ‘orange alert’ for the district on Saturday. Officials said they were bracing for a flood-like situation in Kuttanad and other low-lying areas in the district. “We are constantly monitoring the water level in rivers, especially in Kuttanad. With heavy rain in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam, we expect an increase in the inflow of floodwaters. All arrangements are in place to shift people to relief camps if needed,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuttanad-braces-for-flood-like-situation/article32301017.ece
08 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||A family that recorded Munnar’s past||Param Jyothi Naidu’s photographs speak volumes about Munnar’s history during the plantation era under the Raj. His photographs of the ‘Great Flood of 99’ show the intensity of the devastating deluge that hit Munnar in 1924. The ropeway, the first Kundala Valley light railway, the first motorbike with its owner, celebrations and sports events in Munnar are all vividly caught by his camera. His son Irudaya Sami Rathinam followed in his father’s footsteps. Rathinam died a few days ago due to age-related illness in Coimabtore. Naidu opened the Royal Electric Studio in Munnar and the black-and-white photographs taken by him are still kept in museums, studios and landmark buildings in the town. Naidu’s photographs won much acclaim when they appeared in the Facets of Hundred Years of Planting , an in-house publication of Tata-Finlay Ltd. “In addition to the vivid description of life, the pictures capture the gravity of events in such a way that no narrative can explain,” said M.J. Babu who wrote the book Munnarile Kanan Devan Kunnukal (The Hills of Kanan Devan in Munnar). Family of photographers Mr. Babu, a native of Munnar, has memories of Irudaya Sami Rathinam. By the time Rathinam entered the field, there were other photographers too in Munnar and he could not gain as much popularity as his father, said Mr. Babu. Rathinam’s son Johnson is a third generation photographer in Munnar and he keeps the slides of the photographs taken by his grandfather as a treasure. “Naidu reached Munnar in 1914 with the British planters as their photographer. The Britishers supplied him with the equipment and a German national gave him a camera,” said Joseph Raj, another grandson of Naidu. Naidu was entrusted with taking the photographs of tea plants as every one metre of the plants was insured then and photographs were needed for claiming insurance. Social functions He was also engaged for taking photographs of functions like transfer of British staff, Christmas celebrations and other sports competitions. The Britishers also gave him a house and buildings for setting up a studio, Joseph Raj said. Though the plantation town of Munnar changed into a popular tourist destination, time is frozen in the photographs of Param Jyothi Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-family-that-recorded-munnars-past/article32301005.ece
08 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Car with 2 men swept off bridge in Idukki||The district witnessed extremely heavy rainfall on Friday, resulting in flooding, landslips, and loss to life and property. Over 20 landslips were reported, with many areas remaining cut off. Two youths travelling in a car were washed away by gushing waters from a bridge at Nallathanni on the Elappara-Wagamon road on Thursday night. The incident occurred around 8.30 p.m., said the police. The body of Nallathanni resident Martin, 32, was recovered. Search was on for his friend Aneesh, 35. On Thursday evening, three landslips were reported in Annanthampimala, Kozhikkanam, and Memala. Elappara town was flooded, but water receded by Friday morning. Water level up in dams There was an unprecedented rise in the water level in two major dams, Idukki and Mullaperiyar, on Friday. Within 24 hours, water level rose by over 9 ft in the Mullaperiyar dam, touching 132 ft. The water level in Idukki reservoir increased by 5 ft, taking it to 2,353.10 ft on Friday. However, the Idukki reservoir has a water level below the rule curve level revised by the Central Water Commission. As per the new rule curve, for August 10, the water level should be 2,383.53 ft. Peerumade taluk recorded the highest rainfall of 261 mm in the past 24 hours. The rainfall in each taluk in the district is follows: Udumbanchola-120.4 mm, Idukki-226.4 mm, Thodupuzha-89.7 mm, and Devikulam-229 mm. Because of the heavy rainfall, all shutters of the Kallarkutty, Kallar, Malankara, Erattayar, Pambla, and Munnar headworks dams were opened. Ban on night travel The district administration has banned night travel in the high ranges.  As many as 15 relief camps were opened in the district and 513 people from 147 families were shifted to them. The relief camps were opened in Devikulam, Thodupuzha, Peerumade and Idukki taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/car-with-2-men-swept-off-bridge-in-idukki/article32301011.ece
08 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Unprecedented rain in Wayanad||Unprecedented torrential rain and strong winds crippled normal life in Wayanad district on Friday. Most parts of the district experienced heavy rainfall on the day. The Mundakkai region in Meppadi grama panchayat received 300 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours, while the Chooralmala region in the panchayat got 280 mm, and Thavinjal 290 mm. The India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy rain for the next 48 hours. With the district in a rain spell, landslips were reported at Mundakkai, near Meppadi, Vanjode, near Vellamunda, and the Palchuram ghat section on the day. A landslip at Punhirimattom, near Mundakkai, in the morning destroyed two houses and two bridges. No casualties were reported, thanks to the intervention of the district administration. The administration had shifted all families from the area on Wednesday and Thursday. However, 25 members of four families who did not heed the advice of the administration were stranded and had to be rescued by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the Fire and Rescue Services.  The Kozhikode-Kollegal National Highway 766 was inundated at Ponkuzhi and Thakarappady on the Kerala -Karnataka border and vehicles were diverted through Bavali. A temporary mobile facilitation centre would set up at Bavali for travellers from other States.  As many as 3,363 members of 921 families were shifted to 62 relief camps in the district. District Collector Adeela Abdulla ordered resorts, homestays, and hotels managers to vacate all tourists from their properties in the wake of the IMD red alert for the district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unprecedented-rain-in-wayanad/article32300935.ece
08 August 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Move to shift NHDC regional office to Bengaluru||While the handloom sector is in a crisis, the move to shift the regional office of the National Handloom Development Corporation (NHDC) from Kannur as part of a restructuring plan has raised concerns among handloom cooperative societies and exporters. While NHDC officials declined to comment, sources said a decision had been taken and the regional office would be converted back to a branch office. The regional office may be shifted to Bengaluru from where it would be overseeing Kerala operations. The decision had been taken as the volume of business had drastically come down in the State, he added. The Kerala Textile Export Organisation said the move would hit the handloom sector in the State, which had huge potentials. It said the sector was struggling now due to the slowdown and various other factors. K.P. Divakar, member of the organisation, said the NHDC had been playing a pivotal role in providing quality yarn, jute, coir, and other raw material for the sector, which helped to control prices in the domestic market and gave a competitive edge in the export market. However, the decision of the Ministry of Textiles to shift the office had come during the outbreak of COVID-19, which had affected the domestic and international markets. Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan said the benefit of transportation subsidy was provided by the regional office to cover the cost of yarn delivery. “With the relocation of the regional office to Bengaluru, there will be a delay in getting the subsidy amount. This will significantly affect the operations of handloom establishments,” he said adding that it would impact artisans in the traditional sector. Business volume The NHDC had good business volume and a turnover of Rs. 120 crore in 2017-18, said a retired official on condition of anonymity. However, there was a sharp decline in business which stood at Rs. 49.6 crore in March 2020. This he attributed to the decision of the Centre to cut the subsidy provided to exporters under the Mills Gate Price Scheme in 2019. This scheme gave subsidy of 2% to yarn and 10% for jute and coir. The subsidy was limited to handloom cooperative societies, which apparently focussed more on production of school uniforms than local production. This impacted the societies, which were now struggling to survive. The State government’s decision not to avail itself of the 10% hank yarn subsidy scheme, which many other States accepted, further affected the cooperatives. Now the shifting of the office would lead to procedural delays in extending the benefits and in affective implementation of the scheme, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-shift-nhdc-regional-office-to-bengaluru/article32300943.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Flood situation grim in Chellanam||The flood situation in Chellanam panchayat turned grave following Friday’s heavy rainfall, with around 70 houses suffering damage and floodwaters entering a good share of 7,000 houses in the coastal region from Vachakkal to Manasery Saudi. Many parts of the panchayat were inundated after seawater gushed in through gaps in the seawall last week. “The State government’s apathy in building a full-fledged sea wall and the delay in restoring groynes are to blame for thousands of people remaining marooned for days together. Measures like laying geo-textile tubes and sand bags are at best a temporary step. They have all been washed away within a week of they being laid,” said P.A. Dalfine, convenor of Pashchima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samiti, who approached the High Court seeking a permanent solution to flooding in the panchayat. The erection of a sea wall on the existing 200-metre gap in the Bazaar area alone will not ward off sea incursion. There are half-a-dozen other vulnerable spots as well. The government must focus on protecting a 16.5-km-long stretch to find a permanent solution to intense flooding during the monsoon. The district administration says it has sought Rs. 8.5 crore for a project to fend off waves. The Irrigation Department waits till February every year to award contract for such projects. In June, it would cite the monsoon as an excuse for non-completion of work. The entire stretch needs groynes and a sea wall, as has been done to protect the banks of the Navy’s INS Dronacharya in Fort Kochi, he added. Furthermore, desilting of waterbodies like Uppathakadu in the panchayat alone will not suffice to prevent flooding. The panchayat must take steps to weed out encroachments, which have narrowed down the canal at many places, Mr. Dalfine said. He also sought lifting of COVID-related restrictions in the area, saying there was only one active case in Ward 11. Over 280 persons whose houses were damaged in floods have been accommodated in a parish hall at Saudi, without adhering to the COVID protocol. They were unable to relocate to relatives’ houses, since almost the entire panchayat remained a containment zone. Sources in the Irrigation Department said work was under way to desilt canals, which were deposited with sediments brought in by sea water. More projects are pending, for which there is acute fund paucity. Administrative sanction is awaited for pending work, they added. Two relief camps have been opened in the pacnahayat. Total rainfall Meanwhile, Ernakulam district received a total of 73.53 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours, beginning Thursday night. Trees got uprooted in several areas. The KSEB and Irrigation Departments are measuring water levels in dams five times every day. Camps opened The district administration has opened 16 relief camps. A total of 475 people have been moved to these camps, including 43 children and differently abled people. They include families from P&T Colony in the city who were moved to KV, Kadavanthra. Altogether, 650 buildings, which can be converted into relief camps, have been identified in the district. They can house a total of 1.30 lakh people, while adhering to COVID norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-situation-grim-in-chellanam/article32300910.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Water levels rise in Periyar, Muvattupuzha||Relentless rain since Thursday night continued to pound low-lying areas in Ernakulam, as several people in the flood-hit areas were shifted to safer places as a precautionary measure against the rising water levels in the Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers as on Friday evening. Many homes in the areas close to the banks of the Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers were inundated following heavy showers. The water level in the Muvattupuzha river basin reached the 10.56-mark against the flood warning level of 9.01 metres in the afternoon. The water level in the Bhoothathankettu barrage was 29.2 metres against the full reservoir level of 34.95 metres. All the 15 shutters have been kept open to release water. The rain gauge station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in North Paravur recorded a rainfall of 84 mm from 8.30 a.m to 2 p.m. on Friday. Families residing in the low-lying areas of Muvattupuzha continued to bear the brunt of the rising water level in the Muvattupuzha river basin. Revenue officials said 22 members of five families in Ilahia Colony were shifted to Government JB School, Vazhappilly, by 5 p.m. Twelve families in the affected areas in Aluva were shifted to relief camps opened at Chengamanad and Mattur. Kothamangalam Municipal Chairperson Manju Siju said 40 persons in Jawahar Colony, Thangalam, were shifted to two camps set up at IMA Hall and Town UP School after floodwaters entered their homes. The water level near the Marthandavarma Bridge in Aluva was 2.93 metres against the danger level of 3.76 metres, while the corresponding figures near the Mangalapuzha Bridge was 3.30 metres and 4.33 metres respectively. The heavy rain also affected tribal hamlets in Kuttampuzha, Pindimana, Varappetty and Pallarimangalam areas. Kallelimedu and Manikantanchal in Kuttampuzha were the worst hit owing to the flood situation in the Pooyamkutty river. CIAL not hit The operations at Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) were not affected, with the authorities maintaining that the preparatory work following the previous floods had helped in checking the flood situation. District Collector S. Suhas said the district administration was keeping a close watch on the water levels in Edamalayar, Idukki and Malankara dams. The Revenue wing has been alerted to monitor the situation in the Muvattupuzha river basin. Over 300 persons have been shifted to 11 camps opened in the district. Separate camps have been set up to accommodate senior citizens and those in quarantine as part of the COVID-19 protocol, he added. Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar said special care was being given to areas that were affected by floods in 2018 and 2019. Police, Revenue and Local Self-Government departments are prepared to meet any emergency. Control rooms have been opened in all local bodies to coordinate relief and rescue operations, he said. Fire and Rescue Services personnel have been deployed to shift flood-hit people to safer locations. “We have also trained nearly 30 civil defence volunteers after the previous floods to act as the first defence personnel along with firemen in flood-affected areas. They are all on the ground from Friday morning onwards,” said T.B. Ramakrishnan, station officer, Eloor fire station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-batters-ernakulam-flood-hit-people-shifted-to-safety/article32300913.ece
08 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||What triggered torrential rain||The gradual transition in the strength of the wind from 14 km/hour on August 1 to 85 km/hr on August 6 has triggered heavy rainfall over the west coast of the country and it is likely to last for two to three days, according to observations by scientists at the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research (ACARR) in the Cochin University of Science and Technology. “In conjunction with the recent development of depressions over the Bay of Bengal, radar observations taken at the ACARR show that the strength of the wind at lower troposphere (below 2 km in the atmosphere) observed from radar on August 1 was around 14 km/hour, which gradually picked up momentum and it reached about 85 km/hour on August 6,” Ajil Kottayil, scientist at ACARR, said on Friday. Wind a trigger This kind of transition in the wind triggers heavy rainfall over the west coast of India. A heavy rainfall thus triggered could last two to three days, he said. Stating that extreme heavy rainfall events during monsoon season were not an abrupt phenomena, Dr. Ajil said certain priming occur prior to their manifestation. “They evolve following an intensification of low-pressure system over central India. The transition in monsoon circulation from normal to heavy rainfall is in fact gradual, which actually facilitates their predictability. The wind observations taken at the ACARR can ideally capture the signals of heavy rainfall a few days prior to their actual incidence,” he said.  Kerala situation On why Kerala was facing the continued threat of successive floods, Dr. Ajil said “it would be because we have failed to address the underlying ecological issues promoting water stagnation. Extreme weather events cannot be prevented any time in future but equipping ourselves to a changed world is the only sustainable solution”, he said. The scientist said the past two years, though bitter, was but a novel experience for the State already ensnared in unscientific planning, illegal encroachments, and paralleled with a dense population.  Failure to address underlying ecological issues leading to floods. Ajil Kottayil scientist, ACARR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/what-triggered-torrential-rain/article32300937.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi suffers as drains overflow||Several parts of the city and West Kochi remained inundated well into the night after incessant rain pounded the district yet again for the second time in a week since the early hours of Friday. The major hubs that were inundated include M.G. Road and the KSRTC bus stand located on the western side of the city. “The situation is as grim as on July 29, when much of the city remained flooded for hours. With drains overflowing, water entered shops, houses, and other buildings on M.G. Road and side roads. Broken or missing slabs over drains have worsened the situation, as they pose threat to the safety of pedestrians who will be unable to differentiate between the footpath and open drains,” said Rajesh Nair, convenor, M.G. Road Merchants Association. The ground floor of several shops on Jew Street, Kaloor, parts of Banerjee Road, and numerous other arterial and side roads too remained under water as on Friday noon, posing health risks as well. Traffic too was affected in many areas, including Judges Avenue. Novel protest Meanwhile, traders on Jew Street adopted an innovative mode of protest against the alleged apathy of the Kochi Corporation in declogging drains and canals, by installing mechanical fountains in front of their shops. “We decided on this, since our patience was running out. Massive funds allotted for the upkeep of drains and canals are in wrong hands. No auditing is done either,” said Sadik K.A., a shop owner. A few days ago, he shot a video (which went viral) showing migrant workers retrieve hundreds of plastic and glass bottles that were dumped into drains at Palarivattom on Civil Line Road and ended up choking the drains. KSRTC Ernakulam Zonal Officer Tajudeen Sahib explained how rain had been making life miserable for passengers and staff at the KSRTC bus stand in the past many decades. “We hope to ready a project to lessen the impact of rain in the area. Buses operated as usual on Friday,” he said. High tide warning Kochi Corporation works standing committee chairman P.M. Harris said the situation was not as bad as in the last week’s rainfall. “The city generally gets flooded in the first heavy monsoon rainfall. Dumping of plastic bottles and other waste worsened the situation during rain last week. Much of this has been cleaned. The continuing severe rainfall in Idukki and the possibility of high tide might alter the situation in the city,” he added. A senior official of the District Emergency Operation Centre said the rising water levels in rivers and other waterbodies around the city were a cause for concern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-suffers-as-drains-overflow/article32300908.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Civil defence volunteers rise to the occasion, lend a helping hand||The services of civil defence volunteers trained by the Fire and Rescue Services Department proved beneficial, as they helped the flood-affected people move to safer destinations on Friday. Musthafa, a senior civil defence volunteer attached to the Eloor fire station, said they had helped people shift their belongings to relief camps at Kayanttinkara, Elookara, and Cheranallore on Friday morning. “We are also actively involved with the local communities by issuing regular alerts to them on the rising water levels in rivers. A reserve of 85 volunteers is ready to be deployed to meet the situation,” he added. Shabab, a volunteer at Kayanttinkara, said the affected people were requested to shift to relatives’ houses. “We helped them shift vehicles to areas not affected by floods. The volunteers are keeping a close watch on the rain situation,” he said. A team of volunteers was sent to Rajamala near Munnar to join relief and rescue operations. The district has 900 volunteers to help the needy. They have received training in disaster mitigation measures and act as the first line of defence in the event of natural or man-made disasters.  We are also actively involved with the local communities by issuing regular alerts to them on the rising water levels in rivers Musthafa Senior civil defence volunteer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/civil-defence-volunteers-rise-to-the-occasion-lend-a-helping-hand/article32300911.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Responsible Tourism keeps date with the new normal||Faced with a loss of Rs. 8.5 crore from tourism and massive cancellation of tour packages for the impending tourist season owing to COVID-19, stakeholders in the State’s much-acclaimed Responsible Tourism (RT) sector are adapting in different ways to cater to the new normal. Over 1,000 of the 38,000 direct beneficiaries from the sector, most of them handicraft artisans and artistes, have recorded work-from-home storytelling videos of their skills and village-life experience and are in the process of posting them online. They are available in different languages, including Malayalam, Hindi, English, and French, says K. Rupesh Kumar, Coordinator of Kerala’s RT Mission. Longer stay “The videos bring to life activities such as carving of handicraft items, pottery making, old art forms, farming, cooking, folklore, and regional festivals. These village-life experiences are slowly finding resonance across the globe and was noted in the World Travel Mart (WTM). Simultaneously, the mission is working alongside other tourism stakeholders to increase the length of stay of guests visiting Kerala for rural and experiential tourism, which is part and parcel of RT initiatives,” he added. Mr. Rupesh Kumar speaks of how emphasis has been laid on five factors — nature learning, handicrafts, art and martial art forms, ethnic cuisine, and cultural discovery — to realise this. “Packages ranging from a fortnight to a year are in the process of being rolled out. Research-minded guests can thus stay put for an extended duration. Many of them have been showcased for foreign and domestic tour operators who have participated in webinars. There have been over 180 enquiries in the aftermath. We are also frequently hosting intra-group webinars to keep alive stakeholder interest in RT initiatives and to boost their confidence during these testing times,” he says. An example of the crisis faced by grassroots players is the slump in demand for braided coconut leaves for use as roof of resorts and other properties. The proceeds from its sale plummeted from Rs. 1.25 crore in 2019 to Rs. 16 lakh this year, it is learnt. Global acclaim The mission has won numerous global awards for the grass-roots level initiatives to improve the lot of the beneficiaries. There are about 58,000 indirect beneficiaries too. Kerala has a total of 18,000 RT units, which comprise mainly women members who are engaged in cultivating vegetables and rearing poultry. Their income by selling these produce to star hotels in tourism locales is hit by almost nil arrival of tourists following the pandemic. The worldwide RT movement aims at minimising negative economic, environmental, and social impacts of tourism while enabling greater economic benefit and well-being of local communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/responsible-tourism-keeps-date-with-the-new-normal/article32300939.ece
08 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||82 more test positive in Ernakulam||Of the 82 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday, 29 are from the West Kochi area. Three persons from Palluruthy, 14 from Fort Kochi, 11 from Mattancherry and one from Thoppumpady have tested positive. Five people from Thevara have also been infected. After a brief slump in the number of cases from Chellanam in the past few days, the area recorded a total of nine cases on Friday. Four health workers have tested positive – a 37-year-old ASHA worker from Vallarpadam, a 27-year-old health worker at the Karuvelipady Taluk Hospital, a 55-year-old at the Ernakulam General Hospital and a 31-year-old working at a private hospital in the district. Other positive cases were recorded from Kalamassery, Kumbalangi, Cheranalloor and Thripunithura. Six people from Nellikuzhi have also tested positive. Five people who arrived from outside the State have tested positive. The district administration has asked private hospitals to make arrangements to treat patients in critical condition. At a meeting with the managements of private hospitals Friday, District Collector S. Suhas sought the cooperation of private hospitals while dealing with a prospective surge in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/82-more-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article32300906.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Floods deal a blow to COVID-19 containment||With the number of COVID-19 cases in the district rising consistently, the heavy rain and flooding could complicate efforts to contain the virus. Additional District Medical Officer Dr. S. Sreedevi said the protocol in the Disaster Management Authority’s orange book would have to be adhered to. “When we say COVID protocol must be followed during rescue operations and in relief camps, that could also be difficult to do in this situation,” she said. “Separate relief camps have been set aside for people in quarantine. Patient transport and ambulances have been arranged,” said Dr. Mathews Numpelil, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Chellanam, which has recorded over 250 positive cases so far, continues to reel from sea incursions. But the test positivity rate had fallen in the area, which is a good sign, Dr. Numpelil said. Chellanam, however, recorded nine fresh cases on Friday. The Health Department is also bracing for a slew of monsoon-related diseases. “Cases of leptospirosis are on the rise,” said Dr. Vinod Paulose, District Surveillance Officer for non-COVID-19 diseases. For areas that were already dealing with the onslaught of the coronavirus, the flood is another blow. Officials at the Chengamanad panchayat, for instance, were in a dilemma on Friday morning when they realised that water had entered the house of a man who was in quarantine and he might have to be shifted to a separate camp. But since he had remained in quarantine for 10 days, an ambulance was dispatched to take him for a test immediately, where he tested negative, said panchayat president Dileep K. The Aluva Municipality, which has also seen many positive cases, besides flooding on Friday, the number of people in quarantine had fallen to about two or three after widespread testing, said Timmy Teacher, health standing committee chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floods-deal-a-blow-to-covid-19-containment/article32300903.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Cancel decisions taken at corpn. council meet’||After the Kochi Corporation Council met on Friday, with most councillors remaining absent, the OppositionLDF has written to the Minister for Local Self-Governments, demanding that the decisions taken at the meeting be cancelled. Of the corporation’s 74 divisions, 34, including all 28 divisions in West Kochi, are containment zones, said a statement issued by Opposition Leader K.J. Antony. “With the spread of the pandemic, a council meeting with a majority of councillors would defy the COVID protocol,” it said. A statement issued by Mayor Soumini Jain said annual projects to be taken up under the Finance Commission’s grant of Rs. 59 crore had to be approved by the council and sent to the District Planning Committee before August 10, necessitating an urgent council meeting, which was held adhering to all COVID-related protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cancel-decisions-taken-at-corpn-council-meet/article32300902.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Work on Konothupuzha rejuvenation begins||A project to rejuvenate the 17-km-long Konothupuzha got off the ground on Friday. The waterbody will be restored by the Minor Irrigation Department and the mechanical division of the Irrigation Department. “Under the project, worth Rs. 4 crore, a round of cleaning will be done first after which the encroachments will be dealt with,” said Chandrika Devi, Thripunithura Municipal Chairperson. The river flows through Thripunithura, Mulanthuruthy, Udayamperoor, Chottanikkara, and Amballoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-konothupuzha-rejuvenation-begins/article32300904.ece
08 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays decision on regularisation||The Kerala High Court on Friday stayed the government decision to regularise daily wage employees working in various posts in the Kerala State Library Council. The stay order came on a writ petition filed by Arun Raj R., district general secretary, Clerk Rank Holders Association, Ernakulam, and others. The petitioners said the government had decided to regularise 60 daily wage employees working under the council when the rank list prepared by Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) for various posts, including lower division clerks, remained in force. In fact, the petitioners were in the rank lists of the PSC and they had a right to be considered for appointment. The government had not consulted the PSC or obtained its concurrence before taking a decision to regularise the daily wage employees. It could not go beyond the constitutional scheme,they contended, seeking a directive to the council to report all the unfilled sanctioned vacancies to the PSC for recruitment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-stays-decision-on-regularisation/article32300941.ece
08 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Murder: life term for nine||The Kollam District Sessions Court on Friday sentenced to life imprisonment all the nine accused in the Kadavoor Jayan murder case. While accused 1 to 6 were imposed a fine of Rs. 71,500, others were asked to pay Rs. 61,500. According to the chargesheet, Jayan was hacked to death by the accused, all of them RSS workers, on February 7, 2012, following political differences. The court has punished the convicts under Sections 143, 144, 146, 147, 148 (all related to forming an unlawful assembly with deadly weapons for common objective) 302 (murder) and 149 (vicarious liability of the members of the said assembly) of IPC. If they fail to remit the penalty, the accused will have to undergo additional term. Compensation Out of the fine, Rs. 2 lakh will be paid to Ambika Amma, mother of the deceased and Rs. 25,000 to Raghunathan Pillai, Jayan’s brother-in-law, who sustained injuries in the attack, as compensation. Vinod, Gopakumar, Subramanian, Priyarajan, Pranav, Arun, Ranjith, Dinaraj and Shiju are the nine accused in the case. Since they were not armed at the time of attack, Section 148 of IPC was not invoked against accused 7, 8 and 9. The prosecution had produced 23 witnesses, 75 documents, and 38 exhibits during the trial. The deceased had 51 wounds on him and the Kollam Additional Sessions Court had earlier sentenced all the accused to life imprisonment. But they had appealed to the High Court and the final hearing was moved to the District Sessions Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-life-term-for-nine/article32301007.ece
08 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Case burden of Kollam district rises by 36||The district reported 36 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 32 recoveries on Friday. The patients include 22 contact cases, four persons who came from abroad and five who came from various Indian States. Among the new patients are four persons with no travel history and a 31-year-old Thevalakkara resident who has been working at the Chavara Community Health Centre (CHC). Cases with no travel history have been reported from Chavara and Kollam Corporation. 8,023 under observation The district has 8,023 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 32,659. While 886 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 7,608 primary and 2,039 secondary contacts of the fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-burden-of-kollam-district-rises-by-36/article32301008.ece
08 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam opens control rooms||The district administration has opened 24x7 control rooms in six taluks and Kollam collectorate in view of the heavy rain in the district. Public may get in touch with the control rooms by dialling 0474-2794002, 2794004 (Kollam collectorate), 0474-2742116 (Kollam taluk office), 0476-2620223 (Karunagappally), 0474-2454623 (Kottarakara), 0476-2830345 (Kunnathur), 0475-2350090 (Pathanapuram) and 0475-2222605 (Punalur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-opens-control-rooms/article32301018.ece
08 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam grapples with twin threats||The torrential rain lashing Kottayam for the past couple of days have reignited fears of another flood in the region for the third consecutive year. Rainfall, which began on Thursday in the high-ranges of the district and intensified in the night, caused a surge in the water level of all major rivers in the district. The water level in the Meenchil, Manimala, and Muvattupuzha rivers continued to rise throughout the day. The run-off water entered houses, roads, and farmlands in several areas. Man drowns The floodwaters claimed the life of a 61-year-old man at Bharanganam. The deceased, identified as Louis Joseph, was returning home when he fell in the Akkathodu rivulet and drowned. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed him to a hospital, but to no avail. A few landslips were reported from the high-ranges in the Poonjar-Erattupettah region. The landslips caused a sharp rise in the water level of Meenachil, which stood at 12.885 metres near Pala around 3 p.m. Floodwaters also took over the causeways at Mundakkayam, Kanamala, Kokkayar, Pazhayidam and Mookenpetty, besides entering Pala town and adjacent areas. Traffic along the Angel Valley region on the eastern side was cut off completely and the entire region was marooned. With the rain refusing to subside, people in the high-ranges are living in fear of landslips whereas the low-lying areas in western part of the district are under the threat of inundation. Several areas in the Vaikom region, including Kallara, Vaikraprayar and Ezhumanthuruth, were flooded. Traffic to the high-range regions remained disrupted for most part of the day . To relief camps District Collector M. Anjana and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman reviewed the flood situation during a meeting convened at the Meenachil taluk office in the afternoon. “As the rain continues unabated, we have begun relocating people from the vulnerable areas like Poonjar and Koottickal to relief camps,” the Collector said. Kottayam recorded an average rainfall of 50 mm while Kozha, near Kuravilangadu, received 102 mm rainfall. Earlier, on Thursday evening, the incessant rain accompanied by squally wind brought down several trees, snapping power cables and damaging parked vehicles. The extent of damage caused by the winds is yet to be estimated. 15 relief camps Till Friday evening, 15 relief camps were opened in the district, which accommodated 298 people from 122 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-grapples-with-twin-threats/article32301013.ece
08 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bishop Franco granted conditional bail||The Additional District and Sessions Court I in Kottayam on Friday granted bail on conditions to Bishop Franco Mulakkal, former head of the Diocese of Jalandhar of the Catholic Church and an accused in a nun rape case. The court posted the case to August 13 for framing the chargesheet. Condition It further laid down the condition that the accused should not leave the State till the next posting and to be compulsorily present in court on all posting dates. The bail was granted upon the execution of two fresh bonds. Meanwhile, special public prosecutor Jithesh J. Babu submitted that the accused had not produced a certificate testing him negative for SARS-CoV-2. For this, the court noted that the Health Department would take care of the matter. Prior to Friday, the Bishop has appeared before the court here for the last time on November 30, 2019 to secure an extension for his bail. When the case was considered on June 10 this year, the court issued a strict direction to the accused for appearing in person on July 1 as he had failed to appear for more than 10 occasions. The bishop, however, failed to turn up once again citing that his residence in Jalandhar was in a containment zone of the COVID-19 pandemic. Following this, the court issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against him. Discharge petition Earlier on March 16, the court had dismissed a discharge petition filed by the accused and posted the case for commencing trial proceedings. Though the court had posted the case on May 6 and May 19, it could not consider the case due to the pandemic-induced lockdown.  When the bishop failed to appear in person before court on July 1 despite strict warning, he was served a non-bailable arrest warrant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bishop-franco-granted-conditional-bail/article32300945.ece
08 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||37 test positive in Kottayam||Thirty-seven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. Thirty-three of them contracted the viral infection through local contact while four persons came from other States. Among the local cases, 12, including a migrant worker, were linked to the Ettumanur cluster. Meanwhile, 80 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged. The district currently has 450 active cases and 9,330 persons under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/37-test-positive-in-kottayam/article32300998.ece
08 August 2020||KOZHIKODe,KERALA||Torrential rain, strong winds cripple normal life in Malabar||Torrential rain accompanied by strong winds that continued to cripple normal life in different parts of the Malabar region claimed the lives of two people on Friday. In Kannur, 37-year-old Jomet Thomas drowned after he slipped from a check dam into the river in Karikottakari near Irrity in Kannur at 12.30 p.m. The local people, police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel fished out his body after three hours of search. Another man was killed when a wall collapsed on him at Pokkuppadi near Pattambi in Palakkad. Moideen Machingathodi, 70, succumbed to the injuries he suffered in the accident on Friday morning. His family escaped unhurt. In Kozhikode As many as 47 families, including members from a tribal colony, in Kodenchery panchayat were shifted to relief camps as part of precautionary measures taken to reduce the impact of rain-related calamities. Revenue Department officials said five relief camps had been opened to accommodate people. The spillway shutters of Kakkayam dam were opened by 5 p.m. on Friday after the water level reached 755.5 metres. Steady rise in the water level of the Chaliyar and Iruvazhinhi rivers continued to trigger fear among those living in Kozhikode’s rural area. According to official figures, the total loss in the agriculture sector during the monsoon season was Rs. 8.87 crore in the district. In Malappuram and Palakkad Incessant rains that lashed across the districts of Malappuram and Palakkad sent fears of inundation and destruction among people living both in the hill areas and the plains. All major rivers and their tributaries, particularly the Chaliyar, the Kadalundipuzha and the Bharatapuzha were swollen. The Bhavani and the Siruvani rivers in Attappady were overflowing. Catchment areas of all dams got heavy rains on Friday. A red alert has been sounded in Palakkad for Saturday. The dams at Mangalam and Kanhirapuzha continued to release water as the catchment areas got heavy rains. Landslips were reported at several places at Attappady, Silent Valley and Nelliampathy hills. However, no casualty was reported. Several families were evacuated from risky areas at Nelliampathy and Attappady. Dozens of houses were damaged as uprooted trees fell on them. In Kannur As many as 54 houses were partially damaged in various parts of the district. Crop losses affected over 1,160 farmers in the last 24 hours, said Principal Agricultural Officer V.K. Ramdas. In Thrissur In the wake of heavy rain and wind, a red alert was declared in Thrissur district for Saturday. According to the weather forecast, the district may receive more than 204.5 mm rain in the next 24 hours. Shutters of Enamakkal, Idiyanchira, Illikkal and Munayam regulators have been opened. Torrential rain and wind wreaked havoc in the district. Many houses were damaged and trees uprooted. Power supply was disrupted in many areas. As rain intensified in the catchment areas of Peringalkuthu reservoir, water flow from the dam to the Chalakudy river has increased. As water level rose to 28 ft, four spillway shutters of the Poomala dam were opened on Friday. The maximum water level of the dam is 29 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/torrential-rain-strong-winds-cripple-normal-life-in-malabar/article32300898.ece
08 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local transmission continues unabated in Kozhikode||As many as 149 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode district on Friday, of which, 113 were cases of local transmission. Six persons had returned from abroad while 24 had come from other States. Source of infection of six cases is not known. Forty-one health workers at the Government Medical College have been sent into quarantine. In Palakkad As many as 123 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Friday. They included one person each from Thrissur, Kozhikode and Malappuram. Two persons who died on Thursday at Mathur and Vengassery respectively were found to have contracted the virus. In Malappuram In Malappuram, 143 persons tested positive on Friday. While 125 of them contracted the virus through local contacts, the source of infection for 21 could not be traced. In Kasaragod As many as 168 more persons tested positive for the virus in Kasaragod. Among them, 14 were children under 10 years of age. They included a four-month-old boy in Kumbala, four children in Uduma, three children in Kasaragod municipality, two children each in Pallikkara and Mangalpady and one child each in Chemmanad, Kumbala and Vorkady. Twelve children had been diagnosed with the disease in the district on Thursday. In Wayanad As many as 55 COVID-19 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Friday. Of these, 47 were infected through local transmission. A 65-year-old resident of Chathothuvayal died of COVID-19 in a private hospital in Kozhikode on Friday. In Thrissur Thrissur reported 33 COVID-19 cases on Friday. Of them, 23 were infected through contact. One health worker from Kaiparambu was also on the list. In Kannur Thirteen more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Friday. Among the new cases, eight were local transmissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-transmission-continues-unabated-in-kozhikode/article32300901.ece
08 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||MCH has turned into cluster of infection, say doctors||Resident doctors at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, have raised apprehensions about the institution turning out to be a “major cluster of infection” for COVID-19. According to Muhammed Thasneem and M. Akhil, president and secretary of the Calicut chapter of the Kerala Medical Postgraduates Association, it had come to such a stage where general patients and even their bystanders were contracting the infection. For the past few weeks, house surgeons and resident doctors were being deployed for COVID-19 management work in view of staff shortage at the hospital. As they too have tested positive for the virus, the situation was alarming, Dr. Thasneem and Dr. Akhil said. They claimed that it was the “end result of the poor decision making by the authorities right from the beginning of the outbreak”. The medical college, being a tertiary care centre providing specialty health services in the public sector, was converted into a COVID-19 hospital without considering that it was the only such institution here. Its after-effects on the routine functioning of other specialty and super-specialty departments were not looked into. All the COVID-19 patients who may not need special treatment were admitted and the staff were redeployed to manage them. This affected the functioning of non-COVID-19 wards and led many poor patients to seek treatment elsewhere. Now, some of the junior residents managing the system had turned positive for the virus and many others were in quarantine. “Undoubtedly, the institution has become a cluster [of infection],” they claimed. Dr. Thasneem and Dr. Akhil urged the authorities to conduct extensive testing of the staff and junior resident doctors to identify infected persons and quarantine them. This would help avoid patients and other staff from getting the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-has-turned-into-cluster-of-infection-say-doctors/article32300896.ece
08 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||LJD-JD(S) merger unlikely to happen||With the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) getting a favourable response from the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) for the upcoming Rajya Sabha seat, the party leadership appears to be not keen on the proposed merger with the Janata Dal (Secular) in the State. The proposed merger of the LJD and the JD(S) has been gaining traction after the entry of the former into the ruling LDF before the Lok Sabha polls. Thus the two parties formed a committee to chalk out steps for the process of unification after C.K. Nanu, MLA , was elected State JD(S) president last year. Now several rounds of talks held have failed to break the deadlock between the parties over various issues, including the new State president. The JD(S) wants its nominee to be the State president if both parties merge and also a major share of the office-bearers. “Another demand is that its faction will contest five Assembly seats next year as the party had done in the previous polls. The LJD would have to get additional seats from the LDF if it wants to contest the Assembly polls. These are unacceptable to us,” State secretary general Sheikh P. Haris told The Hindu.  A section of the leadership in both the LJD and JD(S) believe that the unification will mutually benefit the parties so as to get more bargaining power in coalition politics. As of now, the JD (S) has three legislators and occupies a Cabinet berth. Incidentally, both parties have internal bickering as was evident with the replacement of State president and the Minister of the JD(S) and reinstallation of the State president of the LJD last month. The LJD had failed to make an impact either in the previous Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ljd-jds-merger-unlikely-to-happen/article32300915.ece
08 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traffic ban on pass||The District-level Disaster Management Authority has imposed a temporary ban on vehicular traffic on the Kuttiyadi pass between 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. as part of the measures in place to mitigate rain-related calamities. The order was issued by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao who is also the Chairman of DDMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-ban-on-pass/article32300899.ece
08 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||39 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 39 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 29 persons contracted the virus through local contact while seven persons came from abroad. The remaining three patients came from other States. The local contact cases included six persons from the Kumbazha cluster and eight persons from the Adoor cluster. The contact source of five persons were yet to be ascertained. Among those who contracted the virus also included a 36-year-old police officer, who was in the contact list of a COVID-19 case reported from the Malayalappuzha police station. 80 recoveries Meanwhile, 80 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from the various treatment centres here during the day. The district currently has 366 active cases and 6,945 persons under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/39-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32301000.ece
08 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta spends the day amidst swollen rivers||Pathanamthitta, which had battled the worst flood in its history two years ago, was once again on the edge on Friday as incessant showers battered the region. Life in the hinterland remained disrupted due to overflowing rivers, rivulets and uprooted trees. Even as the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple is slated to open on Saturday evening for the Niraputhari festival to be held on Sunday, several parts of the temple’s base camp at Pampa-Triveni remained submerged with the water level in the Pampa rising throughout the day. The sharp rise in water level was attributed to possible landslips in the Sabarimala forests. The floodwater from the river also entered the Ranni town and caused traffic disruptions at several locations. The Manimala river and the Achencoil river were flowing close to the danger level and breached banks at several points. In view of the heavy rain, the shutters of the Maniyar barrage were opened up to five metres. The heavy gush of floodwater from the Angamoozhy region prompted the authorities to open the spillways at Aalungal and Kaarikkayam. In view of the orange alert, the shutters of the Maniyar barrage will remain open till August 10 and this is likely to cause a four-metre rise in the water level of the Pampa. ‘Keep vigil’ In view of the continuing rain, three shutters of the Moozhiyar dam were further raised by 60 cm each on Friday evening. Prior to the opening of the shutters, District Collector P.B. Noohu issued an advisory to the people on the banks of the Pampa and Kakkatt rivers and asked them to exercise caution. Plans are afoot to bring in fishermen from Kollam to conduct rescue operations. The step follows a request to this effect from the Pathanamthitta Collector to the Kollam district administration. The tahsildars have been entrusted with the shifting of the people in the vulnerable areas to relief camps. Meanwhile, the authorities sounded an orange alert for the district on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-spends-the-day-amidst-swollen-rivers/article32301015.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State turns to private sector to ramp up COVID testing||With the State entering a crucial phase of the pandemic, the government is fully banking on the private sector to ramp up COVID-19 testing in the State. The testing policy in the State is set to be revised so that any individual who wants to be tested will be able to walk into a private hospital or laboratory and get himself tested for COVID-19. At present, rapid antigen tests are being conducted in private sector labs and hospitals based on a prescription from a registered medical practitioner. The government had earlier modified the Indian Council of Medical Research stipulation which allowed only hospitals with NABH/NABL (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers/ National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) accreditation to do COVID-19 testing so that even smaller hospitals and laboratories with adequate biomedical waste management facilities and sound infection control protocols can do rapid antigen tests. While 99 private hospitals/laboratories are currently registered to do rapid antigen testing for COVID-19 in the State, the number is expected to increase to 300 by the end of this month. The increased reliance on the private sector to enhance COVID-19 testing in the State has become necessary as large-scale testing requires sustained interventions and resources, according to a new document released by the Health Department detailing the State’s testing strategy and the policy changes envisaged for the next few months. Currently, 80% of the tests are being conducted by the government and only 20% in the private sector. For tests kits alone, the government has been spending around Rs. 1.7 crore per day, given the current rate of testing. The government hopes that capacity building and enhanced testing in the private sector will go off smoothly as the State has already fixed the ceiling price for all tests in the private sector, established systems for real-time reporting of tests, and issued necessary advisories related to testing. The State is also fast-tracking approvals and permissions for Truenat and GeneXpert testing for the private sector so that another 50 Trunat/GeneXpert labs will be functional in the private sector by the end of the month. Currently, there are 25 RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) labs, 16 Xpert labs, 37 Truenat labs, and 220 antigen testing labs in Kerala. The State is currently doing about 22,000 to 25,000 tests daily now. This is equal to 733 tests per million population per day. WHO suggestion The World Health Organization (WHO) has also suggested around 10-30 tests per confirmed case as a general benchmark of adequate testing. Kerala is performing 30 tests per confirmed case. Kerala’s test positivity rate is 3.3 % and well within the range — ideally less than 5% and not more than 10%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-turns-to-private-sector-to-ramp-up-covid-testing/article32300917.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Brace up, combat twin disasters: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said twin disasters confronted the State. The threat of rain havoc has raised the spectre of mass displacement of people from disaster-prone localities. Their accommodation in crowded relief camps and collective rescue work by large groups of people could potentially exacerbate the public health crisis caused by the unabated spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Resources stretched The government's resources were stretched to the limit. Mr. Vijayan urged the public to contribute their mite to the effort to combat the twin calamities that threatened to overwhelm the State. The mudslide in Rajamala had caught the government by surprise. It had occurred in a zone not considered geologically vulnerable to landslips. Directive to Collectors The administration was not taking any chances. It has ordered District Collectors to immediately move plantation workers living in unstable localities to safer zones till the inclement weather blew over. Mr. Vijayan said the weather forecast for the State was grim. Rain was expected to intensify in north Kerala. Many rivers were already in spate. Shutters of several important dams have been opened to keep storage levels within the safety threshold. Flooding threatened low-lying population centres such as Kochi. The State faced crop loss, destruction of property, loss of production, lack of employment and further economic depression. The government has put the police on full alert. It has sought more units of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for rescue work. The administration has requested the Indian Air Force, Army and Navy to remain on standby to reinforce State law enforcement, voluntary rescue units and emergency services if required. Squally weather had prevented the IAF helicopters from sortieing into Idukki. They would carry out reconnaissance missions over the hilly district to identify landing spots and drop zones for relief and rescue operations. The government had rushed battery packs, generators and inflatable light towers to the disaster-hit locality where emergency workers were sifting through the mud for trapped persons. Four billets with thirty rooms each got caught in the mudslide. At least 89 persons were missing. Rescue workers have retrieved 15 bodies. They have rushed several survivors to local hospitals. A blind spot Mr. Vijayan said the disaster zone was a communication blind spot. A collapsed bridge, fallen trees, inundated roads and threat of mudslides had impeded the rapid movement of rescue teams. Power outage and rain storm damage had rendered the local mobile phone network dead. The government has rushed special medical teams to the spot. Inspector General of of Police Gopesh Agarwal was heading the rescue work at the disaster spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brace-up-combat-twin-disasters-cm/article32300927.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 100-cr. package for tourism sector||The government will soon come out with a Rs. 100-crore package to aid tourism entrepreneurs and employees hit by the pandemic. Nearly 15 lakh employees who are directly linked to travel trade, tourism and hospitality segments are in dire straits as there is no business and income for four months due to COVID-19-induced lockdown. Tourism Principal Secretary Rani George said packages for the sector were under the consideration of the government and the support schemes would be announced soon. The initiative is to make available loans to entrepreneurs and employees of the sector through various banks and Kerala Bank. The proposal would be to make available Rs. 20 lakh each to the entrepreneurs and Rs. 20,000 each to tourism personnel, official sources said. The Finance Department has given the nod for the package. The State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) has approved the proposal. Kerala Bank, the first commercial bank in the cooperative sector in the country, will take care of the loan to be provided to the employees. Interest for loans The interest for the loans will be in the range of 3-5% and ample time will be provided to repay the loan. The government will provide a part payment of the interest and the entrepreneurs will have to stand guarantee for loan taken by the employees. The Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industries (CKTI), an umbrella organisation of around 35 registered trade associations, has been pressing for urgent financial aid. The tourism sector’s foreign exchange revenue during last financial year is Rs. 10,000 crore, far beyond the IT sector. But, despite this, the CKTI pointed out that no relief measures were given by neither the Central nor State governments till date. Most of the skilled and experienced professionals within the industry have lost their jobs. A majority of the investors and industry stakeholders were finding it difficult to maintain their businesses, CKTI president E.M. Najeeb said. Some of the professionals and investors have moved to different areas to salvage their businesses.  The initiative is to make available loans to entrepreneurs and employees of the sector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-100-cr-package-for-tourism-sector/article32300940.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rainfall to continue||Four districts, including Idukki and Wayanad, should brace for extremely heavy rainfall on Saturday, a Friday evening forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Thrissur and Palakkad too can expect extremely heavy rainfall (above 20.4 cm in 24 hours), the national weather agency, which has put all four districts under red alert for Saturday, said. Widespread heavy rainfall is likely to continue in most other districts as well. Orange alerts have been issued for eight districts where heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely: Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod. On Sunday, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. An extended range forecast of the IMD for the region issued on Friday reiterated that another low pressure area could form over the westcentral and northwest part of the Bay of Bengal by Sunday. However, it is not likely to intensify further. Indications are that the southwest monsoon is expected to enter a lull by Monday. “The monsoon is expected to exit the current vigorous phase by Monday. Under the influence of the low pressure area which could form by Sunday, isolated heavy rainfall is likely in northern districts such as Kannur and Kasaragod on Monday and Tuesday, according to K. Santhosh, Director, Met Centre, Thiruvananthapuram. A low pressure area that has formed in the north-east Arabian sea adjoining Kutch and south Pakistan is not expected to influence rainfall activity over Kerala.  Seventeen dams managed by the Irrigation Department and the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) across the State are currently discharging water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rainfall-to-continue/article32300932.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||288 new COVID-19 cases reported in capital district, death toll rises to 18||The COVID-19 death toll in the district rose to 18 on Friday with the death of a 60-year-old man from Uchakkada. The daily caseload continued on a high note with 288 new cases reported on the day, of which disease transmission through contact accounted for 262 cases, around 91% of the day’s caseload. In 14 cases, the source of infection remained uncertain. The coastal areas reported more cases on Friday. Sixteen people tested positive in Beemapally, fourteen in Ennakidangu near Anchuthengu, and three at Anchuthengu. Poovar and Poonthura reported 12 and 15 cases respectively. Given the situation on the coastal belt, the district administration had on Thursday decided to continue with the total lockdown in the region till August 16. Meanwhile, the mortal remains of a 68-year-old woman from Anchuthengu was cremated at the municipality crematorium at Attingal. Local residents had opposed the cremation. It was later carried out following an order issued by the RDO, under the supervision of Attingal municipality chairman M. Pradeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/288-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-capital-district-death-toll-rises-to-18/article32300971.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hike in Plus One seats may not meet demand||The 10-20% marginal seat increase sanctioned by the Cabinet will result in 44,730 more seats for Plus One in the State. This will take the number of Plus One seats to 4,06,476. Government and aided schools in districts experiencing seat shortage such as Kasaragod, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Malappuram, Palakkad, and Kannur have been sanctioned 20% more seats. This will hike the number of seats in each higher secondary batch from 50 to 60. The number of seats in these districts will accordingly go up to 28,180. The districts from Thiruvananthapuram to Thrissur have been allowed a 10% increase. This will raise the number of seats in these eight districts by 16,550. Each batch will have 55 seats. The marginal seat increase is not applicable to batches in unaided higher secondary schools. Despite the decision to allow a marginal seat increase, the number of Plus One seats will still fall short of demand. A total of 4,17,101 students cleared the SSLC examinations this year. Besides these students, students from other streams such as the CBSE, ICSE, and other State boards too are applying for admission to Plus One. Till Friday evening, more than 4.37 lakh online applications had been received. Of them, 33,646 applications were from those who had passed the Class 10 CBSE examinations. Over 3,446 applications were received from students from the ICSE stream. There are more days to go for the last date for submitting applications - August 14. Last year, more than 49,500 students from the CBSE and ICSE steams applied for Plus One seats and over 41,000 were given allotment. The demand is expected to be higher also on account of the return of expatriates and other State residents in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hike-in-plus-one-seats-may-not-meet-demand/article32300914.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cookies, cartoons for breastfeeding awareness||Kerala has its share of superfoods that are recommended for breastfeeding women. But these are not exactly mouth-watering. Nor are they easy to prepare. With many mothers, especially working women, complaining of inadequate breast milk to feed their infants, the Women and Child Development Department has come up with nutrient-dense lactation cookies that help increase milk production and meet the nutritional requirements of nursing mothers. The Niravu lactation cookies have been developed as part of the Sampushta Keralam project in connection with the ongoing World Breastfeeding Week observance till August 7. Made using wheat flour, ragi flour, green gram, ‘nendran’ plantain powder, jackfruit seed powder, moringa powder, cumin, fenugreek, carom, sesame, brown sugar, and butter, the cookies promise an improvement in terms of taste, without added colours, flavours, and preservatives. They have been developed at a very low cost by the food science and technology wing of the Haryana-based National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management under the Union Ministry of Food Processing Industries. An amount of Rs. 14.18 lakh has been spent on the project, department officials say. The composition of the cookies has been determined keeping in mind locally available and low-cost ingredients. The distribution of the cookies has been piloted in Thiruvananthapuram district. A month’s supply of cookies (four cookies coming to 100 gm a day) will be distributed to 1,615 breastfeeding women in this phase. Cartoon as tool Cartoons too are being used by the department, in association with the Kerala Cartoon Academy, as a tool to create awareness of the importance of breastfeeding. Issues related to women and children, such as rights and nutrition, too will be highlighted using cartoons in days to come, say officials. A host of programmes, including a webinar, are being held in connection with World Breastfeeding Week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cookies-cartoons-for-breastfeeding-awareness/article32300922.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Jeevanam scheme to be extended across State||Jeevanam, a self-employment project for dependants of those killed in crime and those injured in such incidents, will be extended across the State. Jeevanam is being piloted in Pathanamthitta district. Victims of crime or their families face innumerable difficulties. If the head of the family is killed or injured in crime, the family is left without the main breadwinner. It is to support such people that the Social Justice Department has planned the Jeevanam project, Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja said while inaugurating Jeevanam through videoconferencing here on Friday. Rs. 4.44 lakh sanctioned The department has sanctioned Rs. 4.44 lakh this financial year to find self-employment for 50 people as part of the Jeevanam project. Sponsorship has been found for 50 beneficiaries in the first phase to set up tailoring units and goat rearing. One dairy unit too will be set up by a beneficiary with support from the Dairy Development Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jeevanam-scheme-to-be-extended-across-state/article32301001.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||582 shifted to 7 camps||More relief camps were opened following rain havoc in many parts of the district on Friday. The evacuation of hundreds of people to camps poses fresh challenges to the district administration while tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. As many as 582 people from 154 families have been shifted to seven relief camps, the district administration said. Relief camps have been opened at the UP School, Fisheries Technical School and port godown at Valiathura; LFMSC LP School; BUDS School and St. Joseph’s Higher Secondary School, Anchuthengu.  As many 37 houses have been destroyed and 182 houses partially damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/582-shifted-to-7-camps/article32300972.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Guidelines for home isolation for patients||Asymptomatic COVID-19 patients in the State can now opt for home isolation and care, provided they satisfy the clinical criteria and if they have adequate facilities for home isolation as stipulated by authorities. The Health Department, in issuing the guidelines for home isolation and care of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients, has made it clear that robust support systems should be in place in districts before patients can be permitted to opt for home care. The plan for home care of asymptomatic patients will be initiated when the bed occupancy in COVID first-line treatment centre (FLTCs) reaches 70%. However, the decision as to when the standard operating procedures for the home-based management of asymptomatic patients should be initiated will be the discretion of the district administration. The district administration should ensure that all FLTCs planned in phases are in place, the call centre and telemedicine facility in the districts are fully functional and transportation availability is available in a decentralised manner. The guidelines say that even if the patient is asymptomatic, he/she should not have any major co-morbidities/uncontrolled co-morbidities nor should he/she have any vulnerable conditions such as pregnancy or immunocompromised state. Importantly, the patient should be found psychologically fit and should be willing for home isolation. The clinical criteria will be assessed by a doctor. The authorities should properly assess if the home isolation facilities at the patient’s home is adequate and per the fixed criteria. The guidelines advise that any vulnerable persons in the patient’s family should be moved to a separate residential facility and that there should be one healthy individual available as the patient’s care giver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-for-home-isolation-for-patients/article32300918.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Media targeting me: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday accused a section of the press of having conspired to tarnish him and his office recurrently. They had attempted to tie the constitutional offices to the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case ‘maliciously’. Mr. Vijayan took the time of his COVID-19 news briefing to excoriate some sections of the media for what he termed as politically biased news coverage of the probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the smuggling racket. “Some persons had said they would commit suicide if a person of my background and politics occupied the seat of the Chief Minister of Kerala. Much to their dismay, the people of the State decided otherwise. They gave the politics I represent the mandate to rule. If the people withdraw the mandate, the government will cease to exist. Media intrigue to defame and derail the government will not pass muster with the public,’’ he said. He said some journalists, at the behest of their handlers, ignored the fact that the NIA had praised the government in open court for requesting the Central agency to investigate the case. The front-page headline of a newspaper said an accused woman in the case ‘knew’ the Chief Minister. Lawyer’s statement It deliberately ignored her lawyer’s statement that his client knew the Chief Minister as many other members of the public did. Some television channels did the same, scrolling headlines the controversial woman ‘knew’ the Chief Minister. Mr. Vijayan said he was inured to media witch-hunts. “I am only urging you to uphold the truth. I am asking the press whether it is ethical to malign the constitutional office of the Chief Minister without minimal fact-checking,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/media-targeting-me-cm/article32300928.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Telemedicine for FLTCs||The Health Department’s e-Sanjeevani telemedicine facility has now been extended to the COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) too. As part of this, an online platform has now been made available through e-Sanjeevani to link with the nearest COVID hospital. This linkage would help in more effective monitoring as well as referrals of those lodged in FLTCs. In the first phase, this linkage with COVID hospitals has been done in a few FLTCs in the capital. The e-Sanjeevani system is also convenient for those staying in containment zones and hotspots to access regular consultation without visiting hospitals. The regular virtual consultations are done between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. In addition, specialised treatment is available in specific time slots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telemedicine-for-fltcs/article32300970.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Former scribe of The Hindu passes away||Former Senior Assistant Editor, The Hindu , Oommen A. Ninan passed away in Mumbai on Thursday after a brief illness. He was 59. Starting his journalism career in UNI, he had worked in Financial Express and Indian Express before moving to The Hindu , where he served 24 years in various capacities in the Mumbai, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus looking after business journalism. He leaves behind wife Shaila (Stock Holding Corporation) and daughter Anna (Law student). The mortal remains will be taken to his residence here on Sunday at 11 a.m. and then to Jerusalem Marthoma Church, Nanthencode, for funeral service at 12 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-scribe-of-the-hindu-passes-away/article32300920.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways sound ‘extra vigil’ in State||The Railways have sounded ‘extra vigil’ on rail bridges and high cuttings prone to landslips along the rail network in Kerala in the wake of the India Meteorological Department’s forecast of heavy rainfall. In the wake of water level rising in dams, landslips in Idukki and Pathanamthitta districts, and rain in central and northern districts, the Railways have commenced monitoring of water level at vulnerable rail bridges. The water level of the Manimla, Pampa, Achencovil, Meenachil, Periyar and Chalakudy rivers is being monitored constantly, an official said. The high cuttings at landslip-prone locations are stable and are being monitored constantly. The Railways are alert in the wake of the damage caused to the rail infrastructure in the two previous floods and landslips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-sound-extra-vigil-in-state/article32300925.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NEP to deepen inequalities: Gurukkal||Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M. has said that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 threatened to ‘regularise’ deep inequalities that existed in the country. Delivering the 19th N. Narendran memorial lecture on ‘The New National Education Policy: The Other Side’ on Friday, Prof. Gurukkal said that the policy, approved by the Union Cabinet last week, was fashioned to suit the interests of corporates as well as the Central government that aspired to cater to the requirements of the global economy that viewed education as a ‘trade sector’. According to him, the NEP has been “sugar-coated” with attractive proposals which could only be seen as rhetoric intended to conceal many disagreeable recommendations which in reality formed the driving force behind the reform. Public schools He said the need of the hour was effective steps towards enhancing facilities in public-funded schools and ensuring teachers’ availability. In contrast to the scenario in the State, many schools in north India lacked permanent buildings and functioned in enclosures that resembled circus tents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nep-to-deepen-inequalities-gurukkal/article32301002.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minor abuse case: panel orders CB probe||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that the investigation into a complaint of abuse of a minor girl in Aluva by a woman who was a relative be handed over to the Crime Branch (CB). The panel issued the direction on a complaint from the girl’s parents that the Edathala police had failed to arrest the accused against whom cases under POCSO had been charged or investigate the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minor-abuse-case-panel-orders-cb-probe/article32300947.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister seeks report||Minister for SC/ST Welfare A.K. Balan has sought a report on the mudslide at Rajamala in Idukki district that claimed a number of lives. He held discussions with the District Collector and the SC/ST Welfare Department, and offered all cooperation for the rescue and relief operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-seeks-report/article32300929.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sabarimala temple opens today||The Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will be opened for Niraputhari pujas at 6 p.m. on Saturday. A Travancore Devaswom Board release said here on Friday that no special pujas would be held on the day. The temple would be opened for Niraputhari pujas at 4 a.m. on Sunday and the pujas would be held between 5.50 a.m and 6.20 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-temple-opens-today/article32300930.ece
08 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LLB entrance result published||The results of the entrance examination for admission to the integrated five-year LLB course 2020 conducted on June 22 has been published on the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in. Candidates can view their result by clicking the menu item ‘Result’ in the link ‘Integrated Five-Year LL.B 2020 - Candidate Portal’ on the website. For assistance, dial helpline number 0471-2525300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/llb-entrance-result-published/article32300933.ece
08 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHPURAM,KERALA||Train services via Konkan hit||Train services to and from Kerala via the Konkan railway network have been hit after a tunnel-lined wall inside the Pernem tunnel in North Goa collapsed. The work for restoration of traffic has begun, but the heavy rain in the Konkan region has come as a hurdle for the work. Main trains have been diverted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-services-via-konkan-hit/article32300924.ece
08 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU to launch two new degree programmes||Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) will start two new four-year degree programmes in BSc (Honours) Climate Change and Environmental Science and BTech (Biotechnology). A meeting of the Academic Council of the KAU that met online recently under the chairmanship of R. Chandra Babu, Vice Chancellor, took the decision. The committee also approved the syllabus of two postgraduate diploma programmes in Horticultural Therapy and Landscaping and Ornamental Gardening, which will begin in the upcoming academic year. The proposal to launch two new postgraduate programmes in Agricultural Extension and Agricultural Microbiology at College of Agriculture, Padannakkad, Kasaragod, was also approved. Admissions to PG and PhD programmes will be based on an all-India entrance examination conducted by the ICAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-to-launch-two-new-degree-programmes/article32300946.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fresh catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-catch/article32301010.ece
08 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||J.C. Prabhakar held under SC/ST Act||The Tadipatri Rural police slapped a case under the SC/ ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against J.C. Prabhakar for allegedly threatening the Tadipatri Rural Circle Inspector Devender Kumar on Kadapa-Anantapur district border while returning from Kadapa Central Jail in a procession along with a large number of people on Thursday. The former MLA, who is an accused in the sale of BS-III vehicles as BS-IV ones, had come out on conditional bail, hence had come to Anantapur from Tadipatri to sign a register in the police station. Following two fresh cases filed in Tadipatri police station, he was arrested and produced before a judge at Gooty. He was remanded in 14 days judicial custody. Devender Kumar and another police officer lodged a complaint stating that the former MLA, along with a few others, got down from the vehicle and pointed finger at the CI and threatened him in abusive language. The case also pertains to obstructing the government officer from discharging his duties. A second case was filed against Mr. Prabhakar and several others for flouting the COVID-19 travel restrictions and taking out a procession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jc-prabhakar-held-under-scst-act/article32301054.ece
08 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motorcyclists warned about robbers on prowl||The police on Friday issued an alert in the eastern mandals of Chittoor district, cautioning people not to move on bikes alone at night, after a six-member gang, believed to be outsiders, allegedly attacked a village revenue assistant (VRA) at Yanamalagunta village on the Varadaiahpalem-Tada road on Thursday night. According to police, the VRA was returning home at Varadaiahpalem on his bike, after attending to COVID-19 duties. Around 9 p.m., a six-member gang on three motorcycles, allegedly accosted him and grabbed his mobile, and threatening him to handover the valuables and cash. Beaten up for resisting their manhandling, the VRA locked his vehicle and fled into the nearby forest. After an hour, he returned to the spot and picked up his bike and reached the police station at Varadaiahpalem. The gang had tampered with the under-seat storage lock and reportedly took away his purse containing some cash and ATM card. The Varadaiahpalem police rushed to the spot around midnight and launched a search for the gang members, but in vain. A case has been registered. Sub-inspector (Varadaiahpalem) Purushottam Reddy cautioned people moving on the Varadaiahpalem and Tada Road towards Chennai NH not to move alone on bikes at night, but to move in groups. The particular stretch flanked by shrub jungle is generally deserted. The proximity of the national highway connecting Nellore and Tamil Nadu makes the stretch vulnerable to attacks by highway robbers. The police have kept the CC camera footage under surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/motorcyclists-warned-about-robbers-on-prowl/article32300597.ece
08 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 7 lakh worth liquor seized at Karnataka border, 7 held||The police on Friday seized liquor bottles worth about Rs. 7 lakh, allegedly being smuggled from from Karnataka, along with two cars and two SUVs, and arrested seven persons at Gangavaram near Palamaner. According to the police, the accused were on their way to Tirupati from Bengaluru, when their vehicles were intercepted at a rural road under Gangavaram police station limits. Among the seven held, two were acting as pilots to the cars to warn about the movement of the police. The accused were produced before the local court and remanded. A case was registered. ASP (Special Enforcement Bureau) Rishant Reddy said vigil was mounted on the inter-State roads, particularly on the Palamaner-Bengaluru NH and rural roads, to prevent smuggling of liquor from Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-7-lakh-worth-liquor-seized-at-karnataka-border-7-held/article32300598.ece
08 August 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram theft case solved, cash recovered||In a swift action, the Polavaram police solved the theft case that reportedly took place in an office at the Polavaram project site on Thursday. They arrested a security guard and recovered Rs. 52.20 lakh, said West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. Speaking to the newsmen here on Friday, the SP said a contractor brought the cash and kept it in his office. The cash was found missing after a few hours. Following a complaint, a police team visited the spot, collected evidences and solved the case in 12 hours, Mr. Naik said. “The accused after committing the offence stole a bike parked at the labour camp mess and fled from the spot. The two-wheeler was recovered at Rajamahendravaram, and the guard was arrested from a lodge at Addanki,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-theft-case-solved-cash-recovered/article32300603.ece
08 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC resumes operations in Guntur||The APSRTC resumed its services in Guntur district after four months of lockdown. The RTC Guntur Region has begun operating 117 services across the district and also resumed services to Vijayawada. Regional Manager in-charge Y. Rajasekhar said that super luxury services to Tirupati and Bengaluru have also resumed. Express bus services between Guntur and Vijayawada were also being operated. Air-conditioned services have not been operated. Passengers should wear masks at all times and will be checked at the entry points. They should maintain physical distancing and should be seated in alternate seats. Passengers would also be asked to sanitise their hands. before boarding the buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-resumes-operations-in-guntur-after-four-months/article32301046.ece
08 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CS gets three months extension||Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, who is due to retire on August 30, has been given an extension for three months. According to a GO issued by Principal Secretary Praveen Prakash, the government has extended services of the Chief Secretary, who belongs to 1984 batch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cs-gets-three-months-extension/article32301049.ece
08 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu trying to drive a wedge between regions’||Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy has accused TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu of practising politics of hatred and trying to stall development. Addressing the media at Rayachoti on Friday, Mr. Srikanth Reddy dubbed Mr. Naidu as a “self-centred and selfish leader,” who had always been known for dumping those who depended on him. ‘Crocodile tears’ Mr. Naidu never stood by the people. He only sided with the real estate businessmen, and hence was shedding crocodile tears over the capital issue, he alleged. “People have woken up to the reality and will not listen to Mr. Naidu’s words,” he remarked. Reiterating the State’s resolve to develop the three regions on an equal footing, Mr. Srikanth Reddy warned the Opposition leader not to create a rift among the regions by sitting in Hyderabad. Instead, provide constructive suggestions to the government, he said. “This is not the Viceroy era, wherein you can misuse the media to tilt public opinion. This is the age of social media,” he quipped, citing the change of guard brought about by Mr. Naidu in the TDP and the government in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-trying-to-drive-a-wedge-between-regions/article32301058.ece
08 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Communication network to get a leg-up in Hope Island||The State government, in collaboration with the Indian Coast Guard (ICG), is preparing a draft, proposing to create a robust communication system, health and coastal security infrastructure in the Hope Island near the Kakinada deep sea port. During a virtual review meeting with the Coast Guard authorities and various district officials on Friday, East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said: "The Union Home Ministry has declared the Hope Island as one of the 14 strategic islands on the East Coast in the arena of coastal security." Recently, the officials from the telecommunication, forest, police, fisheries and revenue departments conducted the field visit to the Hope Island, documenting the details on geography and other security aspects.  Report soon “A report on developing a robust telecommunication system, helipad, deployment of punts, infrastructure such as power supply, medical facilities and rehabilitation mechanism in the island will soon be submitted to the Union Home Ministry. The officials concerned will also carry out a feasibility study on developing the proposed facilities,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. The officials were told to prepare a report on the list of facilities to be provided in the Hope Island.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/communication-network-to-get-a-leg-up-in-hope-island/article32301087.ece
08 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1.3 crore incentives for industries||The District Industries Promotion Committee, headed by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, on Friday granted Rs. 1.3 crore incentives to 13 the micro and small scale industries. As many as 26 applications received for permission to set up the industries in the district have been cleared by the committee through the single-window system. District Industries General Manager B. Srinivas and other senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-13-crore-incentives-for-industries/article32301085.ece
08 August 2020||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||ASI, SPOs held for ‘helping’ smugglers||The police have arrested Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Ede Eswara Rao and Special Police Officers Mareedu Mallaiah and T. Naveen, attached to the G. Kondur police station, for allegedly helping liquor smugglers. Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu said following allegations, Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu was directed to conduct an inquiry and submit a report. Based on the inquiry report, the ASI and the SPO were arrested on Friday. Mr. Srinivasulu said a detailed inquiry was being conducted on since how long Easwara Rao and Mallaiah were helping the smugglers, who were importing non-duty paid liquor from Telangana through the border check-post. A case under AP Excise (Amendment) Act has been registered. The ASI would be suspended, the DSP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asi-spos-held-for-helping-smugglers/article32301047.ece
08 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reconstitute Handloom and Handicrafts Boards: weavers||Weavers staged a demonstration at Devangapuri handloom cluster, near Chirala, in protest against the scrapping of the All India Handlooms and Handicrafts Boards by the Centre on the occasion of the National Handlooms Day on Friday. The weavers led by National Federation of Handlooms and Handicrafts president M. Mohan Rao raised slogans demanding reconstitution of the organisation to bolster the ‘Make in India’ campaign. The decision of the Narendra Modi Government with a view to give a thrust to minimum government and maximum governance came ahead of the National Handloom Day. The Boards had to be immediately packed with experienced persons to work out ways to protect and promote the sector which was losing its prominence in the wake of flooding of machine-made products from both within and outside the nation, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reconstitute-handloom-and-handicrafts-boards-weavers/article32300602.ece
08 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore sees 941 cases in a day||hhNo relief was in sight for people in south coastal Andhra Pradesh from coronavirus as 16 more patients succumbed to the viral disease, while the count rose to 19,888, including 941 fresh cases in SPSR Nellore district and 337 new cases in Prakasam district . Nellore district also saw an increase in the number of deaths with nine more succumbing to the disease taking the toll to 86. On a brighter note, at least 523 persons were recovered and discharged from COVID-19 hospitals. With this, 5,976 persons have been recovered from the illness so far. The number of active cases in the district stood at 6,189. Ten persons, who had returned from Aurangabad in Maharashtra, were among those who tested positive for the viral disease in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. While 2,879 persons tested negative for the disease, test reports of another 2,788 persons were awaited, health officials said in Ongole. Fear gripped people of Rajiv Gruhakalpa colony in Ongole after a 60-year-old woman died with symptoms of the disease while she was being taken to her native Upugunduru village by an autorickshaw. Municipal workers sanitized the area. The body of the woman was shifted by the Ongole Taluka police to the Government General Hospital(GGH) for post-mortem. Meanwhile, seven more died of the disease in the district taking the toll to 90, a health bulletin released by the State Government said on Friday night. The disease rapidly spread across the district. The new cases came from among other places, Santamagalur(13), Martur(12), Singarayakonda(12), Kumarole(9), Yaddavalli(6), Korisapadu(5), Mundlamuru(5) and Cumbum(4). Health authorities had a tough time in tracing some of the new cases as they went missing after testing. In Ongole, District Collector Pola Bhaskar constituted a four-member committee under Social Forestry Officer Sk.Md.Basha to provide assistance, including best medical treatment, to journalists contracting the disease. So far, about 20 scribes have tested positive to virus in the district, said committee coordinator and Information and Publicity Assistant Director K.Narayana Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-sees-941-cases-in-a-day/article32300600.ece
08 August 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||247 inmates of Rajamahendravaram jail test positive||As many as 247 inmates and 32 staff of Rajamahendravaram Central Prison in East Godavari district have tested positive for COVID-19. The first phase of medical tests was conducted for 900 of the 1,600 inmates of the prison through iMASQ, a mobile COVID test laboratory, on August 3. Jail Superintendent S. Raja Rao said a special quarantine facility had been set up on the prison campus, where all the inmates and staff were being treated by a team of doctors. The health condition of the 32 staff who tested positive was stable. Meanwhile, the prison authorities have stopped taking in new remand prisoners as part of the containment strategy. The spread of the virus has been attributed to the admission of remand prisoners in recent weeks. The second phase of the medical tests would commence on Saturday, when the remaining inmates would undergo the COVID tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/247-inmates-of-rajamahendravaram-jail-test-covid-positive/article32301069.ece
08 August 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day-old baby boy sold by mother rescued||A three-day-old male baby was reportedly sold to a childless couple at Brahmin Street, in One Town area, in the city. The new mother was allegedly deserted by her husband a few months ago. Personnel of Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsulu, Anganwadi and the Disha One Stop Centre rescued the baby on Friday. They took the mother, Saheena, the couple that ‘adopted’ the child, T. Vamshi Krishna and Padma Sreekala, and suspected mediators Anusha and Shyamala, into custody. The mediators were working in Annadana Satram in Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanam. WD&CW Director Krithika Shukla said counselling would be given to both the parents, and government would take the infant for relinquishment, if the mother agreed to hand over the baby. “The deal was struck through Anusha and Shyamala a few months ago. The adopted parents were taking care of the mother for the last four months and were paying her medical bills,” said Disha One Stop Centre Administrator Vidya Sravanthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-old-baby-boy-sold-by-mother-rescued/article32300606.ece
08 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 case tally crosses 10,000-mark in Srikakulam||The number of COVID-19 positive cases crossed the 10,000-mark in Srikakulam district on Friday. With 449 new cases being registered in the past 24 hours, the tally went up to 10,193. District Collector J. Nivas, who reviewed the situation, directed the medical and health officials to conduct more number of tests in the rural areas. The district administration has so far collected samples from 1,83,084 persons.  Plasma therapy Though the cases were on the rise, the recovery rate was good, said the Collector adding the government was planning to introduce plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients as the experiment was yielding good result. The Collector visited Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) and observed the functioning of Elisa Reader. IRCS chairman (Srikakulam district) P. Jaganmohana Rao said that IRCS was imparting special training for the staff with regard to plasma therapy. Later, the Collector said that many patients, who recovered from COVID-19, were willing to donate plasma to save the lives of others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-case-tally-crosses-10000-mark-in-srikakulam/article32301090.ece
08 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BCs oppose merger move||Srikakulam Backward Classes' Association president P. Chandrapati Rao has opined that the district's future will be bleak in case the much-developed Etcherla and Rajam constituencies are merged with Vizianagaram district as proposed. Along with AICC State general secretary, he submitted a memorandum to Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Sidiri Appala Raju in Palasa on Friday and sought the latter's support for keeping the district intact with same geographical boundaries. New districts "Conversion of the existing Parliament constituencies into new districts would adversely affect the Srikakulam district as Palakonda would also come under the Araku Parliament segment. There is no development in the remaining seven Assembly segments. Against this background, the government should not touch Etcherla and Rajam Assembly constituencies," said Mr. Chandrapati Rao. Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Sidiri Appala Raju assured them of bringing the issue to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bcs-oppose-merger-move/article32301088.ece
08 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||118 couples take part in first online Kalyanotsavam||As many as 118 couples took part in the first-ever online Kalyanotsavam conducted at the famed Tirumala temple of Lord Venkateswara on Friday. Bringing in a kind of spiritual solace to the participants who had availed themselves of Kalyanotsavam tickets, the temple priests recited their names and gotrams ahead of the commencement of the ritual as is the tradition. The participants will be gifted with an uttarium, blouse piece, akshintalu and sugar candy which shall be sent to them by post as an acknowledgement of their participation and can also witness the live proceedings of seva on TTD SV Bhakti Channel (SVBC). The TTD has already made the online tickets of the seva available on its official website for the period between July 7 and 31 . Further, boosting the morale of the authorities, about 496 couples had availed themselves of the seva tickets for Saturday. The TTD also made it categorically clear that devotees an avail online tickets for the next day Kalyanotsavams till 11.59 p.m. the previous day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-kalyanotsavams-go-online/article32300541.ece
08 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industry asked to list its skill development requirements||Minister for Finance Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has asked the industry to come up with its skill development requirements to enable the government to act upon it. Interacting with industry representatives at Sri City in Chittoor district on Friday to gather inputs for the proposed skill university, the Minister spoke on the importance of skilling in making manpower a valuable resource. It was in this context that he wanted the captains of industry, especially from the units that had set base in Sri City, to provide their requirements, which would be acted upon with due seriousness by the government. “The industry knows what it needs better. Hence, we want you to prepare a note on your requirements. The government will provide the infrastructure and extend necessary support,” Mr. Rajendranath said. The Minister also spoke on the need to incorporate skill development in the curriculum from the high school to postgraduate level so that it becomes ingrained in every student. “We have ITIs and polytechnics that churn out welders, fitters and electricians. There is a lot of demand for these courses that offer bulk employment too. We have to prepare the students for this sector,” he explained. Satyavedu MLA K. Adimoolam, Principal Secretary S.S. Rawat, APSSDC Managing Director Arja Srikanth, and Collector Bharat N. Gupta took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industry-asked-to-list-its-skill-development-requirements/article32301056.ece
08 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases in State cross the two lakh-mark||The State’s COVID tally surpassed the two-lakh mark on Friday as it witnessed the biggest spike of 89 deaths in a day and 10,171 new cases during the past 24 hours. Andhra Pradesh is the third State in the country to see more than two lakh cases after Maharashtra and neighbouring Tamil Nadu. It has also become the only State in the country to witness one-lakh infections in just 11 days. Both Maharastra and Tamil Nadu hit the first one-lakh mark faster than Andhra Pradesh, but both took around 23 days to see the second lakh cases whereas Andhra Pradesh took only 11 days. The State’s first one-lakh cases were reported in 138 days (1.02 lakh cases) as on July 27. Having reported not less than 7,800 cases of single-day tally in the past 11 days, the average new infections reported daily was about 9,500. Also, 70,906 patients have recovered and 752 patients died during the same period. The overall tally is now at 2,06,960 and the death toll is 1,842. Having seen 1,20,464 recoveries so far the recovery rate is at 58.21% and there are 84, 654 active cases. The mortality rate is one of the lowest in the country at 0.89%. Testing The State’s testing capacity has been enhanced extensively in the past two weeks and it took 6,75, 824 tests to detect 1,04,611 COVID positives in the past 11 days, which puts the positivity rate of these tests at 15.47%. In the past day, 62, 938 sampels were tested. The overall positivity rate is at 8.76% which is less than that of Maharastra and Tamil Nadu and India. The State's tests per million ratio is also the highest in the country (baring Delhi) at 44,237.  Half of the cases in four districts So far, East Godavari (28,850 cases), Kurnool (24,679), Anantapur (22,273) and Guntur (20,236) with nearly one-lakh cases are the worst hit. They are followed by Visakhapatnam (17,534), West Godavari (16,334), Chittoor (15,286), Kadapa (12,089), Nellore (11, 646), Srikakulam (10,085), Krishna (9,462), Vizianagaram (7,998) and Prakasam (7,593). The tallies of new cases and deaths reported in the past day are as follows: Kurnool (1,331, 5), East Godavari (1,270, 7), Anantapur (1,100, 9), Chittoor (980, 10), Nellore (941,9), Visakhapatnam (852, 5), Guntur (817, 9), Kadapa (596, 7), West Godavari (548, 9), Vizianagaram (530, 3), Srikakulam (449, 3), Krishna (420, 6) and Prakasam (337, 7).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-in-state-cross-the-two-lakh-mark/article32301052.ece
08 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E-marketing facility for weavers from Oct. 2||Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy has said that the government will launch the e-marketing facility for weavers on October 2 as part of its efforts to fetch them better returns on their products. In his message on the occasion of National Handloom Day on Friday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said that the handlooms and handicrafts made in Andhra Pradesh were famous around the world, but the weavers and other traditional artisans had been leading a hand-to-mouth existence for generations due to the absence of proper support in selling their products both within the country and in overseas markets. Keeping this in view, the government conceived the idea of connecting the weavers and artisans to markets in the online mode, which enables them to showcase their products effortlessly, and thereby earn decent returns on their investments. Financial assistance The Minister pointed out that the government had extended financial assistance to the weavers for the year 2021 in advance in spite of the difficulty faced by it due to the COVID crisis, and stressed the need for people to wear khadi clothes to the extent possible, at least on the National Handloom Day, so that the weavers would get recognition they deserved. The government was sourcing uniforms and blankets required by schoolchildren through APCO, he said. It was committed to supporting the weavers through all possible means, he added. One of the steps taken was to improve the skills of weavers to help them face stiff competition from power looms, the Minister observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-marketing-facility-for-weavers-from-oct-2/article32301065.ece
08 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity, mortality rates low in State: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that though the COVID-19 positivity and mortality rates in the State are below the national averages, the government is carrying out the tests extensively, particularly in the containment clusters, to curb the menace. In a review meeting on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that up to 90% of the tests were being conducted in the containment areas. He directed the officials to ensure that the call centres with ‘104’ and ‘14410’ numbers functioned effectively. The officials should also monitor the helpline performance regularly, he added. Beds at PHCs The officials said that five to ten beds were made available at each Primary Health Centre (PCH) for people with severe respiratory problems, and the clinical protocols were being strictly followed. Patients with fever and low oxygen levels were being immediately admitted to hospitals, and if the problems aggravated, the patients were being shifted to COVID hospitals. While the national average positivity rate is 8.87%, the State’s average is 8.56%. In other States, is is as follows: Karnataka 9.88%, Tamil Nadu 9.26%, Maharashtra 19.36% and Delhi 12.75%. When it comes to mortality rate, the national average is 2.07%. It is 0.89% in A.P., 1.85% in Karnataka and 3.52% in Maharashtra. The Chief Minister asked about the telemedicine facility, and instructed the officials to call back the users to get the feedback and take corrective measures wherever required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positivity-mortality-rates-low-in-state-cm/article32301061.ece
08 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two European steel majors among seven firms in race to set up Kadapa facility||The A.P. High Grade Steels Limited, the special purpose vehicle (SPV) formed by the State government for setting up a 3 MTPA integrated steel plant in Kadapa district is likely to finalise the joint venture (JV) structure by this year-end. It is right now in talks with seven companies, including two European steel giants, which have expressed interest in becoming partners in the project that has been envisaged in the 13th Schedule of the A.P. State Reorganisation Act, 2014. In an exclusive interview on Friday, S. Shan Mohan, Managing Director of the A.P. High Grade Steels Limited, told The Hindu that the modalities of public procurement were being finalised, while on the civil works front, RITES was engaged for laying a 9-km railway line from Muddanur station, and Gandikota reservoir was identified as the water source. Iron ore supply “As far as the mines are concerned, an MoU has been signed with the National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) for supplying the iron ore,” Mr. Mohan said, while pointing out that the government does not intend to provide captive mines for the plant. “Over a period of time, the government intends to sell out its stake to the private partners as setting up and operating steel plants is not its business. The government may initially have some equity participation,” Mr. Mohan said. It is estimated that a million tonnes of steel manufacturing capacity requires Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 crore investment. While the JV is likely to acquire a final shape soon, commencement of manufacturing is bound to take more time than expected due to the heavy investment involved and the impact of COVID-19 on global markets, especially the steel and automobile sectors. The government has already given 3,100 acres of land for the project for the steel plant area and township put together. The construction of a compound wall has begun and tenders have been invited by the government for widening an arterial road that leads to the plant. Besides, jungle clearance and soil testing works are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-european-steel-majors-among-seven-firms-in-race-to-set-up-kadapa-facility/article32301062.ece
08 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSSDC to conduct software courses||To enhance employability skills of students, the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC), in collaboration with IDS, plans to conduct online courses in ‘cloud architecture’ and 'blockchain technology'. In a joint statement, Skill Development Corporation Chairman Challa Madhusudan Reddy and Managing Director and CEO Arja Srikanth said according to a research by Linkedin, courses in blockchain technology had the highest demand in the market followed by cloud architecture. They said the idea was to impart training in these courses and make the students market-ready. The online classes would start on August 10. According to them, the training in Amazon’s cloud architecture is a 36-hour programme, while 'blockchain technology’ is a 40-hour training programme. Students who are either in the final year of courses like Computer Science Engineering (CSE), Information Technology (IT) and Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) or have pursued these streams in B. Tech and M. Tech courses are eligible to enroll for 'cloud architecture' course, while for blockchain technology classes, students of CSE and IT branches are eligible. Registrations Skill Development Corporation Executive Director D.V. Ramakoti Reddy said the interested students should register their names by August 9 onwww.apssdc.in. The online classes will commence on August 10 and for more information, the eligible students can call the toll-free number 18004252422.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apssdc-to-conduct-software-courses/article32301059.ece
08 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu, Pawan discuss capital issue||BJP State president Somu Veerraju met Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan at the latter’s residence in Hyderabad on Friday, where they discussed the capital issue, financial position of the State, and the emerging political scenario, a JSP release said. They resolved to have detailed deliberations later on the strategy the BJP-JSP combine needed to evolve for solving the problems faced by farmers in Amaravati and various other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-pawan-discuss-capital-issue/article32301053.ece
08 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.K. diplomats laud steps to contain virus||Acting British Higher Commissioner in India Jan Thompson held discussions with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the potential for collaboration in health care, through a virtual meeting on Friday. Ms. Thompson and Andrew Fleming, Deputy High Commissioner for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, appreciated the government’s initiatives in public health, with special reference to the COVID-19 containment measures. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the State had scaled up testing and was successful in keeping the mortality rate low. The State was conducting about 62,000 tests per day, 90% of them in the containment clusters. Tracing, testing and isolation were being quickly taken up, as a result of which the mortality rate was hovering over 0.89%, he said. Ms. Thompson said the MoU that was recently signed with AP Med Tech Zone for manufacturing medical equipment would be useful in controlling COVID, and that the U.K. would encourage start-ups in that regard and jointly work with the government. The partnership with England’s National Health Mission would help in rendering emergency health care services. While the vaccine for COVID was being developed by the Oxford University, in all likelihood vaccines would be manufactured in India in the due course, the British diplomats observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uk-diplomats-laud-steps-to-contain-virus/article32301060.ece
08 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel to study creation of new districts||The State government has constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary for studying various aspects related to creation of 25 districts from out of the present 13. According to G.O. RT No.2098, the Principal Secretary (Finance) will be the convener of the committee and Chief Commissioner of Land Administration, Secretary (General Administration-Services), Secretary (Planning) and a representative from the Chief Minister’s Office will be its members. The committee will explore ways for optimal use of present infrastructure and redeployment of human resources and look for the changes required in the organisation structure and roles and responsibilities of the departments at the State, district and sub-district levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-to-study-creation-of-new-districts/article32301063.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health, sanitation personnel recruited to face spike in cases||With the district expecting a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases, which is predicted to affect around 50% of the population in the next few weeks, and criticism for lack of staff in COVID-19 hospitals pouring in, the district administration is in the process of recruiting over 2,000 staff, which includes doctors, staff nurses, nursing oderlies, technicians and sanitary workers. According to Collector V. Vinay Chand, over 80% of the recruitment has been completed and of them most of them have been deputed. The remaining vacancies will be filled in the next one week, he said. Among all the hospitals, Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) is receiving the maximum flak for its lack of adequate staff, prompting the district administration to recruit 582 persons under various categories. Giving a broad break-up, the Collector informed The Hindu that of the 582 recruitments, 213 are staff nurses and the recruitment has been completed and many have already joined duty. The others include 172 nursing orderlies (both male and female), 28 data entry operators, 64 technicians who are trained to operated EEG, ECG, OT, three-line oxygen and blood bank, 25 junior assistants on the clerical and administrative side, 31 officer subordinates, 35 stretcher bearers and others. On the clinical side, 90 doctors and 30 PG students from speciality and super-speciality wings such as general medicine, neurology, nephrology, gastroenterology and pulmonology have been deputed. The bed strength also has been increased from 550 to 750. With the new recruitment of nurses, the 100 nurses who were deputed from KGH have been transferred back to KGH, said Mr. Vinay Chand. To see the smooth functioning of VIMS, this apart, Dr. Venugopal, HoD Paediatrics KGH, has been posted as OSD and Joint Collector Venugopal Reddy has been made the nodal officer of VIMS and he will assisted by two district officers. Apart from the existing fleet of ambulances, five new ambulances have been exclusively deputed to VIMS, he added. Coming to the other seven government COVID hospitals, such as Area Hospitals at Narsipatnam and Araku, district hospitals at Paderu and Anakapalle, GHCCD, KGH Oncology ward and KGH, apart from filling up all posts below medical officers, about 175 new recruits have been made, the postings will be given in a day or two, said Mr. Vinay Chand.Coming to the 14 private hospitals that have been roped in as COVID hospitals, 265 nursing orderlies and 230 sweepers have been recruited. The recruitment process for 500 staff nurses is on and it will be done in a week’s time, he said. ‘Specialists shortlisted’ According to the Collector, 410 IMA registered specialist doctors have been shortlisted and appointment letters sent. “We expect that at least 75% will join in the next two days. Despite they being posted at government hospitals, the State government will pay a salary of Rs. 1.5 lakh per month. All they have to do is to take up eight hours of duty, with one week on-duty and one week off-duty, as per COVID protocol,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-sanitation-personnel-recruited-to-face-spike-in-cases/article32301072.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more persons succumb to coronavirus, toll rises to 121||As many as 852 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Friday, taking the district's cumulative COVID-19 tally to 17,946. Five more persons succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 121. Meanwhile, as many as 1,326 persons have been discharged on Friday. The total number of active cases is 8,054 and discharged is 9771, as per the district COVID-19 bulletin. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district is 851. Among them, very active, active and dormant clusters are 134, 279 and 438 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact Control Room 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-more-persons-succumb-to-coronavirus-toll-rises-to-121/article32301080.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI leader alleges fleecing of patients by private hospitals||CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy has alleged that private and corporate hospitals were fleecing patients taking advantage of the COVID-19 situation. He also alleged that medical kits were not being provided to those in home isolation. In a letter to the Health Minister Alla Krishna Srinivas (Nani), the CPI leader alleged that private hospitals were changing lakhs of rupees from patients in the name of screening for COVID-19. The private and corporate hospitals were not implementing the rate fixed by the government for COVID-19 screening. He described it as a failure on the part of the officials and the government. The government should wake up at least now and control the private and corporate hospitals or alternatively take them over and provide better medicare to the patients. Referring to the lack of amenities being provided to patients in home isolation, he said it was wrong on the part of the government to ignore those undergoing COVID-19 treatment in home isolation. In Visakhapatnam city alone, there were 2,277 patients in home isolation. He demanded provision of medical kits to those in home isolation across the State. Though State government was spending Rs. 500 on each patient in home isolation, the contractors were not supplying nutritious food to patients, he alleged. The CPI leader also sought better amenities to patients at the government hospitals in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-leader-alleges-fleecing-of-patients-by-private-hospitals/article32301075.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Improve sanitation in care centres, ITDA PO tells officials||Project Officer, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu, S. Venkateswar, said that he has been receiving number of complaints regarding poor sanitation at the COVID-19 Care Centres in the tribal areas and instructed the officials to sort out the issue. He conducted a review meet over the COVID-19 situation and asked the staff to provide quality food at the centres. The Project Officer also asked the police and ANMs to constantly check the affected patients who are under home quarantine. Dr. Venkateswar said that in the wake of increasing cases in the Agency areas, officials must be alert. He also said that sodium hypochlorite should be sprinkled in all the red zones. The ITDA Project Officer told officials to enforce lockdown in red zones only, as per the instructions of the Central government. He also sought the unions and associations not to force any shopkeepers to go for lockdown. If shopkeepers voluntarily go for lockdown, then there is no issue, he said. Dr. Venkateswar also added that not more than 20 people should attend a marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/improve-sanitation-in-care-centres-itda-po-tells-officials/article32301081.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ammonium nitrate storage facility in Vizag inspected||A joint inspection was conducted at an ammonium nitrate storage facility of Sravan Shipping Services Private Limited at Mindi here on Friday. On the directions of the Collector, a team comprising Revenue Divisional Officer K. Penchala Kishore, APPCB Environmental Engineer Subhan and Inspector of Factories Sankar Reddy arrived at the premises and conducted a joint inspection. The inspection was conducted in light of the recent incident in the Lebanese capital of Beirut, when a shockwave set off by an accidental explosion of 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate levelled buildings in surrounding areas and claimed over 100 lives, besides injuring thousands. With Visakhapatnam city being hit by a series of industrial accidents in the last three months, residents have been raising a hue and cry over the import and storage of ammonium nitrate in the private warehouse. The committee found that 18,500 tonnes of ammonium nitrate was stored at the godown. As per their observation, the facilitator stores the chemical at the godown for supply to the importers concerned. There is no other such facilitator in A.P. The importers from various States order the requirements from the suppliers abroad and the stocks are procured through ports. The importers have to lift the stocks from the facilitator in Visakhapatnam within one month. ‘No threat to city’ After inspection of the technical aspects at the godown, the committee declared that there was no threat to Visakhapatnam. It, however, suggested that another in-depth study by a team from Disaster Management and Fire Department was necessary to implement stringent precautionary measures. Meanwhile, former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma has written to the Collector urging him to order an independent survey of the lands, as he alleged that public land has been encroached upon by the company that owns the warehouses. He also urged the Collector to see that the ammonium nitrate storage be shifted from its present location to a place where it poses no threat to any habitation or a strategic asset.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ammonium-nitrate-storage-facility-in-vizag-inspected/article32301091.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aid given to kin of landmine victims||Project Officer, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), S. Venkateswar, on Friday handed over cheques of Rs. 1 lakh each to the families of M .Ajay Kumar (20) and M. Mohan Kumar (26), tribals from Chintalaveedhi village, who were killed when they stepped on a landmine allegedly planted by the Maoists in Jamiguda panchayat of Pedabayalu mandal in Visakhapatnam district on August 2. Following instructions from the State government, the families were called to ITDA PO office on Friday and the cheques were given. Dr. Venkateswar assured all help to the families of the deceased. The family members of the deceased sought a road to their village. The Project Officer responded positively to their appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aid-given-to-kin-of-landmine-victims/article32301078.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No ammonium nitrate in Customs custody, says official||In the wake of the recent explosion in Lebanon’s capital city Beirut, which was said to have been triggered by ammonium nitrate, the import and storage of the chemical substance at the Customs formations / ports in the State were examined by Naresh Penumaka, Chief Commissioner of Customs & Central Tax, Visakhapatnam Zone. Regular imports “There is no ammonium nitrate in the custody of the Customs authorities. The ports of Visakhapatnam, Gangavaram, Kakinada and Krishnapatnam have also confirmed that no such cargo is stored by them,” Mr. Naresh said. There are regular imports of ammonium nitrate in bags at the Visakhapatnam Port. The entire cargo is imported by private parties and manufacturers under licence. Private warehouse The Customs officials have confirmed that as on date a quantity of 19,314 tonnes of ammonium nitrate is available at a private warehouse on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam being maintained under licence given by the PESO under the Ammonium Nitrate Rules, 2012, with a storage capacity of 50,000 tonnes. The Commissioner also stated that the warehouse was neither under the Customs Bond nor in a Customs Bonded area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-ammonium-nitrate-in-customs-custody-says-official/article32301066.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid||Tributes were paid to M. Suryanarayana, former CITU district president and former CPI(M) district secretary, on his sixth death anniversary, here on Friday. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao and CPI(M) district committee secretary K. Lokanadham garlanded a portrait of Suryanarayana. Later, they also paid tributes to party Central Committee member Shyamal Chakraborty, who died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid/article32301073.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI’s gesture||An amount of Rs. 1 lakh was contributed by CREDAI-Visakhapatnam Chapter for the treatment of a newborn premature baby. Mutyala Gowri Sankara Rao, who was not in a position to meet the huge expenses required for treatment of his underweight baby, had approached MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana for help. Mr. Satyanarayana, who is a former chairman of CREDAI-Visakhapatnam, referred the issue to the association. The association members responded promptly and contributed Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/credais-gesture/article32301074.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date extended||The last date for the receiving of applications for admission into Class VI in the Adarsh Schools (A.P. Model Schools) for the academic year 2020-21 has been extended till August 25, said District Educational Officer B. Lingeswara Reddy in a note on Friday. He said that interested parents and principals can utilise the opportunity and submit their applications online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-extended/article32301076.ece
08 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exams postponed||The Director, School of Distance Education, Andhra University, P. Hari Prakash, said that the B.A. / B.Com./B.Sc. examinations for the academic year 2019, which are scheduled to be held from August 12, have been postponed due to COVID-19. He announced it in a note on Friday and said that the new examination dates will be intimated later. For further details, students may contact on 9963474712 / 0891-2844163 / 2754966||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exams-postponed/article32301077.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||98-year-old triumphs over COVID||A 98-year-old woman has emerged as a beacon of hope for those suffering from COVID-19 after she successfully prevailed in her fight over the pandemic. The elderly woman, S. Mangamma, was admitted to Kasturi Medical College and Hospital in Chinakondrupadu, a designated COVID-19 hospital, on July 24 after she tested positive. At the time of admission, Ms. Mangamma was suffering from a continuous cough and breathlessness. A chest X-ray showed that her lungs were affected by the virus. Doctors immediately began administering treatment, after which the patient began responding well. She made a quick recovery and was discharged after the mandatory 14-day hospitalisation period. Managing Director of the hospital D. Swaira Rao said that the average age of patients at Kasturi Medical College and Hospital is 63 years and that over 60% of patients are over 60 years of age. “We have so far treated over 1,800 positive patients unconditionally with effective medical management. Out of them, only four deaths were reported due to multiple health problems. Being a COVID-19 hospital, we are giving cashless treatment at par with that offered at corporate hospitals,” Rao said. The district COVID-19 management authorities appreciated the hospital for its health services and care towards patients suffering from COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/98-year-old-triumphs-over-covid/article32301068.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drawing attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drawing-attention/article32301083.ece
08 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State registers 2,207 new COVID cases||There seems to be no respite from spike in the number of people testing positive to coronavirus with the State registering over 2,000 fresh cases for the third consecutive day on Thursday. The State registered 2,207 new cases of COVID, the highest since the first case was reported on March 2, on Thursday, taking the total number of affected persons to 75,257. Twelve persons succumbed to the virus during the day and the fatalities reached 601, breaching the 600 mark. The total number of active cases as on Thursday stood at 21,417 with 1,136 people being cured taking the cumulative number of cured persons to 53,239. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continued to contribute the bulk of positive cases with 532 reported on Thursday. Rangareddy with 196 and Medchal-Malkajgiri (136) abutting the State Capital continued to report cases in excess of 100 while Warangal Urban district is turning out to be a major contributor with 142 cases. Kamareddy (96), Karimnagar (93), Nizamabad (89), Jogulamba-Gadwal (87) and Khammam (85) are among the districts showing a gradual increase in the number of positive cases of late. According to the government bulletin, 23,495 swab samples had been collected on Thursday taking the total number of samples collected to 5.66 lakh. The number of tests conducted per million reached 15,271 and reports of 1,539 swab samples that are collected during the day are still awaited. The bulletin said 17,907 beds out of the 20,396 available were vacant. Of these, 11,581 were regular beds, 4,430 oxygen beds and another 1,896 were ICU beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-registers-2207-new-covid-cases/article32300855.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Air Suvidha’ to give exemption from institutional quarantine||International air passengers coming to Hyderabad can apply for exemption from the mandatory institutional quarantine process by filling self-declaration forms online through the ‘Air Suvidha’ portal, developed by Delhi Airport in collaboration with the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Health and Family Welfare and External Affairs. With this, physical declaration on arrivals can be dispensed for any international passenger bound to any airport in India, including Hyderabad Airport, for five special categories. Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), a GMR Group-led consortium, on Friday, announced the launch of this facility from August 8, an official spokesman said in a release. Passengers seeking exemption under the five specific categories will need to fill the e-form available on the website www.newdelhiairport.in. Pregnant women, death in the family, serious illness (description to be provided), parents accompanied by children below 10 years and COVID negative in recent RT-PCR test (within 96 hours prior to undertaking the journey as per government guidelines) can use this facility. They will have to submit it along with supporting documents, including copy of their passports, at least 72 hours before boarding their flights. However, there is no such time-capping for passengers filling for the self-declaration form. The new portal will help passengers avoid the hassle of providing the same set of information and documents to different authorities multiple times as the online portal has the smart option to auto-fill the second application using the previous application’s request number. Applications will get auto-routed to the respective State governments depending upon the first port of arrival. Similarly, all self declaration applications will be routed to Airport Health Organisation (APHO), under the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. A copy of approval or rejection of exemption requests on specific grounds will be emailed to passengers. Those who would be given exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine can show the same at the transfer area after landing at their respective airports, and walk out hassle-free. This process would not only help flyers, who can seek exemptions, but also the authorities in completing the requisite formalities faster, and reduce congestions at the arrival hall of the airports, said Delhi Airport CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar. Airlines may also notify passengers at the time of reservation that the receiving State governments may authorise exemptions from institutional quarantine for five specific categories on a case-to-case basis. The government mandates that all air passengers arriving by international flights must undergo seven days of institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by seven days of home quarantine. It is mandatory for international arriving passengers to undergo health screening by APHO. This includes thermal temperature screening by discreetly mounted, highly accurate, mass screening cameras. “Delhi Airport’s contribution in helping digitise and streamline this process of health self-declaration and exempting passengers would be used by all airports in the country to help states/ health authorities to fast track the process of clearances for international arrivals. This will further facilitate to scale up the number of flights handled at Indian airports,” said joint secretary Usha Padhee, Ministry of Civil Aviation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/air-suvidha-to-give-exemption-from-institutional-quarantine/article32300850.ece
08 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chiru urges all COVID-recovered patients to donate plasma||Megastar K.Chiranjeevi on Friday urged COVID-recovered patients to come forward and donate plasma. “Plasma is the only solution till the vaccine is invented. Plasma donation is the ‘Sanjeevani’ to critical COVID patients. People should be aware of the importance of plasma donation in the current situation,” he said after felicitating plasma donors at Cyberabad Police Commissioner’s office. He said that 500 ml of plasma will save three persons and will bring cheerfulness in the families. “Three needy persons will get RBC, plasma, and platelets. One can recover the plasma within 72 hours,” the 64-year-old actor said. “It is a proud moment to felicitate these Yodhas (warriors) who saved the lives of several patients. Plasma donors are equal to God,” Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said. He asked people to be cautious about fraudsters. “Several fraudsters are cheating people in the name of plasma donations,” he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chiru-urges-all-covid-recovered-patients-to-donate-plasma/article32300857.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HFNC oxygen devices donated to railway hospitals||Some major cement companies and Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) have come forward to strengthen the efforts of the SCR in providing COVID treatment at railway hospitals. These companies have donated 12 High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC) oxygen devices, as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), to SCR. These HFNC devices are very useful in treating COVID-19 patients suffering from respiratory infections. Three railway hospitals — Central Hospital, Lallaguda, and Divisional Railway Hospitals at Vijayawada and Guntakal, have been chosen for treating both serving and retired railway employees and their dependants having mild or very mild symptoms. These hospitals have ventilators. But, HFNC oxygen devices will strengthen the facilities. RVNL has donated 10 devices. Ultra Tech Cements and Bharathi Cements donated a unit each. HFNC units will help in early treatment of COVID patients requiring regular flow using an oxygen blender, active humidifier, single heated tube and nasal cannula. It comes with inbuilt flow generator capable of delivering oxygen flow in the range of 2 to 25 litres of oxygen in paediatric mode and 10 to 60 litres in adult mode. It comes with an inbuilt air or oxygen blender and inbuilt air source without a need for external compressor. GM Gajanan Mallya while accepting the devices, hailed the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hfnc-oxygen-devices-donated-to-railway-hospitals/article32300848.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Land grab: role of revenue employees under scanner||There is more than one reason and a number of instances to believe that revenue officials could have been directly or indirectly connected to some sensational land grabbing cases that came to light recently in Karimnagar town. Police investigating charges of encroachment of lands, allegedly, by an ex-sarpanch P. Srinivas of Bommakal village on the town outskirts stumbled upon some original government records during searches. They caught hold of these documents, which included pahani copies, from Gajjala Anil, a private assistant to village revenue officer of Bommakal. How did government records and official documents land in the hands of a private assistant is the question investigators are yet to find an answer to. That VRO, who was earlier suspended on the charge of committing irregularities, got promoted to the post of deputy tahsildar. On receipt of a report of his possible complicity and the evidence against him gathered through Anil, it was reportedly decided to suspend the DT, now posted in Jagityal district. “Srinivas had been accused of illegally occupying or indirectly supporting grabbing of government lands. Can he do it without tacit support of officials,” asks Thota Kiran Kumar, a ward member of Bommakal village. Already, police issued 11 FIRs against Srinivas. In all these cases, charges were related to illegal occupation of private lands. He was remanded in judicial custody. Police took them into custody for four days for further interrogation. Investigators hope to gather fresh evidence over the cases reported in villages surrounding the town. Karimnagar Lok Satta president N. Srinivas says encroachment of government lands is not a new phenomenon. “Such complaints have been there for past several years. Delayed response or action of revenue authorities strengthens suspicion that they are hand in glove with land grabbers,” says Mr. Srinivas. He recalled representations made to government over encroachments in Chinthakunta village. The matter was taken to the notice of Lok Ayuktha. The Bommakal lands issue was also represented to the Lok Ayuktha, he said. A classic case is the allocation of one acre and 20 guntas of government land in Nagunoor village to ‘Lakshminarayana’. This was part of three acres of land initially allocated to an ex-Army man Vinod Kumar. With the latter approaching the police, an inquiry was launched. It now came out that Lakshminarayana is a fictitious person. Inquiries say revenue staff claim that the file involving Lakshminarayana is ‘missing’. On Friday, Karimnagar Task Force police found documents, including fabricated papers and false receipts, relating to Bommakal lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-grab-role-of-revenue-employees-under-scanner/article32300868.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power demand peaks despite rains||In spite of good rains across the State, which should in normal circumstances curtail power consumption, mainly by the agriculture sector, the demand on Friday peaked to 12,470 MW, which was the highest in the current rainy season and second highest over the years. The only time when the demand was higher was on February 28 last, with a reading of 13,168 MW, the highest since the formation of Telangana. Sources attributed Friday’s peak demand to operation of lift-irrigation schemes to divert river water to minor sources and scanty rain in rain shadow areas of the State. The peak demand on this day last year was only 7,310 MW. The highest peak load on Friday was recorded in erstwhile Karimnagar at 2,911 MW followed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation with a demand of 2,232 MW. Extensive cultivation of paddy, a water-intensive crop, was cited as one of the reasons for operation of energised motors fitted to borewells in a big way in areas that received scanty rainfall. So far, paddy has been sown on 38.35 lakh acres against the planned 41.76 lakh acres. Last year, the sowings as of date were limited to 9.24 lakh acres. Agriculture officers said the cropping of paddy was likely to increase further as transplantations would continue till the month-end. The heavy inflows into Krishna and Godavari rivers has resulted in operation of lift-irrigation schemes to divert water to irrigation tanks. As a result, power consumption also went up. There were an estimated 24 lakh borewells in the State, which consumed a lot of power. The numbers went up after the outbreak of coronavirus with migrant population in Hyderabad returning to their native villages due to lack of employment. They were said to have drilled borewells to settle down in agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-demand-peaks-despite-rains/article32300873.ece
08 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stress on integrated approach of multi-disciplinary education||English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) Vice-Chancellor (VC) professor E. Suresh Kumar has felt that the integration of Humanities and Arts with Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) would lead in reviving the “knowledge of many arts” of the ancient Indian education system. Conclave on higher edu He was airing his views as the plenary speaker at the conclave on higher education “Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy – 2020”. The conclave was organised online by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and the University Grants Commission (UGC) on Friday. Role of NEP Prof. Suresh Kumar reiterated that the National Education Policy (NEP) would stimulate and sustain the innovative missions of the Union government such as ‘Make in India’, ‘Digital India’, ‘Skill India’, and ‘Start-up India’. Dwelling on the integrated approach of multi-disciplinary and holistic education, he felt that the country would be able to create resourceful manpower with higher-order thinking capacities, teamwork, communication skills and mastery of curricula across all fields. Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered his inaugural address setting the tone on the implementation of the National Education Policy for creating the country’s multi-skilled manpower in the 21st century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stress-on-integrated-approach-of-multi-disciplinary-education/article32300853.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Loans for lockdown-hit street vendors in city||Information about street vendors is being collected by government across all urban local bodies to help them tide over the crisis created by the lockdown imposed in the wake of COVID-19, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has said. It is targeted to enrol 5 lakh street vendors for issue of identity cards and sanctioning of Rs. 10,000 loan each at low interest rates through bank. Till now, a total of 2.16 lakh street vendors have been identified and registered, he informed. Mr.Somesh Kumar, along with Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar, and MEPMA MD Satyanarayana, visited the Rythu Bazar and surroundings areas in Mehdipatnam late on Thursday and interacted with the street vendors. Information collected of street vendors is being uploaded every day through a special app. Once identity cards are issued, they will be eligible for various developmental schemes announced by government, Mr.Somesh Kumar informed. Exemption for MSMEs The State government has announced its decision to exempt micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) from paying stamp duty for availing themselves of schemes under the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme. The State government issued orders to this effect on Friday. It will benefit over 3.5 lakh vendors and one lakh MSMEs. The MSME sector is likely to get loans up to Rs. 7,300 crore under the two Atmanirbhar Bharat schemes — Emergency Credit Line and Credit Guarantee Scheme for subordinate debt. The order will be operational till October 31 this year. Officials ‘attacked’ GHMC Town Planning officials were reportedly attacked by locals in Chandanagar on Friday, when they went to clear encroachments, said Circle level officials. A case has been registered, officials informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/loans-for-lockdown-hit-street-vendors-in-city/article32300861.ece
08 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teenager held for burglary||A teenage school dropout involved in three house burglaries was arrested on Friday by Charminar police, who recovered Rs. 31.31 lakh cash, silver articles, a laptop and four wristwatches from him. The accused, Mohammed Nasir (19) from Fathima Nagar of Falaknuma, works as a sales boy at a textile showroom in Rikabgunj near Charminar, said in-charge DCP (South Zone) Gaja Rao Bhupal. He has been sent to judicial remand. Man murders co-worker A construction worker murdered his co-worker at Pet Basheerabad late on Thursday night suspecting him to be having an affair with his 23-year-old ‘girlfriend’. Police said the offence took place around 12.30 a.m. on Friday at the labour camp of a construction site at Bhagyalaxmi Nagar. The accused Krishna (27) suspected his girlfriend was having an affair with the victim, K. Madhava Rao (32), from Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teenager-held-for-burglary/article32300864.ece
08 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth held for cheating singer’s fans||A youth from Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh was arrested by Cyberabad cyber crime police on Friday for creating social media accounts in the name of a Tollywood playback singer and cheating innocent people. This happened as Anke Chaitanya alias Chaitu (22) claimed himself to be the manager or co-singer of the celebrity. Recently, the singer approached police stating that a person had created fake Facebook accounts in her name to execute malicious activities by identifying himself as her manager/ co-singer. The singer came to know that in February, Chaitanya had organised an event in her name at Sanapa village near Anantapur. “Moreover, he claimed to have carried out several social welfare activities and concerts in her name to increase viewership for his pages on social media and to trap her admirers into paying huge sums,” police said. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and Chaitanya, an Intermediate dropout, was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-held-for-cheating-singers-fans/article32300865.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two Odisha villages become ‘Tsunami ready’ get Unesco-IOC recognition||India has become the first country to implement ‘Tsunami Ready’ in the Indian Ocean Region and Odisha is the first State with two of its villages - Venkatraipur in Ganjam district and Noliasahi in Jagatsingpur district getting the UNESCO-Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC)’s Certificate of Recognition and Certificate of Appreciation awards in a virtual event organised by the Indian National Centre for Oceanic Information Services (INCOIS) and the Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Center (IOTIC) on Friday. Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) Secretary M. Rajeevan, Member Secretary, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), G.V.V. Sarma, Govt. of India, presented the Certificates of Recognition and Appreciation to the two villages and Odisha State Disaster Management Agency (OSDMA). The recognition for both the villages adhering to the 11 point indicators to claim to be tsunami ready like: Community tsunami risk reduction plan, designated and mapped tsunami hazard zones, public display of tsunami information, easily understood tsunami evacuation maps, outreach and public education materials, three outreach or educational activities annually, conduct an annual tsunami community exercise, address tsunami hazards in the community’s emergency operations plan, supporting the emergency operations centre during a tsunami, reliable means for a 24-hour warning point to receive official tsunami threats and issue round the clock tsunami alerts to the public. UNESCO-IOC officials T. Srinivasa Kumar, Head-ICG/IOTWMS Ardito M. Kodijat, Head-Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC), Prof. Dwikorita Karnawati DG, BMKG, Indonesia and Chair of ICG/IOTWMS attended in the event. Former INCOIS director & vice-chairperson IOC-UNESCO S.S.C. Shenoi, in-charge director T.M. Balakrishnan Nair, Tsunami warning group head E. Pattabhi Rama Rao and others attended the event. The programme link is available athttps://incois.gov.in/portal/ VETsunamiReady 2020.jsp||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-odisha-villages-become-tsunami-ready-get-unesco-ioc-recognition/article32300883.ece
08 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘KCR deliberately ignoring AP projects on the Krishna’||“Telangana losing 6.5 tmcft of water daily is not important to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao but finalising the design of Secretariat was, and this behaviour is highly suspicious and the CM owes an explanation to people,” demanded the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. Addressing a press conference along with CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, AICC secretaries A. Sampath Kumar and Vamshichand Reddy and TPCC Krishna Water Protection Committee Convener T. Rammohan Reddy here on Friday, he questioned the rationale behind seeking postponement of Apex Council meeting called by the Centre to discuss new projects being taken up by AP. Referring to a letter written by the Union Ministry for Water Resources, he said the Union Ministry wanted the meeting through a video-conference any time convenient to KCR to discuss Pothyreddypadu and RLIS issues. However, KCR wanted this meeting to be postponed. More so, knowing that AP was finalising tenders for new projects. AP had already called for tenders for construction of Rayalaseema LI Scheme with a capacity to draw about 3 tmcft per day and enhance the diversion capacity at Pothireddypadu Head Regulator. This would result in Telangana losing 6.3 tmcft every day. He said the Special Leave Petition filed by Telangana government would help AP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-deliberately-ignoring-ap-projects-on-the-krishna/article32300874.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||World Heritage Committee meeting postponed||Will the Ramappa Temple get the World Heritage Site status?The answer to this question has been further delayed as the 44th session of the World Heritage Committee has been postponed. The session was supposed to take place in Fuzhou in China. Statement “In light of recent developments in the world related to pandemic COVID-19, it was decided that the 44th session of the World Heritage Committee, initially scheduled from June 29 - July 9, 2020 will be postponed to a later date. Consultations are currently underway to determine the exact dates of the session,” is the message hosted on the Unesco website. Located about 200-km from Hyderabad, the Ramappa temple is considered a gem carved in stone during the Kakatiya rule dating back about 800 years. Nominated for the Unesco World Heritage Site in 2014 as ‘The Glorious Kakatiya Temples and Gateways’ - it had three sites. But it was whittled down to just the Ramappa temple in Palampet leading to some queries from the inspection team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/world-heritage-committee-meeting-postponed/article32300885.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City-based Carbanio to collaborate with IISER||Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Berhampur has decided to collaborate with city-based ‘Carbanio’, a B2B chemical platform, for chemical sourcing, following the lead taken by the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) here. “During this time of pandemic, though the demand for chemicals has increased, the supply chain has been hit hard due to strict social distancing and lockdown norms. We are glad that we could help central research institutions like Indian Institute of Chemical Technology and IISER keep the supply chain uninterrupted even during the crisis,” said founder of Carbanio Dr. Rafi. S on Thursday. Carbanio has emerged as the only platform of its kind to be recognised by the Union government’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. It has a strong customer base across India and has over 72 lakh (7.2 million) chemical products listed by suppliers throughout the country. Carbanio is also planning to launch a global platform to strengthen and support chemical manufacturers export to other countries, he added in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-based-carbanio-to-collaborate-with-iiser/article32300851.ece
08 August 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tribals interaction with district judge||Members of Chenchu tribe on Friday told Mahbubnagar Senior Civil Judge N. Venkatram that some schemes of the State government, including Rytu Bandhu, were not reaching them. The judge, who is also District Legal Services Authority Secretary, visited Medi Malkala, Sangati Gundala and Bourapur habitations of the tribe in interior Nallamala forest area of the district and interacted with its members. During the interaction, they also brought to his notice that their children were suffering from malnutrition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribals-interaction-with-district-judge/article32300870.ece
08 August 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Two children drown in septic tank while playing||A five-year-old boy and his seven-year-old cousin died after they slipped into a septic tank of an under-construction building in Medipally of Jagtial district on Friday. Ashwanth and Ruthika were playing near the building around 11.30 a.m. and accidentally fell into the sump, Medipally Sub-Inspector N. Srinivas said. A kid, who heard the screams of the duo, alerted their family living next to the building. By the time they rushed to the sump, the two kids had drowned. They were taken out and rushed to a hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. A local community was constructing the building. The sump was built but left uncovered. Aswhanth’s father, Jalandhar, is a farmer. Ruthika was the daughter of Jalandhar’s sister, who had come to Medipally for Raksha Bandhan celebrations and returned to her house leaving behind Ruthika, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-children-drown-in-septic-tank-while-playing/article32300859.ece
08 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Botched handling of coronavirus crisis’||Cadre of the CPI (M), the CPI and the CPI (ML-ND) staged a demonstration with black balloons here on Friday in protest against the alleged botched handling of the coronavirus crisis by both State and Central governments. The demonstrators released a bunch of black balloons into the air in a symbolic protest against what they termed the “miserable failure” of the persons at the helm to effectively deal with the coronavirus outbreak and its fallout. The protest was held under the aegis of the Joint Forum of the Left parties and a host of mass organisations. Speaking at the protest, CPI State executive committee member B Hemanth Rao charged the ruling dispensation with remaining insensitive to the plight of coronavirus-infected persons and the multitude of distressed people, who had lost their livelihoods due to the crisis. He alleged that inadequate testing and treatment facilities in the State-run hospitals on one hand and unabated exploitation of the situation by some errant private hospitals on the other were aggravating the situation. Leaders of other Left parties sought urgent measures to provide comprehensive COVID-19 diagnostic and treatment services to all the needy and succour to poor people to help them tide over the crisis. CPI (M) district secretary N Nageswara Rao and CPI (ML-ND) district secretary G Venkateshwara Rao spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/botched-handling-of-coronavirus-crisis/article32300879.ece
08 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BJP cadre protest in reservoir||Alleging that the TRS government was keeping silent, even as the Andhra Pradesh government was going ahead with works related to Pothireddypadu project, cadre of Bharatiya Janata Party held ‘jala deeksha’ in Panagal reservoir here on Friday. Led by its State secretary Madhagoni Srinivas Goud and others, some 30 persons entered the reservoir water, holding party flags, and removed shirts in protest. “AP is indulging in looting of our share of waters, even against the orders by the tribunal. CM KCR has entered into a secret agreement with his AP counterpart, hence his silence,” Mr. Goud alleged. With more water drawn from river Krishna, the immediate victims would be farmers of south Telangana, particularly Nalgonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-cadre-protest-in-reservoir/article32300876.ece
08 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Hotel seized for cutting down trees||N Grill Resto, a highway hotel on NH 65 - Hyderabad-Vijayawada - was seized and its management was booked under the Water, Land and Trees Act (WALTA) for cutting down trees planted under Haritha Haram programme, on Friday. District Collector Prashant J Patil, who was touring villages in Chityal, was informed by Forest officials about the tree-cutting incident in Peddakaparthy village limits, after which he inspected the site and ordered legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hotel-seized-for-cutting-down-trees/article32300884.ece
08 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Sagar water released||The left bank canal gates of the Nagarjunasagar project were lifted on Friday, releasing waters for Vaanakalam agriculture for undivided Nalgonda and Khammam districts. Nagarjunasagar MLA Nomula Narismhaiah performed prayers at the bank, and operated the gates to release the water. Project Chief Engineer V. Narsimha said water would be released on an on/off method, which would time well with farmer’s activity in the field, and also encourage judicious use of the resource.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sagar-water-released/article32300877.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||On alert||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/on-alert/article32300887.ece
08 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case plea: will wait for SC orders, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday said it would be just and proper to await the orders of the Supreme Court in matters related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice A.S. Gadkari was hearing two criminal public interest litigations (PILs). Both pleas — one filed by a businessman, Sameet Thakkar through advocate Raspal S. Renu and the other by Priyanka Tibrewal, an advocate practising at the Calcutta High Court — seek that the probe into Rajput’s death be transferred to either the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a Special Investigation Team. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said a similar writ petition was before the Supreme Court, but it was dismissed on July 30. The High Court recorded on Friday, “As per an order passed on August 5 by the Supreme Court, it appears that a proceeding connected with the unnatural death of the actor, perusal of such order, reveals that a status report has been called for from the State of Maharashtra in regard to the stage of investigation by the Mumbai Police.” Anil Singh, additional solicitor general representing the Union of India, said on acceptance of the request of Rajput’s father the CBI has already registered an FIR, inter alia, under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. The court said the Supreme Court will hear the matter on August 18, and adjourned the hearing to August 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sushant-case-plea-will-wait-for-sc-orders-says-hc/article32300816.ece
08 August 2020||Mumbai,||Project proposals must include drone survey report, says State wildlife board||The Maharashtra government on Friday made drone survey and environment impact assessment reports mandatory for projects seeking the approval of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL). Chairing the SBWL’s 15th meeting, the first in the past two years, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said his government does not limit development to just new constructions. “The government is committed to forests, animals and conservation. Any project brought for approval before the board must have the drone survey report. Only projects with detailed photographs and reports will be considered henceforth,” he said. The SWBL cleared a proposal to declare Sonneratia alba as the State mangrove tree and approved a recovery programme for the Arabian Sea Humpback Whale. The board also appointed a study group to take up the issue of tiger conservation in Chandrapur district. Mr. Thackeray said Maharashtra is the only State to give the Centre its in-principle approval for the protection of the Western Ghats by categorising it as an environmentally sensitive area. “Any proposal for according it the status of restricted zone should be taken after analysing people’s opinion. No easy way should be taken at the cost of the environment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/project-proposals-must-include-drone-survey-report-says-state-wildlife-board/article32300823.ece
08 August 2020||Mumbai,||Air India to resume service||Air India which had suspended its Mumbai-Bhubaneshwar-Mumabi direct flight following the lockdown restrictions has decided to resume this service from August 10. However, due to a low demand, this erstwhile daily flight will, this time, operate three days a week. Flight AI 669 to be operated with an AI319 aircraft on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays will depart from Mumbai at 12 p.m. and reach Bhubaneswar at 2.25 p.m.. The return flight AI 670 will leave Bhubaneswar at 3.25 p.m. and arrive at Mumbai at 5.35 p.m. on the same days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/air-india-to-resume-service/article32300817.ece
08 August 2020||Mumbai,||Send Mumbai Police chief on forced leave: BJP MLA to CM||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar on Friday warned Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that he would approach Union Home Minister Amit Shah if Mr. Thackeray failed to send Mumbai Police Commissioner Paramvir Singh on a forced leave, alleging that he was guilty of ‘dereliction of duty in Sushant Singh Rajput case’. Claiming that Mr. Singh had failed in his duty as the Mumbai Police did not file an FIR even 50 days after the death of Rajput and sought information about his manager Disha Salian’s suicide after 50 days, Mr. Bhatkhalkar said investigating officers and Mr. Singh had been negligent. “People feel that evidences are being destroyed in this matter. Therefore to show that the State government is not involved in hiding anything, two police officers must be suspended and Mr. Singh should be sent on a forced leave till the probe comes to a certain stage,” he said in his letter to Mr. Thackeray. Mr. Bhatkhalkar, who represents Kandivali Assembly constituency, said if the CM failed to take any decision on the three police personnel, he must take a note that since Mr. Singh is from the Indian Police Service, he would approach the Union Home Minister. Reacting strongly, Maharashtra Congress leader Sachin Sawant said the politics played by BJP leaders for the sake of the Bihar polls just shows that the party is anti-Maharashtra. “The BJP is a blot on the State’s political culture,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/send-mumbai-police-chief-on-forced-leave-bjp-mla-to-cm/article32300818.ece
08 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMIA project: Dungi flooded yet again||Dungi village that was affected by the Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) project has been flooded yet again due to the diversion of the Ulwe river. The diversion, which was part of the pre-development works for the NMIA project, was finished in June 2019, following which Dungi was flooded for the first time last year. Rehabilitation “After protests and follow-ups, the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) agreed to rehabilitate us. Till the time the process got over, we were asked to shift to rental places and were promised rental money. But all that we got last year was rental money for four months. Later, we came back to our village,” Adesh Naik, a Dungi villager, said. This year, villagers again raised their voice for rehabilitation. The CIDCO, through a videoconference in June, tried to allay villagers’ fear of flooding during monsoon. In order to shift them to safety, the CIDCO asked them to submit the required documents and get the land allotted as per the package, following which they would be eligible to receive 11 months’ rent and move to another house. Many ineligible But with many villagers found to be not eligible for the package as per the criteria set by the CIDCO, the villagers refused to move out. “The villagers demanded that either they all move out or none to which the CIDCO has complied. We had a meeting on Thursday and it was communicated to them that they should move out to a rented place and rent amount for four months would be provided to them. The villagers have not yet replied,” Amit Sanap, Panvel tehsildar, said. Mr. Naik said no one rents out a space for just four months. “How can we keep moving out every year for four months and then come back to our village. The CIDCO should give us rental money for 18 months as it was promised earlier and also consider making every villager eligible for the package. We are daily wagers and our lives are affected by the river diversion,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nmia-project-dungi-flooded-yet-again/article32300821.ece
08 August 2020||Pune,||5,561 relocated in Kolhapur; some relief as showers ease||Despite the intensity of showers over Kolhapur district in western Maharashtra lessening on Friday, the district administration evacuated more than 5,000 people from 23 villages as the Panchganga river continued to flow above the danger level. “A total 5,561 people, along with 1,132 animals from low-lying areas, have been shifted to safer zones. Most of those evacuated are from Karvir and Gaganbawda tehsils, both of which have received heavy rain throughout the week,” Kolhapur Collector Daulat Desai said. The Panchganga flows at 44.9 feet, above its danger mark of 43 feet. As many as 95 barrages and dams are still submerged by the rising river water level. “The Panchganga has risen by 2.5 feet owing to rain in the last 24 hours. So, while the intensity of the showers was noticeably less on Friday, several parts of the district are still half-submerged and the threat of a flood persists,” an official said. Gaganbawda tehsil has received 148 mm rainfall over the past 24 hours — markedly lesser than the 243 mm rain the tehsil had received between Wednesday and Thursday. Likewise, Radhanagari and the township of Ajara received comparatively less rain, recording 76.83 mm and 104.67 mm, respectively, as opposed to the 145 mm rain that the two areas had been experiencing for the past week. Despite this relief, the landscape at several villages across the district was reminiscent of the 2019 deluge that devastated Kolhapur and Sangli districts. While the waters of the Panchganga spilled over bridges, arterial roads and byways, several sugarcane fields, small temples and establishments were half-submerged. At some places, State electricity board officials were seen repairing power lines after the rain disrupted power supply in a number of villages. Water levels rose particularly at several points in Shirol taluk, most notably at Nrusinhawadi (which has a famous temple dedicated to Lord Dattatreya), Arjunwad and Shirdhon village, among other places. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) jawans is already stationed at Shirol taluk. “Currently, four NDRF teams are present in the district. If the need arises, we will ask for two more teams. I again urge people not to be complacent and venture out just because the rain has given a temporary break,” Mr. Desai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/5561-relocated-in-kolhapur-some-relief-as-showers-ease/article32300820.ece
08 August 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||HC clears deck for 65+ artistes to resume shooting||The Bombay High court on Friday quashed two government resolutions (GRs) issued by Maharashtra which barred the presence of cast and crew above 65 years of age on TV, film sets. Setting aside the two GRs, a Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla said they were discriminatory and breached the fundamental rights of the artistes to practise their trade and earn a livelihood with dignity. The Bench, however, clarified that this would apply to all people above 65 years of age associated with the film/television/OTT industry. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by actor Pramod Pandey, who has been performing small roles in films and TV serials for the last 40 years, along with another one filed by the Indian Motion Pictures Producers Association. Both petitions challenged the one condition listed in GRs dated May 30 and June 23 prohibiting people above the age of 65 years from remaining present at the site of shooting of films/television series/Over The Top (OTT) media. Their main ground was that the GRs were discriminatory, arbitrary and violative of Article 14 (equality before law) of the Indian Constitution because at the time the GRs were issued, the Central and Maharashtra governments had relaxed the general prohibition on movement of people above the age of 65 years. In their order on Friday, the judges said, “In our view, there is discrimination in the disparate treatment of persons who are 65 years of age or above in the film or television industry and in the other permitted sectors and permitted activities. The same is not based on any intelligible differentia and no explanation to this effect is to be found in the reply of the State. The condition therefore cannot be sustained in view of the well settled principles enunciated under Article 14 (equality before the law) of the Constitution of India.” The 37-page judgement said, “If there is no general prohibition on persons above the age of 65 years from working or practicing their trade in those sectors and businesses which are allowed to operate, an age based prohibition in only one industry, namely film industry/TV/OTT, without any material to support its differential classification, would constitute an unreasonable restriction.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-clears-deck-for-65-artistes-to-resume-shooting/article32300814.ece
08 August 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||Hany Babu sent to judicial custody till August 21||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday remanded Prof. Hany Babu, the 12th accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case, in judicial custody till August 21. Mr. Babu (54) is an associate professor at English Department, Delhi University, and was arrested by the central agency on July 28 in Mumbai. Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, representing NIA, submitted a report to special judge D.E. Kothalikar who said, “considering the reasons stated in the report it is necessary to remand the accused in judicial custody. Hence he is remanded in judicial custody till August 21.” The NIA remand application submitted on July 29 had read, “Accused (Mr. Babu) has association/links with CPI (Maoist) party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hany-babu-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-august-21/article32300815.ece
08 August 2020||COLOMBO,||Rajapaksas win super majority in Sri Lanka parliamentary poll||Sri Lanka’s ruling party secured a two-thirds majority in the recent parliamentary elections, Friday’s results showed, giving the Rajapaksa brothers the power they sought to amend the Constitution. The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) obtained nearly 60% of the total votes polled, almost equalling the Rajapaksa-led front’s biggest mandate yet in 2010, when it peaked in popularity on the heels of ending the civil war. Coming less than a year after President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s ascent to power, the huge victory heralds the brothers’ likely power consolidation, as they helm the country’s two most powerful offices. The President’s elder brother Mahinda Rajapaksa, 74, polled over 5,00,000 votes in his constituency — Kurunegala district in North Western Province — and will be sworn in as Prime Minister on Sunday at the Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara, a famed Buddhist temple near Colombo. The SLPP, one of Sri Lanka’s newest parties founded by the Rajapaksas, won 145 seats in the 225-member legislature. With the assured support of at least five allies, the party can easily reach the 150-seat mark needed for two-thirds support, which is a political feat in Sri Lanka’s proportional representation system of election. ‘Prove us wrong’ However, the prospect of such a super majority has already sparked concern among sceptics and Opposition forces. “2/3 majority! Expecting the worst — hoping for the best. Prove us wrong, Mr. President,” tweeted Mangala Samaraweera, a prominent Minister in the former government, who opted out of the political race, after his party suffered a split ahead of this election. The “root causes” of the evils facing Sri Lanka, he said, could be traced to periods when governments held a two-thirds majority in the House, citing precedents in 1956, 1977 and 2010, while urging the President to learn from “past mistakes”. Likely casualties Even before the polls, the Rajapaksas vowed to change the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, a 2015 legislation — introduced during the former government’s tenure — that sought to trim the President’s executive powers and strengthen independent institutions. The amendment is the likely “first casualty” of the Rajapaksa government’s two-thirds majority, according to Harshana Rambukwella, a senior academic at the Open University of Sri Lanka. “Despite its many flaws, it strengthened democratic institutions and acted as a moderating force on executive overreach,” he told The Hindu . “We might be in a paradoxical situation where democratic space shrinks, while the political stability generated by the two-thirds may translate into political dividends at least for certain segments.” It is not just the 19th Amendment that is at stake. Politicians linked to the regime have also questioned the need for the 13th Amendment, that followed the Indo-Lanka Accord and remains the only legislative assurance on devolving substantive powers to provinces including those inhabited by minority Tamils. In a recent interview to the local Daily FT newspaper ahead of elections, Basil Rajapaksa, another Rajapaksa sibling and the architect of their camp’s poll campaigns and victories, referred to the 13th Amendment as “the first biggest blow” to the Sri Lankan Constitution. “A Constitution needs pillars and frameworks. Unfortunately in the current situation these have been changed from time to time… we are definitely dedicated to a new Constitution,” he said, tying it to the mandate their party might get. Speaking of the SLPP’s future role, he said he would like to model it on the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in India, the “best two” examples, and “how they act”. While Sri Lankans wait to see how the ambitious party fares while in power, rights and democratic freedoms have already come under greater focus after President Gotabaya Rajapaksa assumed office. Recently, 10 international human rights organisations —including Amnesty International, Forum Asia and South Asians for Human Rights — issued a joint statement urging the Sri Lankan government to end “targeted arrests, intimidation and threats” of lawyers, activists, human rights defenders and journalists. Following his big win, PM Mahinda Rajapaksa on Friday thanked supporters for “placing their trust” on President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and himself. “We will ensure #lka will not stand disappointed during our tenure,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rajapaksas-win-super-majority-in-sri-lanka-parliamentary-poll/article32300521.ece
08 August 2020||Colombo,||Tamils deliver clear message to leaders||Sri Lanka’s northern Tamils, who delivered a clear message to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa in the November presidential election by emphatically voting against him, gave a different, yet very strong message to their own Tamil leadership in the recent general election. The Tamil National Alliance (TNA), the main grouping representing Tamils of the north and east, with 16 seats in the last Parliament, secured only 10 seats in Wednesday’s parliamentary poll, as disillusioned voters decided to give others, including smaller Tamil nationalist parties, a chance. The All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC), led by Gajendrakumar Ponnambalam, won two seats, while former Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran, who broke away from the TNA, won one seat in Jaffna. The split in votes was not unexpected, given the fragmented political landscape in the north and east. But significantly, the Tamil voters chose at least four candidates from parties aligned to the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP), including Eelam People’s Democratic Party (EPDP) leader Douglas Devananda, Angajan Ramanathan of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and Sivanesathurai Chandrakanthan or ‘Pillayan’ of the Tamil Makkal Viduthalai Pulikal (TMVP). “In the north-east as a whole, there is a clear shift towards parties aligned to the government in Colombo. We must take note of that,” said TNA spokesman M.A. Sumanthiran, addressing a press conference in Jaffna on Friday.  Blaming the TNA for this shift, Mr. Wigneswaran, who was Chief Minister of the TNA-led Northern Provincial Council for five years, said it was the Alliance’s failures that led people to politicians linked to national parties. A decade’s wait People’s waning faith in the TNA comes after a decade’s wait for a political solution, which the former government backed by the Alliance promised but failed to deliver. Many found its initiatives on accountability unconvincing, efforts at a constitutional settlement half-hearted and programmes for economic recovery slow. Further, with post war development efforts by successive governments at the Centre proving inadequate or thoughtless, the war-affected Tamils’ economic distress grew over the decade — seen in stifling debts, lack of housing, prevalent joblessness and neglected livelihoods. Observers note that a growing discontent perhaps steered voters towards parties aligned to the Centre, that distributed aid and jobs through carefully cultivated patronage networks. Going by the voters’ mandate for the TNA and the rest, it is hard to conclude that they chose economic priorities over political rights. But clearly, in their divided vote, they have reminded their political leadership that rhetoric without action or policy without targeted programmes cannot help them cope with the aftermath of a brutal war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tamils-deliver-clear-message-to-leaders/article32300522.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. to ban transactions with TikTok, WeChat||In what is the latest of a series of American measures against China, U.S. President Donald Trump signed executive orders (EOs) barring transactions with Chinese video sharing app TiKTok and messaging service WeChat. The bans, which will come into effect after 45 days, were ostensibly in response to concerns that the Chinese Communist Party (CPC) could retrieve private data on Americans from these apps and CPC censorship on the apps. One of the EOs bans any WeChat-related transaction with its owner Tencent Ltd. or its subsidiaries. The other bans any transactions with ByteDance, the owner of TikTok. Both orders allow a period of 45 days before kicking in. This allows time for U.S. tech giant Microsoft to explore an opportunity to buy TikTok from ByteDance.  Microsoft had announced on August 2 that it was in talks with ByteDance to buy TikTok in “the United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand.” TikTok is used by some 100 million Americans. Mr. Trump had, as per a Reuters report of August 3, given Microsoft 45 days to finalise the deal. The company was also looking to buy the app in India and Europe, the Financial Times had reported. Security concerns The introductions to Thursday’s order cite security, censorship, and misinformation concerns. The U.S. government has been wary of the Chinese government collecting data from Americans through the links it has with Chinese owned companies. “This data collection threatens to allow the Chinese Communist Party access to Americans’ personal and proprietary information. In addition, the application captures the personal and proprietary information of Chinese nationals visiting the United States, thereby allowing the Chinese Communist Party a mechanism for keeping tabs on Chinese citizens who may be enjoying the benefits of a free society for the first time in their lives,” the EO on WeChat said. The introductions to Thursday’s EOs make references to former bans of the Chinese apps, including by India. “The Government of India recently banned the use of TikTok and other Chinese mobile applications throughout the country; in a statement, India’s Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology asserted that they were ‘stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India,’ ” one order says. The Trump administration has taken a series of actions in recent months against China and its officials for Beijing’s National Security Law in Hong Kong; human rights abuses against China’s Uighur minority; alleged security concerns against telecom company Huawei; and so forth. A proposal to de-list Chinese companies from American stock exchanges if they did not comply with American accounting standards was announced by U.S. Treasury officials on Thursday. Earlier this year, ByteDance had said it stores all U.S. user data in the U.S. itself with a backup on servers in Singapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-ban-transactions-with-tiktok-wechat/article32300524.ece
08 August 2020||Washington,||U.S. sanctions Hong Kong leader Lam||The U.S. on Friday slapped sanctions on Hong Kong’s leader Carrie Lam and 10 other senior figures, in a major new step against China’s clampdown in the semi-autonomous city. In the most significant U.S. action since China imposed a tough security law, Ms. Lam and the other leaders of the Asian financial hub will have any assets in the U.S. blocked. The move also criminalises any U.S. financial transactions with them. “The United States stands with the people of Hong Kong and we will use our tools and authorities to target those undermining their autonomy,” said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. Violation of promise Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the U.S. was acting because Beijing had violated its promise of autonomy that it made to Hong Kong before Britain handed back the territory in 1997. The Treasury Department said that Ms. Lam, as Chief Executive of Hong Kong, “is directly responsible for implementing Beijing’s policies of suppression of freedom and democratic processes.” Other sanctioned officials include Chris Tang, Commissioner of the Hong Kong Police Force, and Luo Huining, Director of the Liaison Office, China’s office in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sanctions-hong-kong-leader-lam/article32300526.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Loya Jirga’ to decide on prisoner release begins||As Afghanistan began a three-day ‘Loya Jirga’ to decide on freeing about 400 Taliban fighters convicted for “serious crimes” including murder and abductions, India said it would support the Ashraf Ghani government on the issue, and that the government has been briefed on plans for intra-Afghan negotiations. The ‘Loya Jirga’, or grand assembly of more than 3,000 representatives from around the country, has been convened after Mr. Ghani refused to release the men, an announcement that threatened to derail intra-Afghan talks, tentatively scheduled for August 10 in Doha. The Jirga was called after some heavy lifting from the U.S. pushing the Ghani government for a compromise. “The Loya Jirga is a highly respected traditional consultative body of Afghanistan and this meeting is an issue internal to Afghanistan. Our policy is consistent in the support of the government of Afghanistan,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “PM Modi and President Ghani had a telephone conversation on 3rd August, and our Ambassador in Kabul is in touch with the leadership there and is being briefed on all matters,” he added. The outcome of the meeting is not completely certain, as many of the delegates have publicly expressed their opposition to the release of Taliban convicts. Addressing the Jirga, Mr. Ghani said he would implement its advice on the prisoner release, adding that talks with the Taliban would begin in “three days” if the 400 men were freed, and that the Taliban has warned of more bloodshed if they aren’t.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/loya-jirga-to-decide-on-prisoner-release-begins/article32300525.ece
08 August 2020||Beijing,||Beijing, Aug 7, 2020 (AFP) -||China sentenced another Canadian to death on drugs charges on Friday, the second in two days to be handed the punishment. The Foshan Intermediate People’s Court in the country’s southern Guangdong province said Ye Jianhui had been sentenced and would have all his assets confiscated.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-aug-7-2020-afp/article32300517.ece
08 August 2020||Kuala Lumpur,||Malaysia’s Mahathir, 95, to set up new political party||Malaysia’s Mahathir Mohamad, 95, said on Friday that he was setting up a new party as he seeks to take on the government, months after his administration collapsed. Mr. Mohamad, the world’s oldest leader until his resignation in February, first entered Parliament as an MP in 1964 and had two stints as Prime Minister.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/malaysias-mahathir-95-to-set-up-new-political-party/article32300519.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The return of the Maoists||On July 14, the sound of gunshots sliced through the calm night of Tokkiguda, a hamlet of just nine huts of the Gond Adivasis. The exchange of fire took place between a small squad of three Maoists and a special party of the Telangana police who were on their trail. Jumping into the thick vegetation of the adjoining valley, the Maoists managed to escape under the cover of darkness. It was after a long day of conducting search operations in the hamlets, which fall under the Mangi Gram Panchayat of Tiryani mandal in Kumuram Bheem Asifabad district, that the police had reached Tokkiguda at about 10.30 p.m. They had knocked on the door of the house of the village headman, Kova Ananth Rao, to inform him of their presence. “The police were surprised to see three armed Maoists escaping through the rear exit of the hut into the darkness,” recalled a police officer. “The Maoists fired a couple of shots at the police while fleeing and the police fired back.” Around 9 a.m. the next day, another exchange of fire took place between armed Maoists and the police in the dense forest of Mallepallithogu in Karkagudem mandal of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, some 70 km from Bhadrachalam town. About a dozen Maoists again escaped, taking advantage of the torrential downpour that day. However, their lying up position (the spot where they held regular meetings in the forests) was discovered by the police. “The extremists will take a lot of time to recover from this loss,” said Bhadradri-Kothagudem Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt on the discovery of the lying up position. “We recovered 10 kit bags and other material from the spot which is close to the border with Sukma in Chhattisgarh.” Attempts to revitalise the outfit Both the incidents occurred about five months after the Communist Party of India (Maoist) began fresh attempts to revitalise the organisation in parts of Telangana from where it had retreated over a decade ago. According to senior police officers in the State, the Maoists are determined to prove their relevance in the region. Sources said Maoist leaders operating in the Dandakaranya forests are under tremendous pressure to prove their mettle on their home turf in Telangana where socio-economic and political conditions have changed drastically over the last few years.    It was in 2018 that the CPI (Maoist) replaced Muppala Lakshman Rao alias Ganapathi with Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavaraj as General Secretary of the organisation’s Central Committee. Basavaraj brought in a few organisational and operational changes: he reconstituted the Telangana State Committee and a dozen Area Committees and entrusted them with the task of reconsolidating their position in rural areas. The recast State Committee is headed by Central Committee member Pulluri Prasad Rao. Haribhushan alias Jagan has been nominated as Secretary and spokesperson. The other members are Bandi Prakash alias Prabhat, Bade Chokka Rao alias Damodar, Mylarapu Adellu alias Bhaskar, Sambaiah, and Kankanala Raji Reddy, according to the police. Sources said that the Maoists have been barred  by the leadership from carrying out violent activities in Telangana lest they attract the attention of the security forces. So far, they have restricted themselves to reviving links with old contacts and recruiting rural youth in areas where they are present, barring Khammam district before it was bifurcated into Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Khammam. All activities of the underground outfit are concentrated in the forest areas in the eastern side of the State comprising the former undivided districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar, Warangal and Khammam. These areas border the left-wing extremism-affected areas in what is popularly known as Dandakaranya comprising Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district and parts of Chandrapur district, as well as parts of Chhattisgarh. The re-organisation efforts have been in the works for a while following the many blows to the outfit over a decade ago. By 2007, following a clampdown on Maoist activity after the re-imposition of a ban on the CPI (Maoist) and other splinter extremist organisations across united Andhra Pradesh, violent activities began to decline in the districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar and Warangal. However, Khammam, with its lush forests and proximity to Chhattisgarh, gave tactical advantage to the Maoists and had become a hotbed of Maoist activity. Out of a total of 41 murders by Maoists recorded between 2007 and 2013, 33 were in Khammam alone .Ten more killings were recorded between 2014 and 2019 besides 24 incidents of exchanges of fire. Adilabad remained largely peaceful during the entire period reporting just one murder (of Athram Ballar Sha, a Gond tribal from Khairguda of Tiryani mandal in the present district of Kumuram Bheem Asifabad, in October 2015). Among the north Telangana districts, the former undivided district of Adilabad occupied a special status in the history of left-wing extremism in the country. It was in Adilabad that the Maoists, then known as the CPI (Marxist-Leninist) People’s War Group, had, for the first time in the history of left-wing extremism, ambushed a police party in the forest of Allampalli in present-day Kadem mandal of Nirmal district in August 1987. Ten policemen, including two Sub-Inspectors, were killed. The extremists also carried out a landmine blast in Singapur in the same mandal in February 1988 killing seven policemen, including one Sub-Inspector. As many as 65 policemen including one Inspector, one jailor, and seven Sub-Inspectors were killed during the extremist movement in undivided Adilabad. The movement too suffered great losses in the district from 1980: 138 leaders and cadres were killed in ‘encounters’, including top Maoists such as Central Committee member Cherukuri Rajkumar alias Azad, who was killed in the Sarkepalli forests of Wankidi mandal in Kumuram Bheem Asifabad district on July 2, 2010; and 381 cadres and commanders surrendered. But the dense forests in this area offer safety for those on the run. This is perhaps why the Maoists are trying to make it more conducive for their cadres to operate now. Keeping an eye on the Maoists It was in February-March 2020 that Maoist dalams or squads are assumed to have crossed over into Telangana through rivers and forests. They came into the districts of Kumuram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial, Peddapalli, Jayashankar-Bhupalpally, Mahabubabad, Mulugu and Bhadradri-Kothagudem. Sources in the intelligence department said this movement of armed Maoists into Telangana is very large in terms of the area they are mandated by their leadership to “regain” by earning the support of the Adivasis. On being alerted about the movement of the Maoists, the police launched operations to flush them out of the forests and prevent violence. “We haven’t succeeded so far but we are determined to push the extremists back to where they came from or get them to surrender to the authorities,” a source in the police said. Some retired police officers, veterans from the anti-Naxal campaign before 2007, attributed the difficulty in tracking down the extremists to the lack of knowledge of the terrain among the new officers. They also pointed out that the informer network remains weak. If it is strengthened, that would make a big difference, they said. After reviewing the situation in the wake of the two incidents of exchange of fire, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy said a positive result would be achieved soon. He told the media that as many as 500 policemen, including units from the specialist force to take on the Maoists, the Greyhounds, have been deployed to flush out the five extremists from Tiryani. The ratio of policemen to Maoists is 100:1, he said. In the former district of Adilabad, where there are reports of movements of the extremists, the dalam is led by an experienced leader, 55-year-old Adilabad District Committee Secretary Adellu, who carries a reward of Rs. 20 lakh on his head. Adellu is from Pochera village in Boath mandal of Adilabad district. He is said to be conversant in local dialects and knows the jungle passages like the back of his hand. “The dalam had consisted of some 12 armed Maoists when it crossed Pranahita in Kumuram Bheem Asifabad district in March. It is left with just five members now; the others are presumed to have gone back to Chhattisgarh after failing to withstand the heat of our operations,” said Adilabad District Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier, who also holds the charge of Superintendent of Police of Kumuram Bheem Asifabad and Nirmal districts. “The Maoists are camping in select villages and discussing tribal issues like the Forest Rights Act, the impact of the Supreme Court order scrapping Government Order 3 issued by the undivided Andhra Pradesh government in 2000 making provision for 100% reservations in some categories of government jobs in Scheduled Areas, and the Adivasi-Lambada conflict on the issue of tenability of Scheduled Tribe status of the Lambadas. The discussions are apparently aimed at influencing the minds of young tribals and eventually recruiting some of them,” a source in the intelligence department said. The extremists claimed that they are observing a self-imposed restraint on the use of violence. Jagan, their spokesperson, issued a statement that the Maoists were visiting villages to educate the rural poor about the pandemic. Warrier scoffed at this. “It was the police which used the lockdown period for strengthening ties with the rural folk by supplying them with essentials,” he said. “This is in addition to the coordination we are forging between the villagers and different departments to bring in speedy development.” The distribution of relief material aimed at improving relations with the people is part of the strategy of the State police to make policing more people-friendly. Also, by visiting villages located inside the forests, the department has kept an eye on the movements of suspected Maoist sympathisers. A brief history In 2004, the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh observed an informal ceasefire agreement with the Maoists. However, that got scrapped in 2005 following the killing of MLA Chittem Narsi Reddy and 10 others in erstwhile Mahabubnagar district. According to a senior police officer, the PWG had committed a blunder by agreeing to a ceasefire. The decision haunted the organisation even after Telangana was created, he said. “They had thought that the few months of talks with the government would give them time and space to strengthen the organisation. But it was the other way around. The Maoists got exposed and offered an opportunity to the police to photograph and profile their top leaders and cadres. The authorities were placed at an advantage with regard to understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the PWG which, by then, had merged with other groups to become the CPI (Maoist),” the officer said. The Maoists suffered heavy casualties in the period following the end of the ceasefire and retreated into Dandakaranya in 2008. They had that territory earmarked as an alternate centre in anticipation of facing the heat in Andhra Pradesh that would require them to evacuate the State in a hurry. That’s when they developed a rapport with the Adivasi communities living in the dense forests. “That such a need would arise some day had become clear to the Maoists. They had done some intense research in 2003-2004 which was titled ‘Social Investigation of North Telangana’. They selected undivided Warangal district as their case study. The study revealed that exploitation and oppression of the poor by landlords was no more a phenomenon troubling the rural poor, and that the welfare programmes of the government had percolated into rural areas,” a source in the intelligence wing of the police department said. “The return of the Congress party to form the government in Andhra Pradesh in 2004 under Rajasekhara Reddy saw more welfare activities taking place. There was increased participation of the rural poor in development activities,” said a top Maoist who had later surrendered. “Roads and mobile communications saw a lot of improvement, and poor people, including women, got representation in administration thanks to implementation of the 50% reservation quota for women in local bodies,” he said. “Instead of Maoists, caste organisations took the lead in dispute resolution in rural areas, while youngsters studied hoping to get government employment.  This had a great impact on the recruitment process of the banned organisation which drew its cadres mostly from villagers who were disgruntled on failing to access government welfare programmes or were discriminated against, and the students,” a source in intelligence department said. The former extremist said: “The failure to evoke any response in the villages was one of the main reasons for the outfit to withdraw from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The other reason was that the police had acquired the required skills to track us down. That was causing great harm to the movement.” The bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh did not alter the positions taken by the two new governments. The police in both the States believed that those Maoists who had left the place were bound to return. It was because of this belief that the Greyhounds in both the States entered Chhattisgarh or Gadchiroli in Maharashtra every now and then to cooperate with the police forces in chasing or eliminating Maoists. The Mangi dalam commander Athram Shoban alias Charles was killed in an ‘encounter’ in Gadchiroli in June 2004. He belonged to the Tiryani mandal and was an accused in the murder of Athram Ballar Sha in October the previous year. His death removed a key link between the local poor and the Maoists. Has the scenario changed in Telangana? Are the Adivasis no longer exploited? “The Adivasis continue to be exploited by corrupt elements in the administration,” said an Adivasi headman in Sirikonda mandal of Adilabad district as he dwelt upon the issue of revival of the Maoist organisation. Athram Bheem Rao, a Kolam tribal headman of Pangri in Tiryani mandal, said: “The Maoists will not find support here as we want peace and development.” The Adivasis are in the right frame of mind, said Warrier. “We do not want any of them helping the Maoists, even unwillingly, and inviting trouble,” he said. S. Harpal Singh is a freelance journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-return-of-the-maoists/article32300516.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Interpreting the Sri Lankan mandate||The results of Sri Lanka’s parliamentary election held on Wednesday show a seismic shift in the country’s electoral map as well as the balance of political power. The near two-thirds parliamentary majority, easily achieved by the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP — Sri Lanka People’s Front) by reducing all Opposition parties into insignificance, has only one parallel from the past — the electoral victory with a 5/6th parliamentary majority in July 1977 scored by the United National Party (UNP), then led by J.R. Jayewardene. Key trends The SLPP has won 145 seats in the 225-member Parliament while the United National Party (UNP), the former ruling party, has suffered the most humiliating of defeats, retaining just one parliamentary seat. The Samagi Jana Balavegaya, (SJB–United People’s Movement), a breakaway part from the UNP and formed only a few months ago, has come in second with 54 seats, thanks to the system of Proportional Representation. The SLPP’s comfortable win was not unexpected. What has come to be seen as a ‘victory beyond all expectations’, as the SLPP’s spokesperson has quickly admitted, seems to have been also made possible by large-scale absenteeism by the UNP voters at almost every electorate. Meanwhile, the overall electoral turnout of 71% is comparatively low in Sri Lanka’s very high standards of voter participation at any election. There are two other notable trends in the electoral outcome. The first is the decline of the ethnic minority representation as independent political entities. The Illankai Tamil Arasu Kadchi (ITAK), the main and most vocal minority party in Sri Lanka’s Parliament, has lost its electoral strength, coming down to 10 from the 16 seats in the previous Parliament. Six seats from the Northern and Eastern provinces have been secured by smaller Tamil parties, two of which are aligned with the SLPP. The fragmentation of Tamil political representation is mirrored by the decline of Muslim representation as well. Muslim parties have managed to retain just two seats for their community in the districts they contested alone. There can be a few more minority MPs affiliated to the SJB. The second is the fact that the two big parties in the new parliament, the SLPP and SJB, are of very recent origin, and they have been formed by breakaway sections of the two main traditional parties. The decisive factors There are four factors that seem to have made this dramatic shift in Sri Lanka’s political landscape, led by the SLPP, possible. The first is the dismal failure of the previous coalition government, which came to power in January 2015 by defeating President Mahinda Rajapaksa. The Yaha Paalanaya (‘Good Governance’) coalition, jointly led by Ranil Wickremesinghe and Maithripala Sirisena, achieved a surprising victory in the Presidential election in January 2015. Its promise of democratic revival, promoting peace and reconciliation, establishing corruption-free governance, and ending the habits of rule through excessive concentration of power evoked a sympathetic response from the electorate. However, in power, the Wickremesinghe-Sirisena regime’s record of governance has been one of utter passivity towards fully realising those noble goals. The return to corruption in no time, disunity within the ruling coalition, hostile factionalism, power struggles between the President and the Prime Minister, and the resultant crippling of the administrative and national security apparatus, also gave a particularly bad name to the very idea of ‘governance by democracy’. The regime had also failed to defend and sustain the gain of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, its most important political achievement. The Amendment had drastically reduced the arbitrary powers of the President and restored Sri Lanka’s parliamentary democracy as well as the system of checks and balances on the Executive and legislative authority. This failure also gave the SLPP one of its most effective electoral slogans with potentially lasting and far-reaching political consequences — a radically new political alternative for Sri Lanka with a strong leader, a strong government, a strong administration with military efficiency, with just one strong centre of power with no checks and balances. The landslide victory of the SLPP at the Presidential election held in November last year and the parliamentary election four days ago can thus be seen also as a crushing punishment delivered by the voters to the UNP and its leadership. The voters have obviously not forgiven the UNP leadership for its letting them down so badly during the four-and-half years of its irresponsible, quarrelsome and ineffective governance. There are also other major reasons for the voters to be so powerfully attracted to the SLPP. A relatively new political party formed in 2016 by the powerful Rajapaksa family, the SLPP in its programme, ideology and reform agenda has an enormously attractive ‘populist’ dimension. Its slogan for a strong state led by a strong leader has been couched in Sinhala-Buddhist patriotic symbolism and discourse. This indeed constitutes its core appeal to voters across all social classes in Sinhalese society. The SLPP’s rhetoric of economic and anti-western nationalism, alongwith with the promise of bringing back elements of the welfare state, always had an appeal among the poor and middle classes who had been left out by the neo-liberal reform policies so ardently pursued by the UNP-wing of the previous government. Amidst widespread social discontent caused by a sluggish economy trapped in debt crisis, a campaign built on the virtues of developmentalist populism, national security and political stability obviously had much allure over a return to weak democratic governance. Pandemic handling, drug war Meanwhile, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s efficient handling of the public health challenge caused by the COVID-19 pandemic seems to have convinced the vast majority of the Sri Lankan electorate that a new form of efficient government, with open participation of the military and personally handled by the President himself, would be the model of a new political experiment worth giving a chance. Two months of a relentless war against the dreaded drug barons, with massive media publicity given for sensational discoveries, raids and arrests, gave the President’s camp not only a decisive electoral edge over the entire Opposition. It also showed that Sri Lanka is ready to follow the global trend in new populist politics of romanticising law and order regimes that promise to instil a new sense of security to citizens which the old-style liberal democracies have of late failed. The last, and perhaps the most important, point of the SLPP’s electoral promise of radical reform package-in-waiting is its subtle suggestion that Sri Lankan citizens are in urgent need of a post-democratic political order in which national security, law and order, political stability, regime continuity, economic prosperity, and religio-moral regeneration are given utmost priority. Shift in party system Finally, the parliamentary election results also indicate a dramatic shift in Sri Lanka’s established political party system. Two grand old parties — the UNP and the SLFP — have been literally wiped out from Parliament and the SLPP, a new populist party, has emerged as the single dominant party. The UNP has irretrievably lost its familiar role as the main parliamentary Opposition party, and its place has now been taken over by the SJP, led by Sajith Premadasa, who broke away from the UNP only a couple of months ago. Only an effective and assertive SJP can prevent Sri Lanka from becoming a dominant one-party system. The SLPP has so far been careful not to spell out its constitutional and legislative reform programmes. Yet, it has given enough indications that there would be major constitutional changes aimed at bringing back a fully-fledged presidential constitutional system and offering an administrative role to the military. The existing balance of power between the Executive and the Legislature is likely to be altered too, in favour of the former. Amidst the inevitable euphoria after such a massive victory, the SLPP government will have a truly challenging time ahead. Sooner than later, the impending economic and social crises of unprecedented proportions, sharpened by the likely global economic collapse caused by the pandemic, may force the government leaders to review many of their plans that were probably forged well before the epidemic began. In this challenging context, Sri Lankan citizens need a humane government, not merely a strong one. Jayadeva Uyangoda is Emeritus Professor of Political Science, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/interpreting-the-sri-lankan-mandate/article32300510.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A campaign in Kerala to subvert an alternative path||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala is entering its fifth year. Its policy effort over the last four years has been to strengthen and widen the historic achievements of the State in the social sectors, and to use them as a foundation for major growth in agricultural and industrial production. In doing so it has had more than its fair share of challenges. Unexpected natural crises — Cyclone Ockhi in 2017, followed by two consecutive years of extreme rainfall events in 2018 and 2019, resulting in floods and mudslides across Kerala — and the Nipah epidemic were followed by the health and economic crises caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Growth amidst constraints A bitter campaign unleashed by the Opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party to discredit the LDF government has become widespread. The real purpose of this campaign is to undermine the achievements of public action under the leadership of the Left. With just a year left before elections to the Kerala Assembly, the Opposition is seeking to subvert the only genuine alternative to neo-liberal policies being attempted — within the constraints imposed by the Indian state. The LDF government inherited a legacy of stagnant revenues and rising revenue and fiscal deficits. As per the provisions of the Constitution, the division of powers and finances between the Centre and States have created great asymmetry between the revenue-earning capacities of States and their expenditure obligations. With the intensification of a neo-liberal economic programme since 1991, implementing an alternative economic vision at the State-level has become very difficult indeed. The unhelpful altitude of the central government in cutting down the borrowing limits of the State, and delayed receipt of compensation for loss from the implementation of Goods and Service Tax, further hindered the economic development of Kerala. Despite these challenges the LDF government has sought to ensure adequate investments in all sectors such that the gains reach everyone, and these efforts have shown positive results. The State’s economy is growing at 7.2% now compared to the 4.9% during the previous government. Pro-people policies Let us briefly look at the progress Kerala has made in the last four years in the five important sectors of agriculture, public sector industry, social security, school education and infrastructure. The LDF government has pushed ahead with modernising Kerala’s agriculture to ensure growth through scientific farming. The Rs. 3,860 crore Subhiksha Keralam programme, which is the main component of the post-COVID-19 package of recovery projects, aims to broaden and intensify food production, and involves agriculture, animal resources, dairying, fisheries, the development of water resources, cooperation and value-addition through industrial production. Economic planning in Kerala has abjured the route of public sector disinvestment that the Centre and many State governments have so easily embraced. From cumulative losses of Rs. 213 crore under the previous government, public sector companies recorded a combined net profit of Rs. 106.91 crore in the LDF’s second year in office. Social security and welfare pensions paid to more than 58.5 lakh people are a distinct feature of livelihood provision in Kerala. In addition, the “Housing for All” scheme, implemented through the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission has seen the construction and delivery of more than 2.5 lakh houses. Kerala is the only State where there has been a significant movement, comprising five lakh new entrants, of school pupils from the private to the public sector. The State government has succeeded in initiating infrastructural projects costing about Rs. 50,000 crore through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The hill highway with an investment of Rs. 3,500 crore is under progress, the work on the coastal highway has started, the work on the high-speed railway network will soon start, the national waterways is in its final stages, and the GAIL pipeline has become a reality. These projects need new forms of technical expertise. Agencies that provide technical consultancies are selected through transparent procedures, they are given narrow terms of reference, and their advice is evaluated by the government for its relevance and suitability to the State’s needs. This standard international and national practice, and has, indeed, been the practice of successive Governments in the State as well. A hidden agenda It is in this context that the recent smear campaign unleashed by the Congress and the BJP must be seen. The establishment media repeats unproven allegations of corruption to attack government policy and malign leaders of the LDF government. Fictitious news is broadcast in the hope something will stick. The attempt to link the government with a gold smuggling ring in Trivandrum International Airport is the latest attempt to discredit the government. It is basic knowledge that customs and the crime of international smuggling is a Central Government subject under the Union List in the Constitution. The Chief Minister correctly requested the central government to initiate a comprehensive probe into the incident and offered the assistance of the State. The investigation has thus far not found any link between the LDF and the criminals. When a contract employee in a project of a State organisation, who is under investigation for involvement in the smuggling ring, was suspected of fabricating records regarding her educational qualifications she was immediately removed, and police action has been initiated into the allegations. A senior officer entrusted with the oversight of the particular department that employed her was suspended pending an investigation. The Chief Minister has gone on record that no person who is found guilty will be shielded. The people of Kerala will certainly realise the hidden agenda of the Opposition and will support the only non-neo-liberal path of social and economic development in the country. Indeed, transparency is a governance value that the LDF observes in practice, as Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s daily press conference has proven. He presents a detailed report on the COVID-19 situation in the State, and then takes questions from the media, even the most tendentious and aggressive of them. S. Ramachandran Pillai is Member Polit Bureau, Communist Party of India (Marxist)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-campaign-in-kerala-to-subvert-an-alternative-path/article32300512.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Alert amid uncertainty||The RBI has prudently decided to keep its powder dry for now, citing the “extreme uncertainty” that characterises the current outlook for inflation and economic activity. Observing that the “unprecedented shock” from the pandemic has left the economy stressed, the RBI said that while the monetary policy committee recognised the primacy of supporting a recovery, it was necessarily mindful of its inflation targeting mandate. The picture on prices is clouded by many uncertainties. While the provisional June CPI inflation reading of 6.1% had edged over the upper bound of the mandated medium-term goal of 4% plus/minus 2%, a spike in food prices as well as cost push pressures from higher transport fuel and raw material prices were combining to obscure the inflation outlook. Vowing to ensure that the policy stance remains ‘accommodative’ for as long as needed to revive growth, Governor Shaktikanta Das emphasised that the RBI was ready to act on rates once a durable reduction in inflation was sighted. For now, however, the projections remain less than encouraging. The latest round of households’ expectations of price gains in an RBI survey shows that consumers expect inflation to remain elevated in the near term — a finding that the RBI’s assessment broadly backs. The prognosis on the economy is also worrisome. While the RBI expects the rural economy to turn in a robust recovery on the back of a strong showing by agriculture, a deterioration in consumer sentiment in the central bank’s July survey undermines the prospects for a more broadbased revival in domestic demand. Additionally, external demand faces headwinds from a world economy in recession and as global trade shrinks. Forecasting a contraction in real GDP in the current fiscal year, the RBI rather optimistically posits that an early containment of the pandemic may impart an upside surprise to its outlook. Interestingly, its analysis of the macro-economic environment skirts the potential challenges that heightened tensions with China, one of India’s largest trading partners and, in recent years, a source of inbound foreign capital, could pose to the economy. The central bank has therefore opted to focus its energies on trying to untangle the kinks hindering the flow of credit amid more than adequate liquidity, wary lenders and severely stressed borrowers. The restructuring, resolution and enhanced gold loan proposals mooted by the RBI acknowledge the sheer scale of the pandemic’s devastation on the finances of firms and households. The onus now is on Governor Das to ensure that the stability of the financial sector is safeguarded even as loan terms are reset to protect otherwise viable businesses. Any harm to financial stability risks undermining the economy as a whole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/alert-amid-uncertainty/article32300504.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Consolidating control||The Rajapaksas have consolidated their hold on power, garnering a near two-thirds majority in Sri Lanka’s Parliament. The victory was expected, but it is not often, under the proportional representation system, that a party reaches that milestone. The SLPP, founded four years ago by former President Mahinda Rajapaka, has won 145 seats, and with the help of minority allies, will reach the coveted 150 mark in a House of 225. The party may now have the numbers to amend the Constitution and undo the two-term limit and other curbs on presidential powers imposed by the 19th Amendment passed by a predecessor regime. The reasons behind this landslide are clear. Majoritarian nationalism, the party’s trump card, was boosted by the unprecedented disarray in the Opposition ranks. The people, yearning for development and debt relief, appear not to have forgotten the failings of the four-year rule of Maitripala Sirisena and Ranil Wickremesinghe — rivals who had come together in 2015 on a promise of good governance to defeat Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa. That regime was marked by incessant squabbling, allegations of corruption and a marked failure to boost the weakening economy. Its crowning failure was the inability to act on advance intelligence about the Easter bombings that left more than 250 dead. The UNP suffered a massive split, as a large section broke away under the leadership of Sajith Premadasa, leaving its leader and former PM Wickremesinghe waging a weak and, ultimately, losing battle. He failed to retain his own seat, and his party was able to win just a solitary seat. As a result, Sri Lanka witnesses a peculiar legislature in which its two major post-Independence parties, the UNP and the SLFP have next to no presence. The lone SLFP candidate to win was a Tamil candidate in Jaffna. That Sri Lanka, armed with an impressive public health infrastructure and backed by a well-enforced lockdown, contained the coronavirus spread, was another point in favour of President Gotabaya. Former President Sirisena managed to retain his seat, if not his relevance, by fighting on an SLPP ticket. The Tamil minority appears to have imparted some realism into its otherwise fiercely nationalistic voting pattern. It has not wholly backed the TNA, its main representative for years, but instead voted for alternative parties, in what is a clear setback to the TNA. The results may reflect growing backing for a development plank rather than harping on an elusive political solution to their national question. Now that it has even greater control, the ruling SLPP should work towards fulfilling the people’s economic and developmental aspirations instead of seeking to undo the gains from the 19th Amendment. It must also address concerns about creeping militarisation and guard against the return to an era of democratic deficit that the country sought to overcome in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/consolidating-control/article32300505.ece
08 August 2020||MUMBAI,||M&M drops U.S. capital plan after loss||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) on Friday reported a first-quarter consolidated loss of Rs. 98 crore and said it had dropped plans to invest $500 million in the U.S. with its unit Mahindra Automotive North America (MANA) exiting a race to supply small delivery trucks to the United States Postal Service (USPS) — a deal estimated at $6.3 billion. “MANA, among four shortlisted players, has decided not to bid considering prevailing conditions,” said Anish Saha, deputy MD and Group CFO, announcing the results. “The $500 million investment by us in MANA was subject to us winning the USPS bid. We chose not to participate in that bid so the investment plan has been cancelled. Whatever had been invested so far for the preparation of the bid was a very small amount and has been written off,” he said. ‘Conserving cash’ Since the outbreak of Covid-19, M&M has been conserving cash and pulling out of loss-making international businesses. It has decided to appraise businesses that are unable to provide 18% return on equity investment. The firm has sought shareholders’ nod to lower stake in South Korean unit SsangYong Motor Co. to below 50%. The plan is to rope in a strategic investor as Mahindra has decided not to invest any more in the firm. It is also seeking a strategic investor for Mahindra Electric. “We are engaged with multiple parties to invest in Mahindra Electric,” said Dr. Pawan Goenka, MD, M&M. The company on Friday reported group consolidated net loss of Rs. 98 crore in Q1 compared with a net profit of Rs. 914 crore a year earlier. Income from operations was down 37% to Rs. 16,520 crore. M&M reported standalone net profit of Rs. 112 crore in Q1 compared with Rs. 2,314 crore. Revenue from operations dipped to Rs. 5,602 crore from Rs. 12,923 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mm-drops-us-capital-plan-after-loss/article32300491.ece
08 August 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI sets up panel for stressed loans resolution norms||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday constituted the proposed expert committee under the chairmanship of veteran banker K.V. Kamath to make recommendations on norms for the resolution of COVID-19 related stressed loans. The other members of the committee include Diwakar Gupta (effective September 1, 2020, after completion of his term as vice-president, ADB), T.N. Manoharan (effective August 14, 2020, after the completion of his term as chairman, Canara Bank), Ashvin Parekh, strategy advisor, and Sunil Mehta, CEO of Indian Banks’ Association, as the member-secretary. The committee will submit its recommendations on the financial parameters to the RBI, which in turn, will notify the same along with modifications, if any, in 30 days. The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) will function as the secretariat to the committee and the committee will be fully empowered to consult or invite any person it deems fit. The committee may devise its own procedures for its internal functioning, the RBI said in a circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-sets-up-panel-for-stressed-loans-resolution-norms/article32300493.ece
08 August 2020||Chennai,||‘Debt recast may neither help ailing MSMEs nor lenders’||The RBI’s move to allow restructuring of advances for ‘viable’ MSMEs may fail to achieve the intended objective of supporting viable but ailing MSMEs while avoiding an increase in NPAs at banks as the very meaning of ‘viable’ has undergone a change in the last four months due to the impact of COVID-19, an umbrella body comprising 30 industry groups said on Friday. Observing that many MSMEs had struggled even before March in the wake of the economic slowdown, K.E. Raghunathan, convenor Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA) said the cut-off date should ideally be December 31, 2019. “Otherwise, restructuring will not actually reduce NPA growth at all. It will make healthier enterprises become weak.” The CIA has made several suggestions including allowing borrowers to settle their loans without any pre-payment charges or interest. This would help both banks and entrepreneurs, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/debt-recast-may-neither-help-ailing-msmes-nor-lenders/article32300495.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Watson Assistant ‘speaks’ for ICMR||How do you predict demand for a consumable product during uncertain times such as now, with the COVID-19 pandemic? Using Artificial Intelligence (AI) is one way to do it. Subram Natarajan , chief technology officer, IBM India, says AI technology has come a long way in the past two decades. With computing power and storage becoming unlimited, adoption of AI at scale is gathering pace. Excerpts:  What has led to AI suddenly gaining attention in the recent past? AI has been around for decades, but has come of age by means of how we deploy it and we are seeing early results. The pandemic helped accelerate the adoption to a scale that we have not imagined. The first major introduction of AI as a conversational engine happened years ago in one of the game shows — Jeopardy. The challenge was to formulate a question for a given answer. The game touched upon various topics, from economics to IT to literature to arts. Watson – one of the AI engines for IBM – was aimed at understanding human speech, make sense out of it, gain an understanding of the intent behind it, and then come up with a response that complied with the rules of the game. Can you elaborate on the work you’re doing with ICMR? When COVID happened, the Indian Council of Medical Research began using our Watson virtual agent as a conversation engine. In their portal, it responds automatically to specific queries of the frontline staff and data entry operators from testing and diagnostic facilities across India. So, now you see deployment of this at scale. Even though technology has been around for a while, it needed a COVID to really bring such technology into the mainstream. This is helping boost ICMR’s response time and allowing them to coordinate between different groups across the country. And because the AI engine is taking care of the response to calls, they can go on to concentrate on priorities such as developing and updating the testing and treatment protocols for COVID-19. The technology we use is the Watson conversation engine, or the Watson virtual agent, also called as the Watson Assistant. While the deployment in ICMR is highly impactful, this could extend to any call centre – be it for a bank or a telecom company. The Watson Assistant understands what you’re asking, the intent behind it and can come up with the right kind of response. Following ICMR, some State governments have wanted such assistance. The AP government has already introduced Watson Assistant in their citizen services. Has data quality improved? Yes. More than 60% of the time data teams are just working on making the data available for the AI and ML. When you fail to do this, you get into a bad data situation; therefore the AI that results is going to be poor quality. How have you helped Parle predict demand during the pandemic? With COVID coming in, influencing factors went haywire. It was a new normal, so we needed post-COVID data. Data seeding post-COVID and intelligence coming out of the system is far more accurate than one can think of. Parle has used this very effectively, especially for goods with a short shelf life.  AI has been around for decades. The pandemic helped accelerate the adoption to a scale we have not imagined||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/watson-assistant-speaks-for-icmr/article32300489.ece
08 August 2020||Chennai,||TIIL in Rs. 700-crore pact to buy CG Power stake||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TIIL), a Murugappa Group firm, has entered into a securities subscription agreement to bail out debt-ridden CG Power and Industrial Solutions Ltd. On Friday, the board of TIIL approved the proposal for making a binding bid for acquiring controlling interest in CG Power through a combination of investment in equity shares and warrants worth Rs. 700 crore. The deal, issue and allotment of equity shares and warrants are subject to TIIL being declared a successful bidder by the lenders by August 28, company shareholders and Competition Commission of India, both the companies said in filings. CG Power EGM As per the proposal, on allotment of equity shares, TIIL will get a 50.62% stake in CG Power and after conversion of the warrants, the holding will increase it to 56.61%. CG Power, meanwhile, has convened an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on September 2 for seeking shareholders’ approval for the preferential allotment of shares. These warrants will be converted into equivalent number of equity shares at the option of TIIL within 18 months from the date of allotment. Of the total investment in warrants, 25% will be paid upfront at the time of subscription. TIIL operational, financial and governance capabilities will help remove the present difficulties and hardships of CG Power. Since both the companies are in the engineering business, the acquisition is expected to provide synergy. The deal is expected to be completed within 120 days, TIIL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tiil-in-rs-700-crore-pact-to-buy-cg-power-stake/article32300497.ece
08 August 2020||new delhi,||Franklin Templeton’s shut schemes net Rs. 4,280 crore||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund’s six schemes have received Rs. 4,280 crore from maturities, pre-payments and coupon payments since the announcement of their closure in April. The amount has been received without the ability to efficiently monetise assets, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) president Sanjay Sapre wrote in a letter to investors. The schemes will endeavour to accelerate monetisation post the successful completion of the e-voting exercise and the unit-holder meets, he added. “From April 24 till July 31, 2020, the schemes have received Rs. 4,280 crore from maturities, pre-payments, and coupons,” he said. Of the total amount, the schemes received Rs. 1,005 crore in July alone. Franklin Templeton shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressure and lack of liquidity in the bond market. These schemes together have an estimated Rs. 25,000 crore as assets under management (AUM).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/franklin-templetons-shut-schemes-net-rs-4280-crore/article32300499.ece
08 August 2020||Chennai,||Daimler arm drives into used CV segment||Daimler India Commercial Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. (DICV), the maker of BharatBenz trucks and buses, has entered the used commercial vehicle (CV) segment with ‘BharatBenz Exchange’ programme. The firm will also restart the second shift at its Oragadam plant from next week, said a top official. “BharatBenz Exchange will supplement its existing new vehicle sales model by offering an exchange platform where customers can exchange their used vehicles of any brand for new BharatBenz vehicles,” said Satyakam Arya, MD and CEO, DICV. “Initially, DICV will accept only trucks in the medium and heavy CV segment and Bharat Benz brands,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/daimler-arm-drives-into-used-cv-segment/article32300498.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kia unveils compact SUV Sonet||Kia Motors on Friday globally unveiled its compact SUV ‘Sonet’, which will be introduced in India ahead of the upcoming festive season. Sonet will compete with Maruti Suzuki’s Vitara Brezza, Tata Motors’ Nexon, Hyundai’s Venue and soon to be launched Urban Cruiser by Toyota Kirloskar Motor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kia-unveils-compact-suv-sonet/article32300494.ece
08 August 2020||new delhi,||Mindspace REIT rises 10% on BSE debut||Mindspace Business Parks REIT made its market debut on Friday and closed with a premium of over 10% against its issue price of Rs. 275 per unit. The units listed at Rs. 304, reflecting a gain of 10.54% from the issue price on the BSE. During the day, it touched Rs. 308.90, surging 12.32%. It closed at Rs. 303.87, up 10.49%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mindspace-reit-rises-10-on-bse-debut/article32300500.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Business Confidence Index falls 40 pc for Jun quarter: NCAER survey||NCAER’s Business Confidence Index (BCI), an indicator of the business sentiment across the Indian industry, stood at 46.4 in the first quarter of 2020-21, a drop of 40% from its level of 77.4 in the previous quarter, according to a survey by the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER). “This is the lowest the BCI has ever fallen in the history of 113 rounds of the NCAER Business Expectations Survey (BES),” it said on Friday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/business-confidence-index-falls-40-pc-for-jun-quarter-ncaer-survey/article32300501.ece
08 August 2020||MANCHESTER,||Yasir has England in a bind||Leg-spinner Yasir Shah took four wickets as Pakistan bowled England out for 219 in its first innings to seize control of the first Test at tea on day three at Old Trafford on Friday. Prodigious turn Yasir (four for 66) was the stand-out performer as he produced prodigious turn on a wearing wicket that will have him licking his lips for more when England bats last. The host resumed the day on 92 for four and Ollie Pope (62) looked relatively assured as he moved to his fifth Test half-century. But the threat from the Pakistani seamers was ever-present and 17-year-old Naseem Shah got a delivery to rise sharply off a length that caught Pope’s bat and provided a catch for Shadab Khan in the gully. Yasir bowled Jos Buttler (38) between bat and pad, caught the edge of Dom Bess (1) for a fine catch at slip by Asad Shafiq, before a skidding delivery castled Woakes (19). Only a late cameo from Broad (29 not out) saw England past 200, with the second leg-spinner in the Pakistan side, Shadab (two for 13), wrapping up the innings.  Pakistan 87 for four Pakistan was 87 for four in 31 overs with Shafiq (21) and Rizwan (16) at the crease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yasir-has-england-in-a-bind/article32300655.ece
08 August 2020||San Francisco,||Day, Todd share the honours||Australia's Jason Day shot a bogey-free five-under 65 to take a share of the lead in the opening round of the PGA Championship, the first Major of the pandemic-interrupted season, on Thursday. The 2015 PGA champion Day rolled in five birdies for a one-shot cushion with co-leader Brendon Todd atop a star-studded, crowded leaderboard at the TPC Harding Park course here. Two-time defending champion Brooks Koepka, Germany's Martin Kaymer, Zach Johnson, England's Justin Rose, Xander Schauffele, Bud Cauley, Scottie Scheffler, France's Mike Lorenzo-Vera and Brendan Steele are close behind at four-under 66. Muted ambience The relatively muted atmosphere proved no hindrance to Day, who is coming off a string of top 10 finishes. Todd, who already has two PGA Tour wins this season, had eight birdies as he was part of the afternoon wave which had to battle more difficult weather conditions. Koepka, who is chasing history by trying to become the first three-peat PGA Major winner in almost a century, sank four birdies on the final six holes of his front nine after starting his round from the 10th tee where he made bogey. Reigning Masters champion Tiger Woods showed why it is never wise to count him out of a Major, shooting a solid 68 to join another large group at two under, three shots behind the leaders.  The scores:   65: Jason Day (Aus), Brendon Todd (USA); 66: Zach Johnson (USA), Bud Cauley (USA), Brendan Steele (USA), Brooks Koepka (USA), Scottie Scheffler (USA), Mike Lorenzo-Vera (Fra), Martin Kaymer (Ger), Xander Schauffele (USA), Justin Rose (Eng).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/day-todd-share-the-honours/article32300650.ece
08 August 2020||BARCELONA,||Barcelona hopes for redemption||Barcelona will hope to overcome the disappointment of failing to retain the LaLiga crown as it takes on Napoli in the second leg of the round of 16 of the Champions League at the Nou Camp on Saturday. With the tie on on a knife-edge after a 1-1 draw back in February, Barca will be without midfield duo Sergio Busquets and Arturo Vidal but will have Antoine Griezmann and Frenkie de Jong, plus defenders Clement Lenglet and Ronald Araujo back. Ousmane Dembele, however, is still out despite returning to training after six months away. Lionel Messi and defender Nelson Semedo, meanwhile, would be conditioned by the knowledge that a yellow card would see them suspended from the quarterfinals if the team progresses to the last eight. Bayern Munich, up 3-0 against Chelsea, will be without winger Kingsley Coman after he missed the final training session with a muscle injury ahead of the second leg at home on Saturday. Bayern, chasing a treble after winning the domestic double, is also without injured defender Benjamin Pavard. Though Chelsea also has its share of injuries with more than half a dozen players out, Bayern skipper Manuel Neuer sounded cautious. “We cannot be too relaxed despite our advantage from the first leg,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-hopes-for-redemption/article32300638.ece
08 August 2020||PARIS,||Jimenez puts Wolves in last eight||Raul Jimenez scored the only goal from the penalty spot in the ninth minute as Wolves survived a series of scares to edge Olympiakos 1-0 for a 2-1 aggregate win in the Europa League on Thursday.  The results: Sevilla (Reguilon 22, En-Nesyri 44) bt Roma 0. First leg postponed so played as a one-off tie. Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Diaby 51) bt Rangers 0. Leverkusen won 4-1 on aggregate;   Basel 1 bt Eintracht Frankfurt 0. Basel won 4-0 on aggregate; Wolves 1 (Jimenez 9-pen) bt Olympiakos 0. Wolves won 2-1 on aggregate; FC Copenhagen 3 (Wind 4, 53-pen, Falk Jensen 62) bt Istanbul Basaksehir 0. Copenhagen won 3-1 on aggregate .   The schedule (quarterfinals):   Aug. 10: Inter v Leverkusen; Man United v Copenhagen.   Aug. 11: Wolves v Sevilla, Shakhtar Donetsk v Basel .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jimenez-puts-wolves-in-last-eight/article32300640.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu, fellow Olympic probables get together at Gopi’s academy||World champion P.V. Sindhu had an individual training session at the SAI-Gopi Chand Academy here on Friday, as Olympic probables came together for the first time since the COVID-19 lockdown. World championship bronze medallist B. Sai Praneeth and women’s doubles specialist N. Sikki Reddy followed Sindhu for their own sessions under the guidance of Chief National coach P. Gopi Chand, who was assisted by Park Tae-Sang and Agus Dwi Santoso. Gopi Chand hinted that Park would take care of Sindhu, while he would be formulating precise training programmes benefiting individual players. Park has been provided Sindhu’s personal car in order to avoid using cabs while travelling to the academy. Sindhu restricted her session to certain aspects of her game, like net dribbles and smashes. Her fitness regimen is taken care of by her personal trainer M. Srikanth Verma at Suchitra Academy.  “I felt pretty comfortable. Didn’t feel any great difference in playing after such a long gap. I should be okay in about two weeks. It’s all about getting the rhythm [back],” Sindhu told The Hindu . Gopi Chand was confident the players would be match-fit within a couple of weeks. “All of them looked good, but it may be a bit of a challenge for the doubles pairs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-fellow-olympic-probables-get-together-at-gopis-academy/article32300659.ece
08 August 2020||MUMBAI,||India keeps 2021 T20 WC; 2022 edition in Australia||The International Cricket Council (ICC) has retained India as the host of the 2021 T20 World Cup and reassigned the deferred 2020 edition to Australia in 2022. While finalising these decisions on Friday, the ICC Board also postponed the Women’s ODI World Cup from early 2021 to 2022. Doubts over India hosting the 2021 event arose on July 20 when the ICC, while postponing the 2020 T20 World Cup to 2022 because of the pandemic, didn’t specify the venues for the 2021 and 2022 editions. Australia was scheduled to stage the 2020 competition in October-November. India was awarded the 2021 tournament, but its host status was threatened after it did not meet the first deadline for securing tax exemptions from the Central government. As of now, India still retains hosting rights, with the ICC extending the deadline to December 31. “The decisions were taken by the IBC (commercial subsidiary of ICC) following an extensive contingency planning exercise which has taken into account the health, cricket and commercial impact of COVID-19 around the world,” the ICC said in a statement. It is learnt that the decision to postpone the Women’s World Cup was more due to commercial reasons, with the ICC and its broadcasting partner preferring to save costs in the immediate aftermath of the pandemic. However, ICC chief executive Manu Sawhney cited a lack of game-time for cricketers as the primary cause for the deferment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-keeps-2021-t20-wc-2022-edition-in-australia/article32300653.ece
08 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Leopard poaching highest in Uttarakhand, Maharashtra||A recent study by TRAFFIC India on the seizure and mortality of ‘common leopards’ ( Panthera pardus fusca ) revealed that of the total of 747 leopard deaths between 2015-2019 in India, 596 were linked to illegal wildlife trade and activities related to poaching. TRAFFIC is a leading wildlife trade monitoring network across the world and the paper has been authored by Saket Badola, head of the TRAFFIC India office, and Astha Gautam. “These records indicated that 140 leopards were killed by poachers and their carcasses were recovered from the forest areas, whereas body parts belonging to the equivalent of 456 leopards were seized during various operations by law enforcement agencies during the study period,” said the report published in the latest edition of TRAFFIC India’s newsletter. The paper titled ‘‘SPOTTED’ in Illegal Wildlife Trade: A Peek into Ongoing Poaching and Illegal Trade of Leopards in India’ also said that the highest numbers of poaching incidents were reported from the States of Uttarakhand and Maharashtra. During the period 2015 to 2019, there were more than 140 cases of seizures of leopard body parts in Uttarakhand, and about 19 incidents where the deaths of these cats could be directly linked to poaching. More than 40 cases of seizure of leopard body parts and 16 cases of poaching were recorded from Maharashtra between 2015 to 2019. “Among all the derivatives found in illegal wildlife trade, skin remained the most in-demand product, accounting for 69% of all seizures, while derivatives like claws, teeth and bones were also traded. “It is also believed that bones of the leopard are possibly traded as tiger bones as they have a larger international demand for traditional medicines,” the report states. Another concern raised in the paper is the incidence of live animal trade involving leopard cubs in seizures in Chennai and in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leopard-poaching-highest-in-uttarakhand-maharashtra/article32300636.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Manpreet, four others test positive||Five players of the men’s hockey team, including captain Manpreet Singh, have tested positive for COVID-19 at the Sports Authority of India Centre in Bengaluru. The teams, both men and women, had reported back for the national camp on Monday after a 45-day break. Besides Manpreet, Surender Kumar, Jaskaran Singh, Varun Kumar and goalkeeper Krishan Bahadur Pathak have tested positive. All five had travelled together from their hometowns and are likely to have contracted the virus en route. Interestingly, Manpreet had celebrated his birthday last month with a few friends and teammates, including Varun. All players are in quarantine at the SAI Centre since arrival as part of the State and SAI protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manpreet-four-others-test-positive/article32300641.ece
08 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Home series against England put off to 2021||India’s limited-overs home series against England, scheduled for later this year, has been postponed to early next year, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) confirmed on Friday. “BCCI and ECB [England and Wales Cricket Board] are in consultation with a view to confirming the 2021 schedules for an all-formats England men’s tour to India to run from late January to late March and for India’s Test tour to England due in the summer of 2021,” the BCCI said in a statement. India was slated to host England for three ODIs and as many T20Is in late September and early October and five Tests early next year, according to the previous Future Tours Programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/home-series-against-england-put-off-to-2021/article32300639.ece
08 August 2020||BENGALURU,||Akhil to race in French GT4 Championship||Akhil Rabindra, who is part of the Aston Martin Racing (AMR) Driver Academy, will compete in the French FFSA GT4 Championship. The Bengaluru racer commences his 2020 season on August 21 with the ‘Easter Cups from Nagaro’ series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akhil-to-race-in-french-gt4-championship/article32300637.ece
08 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Shuttlers Sankar, Satish shortlisted in TOPS junior section||Tamil Nadu’s Sankar Muthusamy (16 years) and Satish Kumar (19) have been shortlisted among 258 athletes in 12 sports disciplines in the TOPS junior section for Mission Olympics 2028.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shuttlers-sankar-satish-shortlisted-in-tops-junior-section/article32300703.ece
08 August 2020||HYDERABAD:,||TSS weightlifters in Olympics Scheme||Two women weightlifters from the Telangana Sports School — T. Priyadarshini and K. Varalakshmi Pavani Kumari — are among the 258 athletes shortlisted across India for the Target Olympics Podium Scheme. The list was announced recently by Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijju, and these athletes from 12 disciplines will be groomed for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tss-weightlifters-in-olympics-scheme/article32300867.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 08:17 IST,||Sudoku - August 8, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-8-2020/article32301404.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||As influencers evolve||Danish Sait was just another funny guy down South until the lockdown hit. Then his video sketches — a part of his Quarantine series on YouTube (better known as Conversations... on Twitter) — took his following from 4,00,000 to 5,00,000 across social media at the height of lockdown. While for Sait the videos were just meant to be fun, they resonated with many who were facing similar problems: running out of alcohol, trying to order provisions from a supermarket, commenting on the Prime Minister’s speech. Some videos got as many as 8,200 likes on Twitter, a platform not known for its video content, while on YouTube they went up to 1.6 lakh. This, despite the fact that they were referencing Bengaluru zip codes, culture and accents, with many a ‘bro’, ‘boss’, ‘ machan ’ and ‘ da ’ thrown in. “The lockdown gave people time to take notice of those with talent outside of the ones they were already following. They were willing to give everyone a chance,” Sait says of the generosity with which people approached his content. Besides the everyday themes and realism, he says the characters he portrays — such as two partners separated because of the lockdown — are probably what appeal to folks online. “You’re seeing so many different people, from age groups to profiles to walks of life, all capsuled in one minute. Or it could just be the absurdity of the props.” It is perhaps the same formula that also makes influencer Dolly Singh’s videos popular. Even when she is endorsing a product, she’ll throw in irony and a mix of characters, keeping us laughing, while showing us the mirror. During lockdown, Singh, whose followers went up daily by about 20,000 (where earlier they were half the number), says she made sure to add English subtitles so she would have a wider audience, making videos around humour language agnostic. “I feel like it [lockdown] changed content on the whole. Now when I look at the other work I’m doing, I’m [not thinking of state or language] but content that can be told in a compelling manner. The story takes precedence... the characters stay true to where they’re from.”  Community, connection, conversation  These were the words that content creators linked during the coronavirus lockdown, bringing us videos that informed, entertained and educated. As we sat at home, they either hit the ground and kept us abreast of news or filmed in their own houses to help us find humour in chores. On YouTube India, the daily views of videos with #withme in the title (cook with me, study with me) increased by 600% from March 15 compared to their average views earlier. Gokulakrishnan Kalaikovan, who is a part of the Google Developers Experts programme, a global network of technology experts and influencers, says the trend went so far that he has observed people discuss ideas for a book they had suddenly got the time to write and then go on to do it live. “People who never did videos before are doing it now,” he says. “Twitch [a live streaming service] was popular for gaming before, but now people are using it for live coding.” Over on Instagram, live videos had the quality of informality — of a host like Kalyan Karmakar (@thefinelychopped) working in the kitchen to turn leftovers into meals. They were also timely, like those of SUSS: Sustainable Style Speak (@aboutsuss) that spoke about what we could do to alleviate the problems of craftspeople, mirroring the #SocialForGood hashtag on the platform. There were lots of ‘Can you hear me?’ moments, as guests got blurred or disconnected due to a poor connection, but viewers were forgiving.  Let’s talk tech  Technology has had a big role to play in all this. As television journalist Barkha Dutt — who began operations of Mojo Story last September — stepped out to report, with just a driver, a cameraperson and a producer, she told tiny stories that grabbed more eyeballs than big-ticket stars. A YouTube video titled ‘He stepped out to buy vegetables for his children. He says he was thrashed by police instead’ got 2.5 million views, over one with actor Sonu Sood (659k views). “If I’d wanted to do independent journalism even five years ago, I would have had to access special cameras, a van, and been hooked to satellite dishes. Today, the access barriers have come down; editorially, it sets you free.” she says, adding that earlier many journalists were bound by editorial policies or vested interests of media behemoths. Now they shoot on smartphones and broadcast cameras, and use internet service providers to upload content. This stripping down of tech is something many content creators talk about. Kalaikovan says most videos are low resolution (480p to 1080p). One reason is because all one needs is a phone camera, a tripod and a gimbal — like Singh, when she posts to her 953k followers on Instagram and 328k subscribers on YouTube. She manages to work as a one-person army even when she plays multiple characters in her videos; she also edits them using InShot software. “For the first time, we’ve felt this kind of responsibility,” says the 27-year-old, adding that while there always was a broad sense of what constituted responsible behaviour, “there have been so many things that have come out during lockdown [from mental health to domestic abuse]. As influencers, we make sure that our content really inspires or helps others”. This return to authenticity is what Anupriya Kapur (@anupriyakapur with 100k followers on Instagram, 26k on Facebook) enjoys the most. “I left all my inhibitions behind,” she says, of her TikTok-inspired short videos, many in a sports bra that she has got used to wearing at home during lockdown. “I’d been doing casual, real-life content all along, but suddenly that became the norm. When you see Katrina Kaif washing dishes and her sink is similar to yours, there’s a connection,” she adds.  An eye on micro  These anytime any day videos touch something within us that elicits a response. With her team of eight to 10 people, Dutt’s coverage of migrant workers received comments such as, “...this is real journalism.”  Continued on page 4  Continued from page 1  Someviewers even responded: “Ma’am, more than half the time I do not agree with you but I still respect you...” Where she would just scroll through comments before, because a lot of it was abusive, today she says the quality and quantity of conversations have improved. “I found many people engaging in a real way. It would vary from story ideas to ‘Can we help this person?’” However, this is not always the case. For Singh, where she got 10,000 followers earlier, there were 20,000 getting added during lockdown; but the trolls doubled too. All this has meant more work for creators. “You still have to find a compelling story, a compelling character,” says Dutt. In fact, many are experiencing fatigue and taking a break. So how will lockdown streaming change the way we consume content? Delhi-based digital commentator Shubho Sengupta feels that platforms will no longer be segregated based on short or long format videos, but on subject matter. The focus may also shift to Make in India, with the importance of micro verticals going up. An example is the Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge (a government initiative to identify and promote made-in-India platforms). It is currently inviting entries for Indian apps across eight categories, including health and wellness, news, e-learning and entertainment, which may evolve into subject-specific verticals with their own video content and opportunities for social media interactions. “The new work-from-home Indian will need new Indian platforms that cater to their new lives,” Sengupta concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/as-influencers-evolve/article32300430.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A man who lived his art and craft||A hushed silence enveloped our home. Beethoven, Stravinsky, Begum Akhtar, Ravi Shankar - the gramophone playing 45s winds on. My father, absorbed in the music, eyes shut, a notebook and a well-sharpened pencil are neatly placed in front of him, aligned at a perfect 90-degree angle to the corner of the table! His body, in the pose of Rodin's Thinker, is relaxed, but at the same time suffused with a contained energy. Daylight breaks with its soft, pink light, the sound of the sea and the sparrows melt away to be overtaken by the cacophony of BEST buses. He has been awake since at least 5 a.m., reading, and has already made himself a pot of tea. In a few moments he will offer a fresh cup to my mother, in bed, a small luxury that she appreciates without fail. I observe the ritual through drowsy, half-closed eyes, while the servants begin to shuffle noiselessly about their chores. My gaze shifts, and is caught by an African mask, then moves to Husain’s sensuous yet stately Blue Nude. It hovers on a bronze Shiv/Parvati immobilized forever in their ecstatic embrace, and finally comes to rest on a seated Bodhisattva Padmapani, graceful in his tribhanga, eyes down, looking inward, in meditation. The whiteness of our studio flat, without walls to divide it into rooms, takes on the air of a temple or sanctuary, conceived, designed and appointed by my father in such a way as to encourage one to look within, to meditate, to contemplate -- a space for thought. The simple, austere lines of the furniture, modern, yet functional, sparsely yet aesthetically shape the space into areas for sleeping, eating, studying and socialising. This loose definition of space speaks of an attitude, a philosophy, where all daily activities are seen as part of an integral whole. There are no sharp distinctions between our private and social lives, just as there is no strong definition separating work from leisure. All work is seen as pleasurable and fulfilling, and so we ate, drank, did theatre, put up exhibitions, or went on picnics with the same degree and intensity of enjoyment. Our home doubled as my father's workspace and so all his activities -- discussions, rehearsals, the recording of music for his plays, the preparation of posters, the mounting of slides for his many talks — were done in full view of the family. He actively involved us in all. Thus, we imbibed and developed a love for art, architecture, dance, music, theatre, literature, poetry in a natural way — he awakened our sensibilities to space, light, form, colour, movement, rhythm, and texture. “Come here I want to show you something...” My father’s eyes twinkle with excitement as he magically reveals a box from behind his back, wrapped in white muslin. Unwrapping it very carefully, as if it were a fragile piece of glass, he gently lifts each art work out, and arranges them in neat rows on the mirror topped coffee table. This whole process is done slowly, meticulously, in complete silence, creating an aura of reverence and awe we should adopt towards these unique creations. His intentness evokes a similar response from us, so we just wait and watch, and are very still. In practically a whisper he says, “You will not believe it, but I discovered these beautiful watercolours in this tiny little ramshackle shop, and I was so thrilled that I felt we must look after them and cherish them. Aren’t they exquisite?” He proceeds to point out a few interesting details in each image: a bird perched on a branch, a man smoking a beedi. This way he arouses our interest; his idea is to awaken our curiosity. He wants us to look, to notice things hidden, half seen, tucked away. I don’t believe that as children or even as adults, he ever talked about art in conceptual or academic terms, but always referred to art as related to life, as an expression of the human condition. As he once said: “A student can learn more by listening to the song of a bird, watching the mochi ply his craft, or a weaver work his loom, than by listening dumbly to an old bore who has the presumption to believe that he is paid only to mouth his platitudes.” The writer is Ebrahim Alkazi’s daughter and is working on his biography||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-man-who-lived-his-art-and-craft/article32300782.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A culinary mosaic||One little corner of Connaught Place used to be a great favourite of mine. There was a wonderful Greek restaurant there (more than 15 years ago), and I still fondly remember its dolmas. Then that shut, but to my utter joy, a restaurant came up in its place which had a wide spectrum of food from the states, including from the northeast. But all good things come to an end, so that restaurant – called Mosaic – shut, too. Did I say all good things come to an end? Not always. After many ups and downs, and several restaurants here and there, the deft hand behind Mosaic is now wielding the spatula again. My friend Sohail had alerted me to the fact that a new outfit called Culinary Connections by Utpala Mukherjee (Ph: 9811157989 and 9350155045) was delivering food. I had a look at the menu and found some of my old favourites there. So, I promptly called up and placed a modest order. A very happy meal later, I had a chat with the chef. An Assamese, she grew up in Shillong, learnt how to cook from her mother and then started her culinary improvisations. She ran Mosaic, the YWCA Kitchen, and the restaurant in Assam Bhavan for a while. After the lockdown, she decided to start a delivery service. The menu has a nice variety, with some choice dishes under Western, Bengali, and Northeastern Sections. Every week, it has something special to offer. This week it is daab chingri (prawns cooked in coconut milk, Rs. 700), pork sorpotel (Rs. 375), and thor (a dish of tender banana stem, Rs. 300). We asked for a full roast chicken with onion sauce, mashed potatoes, and glazed vegetables (half, Rs 325; full, Rs 450), shepherd’s pie (Rs 400), dhokar dalna (Rs. 175), muttar puri with alur dum (Rs. 150), and patishapta (Rs. 150). We got a discount, and the bill (with delivery charges) came to Rs. 1,225. I enjoyed the roast, which came with a delicious sauce. The chicken was neither too dry, nor underdone, and the dripping from the roast had been cooked with onions and some secret ingredients, Mukherjee says. It didn’t come with mashed potatoes but whole, browned potatoes, which went superbly with the roast that was perfect. The shepherd’s pie was excellent, too — though somewhat different from the way I cook it. It had bits of chopped carrots in it (the traditional recipe does have carrots) and the flavour of the Worcestershire sauce was strong. Among Bengali dishes, dhokar dalna is one of my favourites. It is a dish of steamed lentil cakes in a tomato-onion gravy. I had some of that with the muttar puris (each plate had four puris ) and the aloo — which was a delicious dish of potatoes, boiled and fried, and then cooked with ginger, garlic, onion, tomatoes, and spices. The patishapta disappointed me. It was much too small, I thought, and could have done with a thicker filling of kheer. I would have liked some pork, but I’d OD-ed on the meat the week before, so stayed away from my favourite northeastern dish of pork cooked with black sesame paste (Rs. 250) and roast pork with cream spinach and mashed potatoes (Rs. 325). The Western section also includes roast lamb with mint sauce (Rs. 400), fish and chips (Rs. 385), vegetable crepes in cheese sauce (Rs. 250) and vegetable au gratin (Rs. 250). Also on the menu are machher paturi (grilled mustard fish: Rs. 300) and chicken rezala (Rs. 235). Our friends, the Farooquis, ordered the rezala, and said it was umda (outstanding). The food is umda, indeed. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-culinary-mosaic/article32300788.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Remembering Elk||In 1972, my first wife, Sonu, enrolled in the NSD for the Direction course. I was teaching at Delhi Uni where my classes gave over in the morning, so when I drove my scooter back after classes I had to find something to do until it was time for Sonu to come home with me. More often than not she was in rehearsals at the NSD and I spent many evenings sitting somewhere at the back, watching Elk directing his troops. It’s hard to convey what an avid mahaul for theatre Elk created in Delhi in the 1970s. It took time to build up, but by 1974 or so, there were queues around the block when a new NSD play was announced. Even the sweaty little studio productions on the third floor of Rabindra Bhavan were packed out. Everyone curried favour with Mr. Gandhi, the man at the counter who took advance bookings for NSD plays. Delhi had seen none of this mad-keen interest in theatre before. I had the best seat of all - sitting quietly in the shadows during rehearsals, evening after evening. Naseerudin Shah, Om Puri, Jaspal Singh, Raghuvir Yadav, Rohini Hattangadi, Pankaj Kapoor… they were all there. ‘Chacha’, they called him behind his back, pronouncing it ‘chuh-chaa’ like a well-meaning insult. Chacha was the centre, the fulcrum, the presence they sometimes strained against, but all of them knew the extent to which he was their only window to excellence and high art. Without him they could hope at best for a modicum of didactic instruction. From my place in the shadows, I watched Elk fret and fume and wave his arms about, occasionally pensive and slightly withdrawn as if he was working out how to solve a problem. I watched as plays slowly took shape from awkard, amorphous beginnings, almost magical in the way they ‘matured’ and settled into their final form. I remember Macbeth performed in Yakshagana style. And a Kabuki version of Andha Yug with Rohini Hattangadi uttering a long, wavering cry of anguish that must still echo in the walls of the Purana Qila. Alkazi was particularly good at crowd scenes - crowds made up of all the ‘other students’ in the NSD from Set Design, Make-up and Script Writing, and sometimes the carpenters, too. It was magical to see how Elk gave shape to a crowd, weaving it into the fabric of a play so that it felt like an intrinsic character. Some of the plays he chose to enact were poorly written, and Elk had the ability - and the license - to rip and rework them until they soared. He was a genius at lighting and stage design, and this aspect alone could dignify a middling good play and lift it to great heights. I forget when it was that Alkazi walked away from theatre. Was it 1981? It was whispered about like a giant sulk: ‘If you don’t appreciate me, I’m going’. But who knows what exactly happened in the background? Whatever it was that prompted Elk to walk away, Delhi’s theatre quickly collapsed into mediocrity and hasn’t recovered. I don’t want to speculate about why he left. I met him in London in the winter of 1981, when he invited me to write a booklet about cinema for a Festival of India at Oxford’s MOMA. Elk had walked out of a government committee for the Festival of India in London and set up his own breakaway, alternate Festival at Oxford. He probably thought, ‘I’ll show them!’ but it didn’t turn out well. GOI used its clout to prevent all the films he wanted shown from leaving India’s shores, and MOMA’s India Festival fizzled into an inconsequential event that not even the great man could dignify. This may have been the last time Elk had anything to do with government. I can imagine how frustrating it might have been. At the best of times Elk didn’t suffer fools gladly and he must have cut a lonely figure in sarkari committees. It was from here on that he went ahead with his photo archive work, never looking back. Last year I wandered almost by accident into a small exhibition at Triveni celebrating Elk’s years as an artist in London in the late 1940s and ‘50s. It was called ‘Opening Lines’ and I was so excited I circled back again two days later. It was a powerful tribute to Elk’s individuality and exceptional talent. I wonder if Elk made a big mistake in giving up his independent-artist-status to head the NSD? It was undoubtedly an act of big-hearted generosity and idealism on his part, and it must be said, also showed exceptional vision by the sarkari art establishment of the day - unthinkable in today’s vitiated scene. I don’t doubt how much Elk meant to theatre and gave to it in India, but purely from his individual standpoint, was it a colossal miscalculation on his part? I don’t know the answer. What I do know is that they don't make them like him any more. Elk was an artist of the world, with an unshackling breadth and brilliance that is difficult to find in any of his contemporaries. Goodbye, great Man! The writer is the author of books about trees and has spent the last 15 years restoring degraded landscapes in the desert||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remembering-elk/article32300784.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamhane’s Venice challenge||Venice-bound filmmaker Chaitanya Tamhane is concerned about the sophomore jinx. “You know what they say when your début film does so well,” he laughs, as we speak over a video call on a rainy evening. It has been over a week since the lineup for the 77th Venice International Film Festival was announced, which includes Tamhane’s second film, The Disciple , competing for the prestigious Golden Lion. It is his return to the world’s oldest standing film festival, where his first venture, Court , won the Best Film in the Orizzonti category and the Luigi De Laurentiis award for best début filmmaker. “It was the third time in the history of Venice that one film won two Lions,” he recalls. The pressure with The Disciple — a coming-of-age Marathi saga set “on the fringes of Indian classical music and its subculture” in Mumbai — is palpable. Tamhane is no longer a novice director with limited resources, who emerged out of nowhere in 2015. His second film not only has the backing of celebrated filmmaker Alfonso Cuarón as the executive producer, but is also a product of various cross-border collaborations. It is shot by Polish cinematographer Michal Sobociński; Polish independent distributor, New Europe Film Sales, and California-based Endeavor Content are handling its sales; Los Angeles-based film company, Participant, has mentored the project; and the film was mixed in Germany. “You feel a sense of responsibility and it is surreal to know that too many people have invested in this and you have to do justice,” says Tamhane, 33. Cuarón’s backing of the film has been an “organic extension” of the Rolex Mentor and Protégé Arts Initiative, which enabled Tamhane to spend a year with the Mexican director on the sets of the Oscar-winning film,Roma.As the programme came to an end, Cuarón evinced interest in The Disciple which Tamhane had just begun to write. “He told me certain traps to avoid. For example, I told him I don’t know how to do any kind of exposition with Indian classical music because most people won’t be aware of this kind of music,” he says. “Cuarón said, ‘Don’t even bother. That’s not your job, don’t do it’, and that liberated me.” Tamhane has learnt to sidestep expectations. Even though The Disciple is the first Indian film to compete in any of the three big European film festivals — Cannes, Berlin and Venice — in the last two decades, he is unsure about what clicks with programmers. “Courtwas accused of being made for a western audience,” he observes. “ The Disciple might seem like it was made for festivals because Indian classical music may look like a very exotic subject, but the music is completely alien to western ears and it is not instantly palatable.” He has refrained from providing context or explaining the heritage of Indian classical music for an international audience. “I don’t want to have the burden of representing Indian classical music with all its complexities,” he says. All in the mind Tamhane has a distinct approach to cinema. He believes in immersing himself in a particular setting — often the one he is alien to — before writing a script. He has described it to be a “journalistic approach”. With The Disciple , he first travelled around the country — from Ahmedabad, Delhi, Pune, Varanasi to Kolkata — to understand the world of Hindustani classical music and he developed a friendship with musicians.Tablamaestro Aneesh Pradhan designed the music for the film and was a research consultant. “Even while writing, I would call them up and ask them ‘what would you do in this particular situation?’,” he recalls. Once the script was ready, the casting process involved extensive auditions with actors who could sing. After auditioning professional actors for the primary cast, he realised that they lacked authenticity and opted for non-professional actors. “The human face boils down to texture,” he says. “I am into magic quite a bit and if I’m working with an actor who I have seen many times onscreen, the illusion for me is not real.” The genesis of The Disciple lies in his fascination with magic. “The film is a spiritual adaptation of a play I had written when I was 21 called Grey Elephants in Denmark ,” he informs. “It was about the journey of a magician and we would do mind-reading experiments with the audience and break the fourth wall.” The filmmaker is inspired by the concepts of the Spanish school of magic, which is reflective in the editing, sound and grading of his films. “It is about controlling not just the eye but also the mind, because the film and magic actually happens in the mind and not what you see onscreen,” he declares. Rooting for Indie cinema While The Disciple competing at Venice is a milestone for Indian independent cinema, Tamhane says that there’s a “gaping hole” at international film festivals for a country that makes the most number of films. Unlike many western countries, India lacks institutional funding and international co-productions, he says. “A lot of other countries support films through taxpayers’ money. In India, most filmmakers are working with very limited resources and film is a very capital intensive medium,” he says, adding, “My film is an exception, rather than the norm.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tamhanes-venice-challenge/article32300439.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Travel: why write when you can illustrate?||In a Covid-free world, Shikha Chitrak Desai might have been sitting on the sundeck of a cruise ship on the River Nile. Now forced to stay indoors, she feeds her wanderlust by sketching and painting select travel experiences from around the world. 2020 has been no ordinary year for the travel writer. Art, it appears, has come to the rescue. For some, it was discovering a latent talent and for others, it was rekindling a passion that had taken a backseat. Social media has allowed these freshly-minted artists to find appreciation for their work, with opportunities to sell their original work and create customised pieces on request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/travel-why-write-when-you-can-illustrate/article32300454.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The anatomy of a fundraiser||One of the first items to go was Abraham & Thakore’s gold foil jacket at Rs. 21,900. Rohit Bal’s black printed anarkali at Rs. 37,500 also found a happy owner in under a minute. As festive lehengas , saris and kurta-sharara sets continue to fly off the digital shelves at Ensembleindia.com, it is clear that the Baradari project has stepped up things in the fundraiser department. With the lockdown and May’s cyclone Amphan in West Bengal, many craftsmen, embroiderers, weavers and artisans have lost their homes and looms, or have unsold inventory and need immediate financial help. The last few months have seen a few charity initiatives take shape, and individual designers have been aiding their craftsmen with dry rations or raw materials. But Baradari, founded by fashion journalist Namrata Zakaria and backed by Bollywood star Kareena Kapoor Khan, with Tina Tahiliani Parikh of Ensemble helping with execution and Pareina Thapar with communications, has got off to a flying start. While Zakaria got more than a 100 big names in Indian fashion on board — from Sabyasachi Mukherjee to Tarun Tahiliani, Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla, Manish Malhotra and Rahul Mishra — she reveals that generous donations began coming in even before the start of the sale on August 7. As for participating designers, each has contributed two signature pieces, following the ‘timeless’ theme and a minimum price point set between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000. Paramparik Karigar, an association of craftsmen, will help disburse the funds. “As far as transparency is concerned, the money trail is a rather simple one,” explains Parikh, adding, “All sales proceeds will be transferred to Paramparik Karigar after we pay the GST on them. The tax exemption certificates will be passed on to the designers.” Meanwhile, Khan’s interviews on social media and in print seem to have galvanised fans into action. “If there is anything this lockdown has shown us, it is how unequal we are as a society. Baradari is about giving everyone a fair chance,” she concludes.  The sale is till August 15 at ensembleindia.com. Read the entire   article and an interview with Tina Tahiliani online at weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-anatomy-of-a-fundraiser/article32300443.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep off my grass!||You will agree that this behaviour of our neighbouring countries — inching into our hallways, finger by finger — is distinctly unneighbourly. It reminds me of my own neighbour. ‘Don’t mind…’ she said one day. I wondered if I should not mind that she accidentally poisoned my cat or that she backed into my car? Not mind what travesty she had already committed or what she was going to unleash? She put an end to my wondering. ‘The drilling for our new cabinets may continue till one o’clock. In the night. I hope you don’t mind.’ Being a docile sort, I invited her in, frothing over with many reasons why she should please (and I inserted a ‘please’ thrice) not bore holes into our common wall. ‘My baby will be asleep. My mother-in-law is sick. I have ringing in my ears already. My cat needs its beauty sleep.’ ‘Oh, your cat!’ she simpered. ‘Such a sweet thing. I keep feeding it milk when I see it outside on the landing.’ I began to melt. Here she was full of the milk of human kindness towards my un-poisoned cat (how could I have ever entertained that baseless thought?) even as I refused her a bit of drilling. She leaned in. ‘You know my carpenter is very hard-working. He can make the cheapest furniture for you. Save your family some money.’ How could I ever have misunderstood this large-hearted neighbour with her generous offers. My own carpenter charges an arm and a leg. For an armchair’s leg. In fact, she’d been making regular inroads into my home, bearing cheap toys for my kids, a baby monitor because she said, ‘This monitor has an app to put your baby to sleep. Not that she disturbs me — just a little noise across the wall. What are neighbours for, after all?’ ‘I thought the walls were thick, impenetrable,’ I said. ‘My dear, nothing stops me. I am interested in everyone’s domestic concerns. I hear everything you say, that baby monitor… You know that argument you were having with your husband last night? I am totally on your side.’ ‘Thank you, that is very kind of you.’ ‘Too kind. That is my fault, dear. I share my things with the whole world.’ She sneezed. ‘See now, this carpenter will break down the old cabinet and all that extra rotting wood — where will we dump it? You can keep it for some future use, it’s coming cheap after all…’ I gulped while she said, ‘I hope you don’t mind.’ The next morning, I knocked on her door. ‘Good morning,’ I wished her cheerfully. ‘Truly, no one appreciated your kindness. Someone who obviously spent half the night awake with the drilling noise, was so sleep-deprived this morning that they backed into your car. The headlights – smashed! Being a good neighbour, I came to tell you. I hope you don’t mind.’ Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/keep-off-my-grass/article32300445.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||On TM Krishna’s new masterclass||How often do you come across a Carnatic music masterclass that explores topics like ‘Who owns Karnatik music?’. Then again, when the teacher is TM Krishna, well known for engaging with, and dismantling, long-held notions on caste and gender privileges in art, you shouldn’t be surprised. With his latest endeavour, Masterclass with TM Krishna , he covers the socio-cultural aspects of classical music. It would have been easy for him to follow a workshop format and teach five compositions. “There is nothing wrong in doing it, but when I’m teaching, I want to go beyond ‘this is an incredible kirtanam ’ or ‘this composer is so great’,” says the Magsaysay awardee. Virtual model Online music lessons are neither new nor unusual, and there has been a profusion during the Covid-19 lockdown. Rates vary widely, and depending on the seniority of the teacher, it could go up to Rs. 7,500 (approximately $100) for a private lesson. Krishna’s 12-session masterclass costs $500 (approximately Rs. 37,500) and can have a maximum of 25 participants, with the option of writing in confidentially for financial assistance. Masterclass with TM Krishna will   be held from August 17 to August 31. Details: tmkrishna.com/masterclass||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/on-tm-krishnas-new-masterclass/article32300432.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||As influencers evolve||Danish Sait was just another funny guy down South until the lockdown hit. Then his video sketches — a part of his Quarantine series on YouTube (better known as Conversations... on Twitter) — took his following from 4,00,000 to 5,00,000 across social media at the height of lockdown. While for Sait the videos were just meant to be fun, they resonated with many who were facing similar problems: running out of alcohol, trying to order provisions from a supermarket, commenting on the Prime Minister’s speech. Some videos got as many as 8,200 likes on Twitter, a platform not known for its video content, while on YouTube they went up to 1.6 lakh. This, despite the fact that they were referencing Bengaluru zip codes, culture and accents, with many a ‘bro’, ‘boss’, ‘ machan ’ and ‘ da ’ thrown in. “The lockdown gave people time to take notice of those with talent outside of the ones they were already following. They were willing to give everyone a chance,” Sait says of the generosity with which people approached his content. Besides the everyday themes and realism, he says the characters he portrays — such as two partners separated because of the lockdown — are probably what appeal to folks online. “You’re seeing so many different people, from age groups to profiles to walks of life, all capsuled in one minute. Or it could just be the absurdity of the props.” It is perhaps the same formula that also makes influencer Dolly Singh’s videos popular. Even when she is endorsing a product, she’ll throw in irony and a mix of characters, keeping us laughing, while showing us the mirror. During lockdown, Singh, whose followers went up daily by about 20,000 (where earlier they were half the number), says she made sure to add English subtitles so she would have a wider audience, making videos around humour language agnostic. “I feel like it [lockdown] changed content on the whole. Now when I look at the other work I’m doing, I’m [not thinking of state or language] but content that can be told in a compelling manner. The story takes precedence... the characters stay true to where they’re from.”  Community, connection, conversation  These were the words that content creators linked during the coronavirus lockdown, bringing us videos that informed, entertained and educated. As we sat at home, they either hit the ground and kept us abreast of news or filmed in their own houses to help us find humour in chores. On YouTube India, the daily views of videos with #withme in the title (cook with me, study with me) increased by 600% from March 15 compared to their average views earlier. Gokulakrishnan Kalaikovan, who is a part of the Google Developers Experts programme, a global network of technology experts and influencers, says the trend went so far that he has observed people discuss ideas for a book they had suddenly got the time to write and then go on to do it live. “People who never did videos before are doing it now,” he says. “Twitch [a live streaming service] was popular for gaming before, but now people are using it for live coding.” Over on Instagram, live videos had the quality of informality — of a host like Kalyan Karmakar (@thefinelychopped) working in the kitchen to turn leftovers into meals. They were also timely, like those of SUSS: Sustainable Style Speak (@aboutsuss) that spoke about what we could do to alleviate the problems of craftspeople, mirroring the #SocialForGood hashtag on the platform. There were lots of ‘Can you hear me?’ moments, as guests got blurred or disconnected due to a poor connection, but viewers were forgiving.  Let’s talk tech  Technology has had a big role to play in all this. As television journalist Barkha Dutt — who began operations of Mojo Story last September — stepped out to report, with just a driver, a cameraperson and a producer, she told tiny stories that grabbed more eyeballs than big-ticket stars. A YouTube video titled ‘He stepped out to buy vegetables for his children. He says he was thrashed by police instead’ got 2.5 million views, over one with actor Sonu Sood (659k views). “If I’d wanted to do independent journalism even five years ago, I would have had to access special cameras, a van, and been hooked to satellite dishes. Today, the access barriers have come down; editorially, it sets you free.” she says, adding that earlier many journalists were bound by editorial policies or vested interests of media behemoths. Now they shoot on smartphones and broadcast cameras, and use internet service providers to upload content. This stripping down of tech is something many content creators talk about. Kalaikovan says most videos are low resolution (480p to 1080p). One reason is because all one needs is a phone camera, a tripod and a gimbal — like Singh, when she posts to her 953k followers on Instagram and 328k subscribers on YouTube. She manages to work as a one-person army even when she plays multiple characters in her videos; she also edits them using InShot software. “For the first time, we’ve felt this kind of responsibility,” says the 27-year-old, adding that while there always was a broad sense of what constituted responsible behaviour, “there have been so many things that have come out during lockdown [from mental health to domestic abuse]. As influencers, we make sure that our content really inspires or helps others”. This return to authenticity is what Anupriya Kapur (@anupriyakapur with 100k followers on Instagram, 26k on Facebook) enjoys the most. “I left all my inhibitions behind,” she says, of her TikTok-inspired short videos, many in a sports bra that she has got used to wearing at home during lockdown. “I’d been doing casual, real-life content all along, but suddenly that became the norm. When you see Katrina Kaif washing dishes and her sink is similar to yours, there’s a connection,” she adds.  An eye on micro  These anytime any day videos touch something within us that elicits a response. With her team of eight to 10 people, Dutt’s coverage of migrant workers received comments such as, “...this is real journalism.”  Continued on page 4  Continued from page 1  Someviewers even responded: “Ma’am, more than half the time I do not agree with you but I still respect you...” Where she would just scroll through comments before, because a lot of it was abusive, today she says the quality and quantity of conversations have improved. “I found many people engaging in a real way. It would vary from story ideas to ‘Can we help this person?’” However, this is not always the case. For Singh, where she got 10,000 followers earlier, there were 20,000 getting added during lockdown; but the trolls doubled too. All this has meant more work for creators. “You still have to find a compelling story, a compelling character,” says Dutt. In fact, many are experiencing fatigue and taking a break. So how will lockdown streaming change the way we consume content? Delhi-based digital commentator Shubho Sengupta feels that platforms will no longer be segregated based on short or long format videos, but on subject matter. The focus may also shift to Make in India, with the importance of micro verticals going up. An example is the Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge (a government initiative to identify and promote made-in-India platforms). It is currently inviting entries for Indian apps across eight categories, including health and wellness, news, e-learning and entertainment, which may evolve into subject-specific verticals with their own video content and opportunities for social media interactions. “The new work-from-home Indian will need new Indian platforms that cater to their new lives,” Sengupta concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/as-influencers-evolve/article32300487.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Nadaswaram beats||DJ/producer Gurbax has released ‘Dirty South’, collaborating with California-based world/experimental music act, Beats Antique, for the first time. The song combines the traditionalnadaswaramwith modern hip-hop/trap, and builds up to a bass-heavy frenzy. On YouTube. The Hungama Artist Aloud live concert features 15 artistes, including Manasi Scott, Shibani Kashyap, Vipul Panchal, The Suryansh Project and Parikrama. On August 14 at 8.30 pm. Tickets at Rs. 99 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/nadaswaram-beats/article32300466.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Now streaming||Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl, is set to take viewers on her journey when she became India’s first female Air Force officer to fly in a combat zone during the 1999 Kargil War. Directed by Sharan Sharma, it stars Janhvi Kapoor in the lead role. From August 12 on Netflix. As part of the recently-concluded Prime Day special, Amazon has released 10-minute sets by 14 stand-up comedians. Check out observations from Sapan Verma, Urooj Ashfaq, Sumukhi Suresh, Neeti Palta, Karthik Kumar, Aishwarya Mohanraj and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/now-streaming/article32300468.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking pictures||Korean photographer Kim Honghee's images record measured silence and movement in black and white frames. His work is presented in an online exhibition by InKo Centre, starting today at 6 pm, on their YouTube channel. This evening, Chennai Photo Biennale hosts a discussion with members from photography collectives across India, as they share how being a part of a collective has contributed to their artistic process and give insights on their vision, visual practices and more. From 4 pm. chennaiphotobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-pictures/article32300470.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Continuing from last week's cover story on animated music videos and the artistes who are using them, New York-based singer-songwriter Manas Jha joined us live on Instagram yesterday in a mini-series we're calling #SuperAnimated! In conversation with independent journalist Lalitha Suhasini, he spoke about the video for his new song, 'Shades', which is part of his latest EP,Reimagined. Previous Live sessions with singers Banat Kaur Bagga and Pragnya Wakhlu can be found on our IGTV channel now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article32300472.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Celebrity Covid Calender: Thanks to actor Reese Witherspoon, a 2020 mood meme has taken the internet by storm. With scenes from her movies and shows likeLegally BlondeandBig Little Lies, the grid of nine images shows a progressive disbelief at what this year has thrown at us. Mindy Kaling, Kerry Washington, Mark Ruffalo and Billy Ray Cyrus, among others, joined in the fun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article32300456.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Dress up||Fabindia’s annual festive collection, Malhar, is now available on their website. Chanderi, Maheshwari and Benarasi fabrics are highlighted inkurtas,dresses, saris,lehengasand accessories. From Rs. 1,690 on fabindia.com. Meanwhile, Gayatri Sabharwal, creative director of export house Milaaya, has launched her premium fashion label, GAYA. Their debut collection of embroidered and printed masks is part of Helping Hand Foundation’s initiative, where a mask is donated for each purchase. theworldofgaya.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dress-up/article32300458.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Books and bats||Spotify Original podcast 22 Yarns with Gaurav Kapur is back, with umpire Simon Taufel as the first guest. He'll talk about his journey from being a fast bowler to his umpiring debut at a Boxing Day Test. He will also share his secrets to umpire fast bowlers, lighter moments on the field with MS Dhoni and his worst calls on the pitch. Streaming now. InHooked on Books, listen to authors chat about the stories behind their work. The lineup includes Ruskin Bond, Shiv Aroor, Manisha Koirala and others. On audioboom.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/books-and-bats/article32300460.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Dish it out||Can't get enough of Sima Aunty from Mumbai? The Park Chennai'sIndian Matchmakingmenu has specials like The Uncompromised Indian (broccoli and corn salad), The Lean and Light (chicken teriyaki bowl) and The Gourmet (French toast, berry compote). All we need now are some fox nuts a la Pradhyuman.9962288601. As Westin Chennai opens for guests, they also have F&B home delivery and takeaway. The Saturday brunch for two features five- (Rs. 2,200++) and eight-course options (Rs. 3,600++).8939892056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dish-it-out/article32300462.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||National Handloom Day: Celebrated every year on August 7, the day is usually marked with events across weaver communities. News of the Central Government abolishing the All India Handloom and Craft Boards came as a blow. These advisory bodies were a forum to present their issues to the authorities; without them, it remains to be seen how the industry communicates with the powers that be.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article32300464.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Classism in Indian education||The recently unveiled National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 recommends using mother tongue or local language as the medium of instruction in a child’s early education, wherever possible. The policy has its supporters and critics with valid arguments on both sides. Does local language enhance the quality of education or is English a language of upward mobility? In Prakash Jha’s Pareeksha , we see a glimpse of this discussion play out in the life of a cycle rickshaw puller Buchi (Adil Hussain), who transports kids of wealthy households to a private school, Sapphire, in Ranchi, Jharkhand. He assumes English education in a CBSE school to be the sole escape out of poverty for his family, and resorts to petty theft in order to enrol his only son, Bulbul (Shubham Jha), in Sapphire. Against the backdrop of NEP, the film finds a compelling (and unintended) relevance, as Bulbul, a clever and precocious kid, struggles to assimilate into an English-speaking environment. He has a much better grasp over physics, chemistry and maths — subjects he learnt in a Hindi-medium government school — than his classmates in Sapphire, but falls behind with his inability to speak English adequately. Through a highly dramatised narrative, the film brings forth the fundamental conflicts between class, language and education in India, and makes some pertinent observations. At the heart of the film is a story of an underdog and Pareeksha goes all out to desperately evoke sympathies. We see the mother, Radhika (Priyanka Bose) working overtime in a utensils factory and Buchi slipping further into the world of theft to pay their son’s exorbitant fees. Hussain constantly has a frail and dejected body language, at times whimpering with hands folded and head bowed down. It’s hard not to feel bad for Buchi, but one wishes the character had some agency or complexity. Bose balances out her weakness with moments of strength, and is compelling as the emotionally stronger parent. Jha is easy to root for, as a fairly mature kid with aspirations and dignity. The film is well-intended but halfway through becomes unnecessarily melodramatic with the introduction of SP Kailash Anand (Sanjay Suri), a good Samaritan who worked his way up from poverty. Once his character enters the scenario, the film loses its appeal of observational storytelling and becomes weepy, hammering in the value of education repeatedly. The film opens with the sound of the azaan blending into temple bells. There is also an educated Muslim character in the slum area where Buchi and Radhika live. It’s a harmonious setting and poverty isn’t maudlin. The first half has a few subtle audio-visual motifs like these, which help us peek into contemporary Jharkhand. But the second half of the film is repetitive and feels staged in comparison to the first. Even though the film showcases class inequalities in Jharkhand and how it impacts education and literary, there is a nagging elimination of the role of caste and gender divide in education. While caste is never truly addressed, let alone as explicitly as class, the role of gender is also largely brushed aside. Granted a film can’t address all aspects of society, and Pareeksha makes a few pertinent observations in the area it chooses to address, but it fails to bring other inherent complexities and contradictions one can’t overlook. There is always a possibility to dig deeper and explore beyond the most obvious binaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/classism-in-indian-education/article32300953.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||From Russia, with sci-fi||From time to time in these pages, we track the progress of science-fiction films made beyond the Hollywood system. You may recall the arrival of Fedor Bondarchuk’s Attraction (2017), where an alien ship crashes into Moscow and one life form survives. He finds himself amidst a group of teens, as one does, especially the luminous Julia Lebedeva (Irina Starshenbaum), daughter of high-powered Russian army officer Colonel Lebedev. Love happens, everything that can go awry does, and lots of spectacular special effects later, Julia, who is in danger of dying, is saved by the alien’s healing touch, only for the alien himself to go the way of all flesh, or whatever flesh is called by that particular branch of the galaxy. Come 2020, the sequel, Invasion , is slowly releasing across global territories, that is, wherever movie theatres are able to open. Julia is now the subject of experiments, since she is the only human to have had physical contact with the alien. She has a 24/7 security detail and her father is more powerful than ever. It turns out the alien is very much alive and happily practising hydroponic vegetable husbandry in the sticks. Julia reunites with him only for her to be in a near death scenario again. He saves her again and now she is more alien than human, in an aesthetically-pleasing manner. The villain this time is not more aliens, but something mankind is all too familiar with — Artificial Intelligence, that controls the good people of Moscow via fake news transmitted on their smart devices. For anyone who uses a smart phone, the scenario created is frighteningly believable, as are the amazing water effects that surpass anything I’ve seen in Hollywood products recently. A threequel is on the cards. Bondarchuk features again, this time as an actor, in Egor Abramenko’s Sputnik, which was featured at the Tribeca and Bucheon film festivals earlier this year. Set in 1983, at the height of the Cold War, the film follows cosmonaut Konstantin Veshnyakov (Pyotr Fyodorov) who has somehow made it back in one piece from a terrifying space mission and is now interred at a grim facility deep in the erstwhile Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic, presided over by the enigmatic Colonel Semiradov (Bondarchuk). Veshnyakov has a secret and the only person who can get it out of him is the young doctor Tatyana (Oksana Akinshina), known for her unconventional methods.  Sputnik is a triumph of production design with its meticulous recreation of Russian Cold War architecture and machinery. Paying homage to the Alien film series, Sputnik is derivative of several more in the genre, with a brief nod to Event Horizon as well, but that’s a virtue. It is an effectively creepy horror sci-fi with some slimy, grisly moments that are not for the faint-hearted. The film is an expansion of Abramenko’s short, The Passenger (2017), and marks an assured feature debut. In an ideal world, if Abramenko’s conceptual skills can expand into Bondarchuk’s bombastic vision, that would truly be a Russian sci-fi for the ages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/from-russia-with-sci-fi/article32300949.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Travel: why write when you can illustrate?||In a Covid-free world, Shikha Chitrak Desai might have been sitting on the sundeck of a cruise ship on the River Nile. Now forced to stay indoors, she feeds her wanderlust by sketching and painting select travel experiences from around the world. 2020 has been no ordinary year for the travel writer. Art, it appears, has come to the rescue. For some, it was discovering a latent talent and for others, it was rekindling a passion that had taken a backseat. Social media has allowed these freshly-minted artists to find appreciation for their work, with opportunities to sell their original work and create customised pieces on request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/travel-why-write-when-you-can-illustrate/article32300769.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The anatomy of a fundraiser||One of the first items to go was Abraham & Thakore’s gold foil jacket at Rs. 21,900. Rohit Bal’s black printed anarkali at Rs. 37,500 also found a happy owner in under a minute. As festive lehengas , saris and kurta-sharara sets continue to fly off the digital shelves at Ensembleindia.com, it is clear that the Baradari project has stepped up things in the fundraiser department. With the lockdown and May’s cyclone Amphan in West Bengal, many craftsmen, embroiderers, weavers and artisans have lost their homes and looms, or have unsold inventory and need immediate financial help. The last few months have seen a few charity initiatives take shape, and individual designers have been aiding their craftsmen with dry rations or raw materials. But Baradari, founded by fashion journalist Namrata Zakaria and backed by Bollywood star Kareena Kapoor Khan, with Tina Tahiliani Parikh of Ensemble helping with execution and Pareina Thapar with communications, has got off to a flying start. While Zakaria got more than a 100 big names in Indian fashion on board — from Sabyasachi Mukherjee to Tarun Tahiliani, Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla, Manish Malhotra and Rahul Mishra — she reveals that generous donations began coming in even before the start of the sale on August 7. As for participating designers, each has contributed two signature pieces, following the ‘timeless’ theme and a minimum price point set between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000. Paramparik Karigar, an association of craftsmen, will help disburse the funds. “As far as transparency is concerned, the money trail is a rather simple one,” explains Parikh, adding, “All sales proceeds will be transferred to Paramparik Karigar after we pay the GST on them. The tax exemption certificates will be passed on to the designers.” Meanwhile, Khan’s interviews on social media and in print seem to have galvanised fans into action. “If there is anything this lockdown has shown us, it is how unequal we are as a society. Baradari is about giving everyone a fair chance,” she concludes.  The sale is till August 15 at ensembleindia.com. Read the entire   article and an interview with Tina Tahiliani online at weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-anatomy-of-a-fundraiser/article32300767.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Blending cultures, bridging gaps and breeding success||When Nadia Beig from Kupwara in Kashmir was felicitated at a function organised by the Indian Army for scoring 97% in her Class X board examination, the chief guest asked her what she wanted to be when she grew up. Without hesitating, she said she wanted to be an IAS officer. Only that she did not know what an IAS officer did. “Ironically, I did not know back then what an IAS officer does and only found out when I left Kashmir and came to study at Jamia Millia Islamia on my brother’s advice. But once I found out, I was determined to crack the examination,” said Ms. Beig. Securing rank no 350, she is among the 30 students and six women candidates who cracked the civil services examination from the Residential Coaching Academy (RCA) at Jamia Millia Islamia. Speaking about her achievement, Ms. Beig said: “The RCA was the best thing that could happen to me as it was not possible to stay in Kashmir and prepare for the examination as even newspapers reach one day late.” Many of her classmates at the RCA also agree that the academy played a pivotal role in their success and it provided them more than just academic guidance. Sufiyan Ahmed, who secured 303 rank, reflected that being a full time resident at the RCA for two years has helped him meet students from diverse backgrounds and interacting with them has shaped his personality. “I came from a town in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh district and understand the problems rural India face. But living with students from Manipur, Kerala and Kashmir, I understood the diversity of the problems and challenges the country faces and how issues are unique to a region,” he said. Serious group Mr. Ahmed added that the RCA is different from other coaching centres as it has an entrance examination and only those who are serious about the examination are admitted here. “At a private coaching institute, anybody who can pay the fee is in your class and not everybody has the required dedication. I graduated from IIT – Kanpur after studying design and was the only person from my class that did not sit for placements and gave up on a job. This is how serious I was about serving the nation,” said Mr. Ahmed. For Dhiman Chakma from Tripura, getting into the RCA that offers free coaching was important as he could not afford coaching classes and was doing self study. “What I liked most about the place is its liberal atmosphere and that there are no restrictions... The environment is very conducive to studying,” Mr. Chakma said. He added that there are a lot of people from weaker sections of society and staying together helps them relate to their common struggle. He feels that there is a trend that applicants from larger cities mostly get higher ranks as an information gap exists between people from small towns and larger cities. “The RCA helps bridge the gap between aspirants from bigger cities and someone like me who comes from Tripura by exposing us to a lot of information,” said Mr. Chakma. Ruchi Bindal, the RCA topper who bagged the 39th rank, said that although she joined the institute only for her mains preparation and was not a resident, meeting people from such diverse socio-economic backgrounds gave her a new perspective on life. About her preparations, she said solving one paper a day gave her the required confidence to clear the examination. But Ms. Beig realised that the euphoria and accolades that come with success in cracking one of the toughest exams in the country has its pitfalls. She was shocked to find that fake Twitter accounts were created in her name, from which opinions linking her with groups she is not associated with were tweeted. Needless to say, she was heavily trolled. “I have been feeling depressed over the past two days. Since the results have come out, some people are trying to destroy my image online. I am worried that it will impact my career in the future. I have created a Twitter handle and have asked for it to be verified. But there are people trying to play mischief,” Ms. Beig complained. Back in Kupwara nearly a year, she said her home is peaceful and people have accepted the change and are looking forward to a new future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/blending-cultures-bridging-gaps-and-breeding-success/article32300806.ece
08 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab hooch tragedy: police arrest two key absconders||The Punjab police on Friday arrested two key absconders in the hooch tragedy while adding murder charges to the FIRs against all prime accused in the case. With the arrest of father-son duo Harjit Singh and Shamsher Singh of Pandori Gola, the total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 54. The two have also been booked on murder charges, apart from Kashmir Singh and Satnam Singh, said Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta. More than 887 raids have been conducted since July 31, when the first deaths in the case were reported in the three affected districts (303 in Tarn Taran, 330 in Amritsar Rural and 254 in Batala), said the DGP. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, while visiting Tarn Taran on Friday to meet families affected by the tragedy, said its perpetrators would not be spared at any cost. He said special prosecution teams would be deputed to vigorously pursue the cases and the properties of those found guilty confiscated. He also announced enhancement of the compensation being given to the families of victims from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh. The Shiromani Akali Dal termed Capt. Amarinder’s visit as a mere photo op. Party leader Bikram Singh Majithia pointed out that the Chief Minister didn’t visit Amritsar and Batala, the two other major sites of the hooch tragedy. The Akalis also staged a march in Chandigarh against the Congress government, demanding a probe by a sitting High Court judge or the Central Bureau of Investigation into the hooch tragedy and the illicit liquor trade in the State. ‘Loss of revenue’ Mr. Majithia alleged that the State had suffered a loss of Rs. 5,600 crore in excise revenue and now 113 lives have been lost on account of the illegal liquor trade. “The Congress government is trying to divert attention from the real issue by taking action against bootleggers manufacturing country liquor even though the fact is that denatured spirit procured illegally from distilleries was responsible for the tragedy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-hooch-tragedy-police-arrest-two-key-absconders/article32300799.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||On TM Krishna’s new masterclass||How often do you come across a Carnatic music masterclass that explores the ‘sound of gender’ or topics like ‘Who owns Karnatik music?’. Then again, when the teacher is TM Krishna, well known for engaging with, and dismantling, long-held notions on caste and gender privileges in art, you shouldn’t be surprised. With his latest endeavour, Masterclass with TM Krishna , he covers the socio-cultural aspects of classical music. “Honestly, I wouldn’t be as excited if it did not,” he tells me over the phone. It would have been easy for him to follow a workshop format and teach five compositions. “There is nothing wrong in doing it, but when I’m teaching, I want to go beyond ‘this is an incredible kirtanam ’ or ‘this composer is so great’. I want to explore ‘what is my relationship with music?”’ says the Magsaysay awardee. Virtual model Online music lessons are neither new nor unusual, and there has been a profusion of them during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Rates vary widely, and depending on the seniority of the teacher, it could go up to Rs. 7,500 (approximately $100) for a private lesson. Krishna’s 12-session masterclass costs $500 (approximately Rs. 37,500) and can have a maximum of 25 participants, with the option of writing in confidentially for financial assistance. Having received over 140 registrations from India, the United States and other countries, he has created a second class to accommodate various time zones. The sessions took Krishna two days to curate. “If someone signs up for six sessions, three will be on the experience of the technical, and three on the socio-cultural.” They are open to anybody over the age of 15. Each one is designed to be 90 minutes, but “if it goes over, it goes over”, he laughs.  Masterclass with TM Krishna    will be held from August 17 to 31. Details: tmkrishna.com/masterclass||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-tm-krishnas-new-masterclass/article32300951.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep off my grass!||You will agree that this behaviour of our neighbouring countries — inching into our hallways, finger by finger — is distinctly unneighbourly. It reminds me of my own neighbour. ‘Don’t mind…’ she said one day. I wondered if I should not mind that she accidentally poisoned my cat or that she backed into my car? Not mind what travesty she had already committed or what she was going to unleash? She put an end to my wondering. ‘The drilling for our new cabinets may continue till one o’clock. In the night. I hope you don’t mind.’ Being a docile sort, I invited her in, frothing over with many reasons why she should please (and I inserted a ‘please’ thrice) not bore holes into our common wall. ‘My baby will be asleep. My mother-in-law is sick. I have ringing in my ears already. My cat needs its beauty sleep.’ ‘Oh, your cat!’ she simpered. ‘Such a sweet thing. I keep feeding it milk when I see it outside on the landing.’ I began to melt. Here she was full of the milk of human kindness towards my un-poisoned cat (how could I have ever entertained that baseless thought?) even as I refused her a bit of drilling. She leaned in. ‘You know my carpenter is very hard-working. He can make the cheapest furniture for you. Save your family some money.’ How could I ever have misunderstood this large-hearted neighbour with her generous offers. My own carpenter charges an arm and a leg. For an armchair’s leg. In fact, she’d been making regular inroads into my home, bearing cheap toys for my kids, a baby monitor because she said, ‘This monitor has an app to put your baby to sleep. Not that she disturbs me — just a little noise across the wall. What are neighbours for, after all?’ ‘I thought the walls were thick, impenetrable,’ I said. ‘My dear, nothing stops me. I am interested in everyone’s domestic concerns. I hear everything you say, that baby monitor… You know that argument you were having with your husband last night? I am totally on your side.’ ‘Thank you, that is very kind of you.’ ‘Too kind. That is my fault, dear. I share my things with the whole world.’ She sneezed. ‘See now, this carpenter will break down the old cabinet and all that extra rotting wood — where will we dump it? You can keep it for some future use, it’s coming cheap after all…’ I gulped while she said, ‘I hope you don’t mind.’ The next morning, I knocked on her door. ‘Good morning,’ I wished her cheerfully. ‘Truly, no one appreciated your kindness. Someone who obviously spent half the night awake with the drilling noise, was so sleep-deprived this morning that they backed into your car. The headlights – smashed! Being a good neighbour, I came to tell you. I hope you don’t mind.’ Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/keep-off-my-grass/article32300768.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. launches Electric Vehicle Policy to boost economy, reduce pollution||The Delhi government on Friday launched its ambitious Electric Vehicle Policy, which aims to boost the city’s economy, reduce pollution levels and generate employment in the transport sector. It also includes various incentives for the promotion of the purchase of electric vehicles in the city. While announcing the launch of the policy at a digital briefing here on Friday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the policy would make Delhi “a world leader” in the field of electric vehicles and that it was one of the most progressive EV policies in the world. “After working hard in the last two-three years and holding discussions with consumers and experts, we have prepared the electric vehicle policy in Delhi. The policy has been notified today in the morning,” he announced. “China is considered in the first position when discussions on electric vehicles are held across the world. I am sure that when discussions on electric vehicles will be held across the world after five years, Delhi will be leading the way in this field,” he also said. Mr. Kejriwal said that there were two objectives behind launching the EV Policy: as another step to kickstart the city’s economy and to combat pollution. In the last five years, he said, pollution levels in Delhi had reduced by 25%, but these needed to be reduced further. During the pandemic, PM10 and PM2.5 levels had witnessed “a drastic reduction” as evidenced by clear skies and clean breezes. CM Arvind Kejriwal said, “We have held several discussions on the policy in the last 2.5 years. We held consultations, called experts from across the country, studied the electric vehicle policies of nations all over the globe and took all the good points for the creation of our policy,” he said. “But there may be some lags in the policy as nothing is perfect. This policy shows the intent of the Delhi government; that we want to go in a better direction. Right now, this policy is for three years, after which it will be reviewed. If required, we will reframe and change this policy from time to time,” he also said. The aim of the Delhi government, he said, was to ensure that 25% of the newly registered vehicles across the city by the year 2024 were electric vehicles. Today, he said, this percentage was only 0.2%. Under the EV Policy, the Delhi government would also provide a subsidy of up to Rs. 30,000 on the purchase of two-wheelers, autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, freight vehicles, each, and of Rs. 1.5 lakh on cars. These, he said, would be in addition to the incentives under the Central government’s ‘FAME India’ Phase 2. The Delhi government would also provide scrapping incentives in a first across the country, he said. The government would also officer low interest rates for the purchase of electric commercial vehicles, waive off registration fees and road tax on newly registered electric vehicles and aim to create a network of charging stations in the city. 200 charging stations “Our target is to create 200 charging stations in the next one year in Delhi. Our aim is to create one charging station every 3 km. We hope that at least 5 lakh electric vehicles in Delhi will be registered in the next five years,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-launches-electric-vehicle-policy-to-boost-economy-reduce-pollution/article32300765.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||12-year-old who was sexually assaulted in critical condition||A 12-year-old girl, who was sexually assaulted and has suffered severe head injuries, will need another surgery and her condition continues to remain critical, sources at the AIIMS hospital here said. The source said her platelet count is low and she is being treated at the neurosurgery ICU of the hospital. On Thursday, the Delhi Police arrested the accused Krishan. He told the police that he had entered the girl’s house on Tuesday with the intention of theft. The gate of the house was partially open and he had entered the premises. He took a suitcase and was leaving the house when the girl saw him and raised an alarm. The accused took a sewing machine and threw it on the girl. The girl tried to fight back, but the accused stabbed her with a scissor several times and fled from the spot, a senior police officer said. A case has been registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and POCSO Act at Paschim Vihar West police station. Krishan was involved in a similar violent incident in the past, police said. He had attacked and killed a woman in 2006 in Sultanpuri while committing a burglary. Krishan came out of jail in 2015. Thereafter he was booked in an attempt to murder case. Later, he got bail in the case. Rs. 2 lakh compensation Delhi Commission for Women chairperson Swati Maliwal said that following an application moved by the Delhi State Legal Services Authority, a lower court on Friday granted a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh to the victim’s family. BJP leader meets kin BJP State president Adesh Gupta met the family members of the victim. After seeking information about her condition from the Medical Superintendent, Mr. Gupta termed the incident a “shame to mankind.”  (With inputs from Shinjini Ghosh and Jatin Anand)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/12-year-old-who-was-sexually-assaulted-in-critical-condition/article32300808.ece
08 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Four-day serological survey across Haryana from Aug. 17||More than 21,000 IgG ELISA tests will be conducted across Haryana, 960 in each district, as part of a four-day serological survey from August 17 to understand the proportion of population exposed to the novel coronavirus infection. The survey will be conducted in collaboration with Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. In Ambala and Panchkula, the survey will be carried out from August 17-19 and in the rest of the State from August 18-20. For the purpose of the survey, the urban and rural areas in a district will be divided into four and 12 clusters respectively. Stratified multi-stage random sampling will be done during the survey in proportion to the ratio of rural to urban population in Haryana, which is around 60:40.  Survey methodology Each selected cluster will be geographically divided into roughly four quadrants. The middle of each quadrant will be marked with its location as per the global positioning system. The survey team will visit consecutive houses from this point until the required sample size for that location is completed. The survey team is required to explain to the participant the purpose of the study, the procedure, the risks and the participant’s rights and seek consent. The details of the participants will be kept confidential. No compensation will be paid for participation and the participants must be above 18 years. Each district will have 6-12 teams comprising a medical officer, a laboratory technician, among others. Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Rajeev Arora, said the study would help to determine the burden of COVID 19 infection at the community level and monitor the trends in transmission of SARS- CoV-2 infection. Its findings would be useful to guide in designing and implementing appropriate containment measures, he said. A similar survey was conducted in five districts of Haryana with around 300 samples each in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-day-serological-survey-across-haryana-from-aug-17/article32300801.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||City records 1,193 fresh cases; COVID-19 tally reaches 1,42,723||The Capital on Friday reported 1,193 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,42,723. The health bulletin issued by the Delhi government said that 23 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total fatalities to 4,082. It added that 1,108 people have recovered and total number of recoveries stands at 1,28,232. There are currently 10,409 active cases in the city. After a significant reduction in the number of test during the weekend on account of Eid and Raksha Bandhan, 5,612 RT-PCR tests and 17,773 rapid antigen tests were conducted. The total number of tests conducted in Delhi stands at 11,43,703. The bulletin added that there are currently 477 containment zones in the city and 5,367 patients are in home isolation. Out of 13,571 beds available for COVID-19 patients, 10,502 are vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-records-1193-fresh-cases-covid-19-tally-reaches-142723/article32300762.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT orders OIL to disburse aid||Following recommendations made by a NGT-appointed committee, the National Green Tribunal has directed Oil India Limited to disburse compensation ranging from Rs. 2.5 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh to those affected by the oil well blowout in Assam’s Tinsukia district in May this year. Noting the report furnished by the committee, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “The recommendations of the committee on the subject of compensation for three categories of victims are accepted with the clarification that the compensation already paid will be taken into account and excluded from the interim compensation.” According to the report, victims have been classified into three categories — those whose houses have been completely gutted by the fire, those whose houses have been severely damaged and those whose houses have been moderately or partially damaged or those whose standing crops and horticulture have been partially damaged. The green panel specified that compensation to the victims will be disbursed subject to identification by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-orders-oil-to-disburse-aid/article32300802.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC allows pillars on Millennium Park for rapid transit corridors||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed a plea by the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) to use one acre of Millennium Park to build pillars for the Delhi-Sonipat-Panipat and Delhi-Gurugram-Rewari-Alwar Regional Rapid Transit System corridors. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde used the court’s extraordinary powers to do “complete justice” under Article 142 to modify a 1996 judgment in B.L. Wadehra case that former sanitary landfills like the Millennium Park should not be used for any other purpose than to develop forests. The Millennium Park was one of the 12 sanitary landfills (SLFs) in Delhi. The 1996 judgment had ordered that “the MCD shall not use the filled-up SLFs for any other purpose except forestry. There are twelve such sites, including Rajiv Gandhi Smriti Van. We direct the MCD to develop forests and gardens on these 12 sites. The work of afforestation shall be undertaken by the MCD with effect from April 1, 1996”. The two corridors are part of the eight evolved by a central policy to reduce the traffic congestion in Delhi-NCR. A Memorandum of Understanding to build the transit corridors or as it is more technically called — Regional Repeat Transit System (RRTS) — was signed by the Centre, Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments. The work is expected to be completed by 2025. The NCRTC, represented by senior advocates A.N.S. Nadkarni, Siddharth Dave and advocate Devendra Kumar Singh, had approached the Supreme Court contending that the corporation’s work was held up because of the 1996 judgment. They argued that work coming to a complete halt would cost the public exchequer a whopping Rs. 5 crore a day. They said the two corridors converge at the Millennium Park site. They said the overhead system needs space for installing pillars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sc-allows-pillars-on-millennium-park-for-rapid-transit-corridors/article32300795.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Special CP’s order to team probing riot cases caused no prejudice: HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday remarked that “no prejudice” was caused to members of any community by an order issued by Special Commissioner of Police (Crime and Economic Offences Wing) Praveer Ranjan asking all the Investigating Officers and teams that are probing the cases related to the north-east Delhi riots to exercise caution while making arrests. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait, however, observed that in future, “in issuing any letter/order in such type of situation, the officer concerned shall take due care”. The court also suggested the investigating officers in the riots cases “not to be influenced” by any instructions issued by senior officers which is not recognised under the law. The court made the remarks while hearing a joint petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/special-cps-order-to-team-probing-riot-cases-caused-no-prejudice-hc/article32300804.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. job portal has more jobs than applicants: Rai||The number of applicants on the Delhi government’s ‘Rozgaar Bazar’ job portal is lower than the number of vacancies still available on it, Labour and Employment Minister Gopal Rai said here on Friday. Currently, he said, more than 9 lakh jobs were available while the number of applicants was 8.64 lakh on the portal on which as many as 22 lakh jobs were posted by different employers. Of these, he said, 3.5 lakh were cancelled due to duplication, while some were found fake. “We have formed a task force to analyse job posts. We noticed that there are duplications and fake job posts. After a thorough study, we have cancelled nearly 3.5 lakh such posts. Till today, nearly 10 lakh vacancies have been closed by employers, which mean they have received the required number of people,” he said said. “Nearly 12.57 lakh people had their first-time interaction regarding job through this portal. I want to appeal to the youth to register here. We are also aware that many workers will not have access to the internet. I will request the youth to help such people... From next week, the Delhi government will launch a poster campaign to reach out to more people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-job-portal-has-more-jobs-than-applicants-rai/article32300763.ece
08 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Parents raise concern over Gurugram schools’ queries during admission||Does anyone in your family have learning difficulties? Is yours a nuclear or a joint family? What was the mother’s age at the time of pregnancy? What is the APGAR score of the child? What is the educational qualification of the child’s grandparents? If you are planning to seek admission for your child in a prominent school in the Millennium City, chances are that you may be required to answer these and, may be, many more similar queries at the time of the registration. A group of parents on a social media platform, discussing the admission process in city’s different schools recently, have expressed serious concerns over the nature of queries. The queries being made during registration were largely seen as “intrusive” and showed the alleged “classist” approach of the educational institutes. One of the parents, initiating the discussion on the platform, pointed out how Kunskapsskolan school during the registration for admission of her child sought to know details about the genetic and family background; pregnancy; identification data, including passport details, and weird “beauty-contest type” questions. She said the questions were “appalling” and reminded her of “eugenics”. Another parent said she was also taken aback by questions asked during the registration of her child, though she did not name the school. She expressed concern that her child was micro preemie and she feared rejection based on her APGAR scores. A few parents objected to this trend, saying that it was “completely unacceptable” and filling such forms amounted to “supporting the practice”. Another woman said Shiv Nadar school went to the extent of asking the educational qualification of grandparents. Shiv Nadar, in an official statement, said that it was “to help us leverage their experience in our teaching/learning process”. An official from Kunskapsskolan school said theirs was an “inclusive” school catering to students with diverse neuro needs and details about birth history, APGAR scores and other information helped the professionals at school acknowledge the specific needs of the child for effective support. Tripti Singh, administrator, ‘Gurgaon Parents for Better Education’, a Facebook forum, said many of these queries were not in “good taste” and amounted to violation of privacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parents-raise-concern-over-gurugram-schools-queries-during-admission/article32300758.ece
08 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot shifts attention to governance issues||Making use of the brief hiatus in political activities, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has shifted attention to the governance issues and initiated a direct dialogue with the Zila Parishad officials for monitoring the progress of rural development schemes. Mr. Gehlot said the major employment crisis amid the COVID-19 pandemic would also be addressed. Ahead of the crucial State Assembly session beginning on August 14, when a floor test is likely to be conducted to prove the government’s majority, the Congress MLAs supporting Mr. Gehlot and the ousted Deputy CM Sachin Pilot are sequestered at different locations. Both the factions are keen on securing their numbers. Mr. Gehlot reviewed the progress of various schemes of the Rural Development & Panchayati Raj Department and the Public Works Department here on Thursday and Friday. Both these departments were earlier under the control of Mr. Pilot, who also held the Science & Technology and Statistics portfolios before he was sacked last month. Mr. Gehlot said the schemes for village development should be implemented effectively in order to strengthen rural economy. The schemes such as Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and National Rural Livelihood Mission, launched during the UPA regime, had proved to be a boon during the pandemic, he said. The Chief Minister instructed the Zila Parishad officials through videoconferencing to ensure better marketing of products prepared by the self-help groups, which could be linked with various online platforms. Besides, the approval of works under the local area development schemes of MPs and MLAs would be issued within 45 days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gehlot-shifts-attention-to-governance-issues/article32300796.ece
08 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Night curfew ordered in three Punjab cities||Amid rising number of COVID-19 cases in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has ordered night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. in the worst-affected cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala from Saturday, while directing all big cities and towns to prepare integrated management plan for treatment of the disease at both government and private facilities.  Mask wearing drive The Chief Minister also announced a week-long trial of enforcement of the mandatory mask wearing rule by making offenders stand at the spot for an hour with a mask on. At a live session on Facebook, Capt. Amarinder expressed concern over the steady rise in virus cases. Meanwhile, in a biggest single-day spike, the State recorded 1,063 new COVID-19 cases on Friday and reported 23 more deaths, taking the toll to 539, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 21,930. The major chunk of new cases, 296 and 122, were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala districts respectively. The health department said active cases were 7,351 and 14,040 patients have recovered so far. In Haryana, 751 new cases surfaced on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 40,054. The State also reported nine deaths, taking the tolly to 467. The major chunk of new cases were reported from Faridabad and Ambala districts. The active cases are 6,143 and 33,444 patients have recoveredso far, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/night-curfew-ordered-in-three-punjab-cities/article32300800.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC lays down new guidelines for DU open book exams||The High Court took into account the technical difficulties faced by DU’s final-year students and laid down fresh guidelines on Friday, to be followed by the varsity to conduct its online Open Book Exam (OBE). The examinations have been scheduled to begin on August 10. Justice Prathiba M. Singh directed DU to make the question papers available to all students via the university portal and email. The court also ordered that students should be given three hours to complete the papers instead of the two hours that was decided by DU earlier. Additionally, students would be given one more hour to scan the answer sheets and upload them. “The maximum marks for the papers and the time given will be the same as that of the physical exam...,” Justice Singh said. Students under Persons With Disabilities (PWD) category will be given one additional hour. The DUTA president, Rajib Ray, expressed disappointment over the High Court’s decision to allow the conduct of open book exams on Friday. “Any form of online or blended exam is discriminatory, unjust and lacks sanity,” Mr. Ray said. The court said that students would also have the option of scanning the answer sheets page-by-page or question-wise before uploading them on the DU portal within the 7MB limit. Students can also convert their answer sheets into PDF files either question-wise or in entirety and e-mail the same to the central email address at obescript@exam.du.ac.in or to the respective college or department email. All students will receive an acknowledgement receipt once their answer sheets have been uploaded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-lays-down-new-guidelines-for-du-open-book-exams/article32300803.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Non-COVID cremations at Punjabi Bagh facility||The Punjabi Bagh crematorium, which was earlier reserved for COVID-19 casualties, will once again allow non-COVID cremations, a senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said on Friday.  The Hindu had earlier reported that the NGO, which runs the facility, had appealed to the civic body to allow them to cremate non-COVID bodies as the number of COVID cremations had reduced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/non-covid-cremations-at-punjabi-bagh-facility/article32300810.ece
08 August 2020||Bhopal,||Shopkeeper manhandled by policemen||The Barwani police on Friday suspended two personnel for reportedly manhandling and dragging on road a man near a road checkpost on Thursday. In the video of the incident which went viral on the social media a day later, personnel are seen reportedly dragging Giani Prem Singh Granthi on the road after his turban opens in the scuffle, grabbing his hair, even as another man shouts: “This police are victimising us! They are beating us, not allowing us to set up shops.” After Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal shared the video on Twitter, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said Assistant Sub Inspector Sitaram Bhatnagar and Head Constable Mohan Jamre had been suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shopkeeper-manhandled-by-policemen/article32300797.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||#digitalcreators: then and now||During the great digital boom of 2009, there emerged a group that challenged conventions and demanded front row seats at fashion weeks. These digitally-savvy people were the first generation of ‘fashion bloggers’. Usually armed with cameras and curiosity, they learnt to survive judgemental looks from the upper echelons of print editors who thought it was beneath them to share anything online. The irony is that the same group of editors have since joined in, to keep themselves relevant. As Miranda Priestly (of The Devil Wears Prada ) famously said, “Don’t be silly darling, everybody wants to be us!” These ‘early birds’ considered blogging as a side-hustle, a means of self-expression if you may. It was never seen as a full-time job in India; a gig that would bring in the bucks (and were they wrong!). High Heel Confidential, Wearabout, Lovestruckcow, Lesly Lobeni and Arushi Khosla were some of the forerunners who managed to scratch the surface when it came to digital fame. Having said that, they’ve all moved on to alternate professions.    Chasing the blue tick  When the term ‘bloggers’ became as redundant as the Google-owned platform (Blogspot), those who were actively using it began looking for a faster way to increase their following. So, with the launch of the now-defunct Vine and Periscope, and the ever-so-thriving Instagram, the culture morphed into a generation of ‘creators’ who were living their lives (and their mistakes) in the public eye. A term clearly made-up by corporates because to be called a ‘celebrity’, one had to be in the movies, or come into fame via notoriety and reality shows. What next? If metrics and engagement numbers are to be believed, a mix of old (Kusha Kapila, Dolly Singh) and new (Danish Sait, Saloni Gaur) names that have emerged with juggernaut following during the pandemic are charging three times the amount for crafting nuanced branded content. Take for instance Gaur, known for her politically-charged videos, or Mallika Dua, who is doing several ads with funny themes.  Celebs vs influencers  The  common thread between all digital superstars is the sense of urgency. With fashion, electronic and other brands having to cut back on traditional advertising and big-ticket events like the music festival, Sunburn, all funds are being directed to the digital world. Social media influencers have the ability to react to trending topics in a way only they can. Their work is sharp, engaging and relevant to the zeitgeist. With shows like Go Fun Yourself (hosted by Kapila), they are paving the way for the next generation of performers. Going forward, I see such influencers turning into mini production houses that will come up with longer shows like Dua’s Fake or Not for Flipkart and solo chat programmes. Safe space    Audiences have evolved and so have social media players. Platforms like YouTube and Instagram are working towards recognising emerging stars as well as creating a safe space for talent. Initiatives like Instagram’s ‘#BornOnInsta’ (that aims to support those who started off on the site) and Facebook’s recent move to disable profiles and accounts that make ‘severe rape threats’ are a step in the right direction.  The writer is a New Delhi-based creative director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/digitalcreators-then-and-now/article32300959.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- BJP joining||Former Minister of State, Uttarakhand and former national vice-president of Kisan Congress Ramkumar Walia, former national general-secretary of Kisan Congress Sanjay Kumar, and chairman at Digambar Jain Samaj (Delhi) P.D, Jain joined the BJP at a ceremony held at the party’s State office here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-bjp-joining/article32300807.ece
08 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- BSES brief||Electricity discom BSES launched a scheme extending energy efficient air conditioning replacement for its consumers, a company spokesperson said on Friday. Under this scheme, consumers will get to exchange their old ACs with new energy efficient five-star rated ACs at a discount of about 64%, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sidharth-bses-brief/article32300809.ece
08 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shinjini- DMRC||The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has asked the DMRC to approach the Delhi government for financial assistance in repaying the loan it had taken for various projects from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal said that the communication is being processed and the Delhi government has not been approached yet. While the DMRC has so far got a loan of Rs. 35,198 crore from JICA, for financial year 2020-21, it is required to pay Rs. 1,242 crore, including interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shinjini-dmrc/article32300766.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Celebrity Covid Calender: Thanks to actor Reese Witherspoon, a 2020 mood meme has taken the internet by storm. With scenes from her movies and shows likeLegally BlondeandBig Little Lies, the grid of nine images shows a progressive disbelief at what this year has thrown at us. Mindy Kaling, Kerry Washington, Mark Ruffalo and Billy Ray Cyrus, among others, joined in the fun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article32300770.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Dress up||Fabindia’s annual festive collection, Malhar, is now available on their website. Chanderi, Maheshwari and Benarasi fabrics are highlighted inkurtas,dresses, saris,lehengasand accessories. From Rs. 1,690 on fabindia.com. Meanwhile, Gayatri Sabharwal, creative director of export house Milaaya, has launched her premium fashion label, GAYA. Their debut collection of embroidered and printed masks is part of Helping Hand Foundation’s initiative, where a mask is donated for each purchase. theworldofgaya.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dress-up/article32300771.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Books and bats||Spotify Original podcast 22 Yarns with Gaurav Kapur is back, with umpire Simon Taufel as the first guest. He'll talk about his journey from being a fast bowler to his umpiring debut at a Boxing Day Test. He will also share his secrets to umpire fast bowlers, lighter moments on the field with MS Dhoni and his worst calls on the pitch. Streaming now. InHooked on Books, listen to authors chat about the stories behind their work. The lineup includes Ruskin Bond, Shiv Aroor, Manisha Koirala and others. On audioboom.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/books-and-bats/article32300772.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Dish it out||Can't get enough of Sima Aunty from Mumbai? The Park Chennai'sIndian Matchmakingmenu has specials like The Uncompromised Indian (broccoli and corn salad), The Lean and Light (chicken teriyaki bowl) and The Gourmet (French toast, berry compote). All we need now are some fox nuts a la Pradhyuman.9962288601. As Westin Chennai opens for guests, they also have F&B home delivery and takeaway. The Saturday brunch for two features five- (Rs. 2,200++) and eight-course options (Rs. 3,600++).8939892056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dish-it-out/article32300773.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||National Handloom Day: Celebrated every year on August 7, the day is usually marked with events across weaver communities. News of the Central Government abolishing the All India Handloom and Craft Boards came as a blow. These advisory bodies were a forum to present their issues to the authorities; without them, it remains to be seen how the industry communicates with the powers that be.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article32300774.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Nadaswaram beats||DJ/producer Gurbax has released ‘Dirty South’, collaborating with California-based world/experimental music act, Beats Antique, for the first time. The song combines the traditionalnadaswaramwith modern hip-hop/trap, and builds up to a bass-heavy frenzy. On YouTube. The Hungama Artist Aloud live concert features 15 artistes, including Manasi Scott, Shibani Kashyap, Vipul Panchal, The Suryansh Project and Parikrama. On August 14 at 8.30 pm. Tickets at Rs. 99 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nadaswaram-beats/article32300775.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Now streaming||Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl, is set to take viewers on her journey when she became India’s first female Air Force officer to fly in a combat zone during the 1999 Kargil War. Directed by Sharan Sharma, it stars Janhvi Kapoor in the lead role. From August 12 on Netflix. As part of the recently-concluded Prime Day special, Amazon has released 10-minute sets by 14 stand-up comedians. Check out observations from Sapan Verma, Urooj Ashfaq, Sumukhi Suresh, Neeti Palta, Karthik Kumar, Aishwarya Mohanraj and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-streaming/article32300776.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking pictures||Korean photographer Kim Honghee's images record measured silence and movement in black and white frames. His work is presented in an online exhibition by InKo Centre, starting today at 6 pm, on their YouTube channel. This evening, Chennai Photo Biennale hosts a discussion with members from photography collectives across India, as they share how being a part of a collective has contributed to their artistic process and give insights on their vision, visual practices and more. From 4 pm. chennaiphotobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-pictures/article32300777.ece
08 August 2020||August 08 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Continuing from last week's cover story on animated music videos and the artistes who are using them, New York-based singer-songwriter Manas Jha joined us live on Instagram yesterday in a mini-series we're calling #SuperAnimated! In conversation with independent journalist Lalitha Suhasini, he spoke about the video for his new song, 'Shades', which is part of his latest EP,Reimagined. Previous Live sessions with singers Banat Kaur Bagga and Pragnya Wakhlu can be found on our IGTV channel now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdownwithweekend/article32300778.ece
